There are plenty of real people who don’t have much to say but it doesn’t mean we have to write books about them.

From the first page, it was nothing but sex or about sex, and I got bored. Gave up on page 59.

If the Booker judges wanted a controversial winner, I think they picked a good book for it. Mostly, I did not like it. (view spoiler)

Absolutely dreadful. Like a very bad three act Italian opera. How does stuff like this find a publisher?

Samantha Harvey, who I’m sure is very nice but also apparently became quite fascinated by the Wikipedia entry of Voyager, presents to us her Google Earth travelogue. Orbital is an essayistic file of recurring lists, rolls, catalogs, registers, indexes, directories and listings about various geography and other hobnob things noticed by a group of astronauts in orbit. Literally at one point she lists the Great Lakes. Like all 5. Just because. Full of less than profound musings, Harvey adds this awkward *literary sense of wonder* to professional astronauts that I imagine may would have been much more familiar with the humdrum STEM topics she seems to be utterly in awe of. Africa. Australia. Islands. The Antarctic. The ocean. The ocean. The ocean. The desert. Land. The land. The sun. The sun. The dark. The dark. Oops another list. Come here for surface-level musings about space and God and nature and stay for the lists and lists and more lists. And for that time she anthropomorphized the moon, saying it missed humans since we hadn’t gotten to visit in the last 50 years and when she quoted the same old story about time since the Big Bang comparing it to a calendar year and mentioning that humans haven’t been here all that long, just toward the end of December… wow did she just take Sagan’s Cosmic Calendar and present it as her own??? Is that even OKAY??? Then she goes and writes yet another list that’s her own boring version of We Didn’t Start the Fire where she mentions every blasted thing EXCEPT for Billy Joel. Contrived, trite, boring, and really just a bad book.

Ця книжка виявилась романтизацією всього російського я ригаю My comment suddenly became a popular one, so I feel like I need to explain. This is literally a romanticization of russian culture. It's clear as day that the author wanted to write about russians and love all russian very much. She could have at least hidden it and written about the astronauts' home countries equally. But she talks like 20% of the time about other nations and 80% about russia. And she knows so many details about that fucking country and how they live, how they speak. And to write this in 2024 when russia is committing literal genocide and killing civilians every day is completely tone-deaf. The lives of the people of an East-European country don't have a lot of value for the Westerns, huh? Aside from that the book itself is not good. The sentences are short and repetitive. No plot at all. The characters are literally the same. They don't have personalities except some longing for the countries where they were born. It's definitely not science fiction as the author is too uneducated on space and space travel. The author didn't learn geography at school and it shows. And it's definitely just a bad fiction.

1.5 stars Possibly the most insulting waste of time I have ever spent on a book. Nothing happens, no plot, no development, just word soup that loosely takes the form of pseudo-philosophical passages that talk about the earth from an outside perspective. A few pages of this is fine, a whole 130 pages is a spit in the face. How it is nominated for a booker prize is beyond me. Maybe I'm dead inside?

WHY UNIVERSE!? WHY DO YOU KEEP DOING THIS TO ME !? my god was this thee most mind numbingly dull, pretentiously overwritten drivel I’ve read in a wee old while. Plotless, pointless, and interplanetaryly (yes I know it’s not technically a word, but 1) it’s true, and 2), I like the somewhat alliterative quality it gives the sentence ) disappointing. 1 star in a (hopefully) vast galaxy of golden wonders (which I’m hoping to discover/pick up again soon! At least give me another 3 star read pls book gods!)

Orbital spins weightless, adrift in its own foggy exaltations, mistaking color for clarity and echo for thought. The novel wants to be profound, as though in mirroring the endless loops of its characters’ orbit, it might somehow accrue significance by accumulation alone. But Harvey’s words, like her would-be cosmos, seem simply to drift and then vanish, as though even they lacked the will to cling to meaning. The book’s greatest tragedy is its characters, or rather its concepts of characters, faint outlines barely there and barely anywhere at all. The six astronauts are faceless proxies, emptied of true thoughts, stripped of any grit or real psychology. There are hints of backstory here and there, a vague gesture toward cultural differences, but these are mere props for monologues, not people, and the attempts to tug at the strings of human connection feel as listless and lacking in gravity as the space outside their vessel. They’re shells of characters, fragments floating. Meanwhile, the prose is heavy with its own desire to mean something, to paint beauty in the shape of stars and oceans below. But the language spins itself into the ground, plowing the same abstracted images again and again, until all we’re left with is a sense of sameness, the dullness of dimmed light. Where Harvey might have shown us what it is to truly see Earth from space, to wrestle with the awe and the absurdity of our place in the universe, she instead offers platitudes, recycled sentiments on our collective smallness and earthly entropy, ideas that are inert for all the ways she repeats them. By the end, I felt less as though I’d traversed the great unknown, and more as though I’d simply been caught in orbit, circling and circling, waiting for gravity to pull me down.

Even though I was mentally prepared that this might be one of those plotless "novel", the reading experience was still excruciatingly difficult. I appreciate the ideas that the author wanted to explore -- they are interesting and important (e.g., exciting prospect of going to space vs. monotonous living on the space station) -- but is this "novel" the best format to deliver them? Wouldn't a non-fiction style of astronaut/cosmonaut interview a better way to convey the ideas, intrigue people, and get everyone thinking? At least with interviews, people wouldn't have to suffer from reading a full page with just one sentence on it.

Terrible, a series of faux deep metaphors that don’t distract from a lack of any plot

Dear God, Samantha Harvey is in love with her writing. Every sentence is an adjective love fest with little substance. Meanwhile, though there are only six human characters in the book, we barely get to know them beyond platitudes. For such a short novel, I slogged through this one. Meanwhile, a fellow 2024 Booker Prize nominee, The Most, used every sentence masterfully to create a stunning short novel. Unless you plan on buying this book solely for its gorgeous cover, save your money and skip Orbital.

if you took the world's worst AI bot and told it to make an "award winning book" this is what it would come up with

Thought this would be a quick read at only 136 pages. I was wrong. This was quite possibly the most difficult to get through book I have ever read. I found it painful to even get through the first 10 pages and regret the time I won’t get back from reading the rest. This book is like when you’re asked to write a descriptive writing piece in your English GCSE and you have to use as many creative writing techniques as you can. Horribly overwritten with metaphors, short sentences, repetition. This book was filled with so much repetition that it was essentially the same thing being said with different words for over 100 pages. Almost like slam poetry except so much worse as it’s so much longer. I don’t think I gained anything from reading this aside from a feeling of frustration. What was this book trying to achieve? An insight into what it’s like to be an astronaut? If I wanted that I would read one written by an astronaut themselves. A philosophical view of earth? But everything was so surface level. For a book that has no plot you expect the prose to at least be engaging but unfortunately that was not the case. I wish I could rate this higher but it was very much not for me.

1.5 this was the international Booker Prize's biggest disappointment for me. I had such high hopes for this book. I've visited Poland, and tried to learn some of their language - it's a beautiful country, but this was not it, not a good representation of what their country has to offer in the world of literature. this was so disjointed and I often had next to no idea at what point in the timeline we were, nor could I figure out how the characters where interlinked and characters I thought were dead were repeatedly mentioned being alive again two stories after the fact and I just found it super difficult to keep up with this almost plot-less book. another little gripe I had was with the translation which just made this book sound weirdly British by likening girls to "birds" & dropping phrases like "taking the piss", giving this book a whole weird vibe considering the subject matter all in all, I didn't like this and in a week or two, wouldn't be able to recall any information from it. don't waste your time - it was a godsend it didn't end up on the shortlist.

The dilemma at the heart of SMALL BOAT is whether the protagonist, a French radio operator trained to act without conscience or conviction, should have intervened to save a sinking dinghy of migrants in the Channel—knowing full well that by the logic of jurisdiction, resources, and protocol, they were ‘no longer her responsibility’ for they were outside the territorial bounds of her mandate. There’s a difference between placing the reader in the shoes of another and using those shoes to walk the reader somewhere they never agreed to go to. In the second section, Delecroix makes this trespass explicit: the narrative breaks its frame, puts on a mask, and assumes the voices of the drowning. What begins as a restrained procedural is replaced by a full-throated performance of suffering. The ambiguity that animated the first section, the discomfort of watching someone who has mastered the art of apathy veer unto the edge of guilt, is flattened into theatre. Suddenly, we are no longer watching her fail to make the distinction between a yachtsman and a Kurdish child; we are made to hear the child’s pleas as she drowns. We are no longer navigating the ethical vacuum of policy and protocol; we are now choking on water, gasping on a satellite phone. This is dramaturgy, scripted for maximum extractive sentiment. The intimacy is not earned, and it certainly is not honest. It’s a rhetorical ambush: feel this, or you’re complicit. Grieve now, or you were never human to begin with. What gave the novel its initial charge—its charge, not its resolution—was the tension between apathy and accountability. It made room for the possibility that to act ‘correctly’ within a system is not to act ethically, that to follow rules is sometimes to elude one’s own conscience. The operator’s voice, stripped of affect, layered in defensiveness and denial, was its most complex terrain, but the second section strips away that subtlety to enforce, like a ventriloquist, emotion. What begins in silence drowns in noise. Delecroix does not trust the reader to remain in unease; instead, he trumpets a crescendo of empathy as if its volume alone could substitute for insight. There’s nothing more manipulative than appropriated grief passed off as moral truth, and nothing more cowardly than a novel that begins with hard questions only to answer them with coercive feeling. It sidesteps the ethical vertigo it so carefully constructs then moralises them from the wreckage it refuses to sit through. What we’re left with isn’t a novel about responsibility, but a popcorn bestseller written post-disaster, performed for an audience already seated, already guilty, already clapping.

I couldn’t get on board (no pun intended) with this. I’ve tried to be pragmatic and see what the author has tried to do. But for 122 pages of (mostly) repeating the same story, resulting in the same debate is fruitless. And the possibility that it’s been written to gain attention, even if it’s negative, has crossed my mind. Don’t get me wrong I love a book that causes a little divide and sparks a debate, but in these circumstances we will never truly know the thought processes, unconscious bias, moral compass or level of empathy that the call handler felt towards the migrants and their situation. I think the book was pointless in trying to imagine that as well as disrespectful to the actual tragedy that occurred. Even the fictionalised character of the call handler lacked any sense of conviction or substance, which made it a poor foundation for the book. The section from the viewpoint of the migrant was minimal and objective, lacking any depth which would have enabled some balance in the book. The long drawn out sentences were tiring and it felt like writing for the sake of writing. Even the attempts at philosophical exploration (which I love in writing) felt wrong and jarring. So much could have been explored based on this 2021 event but this was tasteless and exploitative. Sorry not sorry.

This was terrible. And you know what, I will not use paragraphs during this review just to demonstrate how fucking stupid it is not to be using paragraphs. Especially in a 300 page book about a fictional authoritarian regime. First of all, I knew from the moment I opened the book and saw Paul Lynch looking like someone cosplaying Kylo Ren that this would be special. I just hoped it would be the good kind of special, the fun kind of special, the self aware kind of special. It turned out to be please someone steal this book from me in the metro so that I have an excuse not to finish it kind of special. Speaking of Kylo Ren, I don’t know what 2000’s emo rock band was Paul Lynch listening to while writing this but there are sentences that go harder at making you cringe than any YA book about dragons that fuck could ever hope to even come close to (“Graduate…or die!” included). Characters randomly spit out these random quotes that could easily be lyrics from a Nickelback song from 2005 and we are somehow supposed to believe it to sound natural because LOOK HOW TERRIBLE THE SITUATION IS…ISN’T IT JUST TERRIBLE?? YOU WOULD ALSO TALK LIKE A HOT TOPIC EMPLOYEE IF THIS HAPPENED TO YOU!! I don’t know how someone decides to write about horrific fictional events that have actually happened (and are still happening) to real people in the real world and just change nothing, not alter the situation at all and just slap a big fat THIS IS FICTION Y’ALL sticker over it and place it in your own country. Like if I want to read a moving portrayal of authoritarian regime where people suffer, political prisoners are being executed and thousands flee the country I will go and read a book based in Czechoslovakia in the 50’s. If I want to read a fun take on tyranny I’ll go and read fucking Hunger Games. Why in the hell did I have to read a sob story about something that never happened but did actually happen and wait is actually still happening JUST NOT IN IRELAND. And I’m not even getting into how dull and uninspired the story itself is. The mother advertised as a “scientist” is just living her life of definitely not being a scientist (but I suppose researching microbiology would be too much of a task) and then shit happens and more shit happens and all of a sudden you question your sanity because you’re only half way through and somehow it feels like you lost years of your life reading about nothing and the privilege just glows from the pages as the book tries to get more and more emotion from you. I’d be actually surprised if you’ve made it this far into this review but apparently at least 300 people have made it through 300 pages of this stupid format so I guess you can make the reader suffer through anything as long as you label it an artistic choice. In conclusion, another white man trying to become George Orwell and the literary world eating it up.

This book gets a lot of love. And that's fine. We can't all like the same things, but this really is an unoriginal, trite, forced, and nonsensical novel. It's basically 200+ pages of attempting to sell empathy to refugees by positing the thought, 'what if Ireland became Syria' and people had to flee. What if we - the Western folks - were forced to make our way across dangerous borders pushed by people smugglers? Do you care now about these people? Because it might be you one day. A fact rammed home by the ending, which is taking a hammer to crack a nut. The world building is lazy. Ireland couldn't become Syria because too many Irish people (or people with Irish roots) living outside Ireland. Especially in the USA. Too many votes up for grabs. Plus Ireland - currently - has a border with Britain on the island of Ireland. A border that I'm pretty sure has proved porous as hell forever. A border that forms the perfect place to launch an international peacekeeping force from. A no fly zone, which would be easy because I don't believe the Irish military has any offensive air capability. And it is written in a way that flattens out all the emotion. It has that tedious modern tendency for no paragraph breaks and no separation of speech from the main text. We're told that this is a 'harrowing' story. And it would be if it was written in a way that didn't give it the emotional heft of a balloon. Now if you love it. Great. But there are better, less patronising books on this subject from other authors. And honestly, if you need a book like this to teach you empathy or to illustrate the terror of being a refugee then you've not been paying much attention in the last...well...forever. I'd also point out that there was an advert run by Save The Children in the UK in about 2005 that basically does this story from the point of view of a child in England -https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RBQ-I... - It's more powerful, more effective and less patronising than anything in this book. Watch this instead.

WAITING FOR NIGEL FARAGE 1) I thought it was just the right time to read this book. Here in the UK we have a strange situation – our Labour government has a huge majority in parliament but everyone and his uncle and his dog thinks they are going to lose the next election. It took them about 6 months to go from hero to zero, an interesting story, but this is a book review, or would like to think it is. The party that is expected to win the next election is Reform, led by Nigel Farage, who are (sharp intake of breath) unashamedly right wing, out and proud anti-immigration, and very terrifying for many people. So what might happen if some (totally inexperienced) headbangers become the government? Let’s read a fictional version of just such a thing. 2) But life is too short for books written by authors who seem to strongly and frankly dislike their readers and wish to induce migraines by throwing out the concept of paragraphs and instead present their novel in massive pages-long BLOCKS of type. Paul Lynch musta been reading Thomas Bernhard and he musta thought hey – I could do that too. It’s so mean and nasty! 3) Also life is too short for books written by authors who don’t use any speech marks at all, so inside the undifferentiated BLOCKS of type there are various sentences of speech but every time you have to work out who is saying it to who. This is like making a single point over and over and over again on every page. Plus, I’m not so sure what the point was. 4 ) Inside the vast blocks of type the prose will sometimes try its best to put you into a coma This feeling the attic does not belong to the house but exists in its own right, an anteroom of shadow and disorder as though the place were the house of memory itself, seeing before her the remnants of their younger selves, the self folded, packed into boxes, bagged and discarded, lost in the disarray of vanished and forgotten other selves, the dust laying itself down upon the years of their lives, the years of their lives slowly turning to dust, what will remain and how little can be known about who we were., in the closing of an eye all will be gone. 4) And life is too short to read books that have already been written, which I should have realised before i started this one. Authors keep writing the same story of our beloved democracy being overturned by nasty faceless fascists, they are like a dog with a bone – Sinclair Lewis, It Can’t Happen Here (1935), George Orwell, 1984 (1948), Ray Bradbury, Fahrenheit 451 (1953), Margaret Atwood, The Handmaid’s Tale (1985), P D James, The Children of Men (1994), Philip Roth, The Plot Against America (2004), and a lot more. 5) At the end of last year I read a Booker Prize Winner, The Promise by Damon Galgut, and it was the best novel I read in 2024. I thought I’d try that trick again by reading another Booker Winner. But there are Good Bookers. And there are Bad Bookers.

WTF? Was this written by ChatGPT?

"A work of breathtaking originality"... more like a poor man's 1984. The story is as banal and melodramatic as it can be, without really attempting to bring anything new to the plate. Where Lynch tries to add his own stamp, is with his blocky, edgy, irritating (and ultimately pointless) style of writing. "The dark darkens the darkness" but with no quotation marks. Emo teenager on Wattpad vibes. I genuinely do not understand the hype and the accolades. 2/10

1.5 -- this was like if u told the most pretentious, insufferable person yk to write a dystopian novel based only on their vague memory of 1984 and the first 2 paragraphs from the wikipedia page on totalitarianism

I was going to call this book warm dogshit but the analogy doesn’t work because warm dogshit is fresh. Edit: Oh, of course it won 🤦‍♀️

1.5★ – A Diatribe Disguised as Fiction, this novel unfortunately for me was all about preaching and identifying as a political righteousness that I personally can’t abide. Lynch clearly has skill & his prose is indeed skilled, adroit & often high-level.. but it’s also laden with an ideology that couldn’t be more caught up in lies, identity politics & poorly conceived political drive. It’s easy to condemn fascism, racism & anything other than an ideal that means all humans are equal — but for wk this book is so clearly charged towards a certain rhetoric, that I can’t sit by & call it anything but verbal nausea. I won’t and don’t condemn anyone for loving this novel — I’m all for opinion as freedom, but I also will not praise a novel that’s so riddled with prejudice & aimed at charging forward in one direction. There’s no denying Paul Lynch can write. As above — His prose flows with a rhythmic precision, and his imagery—often bleak, sometimes arresting—shows a command of craft few contemporary authors possess. But Prophet Song is a cautionary tale of dystopia weighed down not by its subject matter, but by its bludgeoning ideological posturing. Set in an imagined near-future Ireland gripped by authoritarian rule, Lynch asks us to believe that liberal democracies like Ireland, the UK, Australia, or Canada teeter on the edge of fascist collapse. The problem isn’t the “what if?”—fiction is built on hypotheticals. The problem is the how. Lynch doesn’t so much explore his premise as he weaponizes it, lacing the novel with a tone of breathless moral panic, as if begging readers to see the far right’s spectre in every shadow, every policy, every police uniform. It’s exhausting. I’m neither right nor left leaning. I don’t open novels to be converted or condemned. But Prophet Song doesn’t leave you the room to breathe, let alone think. It’s ideological fiction at its most insidious—performative and sanctimonious, a dystopia not built from imagination but from the recycled anxieties of Guardian opinion pieces. The heavy-handedness of the allegory renders character choices less believable and more like pawns in Lynch’s thesis. What’s more troubling is the critical response. Heaps of gushing praise, major literary accolades, and a near-universal chorus hailing it as “vital” and “necessary.” Vital to whom, exactly? Necessary for what? Books like this are so neatly aligned with the prevailing gatekeepers of the literary world that one wonders whether they were reading the same novel—or simply rewarding an echo of their own worldview. To be fair: the writing itself is often sublime. Lynch’s command of language is deft, and some of the narrative structure—especially the breathless, unbroken paragraphs—works to heighten tension in an almost claustrophobic way. If he ever turned his focus from political agitprop to something more rooted in the human condition—stripped of agenda—he might pen something truly timeless. But Prophet Song is not that book. It is a story that mistakes paranoia for prescience, polemic for literature. By the final pages, I didn’t feel moved or challenged—I felt manipulated, as if I’d just sat through a lecture delivered with clenched fists and no room for dissent. I read to be immersed, not indoctrinated. And this novel? It belongs in the fire more so than it does in the firmament.

this might've been a great novel had Lynch chosen to write it in an appropriately pared down fashion. Instead he opts for prose so leaden and pretentious it makes the reading process excruciating, though not in any way as to illumine the suffering of its characters.

DNF. I felt bad putting it down so early, but there was simply no pleasure derived from reading it. I was hoping for more of an Animal Farm vibe, instead this is hyper focused on one specific country. I don't have any background knowledge of Zimbabwe's dictatorship, and this wasn't going to fill in any of those gaps. The characters were meaningless to me, therefore the people were lifeless, and ergo as much as I wanted to be invested in the story . . . I wasn't. What made the dictator bad? Why did Dr. Sweet Mother play such an important role? Was the vice-president as corrupt? Was there a good option here? Why didn't the people fight back? Why didn't the military stage a coup? Nope. You should already know these answers. The real frustrating part (for me at least) was the obvious allusion to Animal Farm while actually being hindered by the use of the animals. She calls them animals, but then has them in no way act like animals or be animals. They still live in houses . . . go to a stadium . . . go to school . . . march in order . . . drive cars . . . why are we describing them as animals? It doesn't seem to be adding anything to our narrative. Instead it's confusing, and makes this thing even longer than it feels. Speaking of which, this thing moves at a snail's pace. I thought the dictator was supposed to die and then the political infighting would take off (that's what the cover said). Old Major (again, Animal Farm) was dead in the first two pages. I was 50 pages in and nothing had happened. Real-life people were described as animals . . . and then proceeded to watch YouTube videos of their own speeches. For a book at an absurd 400+ pages, that isn't going to cut it. Reading this thing would take as long as the dictator's reign. The only interesting part was when the thing seems to circle around itself and describes the dictators in the same fashion it described the colonialists. Their lands were still being stolen, but at least the thieves had the same color skin. There rich got richer, but at least the rich people were the same color. It was an incredibly insightful and powerful moment in amongst the masses, and it should be a revelation almost left for the end of the novel. Where we suddenly realize that the people who took power are the same as the people who had power (AGAIN, ANIMAL. FREAKING. FARM.) instead we waste this moment in the first 15 pages and then move on. It's okay that the masses are starving, being disappeared, locked in prisons, unable to work, have their farms stolen from them, tank the economy, and abuse their powers to get unearned doctorates because at least the dictator is the right skin color. The scarier part was how applicable a lot of this is to the western "first world," but don't worry, she won't connect those dots either. I'm not sure what made this revolution special? Why should I care about this despot over the despot anywhere else? This was super-focused enough that I couldn't see all revolutions in there (a la Animal Farm), but wasn't willing to dispense any clear or concise facts about what is going on (a la a non-fiction account which may have been more interesting.) I simply found myself not wanting to read it and just put it aside.

This is an imaginative book completely spoiled for me by the writing, which is both pretentious and mechanically poor. Ordinarily I would not rate a book when I had only read the first chapter, but since the book is getting a lot of attention I wanted to warn people whose reaction might be like mine. These are the opening lines: When at last the Father of the Nation arrived for the Independence Day celebrations, no earlier than 3:28 in the afternoon, the citizens, congregated at the Jidada Square since morning, had had it with waiting; they could’ve razed the whole of Jidada with their frustration alone, that is, if Jidada had been any other place. But the land of farm animals wasn’t any other place, it was Jidada, yes, tholukuthi Jidada with a -da and another -da, and just remembering this simple fact was enough to make most of the animals keep their feelings inside like intestines. I was alienated but wanted to give it a chance to improve, so I persisted through the first chapter. It didn't improve, and there are a LOT of books on my TBR pile, so I will move on.

I strongly disliked this book. The writing style was so repetitive that it made me dizzy, and the hammering of repeated words and points was distracting. As a Christian, I was confused by the applied under-and overtones of religion. It was too long. It tried too hard to be clever. Animals as characters has been used before, but I much preferred Charlotte’s Web. In sum, reading this book consumed more than 15 hours of my life that I cannot regain.

I had high hopes for The Book of Disappearance. Its premise—a speculative imagining of what might happen if all Palestinians in Israel suddenly vanished—is incredibly compelling. I hoped for an urgent and layered portrayal of contemporary life in Israel, especially from a Palestinian perspective. Unfortunately, this is a frustratingly shallow and clumsily executed novel whose reach far exceeds its grasp. The story alternates between diary entries by Alaa, a Palestinian man who vanishes along with his community, and Ariel, his Jewish, Zionist neighbor left behind to grapple with the disappearance along with the rest of the nation. ⁣ I had trouble suspending disbelief while reading the diary sections, in which Alaa spiritually communicates with his recently deceased grandmother and transcribes entire conversations as though he were recording them on the spot. None of it rings true. Worse still, Ariel’s reading of the notebook, which could have served as a catalyst for real introspection or change, leads nowhere. He emerges from it unaffected, with the same Zionist beliefs that the narrative initially seems prepared to interrogate. The novel’s speculative premise is undermined by implausible plot choices, unnatural (and sometimes cringeworthy) dialogue, and a cartoonish portrayal of Israeli politics and media. The author seems more concerned with delivering a moral verdict than telling a compelling, well-written story. I understand why it may have attracted critical attention, especially in the context of the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict, but from a literary standpoint, this is a terrible book.

This is an original and inventive historical novel of the South African frontier with some very fine writing indeed – but I just couldn’t finish it. The historical background is indeed very interesting and the book is a fictionalised biography of Coenraad de Buys, a remarkable and notorious colonial frontiersman. It takes us from his childhood to his death – but I’d bailed long before that. The problem with the novel for me was that it is so repetitious – murder, mayhem war, killing, atrocities, sexual exploits, extreme violence – on and on and on. Over and over again. Relentless. I found de Buys a totally obnoxious character and had no interest in following him on yet another violent spree. It wasn’t long before I found myself plodding through the narrative and not long after that I gave up the struggle. I think the book does have some merits, portraying vividly as it does this lawless period in history and the tribes and colonisers who fought over the land. But its failings outweighed its merits.

For me, a good read of a book that has been translated, is that you don't know that this is the case. Well Michiel Heyns has not done a good job, if you have to stop reading to look things up, then you are doing his work, maybe he does not want an average guy to read this.

I had been looking forward to this book, assuming it would be a serious historical novel about life under the oppressive East German regime under Honnecker, and it's subsequent fall. What in fact I got was an overly romanticised pro Russian depiction of life in the communist East, criticism of the West materialism and decay, and an unrealistic and absurd love story between two rather despicable characters with very questionable behaviours. Throughout the book you are left feeling that the whole story is completely unrealistic; a young attractive balanced 19 year old student and a married man in his fifties 'fall in love at first sight' on a #57 bus going home. They then in broad daylight go back to his place in view of neighbours, make love in the marital bed, and then subsequently frequent high profile and very public restaurants and cafe's...even though they agree to be discreet!! This at a time when informants were rife and the Stasi would be very interested in any behaviour that might be able to compromise an individual. Furthermore the girls parents, rather than being shocked by the affair, actually condone the unsuitable match. The affair then progresses in its intensity, with the girl 'stalking' the man and his family whilst on holiday...enabling them to make love amongst the dunes a few yards away from the wife and son! It then takes a dramatic turn as Katharina writes a note about her 'fling' with a student in Frankfurt and leaves the incriminating piece on her desk for Hans to find. What follows is cruel systematic psychological and physical abuse, portrayed in great detail which K just limply accepts due to her obvious and overwhelming sense of misplaced guilt. I could go on and on, but basically the book now becomes a tale of control, manipulation, guilt throwing and receiving, and physical and mental abuse towards K, amongst constant references to obscure poets, writers and artists. The book culminates with the fall of the Berlin Wall which supposedly only brings negative consequences and is largely undesirable. Overall the book may be allegorical....The East German people living in a sado-masochistic relationship with their oppressive regime, unable to escape, but apparently loving them all the same....in the same way that K accepts the abuse from H and never even imagines leaving him, or seeking help from friends or family. Of course there are hints that this is all caused by the dysfunctional relationship and experiences of Hans as a child with his Nazi father and the fall of Hitler, and possibly the need for a father figure for Katharina, after her father left for Leipzig, but really? This is an incredibly disappointing and inaccurate rewriting of history with little attention to the realities of life under the GDR and the Stasi at the time, the failure of Communism and the Soviet experiment, or the thousands who were killed, tortured or imprisoned under the regime. It is true that many Ozzies now appear to romanticise sentimentally the 'so called good times' in the East, rationalising and forgetting the realities of oppression, lack of freedom of speech, intrusion, food and material shortages etc and indeed a life of fear and injustice which thousands tried to vainly escape. If you want a book about a weird unrealistic sado-masochistic relationship set in a world that really did not exist, then this is for you. I am sure that Erpenbeck has found many 'left behind' in the East as well as intellectual left wingers to appreciate what was for me "Terrible Book". I didn't help that once again some modern writers feel it is fashionable to leave out punctuation, but i could forgive that if the content had been 'serious', meaningful and historically accurate. Frankly it is an insult to the West, to the billions invested in East Germany, and above all the millions whose lives were severely affected by more than 40 years living within the Soviet Empire.

What the fuck is this book?? Who allowed this to happen???

Lolita meets political unrest???? Insufferable characters. Hate-read the last fifty pages.

Did I know their relationship was an allegory for the GDR? Yes. Did that make my experience of reading about said relationship any less insufferable? No.

the married man who gets in a relationship with a 19 year old girl turns out to be an abusive creep? groundbreaking. i feel so evil giving a 1 star review but there really was nothing i enjoyed about this except turning the final page. personally, i think it fails on a massive level to capture anything of life in East vs West Germany. i wish the author could give this book's concept to another author who could execute it with the justice it deserves, as the concept is a good one. i'm genuinely baffled as to how on earth this won the international booker prize??? did jenny erpenbeck bribe the judges or something 😭 "when there is town, pansies are planted - they all look like Karl Marx" is a line that someone wrote down, translated, and then gave an award to. what the fuck.

All aboard the struggle bus. This book was a struggle-genuinely don't know how I finished it. I genuinely have no idea what I read. Didn't really understand what was going on and kept getting all the 139864 characters mixed up. Curious to see what the book club gals say.

One of the most disjointed, pointless, and overhyped fiction novels of the decade. I rarely give a one star, but I am astounded both by its Booker prize status and its 4+ rating on Goodreads. The author throws 90+ poorly developed characters at the reader - halfway through I was musing that it’s almost perverse how many new names the author briefly introduces, vanishes, then reintroduces some chapters later! Despite this, he fails to develop a single one enough for the reader to develop any empathy towards. Also, he jumps from one timeline to another with no context, leaving the reader bewildered as to where the book is heading. Throw in a poorly concocted who-dunit about the protagonist’s death and where his secret politically damaging photos are, with a supposedly dramatic plot twist at the end that has nothing to do with any of the clues throughout the book, and you’ve got yourself one frustrating loosely tied together B-grade murder mystery. I don’t often read magic realism blended with political satire, but books like Animal Farm and Bulgakov’s Master & Margarita paint a vivid, yet accurately disturbing portrayal of their time. Here, the surrealistic references to Sri Lankan ghouls and ghosts veer off into redundant conversations that add nothing to the already overly elongated chapters. For example, irrelevant characters have the following paraphrased discussion a dozen times in the book - “you think Maali killed himself?”. “No why would he?”, “well why wouldn’t he?”, “who knows”, the conversation ends and the plot lurches on to another contrived subplot named “Chat with dead leopard” (I didn’t make that up) leaving the reader wondering what the point of the previous chapter was at all. The not-so-big dramatic twist at the end falls flat after the reader has been bored to death by the previous seven tiresome moons. I must, however give credit where it’s due, this book pushed me to apply faster reading techniques I read somewhere else to power through its convoluted literary style. In summary, a rambling 390 page waste of 4 hours of my life. Boo Bookerprize.

I only got a quarter through it. Life is too short for this kind of torture!

I am completely baffled that this book made the Booker Longlist. It feels like it was written by a teenager. Every aspect of this book was poorly executed. I cannot imagine a world where any 7 year old would do/think/say any of the things Clara did. Lawson could have easily made her character around 11 or 12 and it would have been much more believable. Additionally the characters were all living in a rural part of Northern Ontario, but spoke using British terminology and slang? On top of those things it was wildly boring. Why was this book written?! I’ll be haunted by that question for the rest of my life. I honestly cannot get over how badly thought out this whole book was and if itmakes the Shortlist I will riot in the streets.

Just like a Claire Keegan novel... If Claire Keegan had middling to no talent. Is there a single author on this booker longlist who can create a character? Full Review Here - https://youtu.be/Nj00wbSgU9o?si=TgZAL...

Oh good lord. Save yourself. Nothing happens except it snows and men are consistently awful.

If it weren’t for a book club this would be a DNF. Took me three tries to even get started and I was bored to tears throughout.

not a single likeable character Really poor, a typical "Booker" style book, so many words, so little story or plot and no sort of ending.

sooooo pretentious and nonsensical. whatever happened to telling a story? are we too cool to have a plot?

I really can't find one redeeming thing to say about this book. Kitamura was perhaps trying to capture the inherent deceit and performance of existence, but unfortunately the approach was not executed well. The two parts never connected in any meaningful way for me, and I felt like I knew absolutely nothing substantial about the narrator despite having read nearly two hundred pages from her pov by the end. This book was definitely trying to be clever but it just wasn't

⋆˙⟡ 1.5 ⭐️ audition was soulless. hollow. joyless. i went in excited and ready to be impressed, but that excitement didn’t survive the first chapter. it quickly became obvious that our leading lady reads less like a character and more like an outline. cold, emotionally vacant, and impossible to connect with. if this book was meant to provoke thought, it succeeded only in producing detachment and boredom. part one is monotonous. part two drifts into the bizarre without coherence or clarity. i continued in the hope that the ending would unify the narrative and justify the praise and multiple award nominations. surely there had to be something here... there wasn’t. perhaps i don’t get it. perhaps this is the kind of book that confuses emotional vacancy with depth and minimalism with meaning, asking the reader to do all the work while pretending that’s the point. perhaps i haven’t marinated long enough in pretentiousness and emotional detachment to appreciate this level of “brilliance”. perhaps i’m simply too stupid to understand the genius at work here. whatever the issue is, i don’t care. i read for enjoyment. this offered none.

I like to think I like unconventional fiction, and then this type of abstract litfic rolls along. I have nothing good to say.

Kitamura continues to write the same female narrator over and over again, but each book becomes increasingly mannered and pointless. There are only so many times you can read a woman’s over analysis of the constant “ambiguity” she sees in every situation and relationship. Some good sentences and observations but to what end?

I didn’t get it. My IQ is too low. Couldn’t wait for it to be over.

Booker Prize Longlist 2025 - BOOK 1 This was my first novel on my Booker Prize Longlist TBR and, oh boy, was it disappointing. This book had a promising start but quickly went off the rails. Where is the plot? Character development? A reason to read this book? It's nonexistent. The characters in Audition make decisions that will make you go "WTF???" Additionally, I have no idea what the author was trying to explore in this novel. Infidelity? Aging? Parenthood? I guess I'm not intelligent enough for this book. Finally, the climax of this novel is simply meaningless. Luckily, the book is only about 200 pages long, so I only wasted two evenings reading this nonsense. If I could describe this novel in one word, it would be "pretentious." This was my first and most likely last book by Katie Kitamura. DO NOT RECOMMEND.

Just put me out of my misery. I carefully read the first 50%, then skimmed the rest of this overwritten novel. Two quotes will give you an idea of what to expect: “Wish chalk tasted like white snaps when I bite white sticks or unhappy man clicks white sticks on black wall and makes bugs and white chalk clicks like a white click bug in a click white bush. Honey is better to the wicked, acid sweet.” And “Earth is the surface. Earth is the hole or hiding place of burrowing animals. Earth is the soil suitable for cultivation. Earth is the medium by which a circuit is completed. Earth is the ground. Earth is a place for burial. Earth is the present abode of humankind. Earth is wordless and patient and suffered the grave robbers’ spades in silence.” If this style of prose rocks your boat, then dive in. It made my brain hurt, so I’m glad this reading experience is behind me.

A bastardized work about a people already marginalized and wrongfully removed from their home. The author spoke about it being a work of fiction, but common misinterpreted themes of life on the island are prevalent. To further perpetuate the narrative of an incestuous family which was a construct of the government and local news is an embarrassment and disgusting. The grammar is also problematic, to say the least. The run-on sentences are infuriating and unbelievably full paragraphs long.

Weird! Heavy. Dull. I can't believe she sat down and wrote this. It must have been so tempting to make it exciting and fun, but she totally resisted. Kudos.

This was such a disappointment—I was practically asleep the entire time and had to fight to get through it.

I really hated this. First the format- giant, never-ending full page paragraphs of text. This maybe wouldn’t bother me, but it’s mostly inner musings/stream of consciousness, and I would frequently miss my place or just not entirely be sure what was being talked about or why. There were WAYYYY too many descriptions of snot, poop, buttholes, and other bodily fluids for me, personally. At first I was like, “oh, this milk sounds disgusting”, but then it got really old really quick. In addition to this the MC’s POV was just very strange and read like an old man’s musings, which might be bc of the translation? I know Law’s Of The Skies read similarly, but this was just weird. The MC compared herself to Hitler a lot as well- this is set in the Netherlands, so maybe that’s something Dutch children think about? It was all just weird, in a bad way. There was also incest, animal harm, lots of descriptions of bloated stomachs and going to the bathroom. It was a slog, and the only reason I didn’t DNF is because I’ve seen a lot of positive reviews from other reviewers I follow, but I really, really hated it unfortunately. I’m also upset bc I for some reason chose to focus on this, and my loan for Cursed Bunny got returned, so now I have to wait again for that 😂

This is a really unpleasant book, distasteful and unnecessarily violent. It’s not just dark, but bizarrely dark, and I felt that the author was deliberately setting out to shock the reader. The writing is impressive in its way, but it’s not my way, and it felt more like self-indulgent wallowing in misery rather than an intelligent attempt to explore the ravages of grief. Ten-year-old Jas is devastated, as are all her family, after her brother dies in a tragic accident. Unable to cope, and with no support from her parents or the wider community, she sinks down into increasingly warped behaviours which become ever more difficult to read about. Sexual abuse, aberrant youthful sexual behaviour, animal abuse, incest, violence plus an obsession with defecation – the author piles on the dysfunction and inappropriate behaviour until the overload becomes almost farcical. I couldn’t relate to the characters, not even suffering Jas, as none of them are empathetic in any way. This might be an accurate portrayal of bleak and brutal rural life, but there is nothing here to offset that brutality and engage the reader’s sympathy. Not for me, this one, and in spite of all the accolades it has received, I found it nasty and offensive.

This review is also available on my blog. "According to the pastor, discomfort is good. In discomfort we are real." This quote sums up the whole book - but not in a good way. The Discomfort of Evening is the classic Misery Porn that is so common in literary fiction. (Personally I think "literary fiction" is just genre fiction wearing a monocle and smoking a cigar, but lets not talk about why I think the whole term is stupid right now.) It was the epitome of "literary fiction" in basically every single way - the Hemingway-esque prose (i.e. not poetic or purple; minimalist), a series of increasingly terrible events, burgeoning childhood/adolescent sexual awakenings tainted by said terrible events, and of course you mustn't forget to point out how hypocritical religion is. Unfortunately, I've become accustomed to literary fiction being depressing to the point of farce, so I wasn't particularly surprised. The literary consensus seems to be that happy endings are for genre fiction, especially romance, and literary fiction is all about being Serious with Gritty Realism that always manifests as awful things happening because life is pain and full of misery, apparently. I don't want to stop reading literary fiction, because some can do depressing books well (The Secret History, Lolita), and some don't have a wholly depressing ending at all (The Great Gatsby, Cloud Atlas). The Discomfort of Evening is a novel about a deep, rolling depression that takes over the family after the death of the eldest son. You would think, then, that we got a lot of emotional insights - but we didn't. The author took "show, not tell" to its extreme, so we hardly ever know precisely what Jas is feeling, which in turn creates a disconnect between the reader and the main character. It was just all a bit flat, and pointless. An entirely pointless book with incredibly mediocre writing; although this might be a translation issue, I doubt it. And this won the International Booker Prize. My God. When are Serious Literature people going to stop going crazy over wanky stuff like this which is basically just, "I'm a child on the cusp of being a teenager and a tragedy has happened but my parents refuse to talk about it so everything is fucked I guess. Oh and BTW, religion is bad." It's like the author was like, "Oh fuck, I just realised my book is a load of pointless wank, I'd better shoehorn some social commentary into it! Uhhhh religious people are hypocritical. Yup, that should do it." I have no idea how I read this whole thing without skimming, actually. Surely I deserve some sort of medal. One good thing that did come out of reading this book was the spawning of a new shelf of mine, "now-thats-what-i-call-wanky". I might make a sister shelf called "now-thats-what-i-call-wacky," because I'm not immune to being wanky either.

I haven't hated a book this much since The Scarlet Letter, and that says something. Did I read a different book than everyone else? With 0% 1 star reviews, hating this book so much almost feels like an achievement. I wanted to stop reading so badly, but somehow forced myself through the entire thing. The writing was bad. Just really bad, from weird and boring scenery descriptions to unnatural dialogue, especially for so called fourteen-year-olds. The graphic and emotionally intense scenes were written in an extremely detached, observing manner. As if listing items on a to-do list instead of describing traumatic events. Because of this, none of the events held any weight. The characters, especially the main character, had zero personality. None of the dialogues and monologues and internal thoughts were properly thought out. And they were repeated, over and over, especially at the end of the book. The bullies had the most personality in the entire book, and their only trait was being mean. The bullies monologue felt like it was being said by someone who read a single psychology book and now considered himself to be the next Nietzsche, and it was very odd coming from a middle school child. Perhaps Kawakami's true wish was to write a philosophy book. The story never really went anywhere, we sort of saw a friendship develop but it was shallow and barely a friendship at all. If this book has a plot, I can't find it. It got slightly better nearing the end, but not enough to deserve a second star. Overall, I was excited for this book but it has been nothing except a let down.

THIS WAS HELL https://booktriggerwarnings.com/Heave... 👼 𝕡𝕣𝕖𝕣𝕖𝕒𝕕 👼 i have 9 hrs to listen to this 5.5 hr audio at 2x speed or im going to hell

The graphic descriptions of some of the most creative, disgusting examples of bullying was stomach churningly shocking. It is a painful read with detailed descriptions of physical and emotional bullying. I can imagine it would be traumatic for someone who had experienced any of the plethora of themes brought up with this novel (extreme physical bullying, self harm, sexual violence and suicidal thoughts to name a few). The difficult question for judging this novel is: Is this tragedy porn or an important highlight on the topic of bullying today? If it causes one person to stand up for someone being bullied, then it was worth writing. However, I wouldn't say this was well written or a particularly enjoyable read. Therefore, I can't rate it that highly. It reads like a piece of YA, an important novel for this audience. The conversation between the boy being bullied and his attacker seemed so unrealistic. 1) that the bully would actually sit down with the boy and explain his actions fully and 2) the wise, philosophical speech from the 14 year old bully that is far beyond the wisdom of his years and therefore comes across as the author herself speaking through that character to preach to her YA readership. The bullied boy's best friend turning on him at the thought of him getting corrective eye surgery was outrageous (although more in line with a 14 year old's maturity level than the previous example). Despite it feeling like YA, in my opinion this would be incredibly inappropriate for a teenager to read. The content is so graphic to be disturbing. The child on child sexual assault forced upon them by bullies plus the rape scene are just unacceptable, let alone for a young adult to read. Overall, really unenjoyable with no literary merit. I hope Kawakami's other novel Breasts and Eggs is a lot better.

This book is the literary equivalent of a very large box of Pringles. At first you sense that it might be interesting, then you realise that you’re not enjoying it and that it’s having a negative effect on you but you keep reading anyway just in case you’re wrong. In the end you hate the book, you despise yourself because of the amount of time you’ve wasted in reading it but you persevere in the hope of some redemption at the end. But no, there’s no redemption - you hate yourself even more when you reach the end … but not as much as you hate the author, the editors who failed catastrophically at their job, the publishers and the pretentious sycophants who gave it glowing reviews.

This pretentious tome drags the reader through 650 pages of stream-of-consciousness maunderings of three spectacularly self centred family members (the parents and the teenage daughter) and the boy that is their ultimate victim. I can’t spoil this rotten mess any more than it already is by telling you by the time the anticlimax arrives and the author puts the entire family in rain soaked woods at night you wonder why he didn’t drop all the other characters in the book into the woods at the same time - I half expected Jimmy Hoffa to be found wandering around banging into trees. And when I say anti climax I really mean it because the book stops seconds before the ending, perhaps because the writer realizes it would expose what a third rate horror ending to which he has dragged his hapless victims ( by that I mean his readers). If you miss one book this year that the critics applauded make it this one.

UPDATE: I should have started this review by stating that I tried reading this book but couldn’t get into it at all. And part of the reason was the story. And the other part of the reason was because of the size of the book. But what my original review focused on was a rant on the size of the book. So, this is my update to that review to explain how I really feel. I have read many classics and worthy books over the years that have been over 500+ pages that have absolutely captivated me. I have also felt sad when I closed the last page, feeling I could have stayed with this story with EVEN more pages it was that good to me. Do you remember Pillars of the Earth by Ken Follett? What an epic story that was. Even the Harry Potter stories topped 700 pages sometimes. Did I complain? Not once. I was so in to the magic. And even Les Miserables by Victor Hugo at 1462 pages! As frightening as that was for me, which I re-visited recently. I still was fascinated by the story. And East of Eden by Steinbeck. 608 pages. So yes. I have read and reviewed them all. And loved them all. So, I do feel, that there are points when stories come my way, that aren’t that great, and are rather long in pages, that I do have a right to groan and complain about them being too long. And wonder why an author feels the need to be so verbose! Now on to this book… I was devastated when my husband brought this book home to me from the library. What? How many pages is this book? 643 pages! I just went through this with “Age of Vice’ by Deepti Kapoor! And… “Past Lying” by Val McDermid! Why do these authors have to write these books with so many pages? “It is for love. You are doing this for love.” Nope. I won’t do it for love. I don’t care how beloved this book is. Stop it authors. Stop writing books with so many pages. You can tell your stories thoughtfully in shorter versions that will keep your readers engaged and interested. I will admit, I wanted to start you. Like “A Covenant of Water” by Abraham Verghese I wanted to give you a chance hoping you might give me the same feels. But… Back to the library you go. BTW, I did really try to read this to see if I would like it. And I didn’t. So, please. Stop the judgments below.

The end left me feeling like I wish I had the time back that I’d spent reading it. The punctuation (or lack thereof) was truly aggravating. From the reviews, I thought I was going to love this book, but I was sorely mistaken.

The whole time I was reading this book, I kept wondering why I was still reading it. This is a very sad and depressing book. Nobody in it is happy. Nothing good happens to anyone. Everyone lies to everyone else and betrays them. Unless that's the type of thing you enjoy reading about, avoid this book.

Christ on a bike what a load of pretentious crap this was. I always love a good dysfunctional family story but this was so implausible. No likeable characters and I didn't find it funny at all. And that preposterous ending! Sheesh what an utter waste of time. And editor, where were you? 🤔

While reading Under the Eye of the Big Bird, I found myself wavering between appreciation for its ambition and frustration with its execution. I went into the novel blind, which is always something I enjoy. There’s a certain thrill in meeting a book on its own terms, without expectations. In theory, I can appreciate speculative fiction that leans into abstraction or detachment, especially when the thematic focus is as ambitious as it is here. But I found myself continually bumping up against a kind of philosophical hollowness. Kawakami gestures toward big questions—what is life, what is love, how can a species exist after centuries of repeating the same destructive behaviors—but rarely does she offer insights that feel particularly new or satisfying. The novel’s vision of gender and social structure felt disappointingly reductive. In this imagined future, the world is organized around rigid, function-driven roles that reinforce heteronormative binaries: women exist primarily as caretakers and reproducers, while men are rare and often reduced to breeding tools. The book presents itself as a profound meditation on survival and transformation, but offers very little that feels urgent or new. The second half, in particular, becomes increasingly didactic, spelling out themes that were already obvious. Kawakami’s vision for the fate of humanity seems to be one of resignation, not possibility, and while that may resonate for some, I found it a little annoying. Under the Eye of the Big Bird reminded me a lot of Samantha Harvey’s Orbital, which I found similarly dull and self-serious. There’s a difference between subtlety and banality, and Under the Eye of the Big Bird too often leans toward the latter.

What a complete waste of time. A nonsensical futuristic story with no coherent theme. AI/ human hybrids? -give me a break!

“Get me”— she panted— “out of here.” A book seemingly inspired by I'm a Celebrity, and with the same lack of aspirations to artistic quality. I did have hopes early on that this might be a satire on the colonialist settler myth: They talked about it in epic terms around the fire for seasons afterward. It was their origin story, how they’d finally come to be a part of this land. It had felt like they’d accomplished something impossible. Like they had discovered a new world. But seemingly this novel is intended to be taken seriously. That a jury could read over 150 novels and then decide this is on the shortlist of the "finest in fiction" is rather staggering.

I read this book as part of my attempt to read the Booker prize longlist and I was sorely disappointed. I'm honestly shocked that this book got published at all let alone made the list. It has lowered my expectations considerably for the rest of the books on the list. I don't like writing bad reviews but the fact that this book is being praised and is on the Booker longlist actually made me angry. The premise is exciting, it draws you in: In a dystopian future where people live in a massive city and nature almost no longer exists, 20 volunteers are sent out into the 'wilderness' the last remaining piece of protected wildland. They have to survive using only the land as resources and live constantly on the move, leaving no trace of their human footprint behind. Among them are a mother, Bea, and her daughter, Agnes. The story therefore also takes on a complicated mother-daughter relationship dynamic. Bea hates the wilderness, Agnes loves it. So what makes this novel so terrible? Almost unreadable in fact. There are a few things which I will now list: 1. The writing. This definitely takes the spot for number 1. The writing is atrocious and my main complaint. It's so incredibly passive and lackluster and at times the author herself seems bored with what she's producing. It's stale and brought down every scene. The dialogue actually made me laugh for how phony it sounded. The transitions in time are unclear. One minute Agnes is 8 and the next she is 11 and then 14 but it's hard to keep track of because almost nothing happens in the book. Honestly, I blame the editor for this one too. This might have been a better book 200 pages shorter and better edited. 2. Bea. Probably one of the nastiest protagonists ever. I can like a real nasty protagonist under the right circumstances but Bea had only one side to her: selfish. She claims that the wilderness made her hard and selfish, that that's what it means to be wild. But she was like this way before she got there, going so far to imagine a life without her daughter after her death from illness. We're supposed to believe by the end of the book that Bea did all the nasty stuff she did in order to protect her daughter, to save her but she only ever acts in order to save herself. She desperately wants to be a good mother but without considering for a second what that means for Agnes. Again, it's selfish because she just wants to feel good about herself, never once do we get a sense she actually cares about anyone else. The best thing she could've done for Agnes was to leave and stay gone. 3. The secondary characters. So two-dimensional. Half of them just take up extra space on the page when she lists their names because they are absolutely useless and irrelevant to the story. There is a character called Debra that I kept forgetting about who popped up every now and then. We know virtually nothing about her except that she had a wife who died in the wilderness before the story starts and that Dr. Harold (another completely useless character) has a crush on her (literally the only thing we know about him and the driving force of his every action). Toward the end of the book we suddenly find out that Debra has a passion for lakes and when they come across one she gets super excited. "But there's nothing started right now, and we have plenty," said Linda. "So we have-" "The morning off?" Debra asked. Before anyone could reply, Debra was running toward the lake, pulling her smock over her head. Wow. What a fleshed-out character. 4. The pointlessness of the story. The author really had a chance to make a social commentary about our society, about our abuse of nature, about the lack of empathy or humanity of us humans. Instead, she falls short every time. Maybe she doesn't feel comfortable writing about it, or she just doesn't have enough knowledge about the subjects. Perhaps she doesn't want to 'offend' anyone. In any case, she decides once to stay annoyingly passive about these topics, barely skimming the surface most times. The very topics which would make it a dystopian novel. But those are supposed to make you hold a mirror up to yourself and to society and reflect. This book is far from accomplishing that.

Nearly 400 pages of people walking through changing landscapes and arguing.

It seems nitpicky to say that the experiment at the heart of the plot makes no sense and that the participants are supposed to live a lifestyle that no hunter gatherer nomads actually lived, but these things are both frustratingly true.

The book failed to impress me in so many ways and I am still puzzled with the high ratings. It's a cheap melodrama edging with hysteria. Characters lack consistency. Writing is humourless and pretentious. The story just goes on and on to no particular end. A waste of words.

103rd book of 2023. Not far off a self-published book.

(Book 9 of my Journey through the booker prize longlist ) DNF I would like to be enlightened to know why this is on the longlist. Jokes aside this was a chore to get through. I didn't see the point of finishing. I had no interest... Beautiful writing, I can tell Perry can write and I want to commend that but oh my, there was so many characters, all just sitting surface level on the page, I had zero interest in the story which was surprising since I picked this up because it sounded so intriguing! For a book with so many words I felt like it was not fleshed out in the slightest. Not for me.

Holy fuck can we please CONDENSE?

This was a struggle from the beginning until the merciful end. An end that came hundreds of pages too late. I had to force myself to keep reading. If I hadn't won this book from Goodreads, I would have abandoned it about 30 pages in. I would give it a half star if I could.

There's neither anything strange nor eventful about this novel. I'd suggest changing the title to This Slow and Painfully Boring History.

(Book 3 of my Journey through the booker prize longlist ) DNF at page 220 1 ⭐️ When I saw that the booker prize longlist came out I decided to challenge myself to read as much as I can before the shortlist was decided, I find it so exciting to be able to try and predict the winner, however; since there is 13 books on the longlist I know I will not be able to get through them all & I had to prioritise the books I think sound the most intriguing… along comes This Strange Eventful History Okay, Let me start off by saying, Messud's writing is delicate and skillful.... for the first 50 pages. Fictionalising her families story over generations as they move between Salonica and Algeria, US, Australia and a few other places. This sounded like it was going to be so interesting and emotional, I love character studies and when a novel follows a set of characters and really fleshes them out... This was not that. My first issue is the time jump, we go from one narrator to another with a decade of time in between, leaving me feeling cold and disconnected and having to pick up the pieces. I felt like everything was happening in between the lines and we were getting told how the characters felt rather than getting shown, Consequently this led to paragraphs upon paragraphs with upwards of 20+ commas of just rambling nonsense. The introduction and first 50 pages where brilliant! It drew me in with a promise of a beautiful and determined story, but it fell completely flat. It just ended up becoming absolutely dull. The title felt like a lie! There was another small thing whilst reading and that was the copious use of French phrases woven into the story, as a non French speaker, these were thrown in with no context or explanation and I felt really confused and once again disconnected. In the past I have read stories that weave in phrases from another language flawlessly and I have had no issue, here it just took me out of the pages. Overall my expectations were not met at all and I was so upset to have to DNF. I would be really surprised if this ends up on the shortlist...

Claire’s got her editor tied up in a gimp suit in her basement

what did i just read i don't think i've read anything as awful as this in a very long time first off, this book is 448 pages long. now i don’t dislike books because of their length, if the length is warranted, but when you have chapters upon chapters of this: "He’d spoken of the new dig at Guettara as promising, when in fact, of course, the drill had the previous month failed in the ground—they’d hoped to strike oil at 350 meters and had got almost that deep, 339, when the equipment broke as it was lifted out again. The first disaster, at 310 meters. With great effort and at great expense they’d managed to drag it back as far as 70 meters below the earth’s surface with now no obvious way to haul it farther. It had broken into pieces, one of them apparently irretrievably lodged. This lost matériel itself worth five million francs.” … … … just like, mind-numbing, soul-sucking pages of this for the entire book!! is this description necessary at ALL to the plot of the book?? NO. no it is not, claire messud, and you know it. she says that she was inspired to write this book after reading her grandparents’ handwritten memoir, and honestly i think she took it too seriously. not everything in their journal entry should be published, claire. not everything. oh, and the ending! the ENDING! i was shook in the worst way possible. (view spoiler) anyway tl:dr i just could not deal with this book i don’t know why the booker selection committee picked it i feel like i could pick out any book at my local bookstore published in 2024 and find something that was less traumatizing and horrible to read than this awful, awful piece of literature.

I enjoyed The Woman Upstairs and The Emperor’s Children and was, therefore, looking forward to reading this one. I found this book a bit of a slog. I wasn’t particularly interested in any of the characters and found the writing tedious after a while. Just want the book for me. “ I’m a writer I tell stories I want to tell the stories of their lives. It doesn’t really matter where I start. We are always in the middle where ever we stand. We only see partially. I know also that everything is connected. The constellations of our lives moving together in harmony and harmony , the past swirls along with an inside the present and all time exists at once around us the ebb and flow the harmonies and dissonance the music happens whether or not we describe it. A story is not a line. It is a richer thing one circles and Eddie rises and falls repeats upon itself.” Thanks to NetGalley for the ARC

The star is for me for getting all the way through this homage to narcissism. I have no clue how others love these awful people. Lucy has to be the most self-obsessed, narcissistic character. She endlessly talks about how invisible she feels and how amazed she is when anyone knows about her books - this despite having travelled all over the world with her writing, being asked to sign books and seeing books on people's shelves she continually thinks "oh poor me, no one can see me". It's just so fake. She ignores the fact that she has an eating disorder and is probably partly responsible for her daughter's anorexia. She makes everything about herself. William levels this accusation about her but he is the exact same person. When William's marriage breaks down Lucy is outraged that Estelle takes things that she probably picked out and ignores the part about her not wanting alimony. She is unreasonably angry with Estelle even though she left William. Again, it's all about Lucy. William is a serial adulterer but this is almost brushed under the carpet. How does Lucy make this about her - oh it's her fault that he couldn't keep it in his pants for more than 5 minutes. Even the writing style in this book drove me crazy. It is repetitious and full of superlatives. There are paragraphs made up of one statement that is then slightly altered and repeated three or four times. This book should have been so much shorter. I truly dislike both Lucy and William in this book - they are rude, judgemental, narcissistic, egotistical, thoroughly unpleasant and so self-pitying. If the book hadn't been on my tablet I'd have thrown it out of the window.

Another one goes into the DNF pile. I like Sebastian Barry but he can be a bit hit or miss. This was just a rambling, disjointed, boring mess of thoughts from an unreliable narrator.

Dreadful. The worst book I have ever read. The Author feels the need to use overly complicated vocabulary and poeticize everything (including farts) to the point that the book is unreadable. I found the Authors depiction of women disgusting - sexualizing and infantilizing the ones he found attractive and using them only as objects of his sexual desire or describing them as ugly and in the case of housewives, only suited to housekeeping. I found the Author’s in depth description of numerous child sexual assaults similarly disturbing and pointless. By the time I got to the plot (which only happens in the last three chapters) I couldn’t help but roll my eyes. DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME AND MONEY ON THIS.

Got to page 95 and realized this might be the worst book I have ever read. Literally nothing happens and the writing is atrocious.

| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | | Burnt Sugar is one of the worst books I've read in 2020. If you were able to appreciate this novel, I'm glad. This may be one of those 'it's me, not you' cases...or maybe I've read too many stories exploring a complex mother/daughter relationship. To be perfectly frank, I bloody hated this book. It was painfully intent on nauseating the reader. We get it, the human body is base (Julia Kristeva has been there and done that). Burnt Sugar is ripe with garish descriptions of the abject human body: we have bodily fluids and waste, failing bodies, changing bodies (pregnancies, puberty), body parts compared to food or objects (breasts like dough, buttocks like empty sacks). The narrator of this novel, someone who was so remarkable I can no longer recall her name, is the classic disaffected woman who is alienated from everyone and everything. A few days before listening to Burnt Sugar I read Luster, a novel that features a similar type of character except that there the author manages to make her protagonist into a nuanced human being, one who isn't nice or extremely likeable but is nevertheless realistic and capable of moving the read. But here, dio mio! The narrator comes across as petulant and myopic, understanding nothing about anything and no one. Readers are clearly not meant to like her but there are various scenes that try to elicit some sort of sympathy (the nuns mistreat her, her mother is mercurial, her 'silly' Indian-American husband is blind to her anguish) on her behalf. Except that I didn't. The MC goes and on about her mother, but we never gain insight into her actual feelings towards her. The MC is happy detailing all the wrongs she has endured, and seems to insinuate that she has become such a stronza because of her mother. The whole thing is incredibly superficial. Here we have another mother who is 'hysterical' just because 'hysterical' mothers can make for some dramatic scenes. Indian-Americans are portrayed as foolish and brainwashed. Everybody is nasty and disgusting. Ha-ha! Oh wait, that isn't quite 'caustic wit'. There were a few—and when I say a few, I mean two or three—phrases that under certain circumstances (if you are as high as a kite) may come across as slightly amusing, but for the most part the MC's cutting humour fell flat. Viewing everything as grotesque is hardly funny, and it gets tiring, fast. I also found the author's treatment and portrayal of postnatal depression and dementia to be highly insensitive. The mother in question becomes 'monstrous', the type of character that one may expect in Victorian literature. Who cares about realism when you can write explicit and 'subversive' things for the sake of shock value? I think this was an awful novel...and it seems that I'm in the minority. Who cares. If you want to read it or loved it, good for you. I'm glad I was able to return this audiobook and I sincerely doubt I will ever try reading anything by this author. Books with believably fraught mother/daughter relationships featuring alienated, disaffect, or challenging main characters : You Exist Too Much, The Far Field. Read more reviews on my blog / / / View all my reviews on Goodreads

I came across this book as Shortlisted for the Booker Prize of 2020 and the purple cover. "Never judge a book by its cover" they say. I just don't understand what I read. I thought about DNF-ing this book but I kept reading to see the point, the plot. It never came. This book read like a non-fiction autobiographical recap of the author. I had to keep reminding myself it was fiction because the storyline felt like real life, dull and drab. This is the story of a mother who was abhorrently absent in her daughters' life while defiantly pursuing a guru. The daughter is now an adult and her mother has Alzheimer's. She is now responsible to not only take care of her mother but overlook the wrongs that she may never make right. The daughter spends the rest of the book recanting all the mishaps of her childhood while simultaneously caring for her mother but hating her but kind of still liking her. It felt like a complicated mess to unpack. I don't think the author had a clear storyline established for the protagonist. Many parts felt intolerable to read like the obsession with her "ugly" body and her random sex life. I am disappointed in a book that I thought I would like, it just didn't sit well with me in any way.

63rd book of 2022. 1.5. Extremely surprised this made the Man Booker International shortlist. I honestly have no idea how it managed it. The blurb informs that this is a 'genre-defying collection of short stories' that blur the lines between 'magical realism, horror and science-fiction,' which sounded instantly like something I would love. Not the case. Firstly, the prose is bland, so horribly bland. By the third story I was questioning the talent of the writer. I've read an Anton Hur translation before and enjoyed it so that's why I exclude them. The stories themselves, despite sounding fantastic, were on the most part just simply terrible. To kick off the collection is a story about a head in a woman's toilet that has slowly been created by all the shit, toilet paper, hair and sanitary pads. She goes slightly insane with the thought of it growing in her toilet while her family around her seem nonchalant. The titular story was no better, a literal rabbit curse that sends people twitching and sitting in roads. Another story involves a woman getting pregnant by taking too many contraceptive pills (I know?) and then having to find a father before the baby is born otherwise something, the doctors tell her, awful will happen to the baby/her. Some stories were slightly better. The premise of "Ruler of the Winds and Sands" was cool, but again, Chung just butchered it with boring prose and a rubbish ending. The 1-star is really just to rage against the longest story in the collection, "Scars", which is one of the worst short stories I've read in a long time. The entire thing felt utterly pointless and read like stories my classmates and I used to write on our BAs. Most of the story is spent describing fighting, a boy fighting animals and men and then a monster. I don't even know. Just bad. The other Hur translation I read was Park's Love in the Big City which was better than this and was left behind on the longlist. The fact Paradais didn't make the shortlist but this did is so beyond me I can't even begin to comprehend their thought process.

** spoiler alert ** This is really bad guys, I’m sorry. There’s a few reasons I dnf’d it at 60 pages: there are really important plot beats that are glazed over, unconvincingly, while paragraphs talking about what every single space she enters looks like take up more word count, just for starters. She’s having a drink then she’s having some pretty iffy sex and gets handed some bills, no idea how she feels about that really, and then suddenly right after meets a hooker with a heart of gold who just knows she’s going go be a sex worker too, but she was just walking home, no? And then sets up a friend to watch out for her with her first appointment and you have no idea what happens in that car, pretty much. Her physicality is not convincing at all, and it is again, really important just in so far as to be able to know what the heck is actually happening in the scene, which should have a lot of gravity, but doesn’t. Or even how she feels about it. Or if she’s on the pill. Or if they even had sex in the car. Like what the heck is going on. Aforementioned friend wants to “take care of her” and she’s all, all I got is blood, my good for nothing brother and all so no, and then when he leaves she’s all like hope my brother will be “my shadow”. It’s really unconvincing and melodramatic, has terrible, terrible similes All. The. Time. A weird always-on prose work that just smooths out absolutely everything happening, even when it’s better prose than you’d expect. It robs its own style of any punch. The character dynamics and issues are convincing, but foregrounded in a way that feels really awkward for people living in the area to talk about, fairly often. Then it’s granular about the innocuous, making it really, really boring. Until something interesting happens, only to be treated like it’s less than the description of her brother in a booth trying to rhyme. It’s not good. I’d recommend trying it on audio, it has to be better than on the page, If it’s got a good narrator.

What was the point of this book?

dnf at 35% - neither the plot or writing is grasping or engaging to me at all. surprised this was even shortlisted for the booker prize.

This is a novel about Gopi and her three sisters who have lost their mother. Gopi’s life revolves around her playing squash. I have to say that I don’t understand why this book is on the list of Booker Prize Longlist Nominees. Of course, I don’t know what they look for in a novel. I was totally bored the entire time I was listening to this book. The only reason I kept listening is because I had to read a book in this category, and it was the only one on the list I could find an audiobook for. I didn’t connect with any of the characters and didn’t care for any of them. There was way too much talk about the sport that I have no interest in whatsoever. This book is very forgettable. I can’t say that I would recommend this book. Perhaps if you are interested in squash, you may find it interesting. I believe this was a debut book for this author, but I still don’t think I will read another book by this author.

What a boring little book. Who wants to read about squash?

Can Xue is a writer of some renown, so I assume there is something of quality in this insufferable little book, and that it’s simply too smart for me to find. I didn’t enjoy a single minute of reading this.

Gave up after 100 pages. Very hard to read. Just a lot of random stuff.

Couldn’t finish this one. Not for me.

'Standing Heavy' is truly the worst book I've put myself through this year. I can't even figure out who the intended audience for this book is but it comes across as elitist fiction filled to the brim with bitterness and hatred. It's almost as if GauZ has gone out to a shopping center to fill up his mundane little life and gone people-watching in some cafe, clearly been bullied at school or something, and has just decided to write down every nasty thought he's ever had about people (specifically women) walking past. Then to make matters worse went, "Oh, I've done this for a long time so now I have 160 pages worth of this stuff, let's publish it!" Nothing was enjoyable about this book, except for when it ended. I have no idea what the International Booker judges were thinking this year and WHO on the panel is the one campaigning for this book to have made it on the list.

Of course it won the Booker Prize! What could be more award-worthy than a story that checks every box on the Western fantasy list about Muslim lives—violent men, voiceless women, polygamy thrown in for good measure, and endless procreation to really seal the stereotype. We—Muslims—have hijacked our own literature, expertly tailoring our stories to fit exactly what Tom, Dick, and Harry want to hear: tragic, exotic, and just backward enough to make them feel enlightened. Rebecca Kuang has an interesting line in her YELLOWFACE “Unfortunately, you can still be orientalist even if you are Asian,” page 99. This book claims to represent Muslim communities in Karnataka—but instead, women in these stories are voiceless, choice-less, and crushed under the boots of violent, lecherous Muslim men. Muslim men are reduced to predators and patriarchs, parroting a corrupted understanding of Islam that serves only their appetites. Every story in Heartlamp circles the same tired orbit: marriage, childbirth, submission. ⁠ Literature must not shy away from pain. What provokes my anger is that in Heartlamp, suffering becomes the sole currency of Muslim identity. Domestic violence exists, yes—but it’s not unique to Muslims, it’s universal, damn it! Oppressive men exist everywhere, damn it! Not only in the Muslim world. When literature becomes a mouthpiece for hegemonic assumptions, it ceases to liberate—it participates in a new kind of oppression. Mushtaq’s characters seem frozen in suffering. Agency, education, religious complexity—hallmarks of real-life Muslim societies, especially since the 1980s—are nowhere to be found. Where are the Muslim women who are lawyers, poets, journalists, entrepreneurs, teachers, engineers? Where are the families negotiating between tradition and modernity with compassion? Where is the humor, the strength, the sisterhood, the ordinary dignity? The answer is: not in Heartlamp. Heartlamp is not brave; it is compliant after complaint!

A terrible read. Constant repetition; repetition of names, repetition of action, repetition of character motivation; the entire novel is written in a peculiar, disjointed style which fails, as other reviewers have pointed out, to allow any development of plot or character. The idea, the story of a boxing tournament told through its individual bouts, is a good one but in execution it became boring and predictable. In fact, even when the individual stories are interesting, the early chapters especially, it is the writing style that holds it back and prevents it from going anywhere.

Calum McIlroy did not like this book. Calum McIlroy particularly disliked the way the author uses each of the characters’ full names multiple times per sentence. Calum McIlroy wishes the author had created characters who were interesting, but Calum McIlroy is glad that there was no dialogue, as it probably would have been ass too. Calum McIlroy doesn’t recommend that any of Calum McIlroy’s friends read this book. 0*

Good Grief! This was not an enjoyable read at all! The experience was just awful! There was no character development at all. Bullwinkle does not allow the reader to get to know the characters at all. There is no dialogue to help move the story along. Descriptions, upon descriptions abound, with no real payoff. I truly not only dislike this book, I actually loathed it. I would not recommend this book, nor would I read Bullwinkle’s work again. This was just horrible.

i actually don’t think i can list three things i enjoyed about this.

Somehow, a short story’s worth of material was padded out into this vague, multiple POV mess that confuses inane non sequiturs for insight and does a disservice to the rich interior lives of young women. Not all bad: the line “A grain of sand is a finite unit that can be quantified into countable numbers” is certainly in the conversation for the funniest thing I’ve read this year.

if you took a shot every time the author wrote the characters full government name you’d be dead after one paragraph

Absolute, indecipherable nonsense. I can only presume that there’s some kind deeply niche knowledge required to make any sense of this which I evidently don’t have. Strong no from me.

Alan Garner’s Treacle Walker is such a steaming pile of book, OF COURSE it’s the favourite to win this year’s Booker Prize! It’s garbage like this that turn people off from reading and awards-nominated books in general. Garner does such an inept job of telling his story, I can’t even provide a basic summary to start this review. There’s a “character” called Joe and he seems to have a problem with one of his eyes, which somehow makes him able to see magical (I think?) beings called Treacle Walker and Thin Amren. Some characters from his comic come to life and one of them “dies”. The end. Huh? Joe seems to be a child but we don’t know because we never find out what he does - does he go to school, or have a job, or have parents? No idea - as none of those things are mentioned. What are his goals? No idea. Ditto any motivation. Things just happen to him - incomprehensible things. Who or what are Treacle Walker and Thin Amren? No idea. They’re mysterious and probably magical - just ‘cos. What do they want? No idea. What does anyone in this book want? No idea. What’s the point of the story? No idea. Is Joe crazy? Maybe. Am I crazy for finishing this rubbish? Well… It’s such bad writing, and these are the most basic elements of storytelling, so it’s amazing to me that anyone could think to praise such incompetence, much less nominate it for one of the most famous literary prizes in the world! I looked up Knockout Comics after reading this and found out that it’s a comic that ran from 1939 to 1963, before having a brief failed revival in the 1970s, so that gives you a timeframe - if you thought to look up this element of the story that is, because, you’ve guessed it, Garner doesn’t include any context in when this takes place either. Not that it matters I suppose but then it’s not clear what - if anything - about this story matters at all! The story’s set in a small rural community and I think the dialect is northern English, Yorkshire-ish, maybe. You’d have to look up the words Garner includes in his gibberish, I mean dialogue - eg. “corr bolg”, “tarradiddles”, “hurlothrumbo”, and “lomperhomock”, all of which makes the title character sound like a bargain bin BFG - because no explanations are provided and, hey, who doesn’t love constantly interrupting their reading to look things up, eh? Those words don’t really make a huge difference in the narrative - they provide a sense of local colour more than anything - but it’s just another example of the writing providing no way in for the reader in figuring out what the hell’s going on. The one thing holding this book back from potentially winning the Booker is that Alan Garner is an old white man - tantamount today to having a swastika face tattoo, in some social circles - so it’ll probably go to Elizabeth Strout’s Oh, William!, which is an equally dreary book, but Strout is an old white woman, which gives her the edge (even though her novel is about an old white man). Treacle Walker: corr bolg, what a complete load of tarradiddles!

81st book of 2022. So with the Booker longlist out, the library reservation battles start again. Typing titles into the catalogue, seeing what libraries they are in, checking how many reservations are already stacked, gauging how long it will take (an impossible feat, of course, how fast is a reader?), and so on until they finally appear waiting to be collected. Yesterday I picked up Bulawayo's Glory, and by the time I had taken it to the machine to check it out, someone else had reserved it. The man had to fiddle on his computer to get that person a copy from a closer library and I was free to take mine. Better read this one first, he told me. And I'm still waiting on some of the International books that I haven't been able to get my hands on. Generally, the Man Booker doesn't interest me but this year I'd like to give the list a good go. If you want my opinion, don't bother with this one.

I try not to rate books as low as only a single star but sometimes my hand is forced and I can’t think of a single positive that would drag it up a tiny bit. I’m sorry but how this has been considered for Booker recognition is beyond me… it was nonsense. This book literally had no discernable plot and was written in the most inaccessible manner possible. If anyone can decipher what on earth was supposed to be going on it’s a miracle. It felt like reading something a child came up with in a dream. The writing felt like a child had done it as well, honestly. It was so basic and poorly done I really don’t understand how anyone is giving this a five. It started off with a whimsical, strange kind of air to it which I was willing to persevere with. There was a sentence or two that made me laugh but still made no sense to me. The characters were bizarre and it moved forward too quickly to process anything at all. Awful.

I can't even begin to review this because it is totally bizarre. What did I just read.

No idea what I've just read, went completely over my head. The one star is for me, for struggling on to the end! I'll stick to his kids books in future.

I don’t understand….. am I missing something? I have so many questions: - Is the main character a child? Mentally unwell? Is he dreaming? Or is the story just magical realism? - What kind of pigeon English dialect is this written in because I sure as heck couldn’t figure out. - What happened? I couldn’t figure that out either. - How did this get nominated for the Booker Prize?! I read this in one go on a plane, I hoped the end would give me some clarity, but NOPE!

It’s inevitable that when reading a shortlist, one cannot like every book. Well here’s my stinker. While we were Dreaming is every type of awful one can imagine: Dialogue, plot, characters – EVERYTHING. I will say it right now I HATED this book I will say it again I HATED this book. The novel focuses on group of teenagers during the fall of the Berlin Wall – we also get glimpses of their childhood pre unification. This post life consists of: Looking at porn mags Talking about breasts – ON NEARLY EVERY SINGLE PAGE Stealing from old people and a countless number of fistfights and drug scoring repeat cycle for 600 pages. Plus it’s all in Kerouacian slang ARGH I understand that Meyer is portraying a type of mentality and social situation caused by so called freedom but to read the same thing over and over and over again is mind numbingly boring plus the constant sexism got to me. Yes you like boobs and looking up skirts. Fine but do we have to talk about it all the time. However there is one semi redeeming factor and that’s the chapter about one character trying to use a microwave but even that is spoiled because all the narrator cares about is the porn mag his friend’s dad smuggles and the whole talk descends to mammary gland discourses!! If this is a portrait of post wall society, then Berlin must have made Caligula’s Rome seem like some kind of saint’s palace. Never has a book managed to make me so angry, bored and irritated at the same time. I will repeat a third time. I HATE this book.

⭐ 1.5/5 rounding down For a full spoiler version of this review, please check out my blog, spoiledbooks.blogspot.com I went into this so ready to love it. A sweeping novel about two Indian families navigating immigration, loneliness, and the complicated pull between India and America? Yes please. As an immigrant myself, I was especially excited for the themes of cultural displacement, identity, and the quiet ache of not fully belonging anywhere. The premise follows Sonia and Sunny, whose families hope a match between them might cure their mutual loneliness abroad. And at first, it’s thoughtful and promising. But somewhere along the way, the story loses focus. It starts juggling too many threads, and the emotional core gets buried. The writing is beautiful, no question — but I kept wishing for a tighter, more cohesive story. Sadly, this one just didn’t land for me.

Definitely the most disappointing book of the year for me. Thought this would be a great epic novel and instead it was a meandering mess that was more like 5 novels mashed together. So many characters, so many tangents, so little editing. Twice as long as it should have been and the kind of book that you don’t want to pick up because it feels like a chore.

Life is too short to plod through this book. There is no need for lengthy backstories about minor characters or the descriptions of the minute details of daily life for days on end.

I got about 10% in and didn’t connect with the characters or the writing. This is a long book and I’m gonna prioritize others. DNF.

I’m honestly amazed I made it through this book. I kept waiting for the narrative to find its footing — or at least offer some sense of momentum — but it never did. For a book that sprawls across 645 pages, there’s surprisingly little plot, structure, or emotional payoff. The characters felt less like fully realized people and more like loose sketches drifting from scene to scene. Their arcs didn’t deepen, evolve, or even meaningfully connect, which made it nearly impossible to invest in any of them. The writing itself jumped between tones and threads, often abandoning one idea before it had the chance to mean anything. Instead of layered or lyrical, it just came across as unfocused. The book’s themes — loneliness, displacement, belonging — should have given it resonance, but the execution lacked cohesion. There’s atmosphere, yes, but atmosphere alone can’t carry six hundred pages, especially when the pacing is glacial and the narrative direction continually dissolves. It took me almost two months to get through because it literally kept putting me to sleep. After 21 parts and 75 chapters, I’m mostly disappointed that I ignored my instincts and didn’t DNF at around 11%. I do not recommend this book.

I ended up wishing I hadn’t persisted. I liked the premise and started enthusiastically, but there really were too many tangents, ideas it felt frustrating and muddled. There was the potential for at least 3-4 novels but ended up really not achieving 1 good storyline and the characters were not engaging either .

the absolute least a book could do is entertain me

A truly depressing book. I do not understand how this type of book can consistently get the "critically acclaimed" reviews. I did not like any of the characters, there was no redeeming feature, but the story of a mother who had bi-polar and the terrible things she did as a mother to her two daughters. The other relatives of the girls should be punished for leaving them in her care.

DNF. A tedious read despite its brevity—nothing but rambling, random name-droppings, and disjointed storytelling that jumps back and forth without purpose. Whatever satire it aimed for was lost in its self-indulgence. More exhausting than engaging.

How can a book so short, be so long? DNF at 30%. I couldn’t spend any more time with this narrator.

Bold move to write a book that isn't very good with the word trash in the title.

This is not the worst book I've ever read, but it was certainly not worth the hype. The dialogue was appropriately culchie, but if I had a euro for every book I've read about depressed men and drug dealing in Mayo - well, I'd have the guts of a decent Chinese takeaway. The rest of the writing wasn’t much - I’ve read infinitely better fanfiction. There were even spelling mistakes in my library paperback copy (‘we’re’ instead of ‘were’, and a possible autocorrect of ‘housed’ instead of ‘horsed’ spring to mind). I kind of just wish I’d continued watching the TV show I’m in the middle of, instead of spending the afternoon reading this. EDIT: OH! I forgot! My biggest criticism! Anyone who's gotten through the beoirs and gaums and presses of the rest of this novel is either committed enough to the story, or already knows what they mean. And a Mayo mother would DEFINITELY know what tourlough is, so there was no reason to have the drug mule divert from his conversation to elucidate. It was weird. And not only that, it was inaccurate. Unfortunately, I happen to know someone who literally did postgraduate research specifically in tourloughs, and they do not solely exist in the west of Ireland, which is the interesting point (because there are a few beyond the west, and one in Wales.) Also, anyone - ANYONE - who grew up in Mayo would know the location of a local seasonal lake and would not hide melty drugs there. Maybe I'm missing the point, because the focus was supposed to be on the misery and depression and hopelessness of living in a country town during their biggest festival, but along with the spelling mistakes and boring writing, this really annoyed me. Also, the festival had literally one thing to do with the plot, and I wasn't even convinced of its authenticity by the rest of the writing. UGH, why do men get so many accolades, plaster them all over their blurbs, get positive write-ups everywhere, and demean their home county, all for mediocre babble? I'M NOT EVEN A MAYO SUPPORTER.

This felt like an episode of Fair City

For a book that's only 176 pages long.. it was a SLOG to get through. I get it, it's about intergenerational trauma, abuse and the cycle it causes - as well as the link between poverty and abuse, but it was just bad. Nothing about this book kept my attention; the writing was so bland and BORING. The setting was interesting but that wasn't talked about much, the concept and themes are equally interesting and deserve more conversation in mainstream media but this book did not do those themes justice. Such predictable plot as well - smart girl grows up with abuse, gets stuck into school and wants to escape, ends up exactly like her parents. OVER IT. Boring. Bland. I was just skimming to get it finished by the end. No quotes, literally none at all.

Now inexplicably shortlisted for the 2021 International Booker Prize a book for which it should not have even been considered eligible. I read this book due to its longlisting for that prize – a prize looking for newly UK published translated works of long-form fiction (or collection of short stories) - and which looks (like the main Booker) to find the "finest fiction" of the year. The judges this year have rather stretched the definition of eligibility in a few cases. But no more so than in this case, which is a lot closer to non-fiction than fiction, and at just over 60 small pages (with generous font size) is not something anyone would I think call “long-form”. Unfortunately they have also stretched the definition of "finest fiction" In practice this is much closer to an lengthy history essay, and not even a good one. The essay has a biographical and thematical nature – the biography of the 15th/16th century German preacher, religious reformer turned peasant leader Thomas Müntzer, and the theme is of popular uprisings originating with a rediscovery of the Bible’s actual teaching and preaching of a radical Gospel following the widespread distribution of a vernacular translation – with the emphasis ultimately more on the social than religious aspects of that interaction. Müntzer’s story is then rooted both in his family history (or at least a common but mainly discredited version of it) and in the story of Thomas Wycliffe/John Ball/Wat Tyler and then Jack Cade and Jan Hus. It is certainly an interesting topic – but I do not think it is particularly well done (even putting aside the essay’s strange prize eligibility and rather poor value for money). The part of the story I am familiar with is the English part – and even from my limited knowledge (which appears more than the author’s) I felt that the story missed some obvious resonances. He conflates Wat and John Tyler using the simplified versions of later Centuries - which might be OK I suppose if this is meant to be a novelistic account rather than a "contemporary sources say" historical account; but he seems to miss the point of the "assault" on Tyler's daughter (rendering it simply as a rape): my understanding was that the poll tax collectors were empowered to investigate who was eligible to pay the tax which included checking young girls for whether they had reached puberty - with rather obvious parallels with things like police stop and search powers in the UK and US – where the very law encourages its own abuse by enforcements. In the London riots he misses how attacks took place on Flemish immigrants (and how over the years – even to today – such riots have a distinct xenophobic element). In fact to take it further he misses the historical resonance of protests against Belgium by non-Londoners lead by a populist leader from Kent - 600+ years before Farage and Brussels. He also misses John Ball’s most famous speech "When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then a gentleman?" – one that was quoted again and again down the centuries even to the modern day and which precisely fits the theme of the essay. And how seriously can one take an essay that tells us that Wycliffe translated the bible into “British” or has a line "At the time, three popes were laying claim to Peter's throne: the Pope of Rome, the Pope of Pisa, and the Pope of Avignon. Gregory XII, John XXIII, and Benedict XIII. That's a lot of names and numbers to keep straight; it was complicated". So on the part I know something about it is clear to me that Vuillard has either through ignorance or incompetence not really understood how it fits his theme. Which hardly encourages me on the parts with which I am less familiar - although even there as I said he seems to completely misrepresent the importance of religious beliefs. The title at least fits - I cannot work out what is most poor - the clear ineligibility for the prize, the terrible value for money or the paucity of understanding in the writing. It is almost like a war between them.

There have always been brutal inequities within society and numerous historic harrowing moments of revolt where there's a radical shift in power. One interesting figure is Thomas Muntzer, a German preacher and radical theologian of the early 16th century. Before reading Eric Vuillard's short 65-page novella I'd not heard of this figure who opposed both Martin Luther, a leading figure of the Reformation and the Roman Catholic Church. This book is primarily about this idealistic man's relatively rapid rise and fall in his quest to expose the hypocrisies and abuse of power by the church and royalty. It's a fascinating subject. The trouble is that it's a far too brief and shallow account. It doesn't provide enough information or dramatic flair to make it into a satisfying story. The overall tone is also quite muddled so I often wasn't sure if I was reading fiction, an essay, a poem or a biography. In the end this book felt like little more than an extended Wikipedia entry with a few personalized flourishes. An interesting point Vuillard makes early on is how an increased ability to reproduce and distribute the Bible at this time made the text more accessible to the general population. It allowed Thomas Muntzer to read the text himself and find passages which he interpreted as contradicting the actions of the church. Of course, the way in which the leading religious figures hoarded wealth while demanding that the working classes surrender the little money they had to further enrich their treasury was scandalous and Muntzer was someone with enough conviction to call out this blatant injustice. He also inspired others to revolt. But the author doesn't creatively bring his character or the time period to life. Vuillard hints at interesting and complex disputes. For instance he writes, “At the time, three popes were laying claim to Peter's throne: the Pope of Rome, the Pope of Pisa, and the Pope of Avignon. Gregory XII, John XXIII, and Benedict XIII. That's a lot of names and numbers to keep straight; it was complicated.” Perhaps this is his humorous way of brushing over some of the intricacies of this historical period but it felt frustrating that he so quickly dismissed what sounds like a larger compelling story. The great thing about historical novels is that the writer can imaginatively fill in the gaps when history books can't provide a definitive account. A writer of fiction often makes reasonable assumptions about how and why obscure events played out as they did. “The War of the Poor” feels more like an extended list with some general asides. Therefore I didn't feel in any way emotionally engaged by this book and little informed beyond the few facts I've stated here. Despite it's short length it was a slog to read. It's a shame and a missed opportunity so I hope someone one day writes a genuinely compelling novel about Muntzer.

I READ THE LONGLIST, I DID IT AND I’M NEVER DOING IT AGAIN, WOOHOO, GET SHIT ON

A well-written sentence can hide a weak voice… …to encapsulate this book. First, Powers’ bombastic words do not center around a reverence for the ocean - nor for the environment. The Pacific is merely a decorative background while attempting to portray an image of cultural competence. And to that, Powers ought to be called in. A white male author writing a BIPOC’s experience? Because here’s the what of the what of it: it’s not that he speaks to it, he speaks for it. Can one string together another question beyond, “Are you f*cking for real?” The only thing Powers succeeded in is White empathy making racist ideology. He consumes the Black and Pacific Islander identities for his own needs. He uses stereotypical language which denigrates anyONE other than the person who looks like him. And he crafts a false narrative which promotes commonality and assuages White guilt. Shall we move on to how he has “included” the queer experience? Except to say that he has disparaged Lesbians by perpetuating the patriarchal viewpoint that you “stick with your man”? How a woman can realize she loves women - sure, sure - but the White-picket fence vision of love and family is what matters? Or do we tackle the incompetence of the potentialities of AI? You want to include a last page flip? At least have the technological substance to hold it. Overall, this book was absolutely atrocious. And I sincerely hope that critical thinking folx speak to that.

the only enjoyable part of this book was the 26-word poem about a starfish at the very end

Fuck this stupid book and fuck me too for being stupid enough to finish it. Hope this diva gets out of her time loop at some point in this seven part series. All the best, won't be following xoxo

Tara is stuck in a time loop, where she must relive the same day over and over. You could do anything with this set up. You could go for big scientific and philosophical ideas. You could write a time-loop thriller. You could go Groundhog Day style and make a lightly philosophical comedy. So why, in god's name, would you choose to do what Balle has done, and write the most mundane, flat, and lifeless story imaginable. Such a waste of a good set-up and I will absolutely not be along for the ride on this seven-volume snoozefest. It's so dull that I actually suspect it could be part of a huge practical joke. I'm glad it only took away one October 12th from me.

should be called on the calculation of boredom

was honestly a big waste of time..... the 'art imitates life' thought replaces itself with the 'art imitates art imitates art' thought where there seems to be no original aspect of literature at all and instead of disproving this, this novel proves it all the more by the face of glorified and needlessly persistent capital-r Repetition. if u read the first 10 pages of this novel and didn't like it, i suggest you dnf it because nothing changes!!!!! nothing happens!!!!!! nothing escalates!!!!! consider this being ur warning

Book 3 of my Booker Prize longlist challenge, each year I dedicate my time to reading all the books on the booker longlist/shortlist so I can attempt to predict the winner. (Key word here is attempt) This has led me to read some incredible books, pushing me out of my comfort zone & expanding my taste. My first DNF! I swear every year there is one DNF from the booker, this year Flashlight was the lucky winner. Incredibly long, arduous & honestly, dull. We start out with the story of Louisa, she is 10 years old and her father goes missing whilst they are on a walk on the beach. We jump perspectives and timelines throughout this story, seemingly never getting any closer to a resolution or even a plot? So many pages of nothing, NOTHING. The plot moves forward at a painstaking pace. I just couldn't give myself any more time for this. I felt a book slump incoming hard and fast. I had to save myself. Onto the next!

One star seems harsh considering the writing itself is decent, but I can’t in good conscience rate a book that I spend the whole time wanting to quit reading a higher rating than this. I think this novel could’ve benefitted from a lot more editing, as it commits a lot of what I generally consider to be writing sins - things that bothers me: - Long passages for the sake of being long. I’m all for meandering, descriptive prose but it has to contribute to the atmosphere, characterization, or plot in some way or make you feel something. This books feels like the words are just languishing on the pages. It also doesn’t help that the subject matter is rather depressing, with the main character grieving the loss of her father. Maybe this could be the right read for someone in a specific mindset, but in general, I thought that it was a little too indulgent. This is the type of book in which I’m afraid a casual reader would pick up and then conclude that reading is boring. It’s really evident that the author put a lot of thought into this work, but it just didn’t work for me as a reader. - Lots of exposition right off the bat to explore the different characters’ backgrounds. Most of the book is written in past tense, so it feels like the events already happened and the characters don’t have any agency in the story’s events. It’s also composed of a lot of flashbacks and non-linear events, which doesn’t help with the story’s progression. - A lot of contemporary novels have alternating characters’ perspectives. However, for this one, it’s written in third person and the writing style does not vary from character to character. I think any story with multiple perspectives is similar to an actor playing multiple parts in a show/movie - it takes an incredible amount of skill to showcase the different characters’ importance and perspectives and to give them an equal (or equitable) weight to the story. - The plot doesn’t really go anywhere. I think this is meant to be more of a character study, but it doesn’t bring a lot of new ideas to the table. Special thanks to Farrar, Straus and Giroux and NetGalley for providing an eARC in exchange for an honest, independent review.

Sorry, but I gave up at around the halfway mark. I have never been able to finish a Ken Follett and hoped this would be an exception. Sadly, it wasn't. Stonehenge is fascinating; this story isn't. Not unlike Pillars of the Earth, Circle of Days promises a great journey--the creation of an awe-inspiring monument--and yet immediately inspires the exact opposite of awe. The pace plods. The characters are too numerous, and many are indistinguishable from one another. They eat, sleep, have sex, talk about sex, and kill each other. There is nothing romantic or uplifting about any of it. The description is bland and functional, more like the action beats of a movie script. I'm not the right person to verify the historical accuracy of the world-building, but I got the impression much of it was invented from whole cloth, because little is known about the subject. That's understandable. Still, whether it is at least a plausible picture of the time and place, I somehow doubt. I didn't buy the generalization that "farmers represent patriarchy" and "herders are free spirits." It felt more like a fantasy than historical fiction. Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for the ARC.

Last year I discovered Bernard Cornwell and fell in love with historical fiction. Early this year I heard a bunch of buzz around Pillars of the Earth and I fully thought that this would be the year of Ken Follett. Well instead of reading that, I decided to keep his magnum opus for later and started with his first published work. Eye of the Needle. Dropped that about halfway though. Then I heard he had a new historical fiction that seemed more up my alley and I thought, this is it, this is going to be the book that makes me fall in love with Ken Follett.....dropped it about a third through. This book was garbage. To call the characters two dimensional is giving them too much credit. It was specifically the introduction of a new villain in chapter 10 that had me roll my eyes and literally almost throw my book. Every villain in this book is evil for no reason and just stupid. None of this is compelling, it's just eye rolling awful. But that wasn't my only problem with this piece of trash, even before that I was having the hardest time trying to get into the book between the dialogue and the sensibilities of the characters being way too modern. I never really felt like I was reading about some people 4500 years ago, I felt like I was reading about some modern day hippies vs some modern day rednecks. And handled with the same sledgehammer as the "villains' where there is no nuance, there is no tact. Your good guys are so good and perfect they aren't really interesting, and your villains are so awful and stupid that there is nothing interesting about them either. So with a heavy heart I have to say, Ken Follett is most definitely not my dude. Will I ever read Pillars of the Earth? Don't know. That is a massive book. However I do have the problem of having another 6 books of Ken's on my bookshelf right now. Guess they might be going back to the used book store from whence they came.

I loved the Kingsbridge series, but this new Follett just isn't living up to my own hype for it. I even tried to force myself to finish this despite my growing disinterest, but I'm finally throwing in the towel. My stubborn persistence has met its match. I was so excited when I heard Follett's next book was going to revolve around building Stonehenge. Ancient sites are innately intriguing. Plus, add in some engineering drama that Follett did so well in Kingsbridge, and I thought this was going to be an easy win. Unfortunately, I got 65% into this new book, and these flat characters still haven't started building anything. It's not even a pattern/method of time keeping they are developing during the course of the story. The "circle" is already there, built in wood, they just want it to be more indestructible, so they want to replace it with stone. Fine, but if that's all it is, then get to it! To add insult to injury, that isn't even my biggest gripe with the book. My annoyance is mostly focused on the simplistic writing. I understand that Follett was attempting to write stone age characters here. I don't think anyone from that time period was Einstein, but if they are going to communicate like small children, can they at least have a few complex thoughts for the benefit of the reader? Additionally, the ancient social structures this dude imagined are immersion breaking. It feels kind of like a daytime drama, a caricature of the past. Too much wishful thinking and limited to what an archeologist might tell you based on a few old broken pots they found in a deep hole. It lacked imagination and personality. It might as well have been a History Channel reenactment brought to you by AI. Sounds harsh putting that thought into words, but it's how I feel about it.

Normally, I've enjoyed Ken Folett's Medieval series, collected them all - and looked forward to each new release. The last one I read "Armor of Light" was a disappointment: Follett went WOKE. I'd heard that he had a new release this year and I wondered if this one would be WOKE as well. If so, I didn't want to purchase it. But I saw it and decided to take a chance. This one is WOKE. I'm supposing he was getting pressure from his editors on what to write, to be "inclusive." Maybe he received criticism from gay groups about his writing style, who knows. Circle of Days goes too far, goes to explicit lengths describing gay sex, open sex, sexual experiences with losing one's virginity. There is no need for me to read about those things. Ken Follett is now off my list of authors.

Very disappointed! I expected a historical novel but this was very made up. A very Woke and trashy book. Without any basis he wants to believe that people in those days were swingers and it was accepted and at the same time that the farmers were patriarchal and herders free spirits. Skip this one. not very well written

80 some pages was more than enough for me. The writing was horrible. It was so simplistic a first grader could have written a better story. Of course it kind of went with the plot (at least as far as I got) that was also so basic there was nothing there to hold my interest.

It was very kind of Follett to let a sixth grader ghost write this for him. Wooden prose. Characters with zero rooting interest. The sex was written like how an eleven-year-old would imagine it. Everyone is a swinging bisexual attending the quarterly orgy. The "villain" comes right out of middle school. He was literally just a thug wringing his hands because nobody wanted to go to his party. I'm so heartbroken that the successors to my favorite book are drivel. Pillars was a passion project that Follett's inner circles advised him against. It was lightning in a bottle. It is beautiful and shocking. It's raw humanity. Circle of Days, although not explicitly in the Kingsbridge series, was just a yearly line on a checklist for Follett. It reads exactly how it was conceived. His publishers needed something to put on Autumn displays in the bookstores. It needed to be gay and inclusive to make it on all the right end-of-year reading lists. It needed heavy-handed drama so a small studio would write them all checks for rights to a phoned in mini-series. It needed to be short enough so Follett could check all of these boxes without getting up off his couch.

40th book of 2023. This is such a strange choice by the Booker International. Before I say anything else, I will say that I read something about this book being inspired by soap operas in another review, so maybe the ridiculous plot and mostly vapid characters are merely a satirical bent that I don't fully realise. Sadly, it doesn't change my opinions. Starting this book, it seemed fun, different, as other people have said, 'quirky' (an adjective I've never used to describe a book before, I don't think). Sebastian is a triplet, and working for a science institute in London and is looking after a 'moral' monkey. The back of the book likens Svensson's novel to other writers such as Thomas Mann and Donna Tartt, but I saw neither of them within these pages. There is a family drama at the core of the book, but it is buried in five-hundred pages of seemingly aimless plot, and, when it is finally revealed, it is completely farfetched. So my biggest gripe is the plot; it is completely unbelievable and ridiculous. To be honest, it felt like poor soap opera writing, so this really could be a wonderful satire that's gone screaming over my head. Matilda, another one of the triplets, is terrified of the colour blue, or at least a certain variation of the colour. The final sister, Clara, goes to Easter Island and meets with a cult-not-cult who are worried about climate change. There are these loose connections throughout the book that seem to tie together, but in the end a lot of them don't. Part of that is to do with the book so I won't spoil it, in case anyone does feel compelled to read it. The philosophy felt weak. There was nothing profound about the book to me. But worst of all, of the 500+ pages, very few of them felt necessary for the story. So much excess. On a positive note though, it's a breezy read. There's nothing dense about this. From best to worst, my reading through the International longlist continues. Time Shelter Still Born / Boulder Whale A System So Magnificent It Is Blinding

Wanky drivel that may have had a few drops of interesting philosophical takes but were completely lost in a sea of pointless text

Editing to 1 star because I realise I really didn’t like this book. Adored Brown’s first novella so was slightly disappointed by this one. The beginning is an article-style piece of writing about a man who bludgeons another man with a solid gold bar and it goes into depth into how this came about and the circumstances surrounding the event, revealing a situation where things came to a scary boiling point. The rest of the book follows a number of different characters in the story but the entire thing felt really disjointed. I missed the shocking feel of the first part of the book and although it was all centred around the one event it felt completely plotless and like it wasn’t moving forward at all. The ‘reveal’ at the end just wasn’t as shocking as it should have been, and the book seemed to be slathered too heavily with social commentary for it to feel like it was in any way entertaining. If it wasn’t for how much I liked the first part I would have given this a lower rating, but it was certainly an experiment and a type of novella I’ve never come across before.

Book 5 of my Booker Prize longlist challenge, each year I dedicate my time to reading all the books on the booker longlist/shortlist so I can attempt to predict the winner. (Key word here is attempt) This has led me to read some incredible books, pushing me out of my comfort zone & expanding my taste. Another let down, what I thought would be a sharp crime fiction circling around a man getting bludgeoned by a gold bar, turned into a commentary on activism, journalism, English politics & much more. This would of been interesting, if not for the small page count. There was not enough pages to flesh anything out. The crime gets solved immediately, the entire plot gets solved within the first chapter or so & we are left asking not much else. I struggled to even want to continue... nevertheless I did, disappointing. Just not my thing. A lot is thrown at the reader with no time to process and digest before moving onto another social commentary.

Didn't really like it.

0 stars for writing: some very odd random POV switches-in one chapter...tortured dialogue in all chapters 0 stars for characters: very, very flat characters 1 star for plot: interesting concept for sure 0 stars for setting: there isnt one 0 stars for liking it: I didnt. at. all. This years Booker Prize Longlist is not doing it for me. Im heartbroken!

Quite disjointed, as someone who’s grown up working class in south east england I’m a little confused. I feel like it throws so many ideas at the reader and fails to connect them in any meaningful way, rather shoves them down your throat and expects you to find a way to digest them on your own. Perhaps a longer book and a lighter hand would have improved it.

I read this book some months before it came out for an agent. I was not sure what to expect and tell the truth I do not like reading about violence or drug capers particularly, so I am not the target audience. However, I want to explain why i hated this book so much. Firstly there was absolutely no story. We read of Snoopz escapades as he saunters through the streets of South Kilburn and beyond, selling drugs and doing what ever it takes to keep him in gold toothed luxury, but that's it, there is no rise or fall. And his life involves simply ruthless acts of aimless violence accompanied by no remorse. At one point he stabs a man for looking at him wrong. I suppose this is honest but it is chilling. Snoopz has chosen this world. His family are relatively prosperous Polish folk who attempt to give him a good life. But Snoopz wants to live in the estates of South Kilburn. Its not a glamorous place and its hard to understand why Snoopz would choose this life. But Snoopz enjoys the violence. He gets an adrenaline rush out of his brutal thefts and he enjoys spending his money and living it up with the 'gurls'. And amidst this violence I had hoped to find some nuggets of human feeling, of comarderie on the streets, some sense of value. But no this was a nihilistic read, there is little love between Snoopz and his mates. They turn on each other on a whim and are as likely to stab each other as hug each other. But that wasn't the only reason i loathed this book. What I hated most was the author's smug insistence that he has lived with his finger on the pulse and is able to write with 'lyrical' joy of his experience. These attempts at poetry were laughable. They seemed to come from a GCSE essay on how to sound pretty and I am astonished that anyone can give them credence. Indeed I felt all the way through as if the writer was consciously nudging me, like the good student he feels he is, saying, look and what do you think of that reference on Nietzsche don't you think I'm clever? look I know Shakespeare! I found myself embarrassed for him. I expect that some people will feel that as a society we should give voice to people who do live on the edge in our inner cities. But this is not the book. For it to be that book we would need someone who had some ability to tap into the tragedy and pathos of the streets, like Bukowski or Dennis Johnson and not use his material as an opportunity to laud his ego

Did not finish. I thought this book was terrible, and I am generally reluctant to write such negative reviews. Given the hype around this book, I was astonished that I could be so uninvested or uninterested in anything happening to the main character. Just an endless parade of meaningless interactions, violence, and half baked observations that seem engineered to have the flavor of profound philosophical comments but lack the actual depth. I know much has been written about this book and the legitimacy of the author’s experiences, but I constantly found myself questioning whether any of this shit actually happened. I tried to power through but invoked my golden rule that if after 100 pages I am actively questioning why I am reading something, I put it down. And for those who care, no, the dialect was not the issue, it was the total absence of anything that would engage a reader. Perhaps I am too numb to violence at this point to be shocked into thinking that this book was really that edgy. Stunned that Douglas Stuart (Shuggie Bain) blurbed this because it looks like a steaming turd next to his book.

Some authors like Caleb Azumah Nelson and Rachel Cusk are able to move through their writing expertly. They almost dance effortlessly via past and present in a way that it's clear to the reader what's past and what's present. In An Island, there is an attempt of similar writing style but it is not very well executed and did not make an impact on me.

I couldn't go past chapter two I found the plot to be disjointed with a lot of unnecessary characters.The writing style employed was overly descriptive to the point where it makes you dizzy trying to follow events and also enjoy the book.I had high hopes for this book considering how good her debut novel was. Frankly i can't say this did it for me!I rate it 1/5 stars.

Who paid to have this on the Booker Prize Longlist? Step forward please, I'd like to have a word! If you are thinking about reading this book, don't. I read it so you don't have to and yes, I will leave a list of other books you should read instead of this one. In Claire Adam sophomore novel Love Forms we meet 58-year-old Dawn who is living in London after being divorced from her husband of many years. While married they had two sons together, one is living in the US and the other as a Doctor in the UK. While Dawn was growing up in Trinidad and Tobago in the 80s she got pregnant and was sent to Venezuela by her parents to have the baby and give it up for adoption. Forty years later, Dawn is still looking for the baby girl she gave up. She is on all Facebook group hoping for a chance to meet and reconnect. This is secret continues to haunt her, but she hasn't given up looking, much to the displeasure of her family. The book starts out with us being taken into the mind of Dawn and what she is going through. It kicks off with a strong start and goes downhill 20 pages in. After that we are treated to the ramblings of a 58-year-old woman who left Trinidad and Tobago years ago, but spends an extraordinary amount of time telling us the deep inner workings and history of the country and that of Venezuela. It is one thing for the author to want to situate their character in history, it is another thing for us to be "treated" to pages upon pages of the history of a country that does nothing to move the plot along or help with character building. It is clear that Claire Adam, Trinbagonian, did not write this book for Trinis or Caribbean reader, even though the book was book set in Trinidad and Tobago, with Trinbagonian characters. You see this when the writer painstakingly spent paragraphs explaining: 1. what a "steups" is 2. what it means when someone says "the spirit take them" 3. what it means when someone says "it is not easy" Also, in 2025, I am shocked that an author is taking about "good hair". Because... what exactly is "good hair"? What constitutes "bad hair"? The book itself read like a very bad travel guide for Trinidad and Tobago. Written from the perspective of someone who have not spent a lot of time on the island or left at a very early age. I can't help but wonder, “who was this book written for and why?". Last thing I will say, is that the book felt very unfinished and lacked a strong editor. Every time we got into Dawn's story, we were taken on a historical journey of Venezuela and Trinidad and Tobago. As someone who supports reading Caribbean, I would say skip this book and read these other books instead. These books will give you a better appreciation for strong writing with a side of a love letter to Trinidad and Tobago: When We Were Birds by Ayanna Banwo Pleasantview by Celeste Mohammed Hungry Ghost by Kevin Hosein Where There Are Monsters by Breanne Mc Ivor Ibis by Jusin Haynes The Lost Love Songs Of Boysie Singh by Ingrid Persaud Till The Well Runs Dry my Lauren Sharma These are just a few books off the top of my head that are miles better than this and would give you a stronger appreciation of Trinidad and Tobago as a country, and much much stronger storytelling and plot. For more book recommendations, follow me @bookofcinz

this book has an interesting premise but ends up being incredibly dull, repetitive, pointless, and unsatisfying. i found the writing style simplistic and tedious, the kind that narrates the minor actions of the character (i.e. i walked up to the door, i put the key in the door, i opened the door etc). i know people have said this is because the main character is speaking to her child, but that’s not an excuse for poor writing. there were some themes that could’ve been dug into, but they weren’t explored in any depth whatsoever, and the book has a strange undertone of conservatism throughout that left a bad taste in my mouth. the only interesting parts were those about the history of trinidad and tabago. i personally don’t think this meets the standard of what a booker prize longlisted title should be. there was also a part about a character called niall who we are told is irish (you don’t say) and are then told ‘you pronounce his name like the river’……don’t pmo

** spoiler alert ** i really did not like this book at all. from a prose standpoint it was good, but everything else leaves such a sour taste in my mouth. putting aside the personal gripes i have, the construction of the story is just not up to standard for a booker prize nominee (meandering, repetitive, and goes nowhere, with the protagonist having learned nothing). personal gripes included, i sensed an underlying conservatism that informs the way so much of this book is framed/phrased that really turned me off. race, class, and gender are constantly brought up but never meaningfully explored and this is done is a way that is impossible to ignore, especially considering how little else there is going on for me to not fixate on that. additionally, it rubbed me the wrong way how the narrator does not even briefly touch on the idea that it's possible for a woman/girl to not want her baby. she pities the other girls in her circumstance because she assumes that like her, they are all upset that the babies they are forced to give birth to are being taken away. in her eyes, they were all wronged because "babies belong with their mothers." if that's your truth that's fine and there's nothing wrong with that, but there are lots of other truths out there— the one most glaringly obvious yet completely absent from the book being that maybe some girls don't want to be mothers and don't want to give birth. that thought never even crosses her mind, which is odd; it's 2025 so the omission feels pointed. couple this with some questionable remarks the narrator makes about race relations in her country (Trinidad and Tobago) and frequent observations that are neither personable nor profound, and what you're left with is a booker prize nominee apparently

the storytelling of this was very mundane. dnf page 60

Book 7 of my Booker Prize longlist challenge, each year I dedicate my time to reading all the books on the booker longlist/shortlist so I can attempt to predict the winner. (Key word here is attempt) This has led me to read some incredible books, pushing me out of my comfort zone & expanding my taste. Congratulations to Flesh by David Szalay for wining the 2025 booker prize! For the first year ever I was able to correctly predict the winner, woohoo! My full booker prize video of my experience reading through the entire longlist + winner reaction will be on my Youtube Channel! I am so glad this book was never shortlisted. This felt so slow... painstakingly slow. Simplistic writing to the point of boredom, hard to connect to characters. Just not an enjoyable time.

Someone in this forum described Love Forms as a love letter to Trinidad and Tobago. To me, it felt more like Post-it notes filled with a glossary of descriptions borrowed from Côté Ci Côté La. While the story is relatable, the writer, who identifies as Trinbagonian, seems disconnected from the history, heritage, and dynamics of the language. Overall, Claire Adam's portrayal of Trinidad and Tobago lacks the depth and authenticity that would adequately represent the people and the place. The nuances of the Trinidadian language is lost, and the culture and its people superficially described leaving a sense of detachment. It is disappointing that in 2025, a writer of Adam's caliber cannot capture the essence of a place she claims to have a connection to. If she cannot do that well, then she should write about somewhere else.

This book told me a lot, but showed me absolutely nothing. “In modern times, modern countries, girls have a lot of options. But in Trinidad in 1980, as a white girl from a well-known, well-respected Catholic family, I had none.” This was excruciating to read. Constant repetition on her skin color, her wealth and boasting of one thing or another. But then trying to cling to this long lost daughter she gave up when she was 16. Imagining the girls’ entire life out of pictures in magazines. Did I miss something? Are trinidadian children abandoned in Venezuela usually offered a wonderful and exciting life? She talks about wondering if her 42 year old daughter is successful and hanging out in cool bars in New York with her friends. My only curiosity would be to see where the kid actually ended up. But the first page had me sceptic when she states (and a paraphrase) that her “room had posters of boy bands popular at that time”. Seriously? Set the scene! Tell me which boybands!!! But the narrator has conveniently forgotten all the details and just gives us the broad strokes. I can’t. I told myself I would make it through every longlist book, but my streak ends here. It was that boring. All tell, absolutely no show.

Really didn’t enjoy this, and not sure how it made it on the Booker long list. There seemed to be no plot and so much unnecessary description that added nothing at all. (She describes her office in detail, where the desks are where the toilet is etc for absolutely no reason whatsoever, this type of thing happened an awful lot in this book!) I appreciate it was more about relationships than things happening, but I didn’t really like the characters, especially Dawn the main character, and just found it very dull. Sorry!

felt nothing more than horror porn with no depth whatsoever.

It started so beautifully and had me hooked with its poetic style of writing and what seemed like a story being told in a unique genre bending voice. That changed very quickly though as I realised that it lacks a plot and, most importantly, characters. There's no protagonist, and the fragments of stories that we see of the author's family are drowned in unjustifiably repetitive thoughts and ideas that create a mismatched tableaux with no purpose. The last 200 pages became a real chore to finish, and it came close to become the first book I ever marked as DNF. My only motivation to finish it was my desire to read the entire International Booker Prize Shortlist before the announcement of the winner tomorrow. Unfortunately, I don't think it was even successful to tie all the loose ends together for a final retrospective. I will be very disappointed and shocked to see this win.

I made it to page 157 and could not bring myself to continue. This book really needed some serious editing and streamlining. As a historian, you would think this book would be something I can’t put down, yet I had trouble returning to it. It was just far too scattered and I felt hardly anything for the narrator, who just went off on so many tangents. There was a great part in it that I won’t soon forget though. It details her exploration of an alleged family homestead, and later she finds out it was the wrong address. I though her inclusion of this brought some levity to the topic while also making an important point about memory and history. I had hoped for more like this and continued, but once I came across the part about selfies and portraiture I was so frustrated with the lack of clarity in her writing that I couldn’t go on.

My published review: https://www.aljazeera.com/opinions/20... Apeirogon: Another colonialist misstep in commercial publishing Colum McCann’s latest novel mystifies the colonisation of Palestine as a ‘complicated conflict’ between two equal sides. 11 Mar 2020 Hollywood director Steven Spielberg recently bought the film rights to a novel about “Israel Palestine” before it was published, something that may take us to a cultural moment of unfortunate deja vu. In the mid-1950s, powerful Hollywood executives financed the writing of a novel by Leon Uris to sell a pro-Israel agenda to Western popular imagination. The result was Exodus, a bestseller turned blockbuster film. It narrated a true event (a ship carrying Jewish refugees sailing to Palestine) as the seed of an elaborate myth – a land without a people for a people without a land – which functioned to obscure the indigenous stewards of the land. It was the romantic happy ending Europe needed following the genocide of its own Jewish citizenry. People lapped it up by the millions and refused to accept that it was anything but absolute truth, with Biblical authority to boot. But it was – as everyone now knows – a lie. Palestine already had an ancient, extensive society, and when European Zionists descended on their country, committing well-documented massacres and pogroms to expel them, Palestinians pleaded to the world for help – to no avail. Only when we organised into armed guerillas and hijacked planes was the world finally forced to reckon with our existence. No longer able to hold the claim that Palestine was ever without her people, Zionists shifted the narrative – through countless films, books, ads – to one that caricatured Palestinians as two-dimensional, irrational Arab terrorists, depictions that still persist in popular media. Then came the internet, and social media made the world smaller. Suddenly, the masses had access to videos, photos, eyewitness accounts, independent media, human rights audits, and UN reports that laid bare Israel’s sadistic oppression of Palestinians. ‘It’s complicated’ and other shifting myths Israel has floundered over the past two decades, trying to sort out a strategy to deal with this popular unveiling of its colonial rot. It has become harder to obscure Palestinian humanity. Israel has signed an agreement with Facebook and collaborated with other major social media companies to censor Palestinian pages; it has smeared Israel’s critics as anti-Semites, destroying careers and worse; it has set up a “Lawfare Project” to drag students and activists through courts; and it has successfully pushed legislation around the world to criminalise criticism of Israel. On the cultural front, Israel has been deploying public relations campaigns, as their supporters saturate public conversations with sound bites, like, “it’s complicated” – a “conflict” that “has been going on for thousands of years”. Alas, we are fed the discourse of “two sides”, as if the destruction of a defenceless indigenous society is a matter of two equal parties who simply do not understand each other, but who just need a little nudging – some dialogue maybe – to love each other and viola! Kumbaya, my Lord. And yet, none of these extensive efforts have dampened the swelling tide of the Boycott Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) campaign, a global popular resistance movement that has engaged millions of people around the world fed up with Israel’s extraordinary impunity and ongoing colonisation of Palestine. In short, nothing has come close to duplicating the spectacular advertising feat of Exodus. Until, perhaps, now. Apeirogon Enter Apeirogon. Apeirogon is a geometric shape with an infinite number of countable sides. It is also the title of Colum McCann’s latest novel, a kind of infinite boost to Israel’s “two sides” discourse. The novel is more of a biography than fiction. It is based on the real-life story of a friendship between a Palestinian and an Israeli – Bassam Aramin, a Palestinian whose daughter, Abir, was shot in the head by an Israeli soldier in 2007 and Rami Elhanan, an Israeli whose daughter, Smadar, was killed in a suicide bombing in 1997. Its central message is about the power of empathy, and both men are fully supportive of the book. I spoke with Bassam Aramin, who informed me the three of them will go on tour together. But like Exodus, it tells a true story to sell a much bigger lie. Colonisers and native Imagine this (to borrow from McCann’s writing style): Somewhere on the Pine Ridge Reservation, a little girl from the Oglala Lakota Nation, whose head was shattered by a white settler’s petulant son, bleeds to death in her father’s helpless arms. Another white settler befriends the Native girl’s father (it has to be at the white man’s behest because the father can’t leave the reservation), and a friendship between the two men flourishes from their common anguish of having lost a child. The white man’s daughter had been killed by a group of young Braves who attacked an encroaching settlement. The friendship between the two men is real. The loss that haunts them for all their days is the same. Along comes a novelist, who is so moved by this unusual friendship, the story behind it, and what he feels it represents of hope for the future of the nation that he decides to write a book about them. It is a kind of amplifying-the-voice-of-peace endeavour, born from the stubborn belief that anything can be solved by the benevolent enthusiasm of well-meaning folks. The writer does not try to gloss over the horrors inflicted on Native bodies. In fact, he presents a true face of colonial gore and trauma. But here’s the trick: He presents the violence of a local native rebellion equally, and describes the insecurity and fear that white settlers must tragically endure as a result of Indigenous resistance to their settlements. There is an implicit parity, you see? All fear is the same, all violence is the same, all insecurity is the same. The Oglala Sioux father tells the writer how he was able to see white humanity for the first time through this friendship. The white man tells him the same about Indigenous humanity. And just like that, the genocidal engine of American colonialism, which, together with slavery, propelled its entire economy, becomes just a big misunderstanding, a problem to be solved by dialogue, empathy, and the simple understanding that, as McCann quotes his Palestinian protagonist’s epiphany: “They have families, too.” Substitute Palestinian for Oglala Lakota, Palestine for Pine Ridge Reservation, and Israelis for white settlers (although that does not need changing), and you have, in a nutshell, Colum McCann’s much-touted, highly anticipated novel, which may well become a blockbuster film. I want to be clear that I am not comparing or equating forms or instances of injustice. I am trying to make the point – using an understood (in hindsight) historic horror – that it is the height of mendacity to suggest that the stories of individual relationships in circumstances of enormous power disparities are anything but normalisation sideshows, and certainly not a challenge to the machinations undergirding structural oppression. One can also analogise to Apartheid South Africa in a Bantustan, or Belgium in Congo, or Nazi Germany in the Warsaw ghetto, or the Ku Klux Klan in Mississippi. After all, members of those hideous institutions had families, too, didn’t they? Exodus 2.0 Apeirogon is potentially Exodus 2.0 – retooled, rebooted, and adjusted for increasing public awareness of Palestinian suffering under the yoke of unrelenting Israeli terror. I asked Bassam if he read it. “I tried, but it was too painful,” he said. I can see why, because McCann stretches the details of the killings of two little girls, spreading little bits here and there over hundreds of pages, adding a new detail with each repetition, until one is not so startled by what was agonising to read the first several times. It is an interesting way to convey the normalisation of violence, if that is what McCann intended. Interspersed in the story are disparate bits of information stitched together – from bird migration patterns and ancient kings, to the Sistine Chapel and explosives – in a kind of forced profundity that aims to tie together all things everywhere and anytime, all of it, somehow, relating to “Israel Palestine”. In other words, “it’s all so very, very complicated.” Take, for example, the idea that the core of Fat Man, the nuclear bomb used by the US to exterminate everything that moved, swayed, hopped, flew, or breathed in the city of Nagasaki, was “the size of a throwable rock” (presumably in the hands of a Palestinian kid). The compelling centre of every parent’s worst fear is threaded through this dizzying kaleidoscope of world trivia. I would have loved the latter, were it not functioning as linguistic smoke and mirrors, blurring what is truly the simplest, oldest story in human history: A powerful group of people stole a land, colonised it, and are going about obliterating its indigenous people. The Hula wetlands McCann devotes extensive space in the text to birds – their individual species, migration patterns, and ornithological audits. But nowhere does he mention that around the time Leon Uris was writing Exodus, Israel was draining the Hula wetlands, which they called a “malaria swamp”. The project was touted as Zionist ingenuity. Jewish Europeans declared they were “healing the land”, which, they said, had been left to fester by backward Arabs. In reality, these new European settlers destroyed a vast regional biodiversity treasure, which had been a major feeding station for hundreds of millions of migrating birds. It is estimated that over 100 animal species disappeared from the area or became extinct. This episode in Zionist history is probably the best analogy for McCann’s book: An ambitious project to “heal”, conceived by foreigners, ignorant of the local terrain, its history and ecology; eager to solve, civilise, and lay claim; well-intended; sure of their own glory; but in reality, profoundly harmful – irreparably so for the most vulnerable lives. Reinforcing the notion of a “complicated conflict” of “two sides”, the book recounts a scene where a gun-wielding Israeli soldier zip-ties, curses at and beats an unarmed Bassam Aramin, whose hands are up in surrender, a pink stain on his palm. Hours later, after the soldier realises the pink stain was from Bassam’s murdered daughter’s candy bracelet, not from an explosive, she’s really sorry. Who can blame the plantation mistress if she’s rightfully a little fearful of dark people with stained palms? As if beating Palestinians at checkpoints isn’t routine, or as if Israeli snipers don’t murder us for sport, cheering when they get a good “clip.” The reader is told several times that Rami Elhanan Gold is from an “old” family, a “seventh-generation Jerusalemite.” But we are not told what this means. First, Rami is one of a tiny minority of Jewish Israelis who can actually trace their lineage in the land before World War II. Second, he is part of an even smaller minority whose ancestry in Palestine goes back before World War I. Third, Rami’s ancestors, like all “People of the Book” (those of monotheistic religions) had been welcomed in Palestine and protected under Muslim rule, which lasted over 1,200 years. Fourth, none of that stopped Rami or his parents from taking up arms against their non-Jewish neighbours when Zionism promised to give them power and property. What treachery. The stories McCann chooses not to tell are, well, telling. For the record, I am at least a 22nd-generation Jerusalemite. Israel kicked me out of my homeland when I was 13. For being an “illegal”. No measure of understanding that Israelis “have families too” will ever compel me to accept forced exile. Such inconvenient truths, or inconvenient people, have no place in the reductionist colonial narratives of empathy and dialogue. Who gets to narrate For years, Spielberg and his family have fundraised for and supported Israel and its occupation of Palestine. That he plans to take this book to the big screen is wholly consistent with his declaration that he would die for Israel. I do not understand why McCann sold the option to him. My fear is that, just as privileged white men used Exodus to sell a colonial fabrication in 1958, a new set of privileged white men in Hollywood will use Apeirogon to sell a contemporary cultural instalment of colonial mendacity. I do not know McCann, though I suspect he wrote this book with a sense of solidarity and a desire to foster “dialogue”. But it is possible to do great harm with the noblest of intentions. The rhetoric of dialogue can be alluring – the idea that talking to find common humanity is all it takes to dismantle structural racism and notions of ethnocentric supremacy. It can make all kinds of people, even victims themselves, become purveyors of injustice. Dialogue and negotiations – as Palestinians know well after nearly 30 years of doing exactly that – always works in favour of the powerful. It is clear McCann did extensive research, including long conversations with the main personalities in this book, and perhaps by presenting a true story, he tried to navigate the ethical issues surrounding appropriation. But there is an overarching colonial message of parity that lends itself to Zionist propaganda. It’s like Jared Kushner reading 25 books and thinking that qualified him to make the “deal of the century,” a “solution” to please “all sides” of “the conflict”.

There was something unsettling about this book from the outset and I couldn't quite put my finger on it. It tells a fictionalised version of a true story of an Israeli man and a Palestinian man, friends, who both lose their daughters due to the ongoing "conflict" over the gaza strip. When I was about half way through I asked people here to chat about it to see if they had the same feeling of discontentment with it. Turns out a lot of people felt the same and that it stems from a place of "is this actually his story to tell?" Both men seemed to be in support of the book and there were even plans for them to tour with McCann, but there is something exploitative, white knight-ish about the whole thing. When looking at reviews I kept seeing other white people talking about what literary prowess lies within the pages of the book and how positive the overarching message is. Then I found a review written by Susan Abulhawa, a Palestinian writer who would have a better viewpoint than someone writing for The Irish Times, let's face it. The overarching message of this book is, at it's most basic, "why can't we all just get along? There are two sides to this!" Which, coming from an Irish man, a man who was a child in the 70s in Ireland and was undoubtedly educated about what it's like for a nation to be oppressed, is infuriatingly simplistic. He minimises the history of Palestine and by proxy the history of all oppressed and colonised nations in history. As Susan Abulhawa says in her article, would he analogise in a similar way about Nazi Germany or Apartheid South Africa? I think we know the answer. Aside from that, in terms of writing I found it laboured and over-poetic. Psuedo-produndity overtakes actual storytelling which lends to feeling that these men's stories are being exploited. I strongly recommend reading Abulhawa's review. A quick google should bring you to it.

DNF @ page 170. I thought this started off with some promise. Also, I was a bit excited because many of my GR friends (and others) loved this. I’m not really sure what the point is here. For sure, the emails about Neanderthals are interesting, but the characters in the (spy) story seem half baked. The story is vague and uneven, and some of the writing is too smart by half. I didn’t like this at all.

It must be said: this is a stupid book full of bad ideas, undercooked characters, and silly sentences. I don't understand how a book like this gets big praise from so many professional reviewers. The themes about activism/primitivism were interesting at first, but ultimately only developed very shallowly. The plot is boring and cartoonish. The narrator is so incredibly unlikeable that I started to wonder if the book was an intentional farce. Are we supposed to think she is "cool"? Are we supposed to sympathize with her mission to sabotage utopian activist communities and land people in prison? Are we supposed to think that she's awesome because she has casual sex (shocking!) even as she entraps activists? If we are not supposed to like her, then why doesn't Kushner give us a more developed critique of her life/behavior, another character to see the world through? I love flawed characters, but outright villains who feel like a mishmash of stereotypes? The way that the activists are all portrayed as baffoons and the way the book ends feel like clear indications that we are, in fact, supposed to sympathize with the narrator. Is this some kind of lean-in feminism for CIA operatives? In short, everything in this book felt incredibly half-baked. All authors have underdeveloped stories like this lying around, I'm sure. But I'm surprised this one made it through to publication and is now, apparently, on the Booker Prize list. What's going on here? I guess I'm an outlier. EDIT: I have since found this perfect critical review from Brandon Taylor in the London Review of Books: https://www.lrb.co.uk/the-paper/v46/n... "I mentioned to a friend that I was having a hard time with Sadie as a narrator because she seemed stupid and unaware that she was stupid, and my friend suggested that perhaps Kushner had done this on purpose, as a commentary on the ‘sharp woman’ archetype that has predominated in the fiction of the last decade. Perhaps. I replied that I couldn’t decide if the book was a smart person’s idea of a stupid book or a stupid person’s idea of a smart book. But I’ve come to think that the larger problem with Sadie is the difficulty presented by a character who reminds you on every page that nothing matters and nothing is real, and that the people she is scamming are phonies too, that everything is empty and hollow and that she’s smarter than everyone else because she knows the game is a game and is playing to win, but only for mercenary reasons. It brings me back to the question, why did you write this? What are you exploring here?" And he ends with this savage take: "The contemporary novel no longer has any saviours or knights or true prophets. We have only the exhausted media worker rolling onto their side just before their iPhone alarm blares in their face, scrolling memes for a little hit of dopamine. The spy novel is the cynical counterpart to the revolutionary novel. You could read Creation Lake as a brilliant commentary on the concept of the ‘spy’ in contemporary life – if a spy is a person who creates a false self in order to achieve material comfort. Still, I would have preferred a novel."

oh my gosh, i don't know where to begin, but let me try. first of all, i am floored by the number of people that actually liked this book. i made it to page 163 (almost half way) at the point in this story where sadie's spyass self was awaiting a meet-up with pascal at a cafe in vantome. he showed up in bermudas and birks. the waitress was handsome. a guy in a mao cap vaped nearby along with a female friend who carted her own vaping paraphenalia in her fanny pouch. sadie admitted that tho she tried "to be sensitive to details," she would not remember details of the vaping since she herself did not vape. in another achingly boring note, she used to smoke perhaps due to "some percentage of neanderthal in [her} lineage." don't even get me started on the thals and the myriad references to them in this tome. That's the kitchy way the author and maybe groovy anthropologists refer to neanderthals. come on. really? do not be confused by the fact that those tidbits might actually sound somewhat interesting. none of it is. none. i cannot remember the last time i gave up on a book. here's what i do know, tho. even if a balaklava donned ne'er do well zoomed up to the outdoor cafe on a moped and unloaded a shotgun in sadie's face, i would not have cared one whit. what a boring pile of nothingness this book is. i'm just glad i bought it on ebay and got it for a really low price. before i donate it to goodwill, i will write a warning inside the front cover. amen.

DNFed this book after page 127 - I just can’t waste 300 more pages on this book - I cannot! I will die of boredom. This book is so NOT what I expected of its prompt, a booker Prize shortlist, nor such an anticipated book. The dump of information on Neanderthals is absurd and utterly boring. The characters lack any detail. The writing style is stripped from any emotion. Don’t do this to yourself people - lots of love and admiration to those who loved this book - it’s simply not my cup of tea ❤️

If this book hadn’t been renowned or celebrated, maybe a pity 2 stars. But it was shortlisted for the Booker Prize, and it’s absolute *dogshit*. This book is over 400 pages of supposed “French spy mystery novel” that’s completely devoid of intrigue, character development, or even rudimentary dialogue. Rachel Kushner’s primary narrator, a woman named Sadie Smith (fake name), embeds undercover with activist groups to entrap their leaders and prove their violent intent. She’s a mercenary, with an unclear sponsor for her work to pin major crimes on seemingly minor environmentalists. Her affect is apathetic, haughty, and above-it-all in a way that’s completely unwarranted and uninteresting. Not only that, but the way Kushner writes dialogue from Sadie (constantly ending sentences within conversations with “I didn’t say” to maybe show control or smarts) makes her infuriating, and makes the reading experience disorienting. If you don’t like the snoozefest spy stuff, fear not! The other half of the book is interspersed email conversation from some anthropologist about Neanderthals. This, too, adds nothing to the experience of reading and was actively hostile to my well-being as someone spending hours with this book. The ending payoff of how the two stories come together after THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY PAGES is somehow rushed, and disappointing. The prose is flowery, but there are a frustrating number of plot holes that make you wonder if the author or narrator are in on the stupidity/simplicity, or if it just wasn’t edited. As far as I can tell, Rachel Kushner wrote this book to show you, reader, how smart she is. Do not read this book. It is for smarmy literature folks to celebrate how wonderfully words can be shaped into sentences that add up to nothing worthwhile. I am proud of myself for having made it all the way through.

Reminder to self. Again. Never EVER listen to an audiobook read by the author rather than a professional actor. This book might well be great but in reading it Kushner could not have sounded more bored.

https://wendyreadit.wordpress.com/202... I have read some really great reviews of this book. Well, it starts off as a history book, comparing neanderthals and homo sapiens, to such an extent that I am starting to think the wrong book was printed in this cover. The detail and dry writing style is just not for me. I think I got to page 27, life's too short, I'm moving on.

I was really excited about Creation Lake based on its premise, but it just didn’t do it for me. The suspense I was expecting never really materialized, and by the halfway point, I was checking out. Sadie’s cynicism felt more irritating than insightful, and I couldn’t quite figure out what the book was trying to say.

I genuinely hate everything about this! I didn't even like the audiobook's narrator! I had no idea what was happening for most of this book because it was so unfocused and disjointed and so I would find my mind wandering to other things as I was listening, but then all of a sudden, she'd be talking about imagery of women "swallowing penises bigger than their bodies" and I'd be sadly snapped out of my daydream, trying to figure out how we got here. This entire book was just so self-indulgent and I really ended up not liking her by the end of it, especially after she'd wittered on about Charles Wiener for the past three hours just to end the book with a family Facebook group chat being like "oh maybe we're not descendants of Charles Wiener so let's not get too wrapped up in that haha!" and it just made this whole thing seem SO pointless. The only redeemable parts were her talking about her grief, but even then she would linger on the topic for a couple of sentences before saying something outlandish and spoiling any heartfelt moment she was trying to create. I'd be disappointed if this made it onto the International Booker shortlist - hell, I was convinced memoirs didn't qualify for this prize anyway but here we are.

https://youtu.be/qtmZbwkBDo8 This is a fail for so many reasons. Normally I can see who would like a book I hate, but in this case all I can say is people who are literally happy reading anything might get something for this, everybody else, it's bad, it's badly done, it's a book about racism without black characters, it doesn't draw it's characters well, it's too slow paced, too long and what you know is going to happen, that needed to happen 50-100 pages in, because the intention is for us to understand what a family goes through when one of their own is a monster, but there's only 5% of the book dedicated to after the act. The author has researched the family and wanted to include everything, no, cut things, only include what is necessary.

105th book of 2023. Update: After looking back on the Bookers from this year and last year (and having a revealing discussion with Alan about it) I've decided to be done with the Booker lists in future and stop this year's reading of them here at 9/13. They are, for the most part, a complete waste of time. 1.5. Interesting to read the autistic character at the heart of this book straight after the last, which dealt with the same thing (All the Little Bird-Hearts). Here it is a thirteen year old boy, though, Jamie. I was interested for the first few pages and wondered how it would pan out but as with the aforementioned book, it quickly felt a little soapy and predictable. By the end it felt something like the movie About a Boy. Wholesome at points in a maudlin sort of way. Didn't feel like Booker material, but then not many have. That's all the Booker books I can get my hands on from the library so far so I can finally have a little rest. I've read 9 out of the 13 and can confidently say of the ones I've read, if In Ascension doesn't win then the world has gone mad. Now back to some classics as detox.

Just no. The "voice" (Jamie´s ) is not right, and the rest if thinly disguised chicklit. It annoys me when authors want to jump on the whatever train currently sells (Women in WWII,people on the spectrum,and so on) and do it badly. Here,it´s the spectrum. Awfully done.There are wonderful books on this topic,written accurately and honestly.

I have never spent so much time actively ANGRY at a fictional novel. If you had a rough childhood or a bad relationship with your parents, I would NOT recommend this book. (I wouldn’t recommend it at all, honestly.) I cannot figure out if the author really holds these toxic beliefs about childhood trauma or if he just wanted characters who did – and you can’t tell because no characters in the book provide any healthy counterpoint, reflection, or guidance to the narrator’s warped internal dialog. I found myself both viscerally and intellectually hating Leigh’s whole family. If anger and disgust were the emotions the author was intending to evoke then I suppose he did a great job, but that was pretty much all I felt about this book. The dad, the mom, the sister… they are all horrible humans. Neglectful, selfish, narcissistic, abusive, manipulative, unsympathetic … gross. You could argue it’s ‘realistic’ but what was the point of telling a fictional story of abused children if you aren’t going to make a point about it? And most infuriating of all – the book constantly make excuses and justifications for these people. Especially the parents – the “I should have been more grateful” or “they are doing it for me” attitudes towards abusive and neglectful parents is disgusting and toxic. There are essentially two stories being told in this book, one of childhood trauma, and one of space exploration, and neither of them have any resolution – they offer nothing – no insight, no growth, no healing, no revelations. Not even a satisfying fictional account of what first contact might be like. As someone who is an aerospace engineer and actually worked at JPL for several years – I did not find the technical content of this book confusing – I did however find it boring. The text is bloated, it tries to wax poetic about everything, which ultimately leaves the actual interesting moments with little to no impact. This book could easily have been 1/3 the length. I love sci-fi and while I’m willing to suspend my disbelief for a lot of things, the author tried way too hard to make this realistic and in the process made it horribly NOT realistic. The dialog is stilted and sterile. The author attempts to make us believe that this is how academics / engineers / scientists talk, but it’s more like reading a text book. I’ve spent time with some incredibly smart people, and none of them speak or behave like these characters. The book isn’t badly written; which is what compelled me to actually finish it, but the story is awful – which ultimately is worse in my opinion. The lack of emotional connection between any of the characters wildly is unsatisfying. Every time a new character was introduced I kept thinking ‘maybe now we’ll get more’ – but the story dragged on and on and we get nothing. Love is an action. People who love you don’t just say it, they show it. No one in this book shows any love. Not between parents, not between siblings, not between spouses, not between friends. I found Leigh’s characterization to be jarringly inconsistent. Sometimes she’s quiet and reserved, randomly she’ll suddenly seem bold and assertive. Sometimes she has an almost preternatural ability to read and sense what other people are feeling, other times she seems dense and unaware. Additionally the lack of dialog tags made listening to the audio-book frustrating. I thought the narrator was excellent but at times I think even she was confused about who was supposed to be talking. In the end, I couldn’t tell you what the point of this book is. I get there’s a theme of cycles and beginnings and ends being intertwined, but what about it? I didn't feel like the book actually 'said' anything about this theme. Some of the reviews remind me of when people watch a really artsy movie but don’t understand it at all, so out of fear of sounding unintelligent, they just say they liked it. If anything, this book feels like a prolonged episode of depressive disassociation. Hopefully the author is doing better mentally than the characters in this book, who all seriously need therapy.

DNF This book is trying very hard to be intellectual but honestly, it's just boring. Also, this author should really research childhood trauma and ptsd or get into therapy.

yeah this just wasn't it truly a load of tosh mind-numbingly boring by the end felt like a student writing an essay but was confused as to which class to hand it in to: English lit or history? maybe I'll give Kadare another chance but I need a long while to recover from this

2/13 International Booker Prize Longlist. I really did not like this book, which is especially disappointing because it was the longlist book I was most excited for. I simply don't consider it a novel or a work of fiction, and for that reason I really don't think it should have ever been in the running for the Booker Prize. (Thankfully, it did not make the shortlist). Perhaps if I had read it in a different scenario, like a Russian/Soviet/Slavic history course, I would appreciate the book. However, I read it expecting translated literary fiction, and I found it completely inaccessible. The translation itself, from Hodgson, is lovely I'm sure. The text flows smoothly and cohesively in English but my biggest problem remains; this is not fiction! I understand the point that because we don't really *know* what happened in the phone call between Pasternak and Stalin, the line between truth and untruth becomes blurred. And I love that dichotomy in literature--magical realism and unreliable narrators--I love it! But this book is not a work of literary fiction. It was hard for me to follow from the get go--the Part One of the book is essentially Kadare explaining his fascination and positioning around Pasternak. It's told in first person and I took me all 50 pages of Part 1 to realize that I was not reading a protagonist but rather the author himself. The author, completely unfictionalized in his musings aside from the potential and unavoidable failures of memory spread across decades. The synopsis of this book, on the back cover, online, on the Booker site, was misleading. I really don't think that a fiction book should have such a high barrier to entry just for the reader to understand the premise. This is an academic level book, it would be great in university coursework but not here. As I was expecting fiction, this read was utterly and completely boring. The names of tens of Russian poets and writers across centuries are thrown around throughout the book and I could not keep track. Kadare goes through each "version" of the call and connects it to Shakespeare or Homer or some other political crisis; Kadare is obviously an adept and intelligent writer, but I turned every page being like wtf did I just read. The part that frustrates me the most, I think, is the categorization of this book as translated literature. Which I've already made pretty obvious lmao. I truly believe, as a translator and linguist, that the point of translation is accessibility. Reading in a foreign language that we do not know is inherently inaccessible, so the translator's job is the rework the piece in a way that provides access for wider population. This book is not accessible to the average reader; it requires quite in depth knowledge of Soviet relations, Russian tsars, centuries of Russian literature, and geopolitics. It’s lexicon is full of jargon. I shouldn't require a degree in Russian literature to be able to understand or appreciate this "novel."

Hands up i have a limited knowledge of the soviet era and this is the first book I have read by this author. What I do have a small grasp of is the atmosphere of paranoia and fear that people lived under during that time where someone could be denounced, imprisoned and killed for the slightest infraction that the state didn’t feel was appropriate. So what do we learn from this mulling over of various versions of brief phone call made in 1934, well unsurprisingly people are careful what they say when under a totalitarian regime especially to an official and you couldn’t get more official than uncle Joe least you end up a list yourself. There is nothing new that hasn’t been told better elsewhere, so I am wondering what on earth was the point of this book, there are no philosophical insights no conclusion to speak of, its a rumination at best, a Sunday newspaper supplement essay at worst.

I found the content and the unusual writing style of incredibly long sentences with very few full stops okay. I think he was aiming for stream of consciousness style of writing. I can see why it was long listed for the international booker, for its indictment of poverty in a Europe rarely made visible in print, however it didn't wow me.

The topic of race and colourism in Brazil is extremely interesting and that is why I wanted to read Scott’s novel as soon as the English translation was published (by the way, the very unappealing title is not the original one, but don’t blame the excellent translator, this is the publisher’s choice!). The very beginning, when the characters describe the quotas system at university is so engaging that I felt compelled to look for more material about it. But, unfortunately, I did NOT feel compelled to go on reading this incredibly boring novel about dull characters and their lives. I suspect that most of the positive feedback has been given to the extremely engaging theme and not to the novel itself. I personally would give 5 stars to the theme, but only 1 to the novel that I DNF. The Translator's Afterword is quite interesting, whether you agree with his views of translation or not.

There are no words to express how much i hated this book. It made me really angry

Another navel-gazer, another endless musing best suited to a private journal or writing retreat. I long for crackling, sharp-edged writing that captivates and entertains instead of endless show-don’t-tell tactics and techniques.

Some interesting musings,but as a whole,it's rather aimless and weak. Starts from nowhere (which isn´t a bad thing) and goes nowhere. Definitively not Booker winner material,which this was shortlisted for.

Whilst the author is a talented writer, I found the story boring and uninspiring. The characters lacked depth and I couldn’t find an emotional connection with any of them. It was a chore to read.

so they are shortlisting any old garbage for the booker prize these days are they

If I could have given this book no stars, I would have. It’s the worst thing I’ve read in many years. The writing is completely average. It includes every ridiculous stereotype about America’s deep south: stupid, bad rednecks - with no good white people at all, ludicrous names (Dr Fondle & pathetically, 3 Chinese men called Ho, Chi & Minh The end was utter nonsense. Nothing was explained & implausibility of it all was simply left unaddressed. I am astounded this was even submitted to the Booker panel & as for it being on the shortlist . … wth?!

This is one of the very few books I’m not finishing. Let me explain why: The problem with this one is that Benjamín Labatut introduces the history of an invention to us. Let’s take the first story on “Prussian Blue” as an example: Labatut starts by shortly describing the invention itself and what lead to it. He then proceeds to tell us about the inventor(s) and how they relate to each other and the world. Labatut does this, and that’s my first issue, at break-neck speed. He drops name after name after name and forms connections between them in rarely more than a single sentence. It’s exhausting and not very illuminating. Much worse, though, whenever there’s insufficient historical evidence Labatut chooses the most lurid and raciest possible explanation. For example Fritz Haber’s (Haber played a most prominent role in chemical warfare) wife, Clara Immerwahr, did commit suicide - but the reasons are unclear. Immerwahr’s marriage to Haber was unhappy on many levels and she may or may not have been against World War I - there are conflicting accounts. Labatut, though, decides to paint her as condemning Haber for perverting chemistry and killing herself about that. If there are two possible conclusions, it’s always the sensationalist one Labatut chooses. Even in that first story, in which the author claims is only one fictionalised paragraph, there are a lot of instances in which Labatut takes great liberty at recounting the details of his subject. Last but not least, I do not like the ambivalent form: Labatut writes as if presenting established historicals facts but on the other hand takes literary freedom especially in later stories without clearly marking such occasions - what’s true and what’s his artistic license? Unless you take the time and actually research the subject matter yourself, you won’t know. And you’ll never know at which points Labatut overly simplifies the facts or goes on to embellish them. »The quantity of fiction grows throughout the book; whereas “Prussian Blue” contains only one fictional paragraph, I have taken greater liberties in the subsequent texts, while still trying to remain faithful to the scientific concepts discussed in each of them.« This book isn’t really about scientific concepts, though, but about the societal and historical implications of those concepts and how they influenced their inventors and the world. That - without embellishments and fictionalised parts - could be a truly interesting read. The way this book is written, though, is just a wild, high-speed ride through selective and partly fictionalised history. That’s not for me. One star out of five. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram Ceterum censeo Putin esse delendam

Booker Longlisting. Awful. The plot is paper thin; a woman moves to another country to look after her brother and everyone hates her, probably because they've read the book she's narrating. It's only about 100 pages, but could have been ten if edited properly; a supportive amateur creative writing club would have got a red pen out. There are long, relentless, tautological sentences - at one point, for instance, she tells us she's typing, then explains what that is for two pages down to a handy guide to what letters and words are. She mentions a topic like catastrophes or plants, then gives an exhaustive list. Characters are introduced with ridiculous details such as her brother's good reading comprehension, and reported speech has them say things you couldn't read aloud convincingly. The plot has apps like Teams and Youtube exist, but no way she could, you know, Google Translate the local language. A generous reader could argue that it's a clever allegory about anti-semitism or something, but I'm not prepared to do the work for her. NOT on my shortlist!!

What have I just read? What utter twaddle. Bound to win the Booker Prize.

“I felt a motiveless sorrow.” This one sentence (possibly the shortest in the book?) sums up my entire reading experience. I had high hopes, but unfortunately this really was not for me.

I almost never give 1-star ratings, but I really struggled with this Booker shortlist nominee. The actual writing was fine, but nothing in this short novel did anything for me. I wasn't swept away, I didn't learn anything or feel anything, well except maybe a bit bored and irritated at being stuck in the mind of a self-obsessed individual.

Unanchored and incomprehensible. Can writers stop making regular people sound like pretentious poets, God it’s so cringe.

This novel is abstract in the extreme. The author focused on philosophy and atmospheric descriptive sentences. She failed to provide a reason for me to want to continue reading. To me it seemed there was no plot and no characterization. After a few chapters I realized it wasn't going to change enough for me to care about finishing the novel. I liked the cover.

Anne Michaels' "Held" is described as a novel about the fragile, ephemeral nature of memory and the profound effects of grief. The book attempts to weave together a montage of loosely connected storylines; each centred on characters grappling with loss and the elusive nature of remembering. But here's the thing: it's more of a philosophical exploration than a narrative in the traditional sense. There's no concrete plot to follow, which might appeal to some readers, but I found myself yearning for a more grounded, cohesive storyline. While Michaels clearly endeavours to explore the deep and resonant themes of memory and grief, the execution felt more like a meandering river than a compelling current. The philosophical musings on loss, the ephemerality of moments, and the attempt to grasp the ungraspable could have been thought-provoking - if only they weren't so abstract. The book feels like it's trying too hard to be profound, leaving the reader lost in a sea of overwrought reflections rather than engaged with a meaningful narrative. The characters in "Held" are more like ethereal wisps than fully formed beings. Michaels gives us glimpses into their lives and minds, but these glimpses are fleeting and lack substance. They float in and out of the narrative like ghosts, leaving behind more questions than answers. There's an emotional distance here that makes it difficult to truly connect with any of them, which is a significant drawback for a book so rooted in the exploration of human experience. Michaels' writing is undeniably poetic, with an emphasis on atmospheric description and philosophical introspection. At times, it feels like she's channelling Paulo Coelho - a dangerous comparison because I *hate* Coelho. Her prose is beautiful in its way, but it's also abstract in the extreme, making the book feel more like a collection of literary vignettes than a cohesive story. The narrative style is heavy and over-intrusive, constantly reminding the reader of the author's presence rather than allowing the story (such as it is) to speak for itself. It's very much a case of style over substance—an artistic choice, perhaps, but not one that worked for me. To be blunt, I struggled with "Held". It was slow and dull, a book that felt more like a chore than a journey. I found it hard to keep my focus, my mind wandering as I tried to grasp at the elusive threads of narrative that kept slipping through my fingers. It's not often that I find a book so incomprehensible, and I couldn't help but feel frustrated by its lack of direction and clarity. The emphasis on philosophical rumination over plot and character development left me cold, and I found myself skimming through the pages, desperate to find some anchor to hold on to. "Held" is not a book I would recommend unless you're in the mood for a slow, meditative read that doesn't require (or even offer) much in the way of narrative satisfaction. It's a journey into the fog and one I won't be making again. ⭐

I DNFed this one, then the Booker said it was good, so I read it. It wasn't the worst book I've read, but I wasn't incorrect when I DNFed it. It was pretentious sure, but I just couldn't get into it, it was so boring. It's ultimately a book about people's last moments and their loved ones, misery, grief, that's my catnip and I was bored.

This was genuinely like the author had a pile of scraps of paper of ideas she'd written for a book, and then just decided to publish them. I could keep up for maybe half the book when the stories were fully connected, but then it took a random turn and started musing about people like it was picking a character out of a hat, and then I lost all sense of the plot completely when Marie Curie showed up, announced she was pregnant and died. Senseless.

nothing really worked for me in this one. at first, I was interested but after chapter 3 I gave up and couldn't focus on anything. the story being set in different years with multiple main characters gave me a headache. I'm sure some people love it - I'm not one of them.

Yuck. Avoid. Vapid trash.

I can’t finish this, I can barely understand it. To me it just reads like someone trying to be poetic but failing miserably.

I’d be lying if I said I read three chapters. I read the disjointed, yet poetic, sentences but never really absorbed them, and I pretty much skimmed the next 20 or so pages and decided I had better books to read. I think that this was a way for Michaels to flex her lovely and poetic prose without regard for the readers enjoyment. It just did not resonate at all with me

Maybe I wasn't in the mood for this story yet, but it really doesn't go anywhere. I could skip pages upon pages and not miss a beat. It could have been a powerful story but just fell really flat for me.

After nine days of marriage, Noenka leaves her abusive husband and flees to Suriname’s capital Paramaribo… I really have anything particularly insightful to say about this one. Clearly, I did not get on with it at all - it was all over the place and I struggled to follow what was going on (and this is coming from somebody who normally quite enjoys fragmentary writing). Full disclosure: I did start it when I had a head cold, which certainly didn’t help, but I don’t think I can entirely blame my struggles on that. If I wasn’t specifically reading the entire International Booker 2025 longlist, I’d have DNFed it pretty quickly - there really was no need for it to be *so* opaque. Whilst it did eventually kind of come together, it was far too late for me, I just wanted the book to be over. I realise that it was progressive when first published in 1982, and it’s considered a classic of queer literature, but reading it 40+ years later was not an enlightening experience for me (evidently the International Booker judges disagree 🤷🏼‍♀️). An impenetrably fragmented story of searching for freedom whilst haunted by both society’s expectations and the legacy of colonialism in Suriname.

420+ pages of what is essentially the history of Ethiopia and its wars. The characters were not compelling except for Ettore aka Foto. He was a conflicted young man in a war not of his choosing. I almost gave up after the first 200 pages but try not to drop a book because it may be 'difficult'....in this case because of my scant knowledge of Ethiopian history. Much of the story seemed to me to be part of a fantasy novel....particularly the ending.

I did not finish this book. I found the premise of it Ridiculous. The writing is uninspired and the translation may be faulty too. For example- in chapter 2, the father Jean Pierre "Produced a variety of cayenne rose, as a rule, a fairly ordinary flower, but the one invented by Jean Pierre had amazing velvety petals, and, above all, a delicate penetrating scent. As a result, it was much in demand by the Social Security and employment authorities, as well as by soup kitchens." Say what? Roses are usually known for their velvety petals and delicate scents. But a cayenne rose with a delicate scent is nonsensical. And wtf is this business about SS and employment authorities wanting this rose so much? Unless this is a satire or farce, this book is a waste of paper. Even then, a waste - imo.

When reading these Left leaning books from South Korean authors one has to be careful not to be swayed by the authors core intent. There is a growing movement in the South where push for North Korea and China support is growing fiercely due to Left aggressive dominance; you can guess where the support comes from. To put into perspective, South Korean democracy has only existed since 1987. It's form is unlike that of the United States. They do not necessarily follow the foundational markings of either main political outlines. Romanticizing a reunification between the South and North is to spit on the face of democracy itself. The two have now been separated for almost 80 years with minimal contact or interchange; the two now have different DNAs. The Kim regime has no intention of losing what they have enjoyed for all of those decades. If something should happen, it would only result in another war. If so, South Korea has the most to lose. Authors like Hwang are slowly infiltrating western minds with their communist leaning ideologies by romanticizing the heartbreak and sorrows of our separated histories. Do not be fooled, It is okay to be separate and different now and into the future. If the North Korean civilians want a change, they will have to initiate on their own and on their own terms. Mater 2-10 should be read as fiction and nothing more. Once put down, should be forgotten.

DNFed at 51% because it is insufferable

What was the point? This book was nothing more than a rambling of stories with no true plot. I don't know why it is rated so highly.

As I've confessed in my profile, I'm a former book snob. Literary fiction is still my favourite genre, so I'm comfortable, even enjoy, reading experimental, introspective, plotless novels. I appreciated Cusk's Outline, so I had to read this longlisted Booker novel. This short novel drove me up the wall, I almost threw the book to the wall, being a library copy, I had to restrain myself. It wasn't easy. The last time I remember being so annoyed with a book was when reading the trauma porn masterpiece A Little Life. The only common denominator for these two novels is the excruciating reading experience, albeit for different reasons. I'll confess, I only read 100/183 pages. I tried, I just couldn't push through, after all, I'm not a masochist. Where do I start? This novel/novella is written in epistolary form - the narrator, M, writes to this person named Jeffers. What kind of name is Jeffers? Even the name annoyed me (sorry Jeffereses out-there). The improbability of such correspondence between a man and a woman didn't bother me too much, as I saw it as a writing device. Given that a pandemic is mentioned, I assumed Second Place to be written about the contemporary era, although, I don't remember mobile phones or computers being mentioned, hmm, it just occurred to me now, as I'm writing this rant. The beginning was incomprehensible and pointless. The narrator, M, tells Jeffres about this devil-like man on a train, who frightened her, but nobody seemed bothered by him. Was it a dream, was it a metaphor for something - no idea. The narrator moved on - to another random episode about meeting an artist at an exhibition, hanging out with him for some hours and the narrator being perplexed that by the end of their night together, the artist decided he'd rather go to bed alone. Alright, and ...? Then the narrator moves on to another episode, period, she's fifty, she's remarried to a nice, dependable, quiet man, Tony. They live in a recluse place by some marshes, country unnamed. They have a second place on the property where they have all sorts of artists, friends stay. But this fifty-year-old woman likes this famous artist, L - oh, how she waxes lyrical ad-nauseum about his paintings as if there was no other art in the world. (I say that as someone who LOVES art). Who among us hasn't written a letter to an artist they admire and invited him/her to come to stay with them - even though they never met? And what famous artist would answer to such an invitation, even considering that apparently, they had common acquaintances? The way M goes on and on about his occasional, short letters to her was infuriating. Not as infuriating as when the artist dude finally accepts M's invitation and decides to grace them with his presence. Never mind he had lost his houses and had no better options, but hey, M will be happy with any crumbs. Except, that, surprise!, the dude artist, L, shows up with a very good looking woman half his age. Talk about cliches. M is immediately annoyed with the young woman. There's some perplexing description of her mouth, I didn't quite know what to make of it. It only gets worse. Nothing much happens, the artist and the young woman, don't spend much time with them. That doesn't prevent M from obsessing over the artist. She analyses, quantifies and digests the artist's every glance, blink, tone of voice, posture, gesture, touch etc. She's so freakingly self-involved she thinks it's all in some incomprehensible way about her. I mean, give me a break! this is a fifty-year-old woman, who's lived, got married twice - she was worse than a virgin ingenue who'd never met a man before. To say that I found her pathetic would be an understatement. The more I read, the more insufferable it became. Oh, and the word salad became excruciating. The dialogues were over the top as well. To conclude this rant, Second Place> is a pretentiously overwritten, infuriating, pointless novel. It's definitely the worst book I read (or attempted to read) this year. And you know what else pissed me off big time? The blurb, this fragment in particular, "His provocative presence provides the frame for a study of female fate and male privilege." BS!!!!!!!!!

How can something be so pretentious and yet so vapid? A feat, truly. The reader is subjected to long, incomprehensible passages like this: "This might go to explain some of the compulsion I felt toward L: when I looked at the marsh, for instance, which seemed to obey so many of his rules of light and perception that it often resembled a painted work by him, I was in a sense looking at works by L that he had not created, and was therefore--I suppose--creating them myself. I'm unsure of the moral status of these half-creations, which I can only hazard is akin to the moral status of influence, and therefore a powerful force for both good and evil in human affairs." (p. 55) lol wut. "the moral status of influence." fuck off. But then there was also hokey, melodramatic dialogue rife with exclamation points: "Please forgive me!" I said. "I know what I did was wrong. I promise never to make you go away again!" (p. 151) This was all over the place and none of it was enjoyable. Clearly I am not ~literary~ enough to read her.

Quite possibly the most pretentious piece of garbage I've ever read to completion. It'll probably win the Booker.

I really like Cusk’s other work. I also really enjoyed most of this book. The ending ruined it for me. There is a tendency to use disability and disabled bodies as metaphors and plot points. A whole book was written about this called Narrative Prosthesis: Disability and the Dependencies of Discourse by Snyder and Mitchell. What narrative prosthesis does is cast disability as a punishment and moralize it. It’s a way to characterize a character as bad or give a bad character a ‘suitable end.’ That is what Cusk does in this book and uses imagery of Hell throughout the book that suggests an interpretation of a disabled body as a kind of hell. This discourse harms disabled people because it constructs disability as a bad thing and a punishment and that disabled bodies are gross or stigmatized or without the possibility of pleasure or joy. Read Goffman on Stigma or Shildrick’s Embodying the Monster. But please, do not read this book. Skip it. Give your money to a book like The Emissary by Tawada instead that shows what a cultural shift around disability could look like. What does Cusk do? She talks about a disabled limb as ‘lurid,’ uses the word crippled, says a disabled person is ‘destroyed,’ has the main character gloat about how the disabled character would have hated being carried like ‘a little doll.’ And more. Going to stop now. I feel confident in calling this book ableist. I feel confident in asking writers to do better than this around representing bodies and disability. Read other books by Cusk. I just hope publishing starts employing disabled sensitivity readers. This can be seen a mile away. There is so much wrong in just the things I mentioned. It could have been changed before publication. And now I need to warn all my Crip friends not to read this.

The one good thing I can say about this book is that it was short enough for me to finish it. BEGRUDGINGLY. This somehow managed to be both boring and confusing, and is also a good example of why I so rarely read books by men with female main characters. (I mean…I rarely read books by men, full stop.) (Shakespeare doesn't count. To paraphrase the philosopher Halsey, he is not a man, he's a God.) I appreciate what the author was trying to explore in here, but the women in this book were so flat to me, and had so little life to them. If I contrast that with a book by a dude about women that I loved, A Thousand Splendid Suns by Khaled Hosseini, the difference is stark. Hosseini gave his characters so much depth and complexity, whereas Sahota didn't seem to know who his own characters were beyond some very basic elements and didn't think they needed any more layers than facial tissue. I usually enjoy dual timeline stories but in this case, it just felt disjointed. Doesn't help that I loathed the main character in the later timeline and couldn't dig up a fuck to give with a hydraulic dredge. The other timeline, with the three women, could have been much more interesting to me in the right hands, but…these were not the right hands. I understand that some of this is based on the author's family history, and I don't want to sound like I'm crapping on that. But the way he chose to shape it into a fictional story just didn't work for me in any way. I felt lost a lot of the time, when new names would show up on the page with no explanation, pages and pages that felt monotonous and dull, and weirdly shifting personalities and characterization. I couldn't stand the way men in the book thought and spoke about women, and I get that this was likely accurate to the time and place, but again, if a dude is going to take something like this on, there needs to be a lot more care applied to it than was done here. I never understood why we were expected to care for these characters, because they didn't seem to care themselves. I'm really baffled as to how this made it onto the Booker longlist, because I took nothing away from it except a little disgust and a lot of boredom.

Very funny, Booker Prize Committee, very funny. Let me guess . . . you were tired of trolling by conservative cultural critics who claimed that the Booker was fetishizing "diversity," so you shortlisted this book about the decline of a wealthy white family, an idea that was shopworn when Booth Tarkington won a Pulitzer for "The Magnificent Ambersons" a century and change ago. Point made, please don't prolong the joke by giving the award to this 300-page yawnathon. I'd rather read a book about the Black servants in this book than about the Swarts, the Afrikaan clan whose dissipation Galgut documents here. I'd rather read a book about the grass the Swarts trample while running up and down the "koppie" (which I assume is a hill) behind their house than pick up "The Promise" again. The main characters in this book are all horrible people, which I can forgive, but they're also horribly boring, which I can't. Members of the Swart family change religion as often as they do sex partners, and there's plenty of both in this book. Since the book is about four long-overdue funerals for various Swarts, this ecumenical promiscuity allows Mr. Galgut to ridicule multiple faiths, which I can respect, but in a snide unfunny way, which I can't. Every annoying aspect of modern literature, like the abandonment of quotation marks, switching locations and verb tenses mid-sentence, and cutesy meta self-references, are abundant in "The Promise." I can forgive such indulgences from Katie Kitamura and Lauren Groff, they're experimenting with form (not to mention far superior writers), but no, Mr. Galgut doesn't get that benefit of a doubt. His eschewal of narrative conventions seems like a way to force casual readers to flip back however many pages and pay more attention than is warranted to the nasty people in this nasty book. Thanks, I didn't hate the judgmental aunt enough when I first read that paragraph, now I really despise her (and not just her). Mr. Galgut's cynical, dismissive attitude toward his characters, even as they're being murdered and committing suicide, sure doesn't help his case, either, at least not with me. Every aside like "as has happened to you, right?" reminded me of an obnoxious teenage boy who catches your eye and smirks as you both pass a homeless person sleeping in a doorway. I'd turn away from that jerk so I don't have to hear his snotty comment, but for some reason, I finished this book. That's on me, I guess. Oh . . . and DG? Sentences like "Why does furniture always look so innocent no matter what sins have just been committed on it" sound clever but are actually inane.

Wow. Tell me a book was written by a man without telling me a book was written by a man: “I‘m not beautiful. So thinks Amor. Her hips have widened, and the thickening seems heavy to her, exaggerated, obscene. She dislikes her whole body, as many of you do, but with special adolescent intensity.“ “She has recently lost her virginity, and sex flows through her like a golden wind. She has forgotten the pain, though it’s part of the shimmer around the faces of young men, with their bristly beards, thrilling her deep inside, down where everything meets.“ “The eyes of the old guy are going over the shape of Astrid’s body, especially her breasts and legs. She‘s tucking a strand of hair behind her ear and thinks he has a dirty word he wants to speak aloud, and part of her wants to hear it too. She leaves, swinging her hips.“ “She’s transformed into a thicker version of her adolescent self, never got her body back after the pregnancy and now she’s a globular echo of her husband“ “He’s bored with this older sister, but quite perked up by the pretty younger one, he likes them quite, he can almost imagine, except no, he mustn’t, not here, and not in these pants.“ “Now I‘ve got two children and I‘m exhausted and I don’t feel young and beautiful anymore“ “Nothing joins a man to the earth more completely than an umbilical arc of hot yellow urine. For a short while there is only that single sensation of letting go, until it’s time to shake off the drops.“ “Since she married a rich man, she finds the notion of work distasteful, especially when it’s a job.“ Oh and don’t forget about the very confusing description of Amor getting her periode for the first time that was 10 pages long :)

Overall, The Safe Keep felt underwhelming. Isabel is meant to be obnoxious, and maybe the writer succeeded too well - but instead of being complex, she came across as a caricature: bitter, cliché, and unrealistically over the top. Eva, on the other hand, barely exists as a character. The plot twist had potential, but it felt flat because Eva had been so underdeveloped in the first part that I couldn’t connect with her at all (not even part three did the job for me). There was no tension between them - no sense of conflict and for sure no chemistry later on. Many descriptions were confusing, especially sex scenes, which were hard to follow due to unnecessary and contrasting details. The house, which should have been a central and atmospheric element, never came to life - regardless it being the central theme of the book I couldn’t picture it at all. Scene transitions felt abrupt and disjointed; it often felt like only the main point of each scene was written, with no buildup or consequence whatsoever. There were far too many scenes that went nowhere (or that were even repetitive, the whole second half or part 2). One that stood out was the pear scene - it felt like a poor imitation of Call Me by Your Name’s peach moment. In general, the attempt to make every mundane event full of tension felt very forceful. Several characters, like Johan, Neelke and the aunt, had no real purpose. The presence of the late mother still “guarding” the house had potential, but also ended up feeling one-dimensional. A bonus point is the idea of exploring the legacy of a house connected to the Holocaust. 1.5 stars

I was really excited to read this book. I did not know of its existence, but received it as a Christmas gift and was immediately intrigued. It doesn't take much beyond the Netherlands and the shadow of WWII to pique my interest, and this was enough for me to brush off the "paranoia gives way to desire" on the flap. The book started well, although almost immediately I was thrown by the writing. The book takes place in 1961, and our main character starts by taking the train from Zwolle to den Haag for dinner. That's an hour-and-a-half train ride, each way. Completely possible, high implausible, but okay. I continued, enjoyed the general Dutch setting, but continued to wonder at, for example, the names. Three sibling named Louis, Isabel, Hendrick. Aside from Hendrick, I found these names, for characters born in the late 30s, a bit unlikely. A boyfriend, Sebastian, who needs to go back to his home in Paris. Why is his name Sebastian, and not Dutch Sebastiaan or French Sebastien? Later we find out he's half Algerian, which still explains... nothing, and moreover felt like a very unnecessary detail, I suspect to remind us of how people can be outsiders, but which felt to me completely unnecessary given the rest of the story. Isabel is revealed to be a very unreasonable character. No issue there; I love a problematic character. She is neurotic and stingy, guarded and suspicious, perhaps paranoid, and weird. But I liked reading about her, her life alone in the house, her weirdness about it, her filtered memories. When Louis shows up with his girlfriend, who he insists on letting have their mother's room, the room she died in, I became frustrated. This was realistic, perhaps, but in a house with plenty of rooms to choose from it seemed reasonable to me that Isabel would not to want Eva sleeping there. The issue was that throughout the book she is depicted as uptight and it's all her problem, when actually Louis came, forced his girlfriend upon her as a housemate, and didn't let her have any say in the matter or even in where she slept, when even if Louis is going to ultimately inherit the house, there is no question that Isabel is the current keeper. The gaslighting vibes were real! Which would be masterful... if it ever came up again, or was acknowledged in anyway. Instead, as Isabel grows and matures, this is just lumped under her old stingy, controlling ways. Then we get to the sex scenes. I don't have much to say except that they were pretty bad. They also were kind of hard to follow; the descriptions often did not actually help me understand how someone was positioned, and then it would turn out they were sitting on the floor and not lying on the bed, etc. As I read these I often realized the scowl that had taken hold of my face as I sat on public transit. One of these scenes would be good. All of them was too many, and they reminded me of a creative writing class I once took that told us it was very difficult to write sex scenes that don't become cheesy. The pears on the cover were another point of irritation for me. Isa receives a pear. It is very juicy and she eats it. Some books have two pears on the cover. All I could think of was the peach in Call Me By Your Name, which was somehow not cringeworthy. This felt very forced, not at all organic, not to mention the fact that we somehow have an incredibly ripe and juicy pear in earl-mid July. In the Netherlands. (Maybe if it had been a tomato..? Still pushing it.) As Hendrik says to Isabel when she begins to obsess: "Isa... don't do that." Yes, I need this reminder for myself, but really I think the publishing world needs to be reminded that historical accuracy is important, that readers cannot suspend disbelief when you give us an outrageously juicy pear in early July, that little details like these build up and detract from what could be a nice book. These distractions allowed me to think far too much as I plodded through, and by the time the book continued I had figured out most of its conceit. The book improved a lot in the end, though it was a bit sweet and simplistic, I felt, for the subject matter it contains. Overall I felt this book would have been a really great read if it had been made into popular historical fiction instead of trying to shoehorn itself into literary fiction. But most of all I wished the editors had done more for this book. I wish that fact-checkers were still valued and prioritized. Most of my complaints are things that could have been, might I say should have been, caught and corrected. Bottom line: this only needed one sex scene, and I can't believe this was shortlisted for a Booker.

This book made my skin crawl, my head hurt and my fingers itch, and for all the wrong reasons. I can’t really be bothered to write a long review for this book – I want to forget it as soon as possible and toss the book itself into a dumpster fire – but I want to protect other potential readers and warn them about what’s coming their way. Because this book (I’m just gonna say it) is Not Okay. The first thing that struck me as at least very odd, were the countless abrupt endings of each short story, and as far as I remember there was not a single story that was neatly wrapped up with a little glitter bow on top. No – I can appreciate the occasional open ending where it’s up to the reader to decided what happens to the characters and if there’s a happy ending or not. I’m all for ambiguous endings and I knów they can be done well (Young Mungo being a prime example). But here, in The Dangers of Smoking in Bed, there’s nothing that calls for an open ending, and no reason to cut off each short story ríght before the resolution or climax. After two or three of these stories it started to really fucking annoy me and it prompted me to absolutely stop trying to care about each of the main characters. If they were even likeable, that is. Because the characters were not interesting, had no appeal to them, were the complete opposite of diversity and inclusion, and had no personality at all. I did not care. About any of them. And I’m not exaggerating when I say that none of them had a unique voice or some trait that distinguished them from the other faceless main characters – and each time I was ripped from the previous story with an abrupt and unsatisfactory ending, and dumped into the next one, I had great difficulties getting immersed in that new character’s mind and thoughts. Third, this was advertised as a book set in contemporary Argentina, but let’s be honest: this felt more like generic slums as the backdrop for generic miserable and poor people facing generic haunting happenings (that weren’t really haunting, just very meagre in their execution and barely refreshing or new). Overall, technique-wise, this book felt like a rough draft and not a whole lot more. But that’s easy to fix. Add 200 pages, flesh out the cast and actually involve good endings – bam, done. What’s nót easy to fix, are the contents of the book, and holy fuck, are they gross and disturbing. And I don’t mean that in a good way where you can’t put the book down because you’re so freaked out by what’s happening that you just nééd to know what’s next. No, instead, I mean the problematic kind of gross and disturbing, the kind that makes you question how a person can come up with these stories without questioning their very morality and their common sense. Of course, I’ll admit that people shitting in the streets is gross and just “ew”, but not a real reason to feel any different than just icky. Even if it happens multiple times in the book – because once just wasn’t enough, apparently. I don’t like the visual image in my head, but sure, if that’s a daily occurrence in Argentina, fine. I could deal less easily with the descriptions of exhumation and cannibalism, and yes, that is exactly what happens in the book. Teen girls so obsessed with their deceased music idol literally eat the flesh off his bones, dug up from his grave. You’d think it doesn’t get more fucked up than this, but surprise surprise, it does. We’re only halfway through my review, after all, and I promised you a lot of Not Okay. The many, many graphic depictions of teen girls masturbating until they bleed is an entirely new level. It was unnecessary. It was nothing short of trying to be edgy without actually adding something to the story. And it was almost a reason for putting away the book around halfway through and not looking at it a second longer. Because – and I’m a little embarrassed to admit this – I felt actually harassed reading this book. I don’t want to be confronted with girls doing stuff like that, and it being pushed into my face so many times, like those neon advertisement signs with flashing arrows and exclamation marks. I don’t want to think about it. I really fucking don’t. And I háted reading it. Oh and let’s cut someone’s chest open just to masturbate at the sight of their beating heart, while we’re at it. I don’t like to kink-shame, to each their own, but this is where I draw the line. Getting horny over physical illnesses is weird (and as long as you refrain to med-school textbooks, it’s generally harmless), but wanting to murder someone (and making plans!) for masturbation purposes is even weirder and romanticizing that is just not acceptable – and I’m not going to pretend it isn’t. That’s borderline necrophilia, and I’m not here for it. Of course, it doesn’t stop there, and this is the part that really concerns me. If you’re a human being with common sense and a general disgust towards non-consensual sexual content, do yourself a favour and avoid this book at all costs – there’s a lot of it. I mean, let’s shamelessly record sleeping naked people on film, just because we can. Let’s make un-mitigated paedophilic movies, just because we can. That’s really what it is. It doesn’t even pretend to be anything different. Characters video-taping children in bathing suits (because “they show more skin”, close to literally quoting from the book) and selling the clips to old men is fucking disgusting, and them doing so without being condemned, called out or punished for it, is a new low. I don’t think I need to mention that this book needs dozens of content warnings, because I hope by now you’ve come to this conclusion yourself. And don't even get me started on the t-slurs near the end. This book does not belong in the horror section. It’s not creepy. It didn’t freak me out, because the stories are boring and bland as fuck. Instead, the author heavily (and I mean, héavily) relies on shock value to sell this book, without telling real stories with real characters and real eeriness. It made me genuinely nauseated with all the problematic topics, and for that, it should be called out. Sure, read this if you think you have a strong stomach. I’m sure there are people who like these kinds of books. But heed my words and keep in mind that this isn’t horror, it isn’t even body horror. It’s a collection of fetishes you read about in the papers when there’s been another gruesome murder or a double kidnapping. You’ve been warned.

I suffered through the first two shitty novels in this trilogy so as to be all set to sink into this, the third one. Only to bail on it just short of the 50% mark. What a monumental waste of valuable reading time. If you want to read shapely, powerful fiction from this part of the world, go directly to NoViolet Bulawayo’s We Need New Names and spare yourself the agony I just subjected myself to.

The literal worst. I’m not sure which was worse, the novel or the audiobook. In chapter 1 I considered DNF’ing it and now hate myself for not listening to that voice.

DNFed at 20%. Ugh I’m not happy about having to DNF this book. Honestly, I hate quitting any book but this one put me in a reading slump. First, I should say that I loved Dangarembga’s first novel “Nervous Conditions”. My love of that novel is what pushed me to purchase this one. The issue is that this novel is vastly different in tone, POV, voice, pacing, and many other things. The second POV seems a bit unnecessary as it isn’t used to its full effect. The dialogue is often oddly sparse and on occasion it’s difficult to follow who is who. That being said, it isn’t all bad- some of the topics brought up include colorism, sexism, and the value of/ perception of education and all these are interesting discussions. I should also say that people who loved second POV or novels with a jumble of info or odd pacing similar to (but not exactly like) stream of consciousness may like this more than I did.

** spoiler alert ** So incredibly disappointed in this book especially because I am a huge fan of the author from reading Nervous Conditions (one of my favourite books yet). The entire time reading this, I was wondering where is this book going? What’s the point? And kept hoping it would get better yet it never did. I feel like the protagonist was an unlikeable character, mainly because I did not understand her reasoning and decision making as this was not adequately explored by the author. I also believe so many themes were not deeply explored. I don’t know, maybe I lack the depth required to understand all the themes in this book. Themes: Depression, Mental health, Post colonialism, The fall of Zimbabwe, Racism and Misogyny

“Snails were just that. Snails.” There’s a lot at play in this novel. Not a one of it works together. You’ve got brides in waiting. “Yeva” and “Anastasia” meaning Eve and Resurrection. Snails hoping to mate and match up. Saving the last one. Matchmaking across borders against all odds as love finds a way. Fate? Fate. It’s about fate! Recruit 12 men to head across the country to protest current (horrific) events. 12, a bíblical, fated number. This novel is off to such a firecracker start! There’s a mirroring of how environmental disaster leads to extinction of snail species, too slow to reach each other, with how war—the destruction of community and connection leads to the inability of men and women/“us and them” to speak with each other, truly communicate or connect any more. Women, masked, trying to kidnap men to create a statement. It’s all a big swirling commentary of connection and how we spiral away from one another and become extinct to each other over time that suddenly stops working, so the narrative takes a hard right. That’s where it lost me. The rest of this novel turns into part writer’s memoir that essentially blames the pandemic and the war in Ukraine for the failure of the authors first novel. There’s more to it, sure, but that was my takeaway. And its commentary on how the war takes away time for humans to focus on good art. Am I wrong that there seems to be this tendency for novels that aren’t working as a story lately to try this meta approach of “add some autofiction” and “make generalized commentary about a specific current event” that seems as if the author is trying to elevate the novel above critique? Sure, this has been done well, and been done well for YEARS (I.e. The Grapes of Wrath) but imagine if Steinbeck quit talking about the Joads, talked about how The Great Depression and publishing and the flu was why Tortilla Flat was a flop and made it about himself. Can’t stand it.

Unfortunately, I hated this. It’s probably a 2.5 star but I’m rounding down because it annoyed me so much. The snail thing as an extended metaphor or recurring motif or whatever it was supposed to be was just not compelling to me at all. And the fact that they drove INTO the invasion to rescue a fucking SNAIL, which resulted in two HUMANS dying, just killed my empathy for these idiotic characters. Ultimately I did not care about or feel connected to a single person in this book except MAYBE the grandfather. The metafictional elements did not work at all for me either but that’s on me I hate metafiction and didn’t realize that’s what this was (sort of) when I picked it up. (Maria Reva I hope you’re not reading this!! Not every book has to be for everyone! Seems like this one worked for a lot of people just not for me!)

I’m very sorry to say I didn’t connect with the prose on any level, and by “I’m very sorry” I really do mean sincere sorrow, because my expression of regret here is not throat-clearing preamble to a bad review, even if it is now getting to the ‘bad review’ part, where I’m about to say the language in this book is floofy nonsense, where seventeen words are used instead of seven, or four, and where the romanticization of every gesture would be tolerable if only it weren’t expressed in the most superficially adequate way possible, and why can’t I just enjoy this illusion of good writing and good story? What is the matter with me? Why can’t I just relax and enjoy it? Argshdjckehsh

A novel of staggering banality and mediocrity I found the opening pages almost stultifying dull but what was worse was its total failure to engage with its time and place in any meaningful way. The moment Lesley Hamlyn intuits that her husband Robert's visiting friend Somerset Maugham and his secretary, Gerald Hoxton, are 'homosexuals' it is clear that the author is writing not a novel set in 1921 Penang but a novel of today set in period garb and pretty flimsy ones at that. No 1920's British memsahib would of thought of 'homosexuals' but of pansies or something even more offensive. Nor would Maugham have opened up and had a heart to heart chat about his marriage to Syrie or his relationship with Hoxton with some passing hostess on his travels, though the author's lack of insight into Somerset Maugham character is not surprising as one of the books lists as having consulted is 'Conversations With Willie' a book of entirely fabricated conversations between Maugham senior and his nephew Robin the ostensible author of the book though everyone knows it was written entirely by Peter Burton. Robin Maugham was by 1978, when Conversation with Willie was published was so far in his cups that he could neither tell a story nor write a sentence. But aside from the ridiculous portrait of Maugham the novel's greatest fault is its total failure to present a convincing portrait of what Penang in 1921 under British rule was like. The idea that Lesley the wife of a very senior and important man like Robert Hamlyn could have worked with and socialized with Sun Yat Sen without attracting intense hostility and gossip from amongst her and her husband's British friends and associates is unthinkable. Race, just like social position, was a complex and multifaceted prison that restricted and trapped everyone. To understand how totally one only needs to read Somerset Maugham. His stories of the Federated Malay States are as accurate and as devastating portrait of the hollow futility and hypocrisy of 'empire' as E.M. Forster, more devastating in ways because more people read him then Forster. As for the way the author treats 'homosexual' men who marry - it is so completely a historical as to be absurd. If you want to read a really superb novel on empire, homosexuality, marriage, compromise, etc. read Neal Blakemore's really superb 'Split My Heart'. Compared to that subtle and penetrating and very finely written and moving novel this is a work of tawdry sentimentality with the depth of a puddle. How anyone could imagine this is literature or even a decent historical novel is incomprehensible. It is a travesty. Go back and read Maugham, he is a much better and more honest writer, even with his limitations, then this farrago of nonsense.

I hated this book so much I had to write a review just to get it out of my system. The writing style was unbearable. Do we really need a metaphor in every sentence? It stops being poetic and just turns into a jumble of random words trying to sound deep. To me, it came off as pretentious. I couldn’t even finish it properly, just skimmed for the main points. The characters. Well, the main character, since we only see her side. She reminded me of cold, slimy seaweed aimlessly floating in the ocean (yes, I see the irony of using a metaphor after complaining about them – moderation is key). Does this person have any interests beyond sex? She’s so flat and relentlessly pessimistic. Why do they love each other? Why were they even together? Did she learn anything, or is she just stuck in teenage nihilism? I can’t stand characters like that. One moment really stood out: while traveling in Iceland, Samsa takes her to rare sites, explaining cool geological facts. I’d be over the moon: how amazing to see the person you love in their element, sharing something fascinating in a cool place that not many people will see in their lives. And all she gets out of it is that Samsa’s ass looks good. Really? That’s just sad. The book had so much potential. The premise was fascinating, queer relationships and motherhood explored from two perspectives: one partner wanting a baby, the other not. Instead, I got nothing but irritation.

Much harder work than it needed to be, these more-or-less unlinked short stories build to create full lives for characters who were children when a V2 rocket evaporated both them and the Woolworth's they were in at some point in 1944. So one grows up to con young footballers and himself that he's a successful property entrepreneur, one grows up allegedly schizophrenic, one sticks with his apprenticeship in newspaper printing for years too long and therefore gets stuck in '70s unionisation and strikes, and a musical theme builds when one becomes a synaesthetic singer. The evidence is here than this author can really write, but this is a cold piece, and as I say there remains little to connect the works here or to compel reading on, and when you get to proof of the characters finally being allowed to meet at the halfway point it will be too late for some. The book's structure, of dipping into their lives once a generation, allows for no through-line at times beyond a bored-seeming mention that the mother of two of the females had died since she was last important to anything, and one transcript of an extended phone call gives us a fifteen year span with all the drama bled out of its veins before we get to the leftovers. Indeed, just the words "I'm having breakfast with my sister" manages to kill all enjoyment, being the most lumpen, prosaic, "ooh dear reader, didn't I tell you that humongous story just there, ooh whoopsie at me" foreshadowing-gone-wrong. Awkward. One and a half stars.

After a long day and I’m too tired to read (hence why I do so during the early hours of the morning) I tend to unwind with superhero films. Without going into too much detail, the reason why I like these films is because they have a story arc and it develops with each film. At first is was the infinity stones and now it’s the multiverse. The multiverse is a theory which states that there are parallel universes with different versions of us. In the Marvel version these multiverses are kept in check so no one disrupts the timeline. As it happens in the Marvel universe the timeline is disrupted so there is chaos. Francis Spufford’s Light Perpetual plays on this philosophy. The book opens in 1942 where a bomb kills a group of friends. Then in the next chapter Spufford reimagines the group surviving the bomb and these characters go through the next five decades experiencing Britain’s modernisation. The main theme here is time. How it changes, how it affects us, how it moulds our future. The book also works as a satire, especially poking fun at the media. However It’s is an awful reade. What irritated me the most was the clunky prose. Think of David Mitchell in Number9dream but worse, much worse. Spufford also tries to be funny and it fails. None of the characters are written well and feel like cardboard cutouts and it’s a boring snoozefest of a story. The only thing about time I can say here is that I wasted 72 hours reading this dumpfest.

Done. Not compelling at all. I loved Golden Hill but this one is just monotonous and unremarkable. I have too much I want to read to trudge through something that I dread opening every night because it’s boring.

"The moment of the present becomes instantly the past, I wrote. The present was almost-nothing; I was almost-nothing – a momentary arrangement of energy. And when the time came for the arrangement of energy that went by my name to collapse, and become a different arrangement, barely anything would be changed. A slight readjustment of a few lives, for a while. Some after-life in the memory of a small number of people, for some of whom I was already nothing but a memory. Into the great indifference, I wrote, but the words caused a chill" A jack of all trades, Jonathan Buckley- University tutor,stage hand, builder, book manager- became a writer not out of passion but as a natural algamation of his academic background and later career as a writer of travel guides. "One Boat ", his Booker Prize longlisted novella, reads as travel guide revolving around its female protagonist. Languorous detailed descriptions of the Greek Town at the center are given priority over a protagonist that fails to be memorable. Buckley can bring Greece to life- it's smells, temperatures and culture but fails to make the story taking place captivating. Nor does he justify the notebook gimmick that has the character meditating on her present through turning her life into prose; the results are awkward quotables asynchronous to what surrounds it. Buckley's writing is inconsistent, dreary and uncomplicated at points- usually when narrating the present - but contrived and sentimental. I would have probably had a warmer reception to it had I not read a better book - five star book - earlier this year that hits the same beats and has a similar meta narrative where the character is attempting to turn their life into writing . That book, "Moon Tiger " by Penelope Lively, understood what grief meant . Aware of its location in our bodies and ambient drone thoughout our lives. Lively navigated the past and the present keenly aware of our blindness to both how it escapes us: present slipping into the past as the future runs out like water through cupped hands. "One Boat" attempts to be philosophical in that vein but is too conservative in its ambitions, satisfied with trite observations of unity and humanity as a group project, its title reflective of the adage "we're all on the same boat" . I needed it to go further, spread its legs and explore the world he's put to page. Let the relationships guide the narrative because as it appears, the book had plot points mapped out that he was writing to . Which becomes even more apparent when the meta twist (sort of) ending occurs during the last chapter . Where it is revealed that there is uncertainty and fiction to the aforementioned events and narrative added by Teresa for her book. Buckley didn't craft a detailed enough story for the reveal to be compelling, it's like telling me a secret about people I don't know then telling me that secret was a lie- ok? Idgaf . But if they had been well written I would have been compelled to figure out what changed but here I'm just relieved its over.

dnf around 3/4 - this is why men shouldn’t write from female perspectives. a women supposedly grieving her mother in a Greek village. not much time afforded to the dead mother or the grief but made very clear that the women is not like other girls because she reads the Iliad and listens to Bach.

This one wasn’t for me. Gave it a good go but nothing happened for so long that when it did I’d lost heart. I need less contemplation and more action at this point of my life I think. Moving swiftly on.

This felt like the longest book I have ever read and it was less than 200 pages. What a slog to get through. I actually put it in voiceover mode for a bit to give my eyeballs a break from endless tedium. Paragraph after paragraph following along with Teresa’s open prose was just dizzyingly dull. I am just not pretentious enough for this. I’d say this was the equivalent of last year’s Held by Anne Michaels but that book was at least beautifully written. This was impossible to relate to and I don’t care at all for all the flashbacks with no transitions. I’d just as soon read Hemingway again before I give this another star. (Wtf is up this year Booker prize committee??) 1.5 ⭐️ rounded down.

Misinterpretation is a novel that wants to say something about language, about love, about the way we live beside one another without truly hearing each other. It wants to explore displacement, the ways women make themselves small in service of others, and the slow break down of communication in various types of relationships. These are interesting subjects and themes, but the novel fails to explore them with any meaningful depth. The narrator is an Albanian interpreter who understands, in theory, the slipperiness of language, how easy it is to lose or misconstrue meaning, not only across languages but even between people who speak the same one. Despite her profession, this narrator never truly listens: not to her clients, not to her estranged mother, and certainly not to her husband. She’s the kind of person who believes she’s listening carefully when, in fact, she’s just waiting to speak; someone who fails to hear the most obvious things, even when they’re shouted directly into her ear. She is a narcissist in a martyr’s costume, and I found it exhausting to read from her perspective. There’s a particularly compelling thread about what it means to live in two countries at once, how the immigrant experience is often marked by a slow, shifting awareness that you no longer belong fully anywhere. That part rang true. There’s a line about how one life always seems like the real one and the other like a memory, until they trade places again. I wish there had been more of that kind of clarity throughout the novel. What disappointed me most was the absence of subtlety in the characterizations. The narrator can’t seem to stop herself from creating unnecessary problems, walking into uncomfortable or even dangerous situations as though drawn to them. She believes she’s helping others, but often she’s simply feeding a need to be seen as helpful. At times, her self-delusion is interesting, but the narrative is so unfocused that her character comes across as cartoonish and contrived. Misinterpretation is a novel that never sat still long enough to uncover what it was really trying to say. The incoherent narrative, the quality of the writing (much of the story is told through shockingly bad dialogue), and the lack of subtlety and depth in the characters made this a very tough read for me. The structure collapses under its own weight; it’s a story that wants to be many things at once, but accomplishes none of them successfully.

Truly terrible. A whole cast of characters passed through the narrator’s world with nary a distinguishing detail between them. People appear and disappear for no apparent reason.. Verbose, unnecessary, inexplicable detail. The narrator and her husband are supposed to have jobs but no one ever seems to work. Conclusion is utterly nonsensical. Reads like a book that was written for an MFA class that the author got a C- in. Sorry I wasted my time on this one.

One of the worst editing jobs I have seen. Klara is an artificial friend, AF, who is powered by the sun and sits in the store waiting for a little boy or girl to take her home. Until one day, Klara sees a child approaching the store.... This book could have been great, but it was B O R I N G and S L O W! It didn't even have chapters. It had Parts. On the audiobook, each of these parts was between 1 and 2 hours long. The prose was horrible. It was very staccato because it was supposed to sound like a robot. "I did this. I did this. I did this." As an introvert, the opening of this book intrigued me, because it was filled with Klara's observations of the world. However, it lasted way too long to the point that it was getting painful. The author also lost the emotional appeal of this book by trying to go for more a robot feel, very mechanical. The ending was also so lackluster and didn't have the emotional payoff that I was looking for. And ugh Ishiguro needs to get some original material for his next book (if you read Klara and the Sun and read Never Let Me Go, you will know what I am talking about). Overall, Klara and the Sun would have been better off as a short story. And I'm angry. I'm angry because Ishiguro can write but this book didn't reflect that. The editor should have given better review notes and cleaned up this book before publication. Ishiguro has proven that he is a great writer. He has the writing chops so this book is such a tragedy. 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango

Really wanted to like it but it was just too weird and disconnected and I didn’t get what it was supposed to be doing lol

DNF @60%, I can handle some weird shit but I have limits and this one crossed several of them.

Short story collections can be an exciting hit or miss gamble. Sometimes you get some cool ideas, something fucked up but still entertaining and sometimes you get weird pretentious rambling and stories so incomprehensible you feel like you need magic mushrooms to understand what possible meaning you could derive from the book. This is one of those times I wish I had taken the mushrooms. Even though this collection is only 158 pages it’s brutally slow and meaninglessly dancing around the same topics of sexuality and body horror, and there is barely anything we learn about the characters. We just see them in this increasingly weird situations and just…move on. There’s no stakes or point of comparison for what these characters go through and I honestly don’t know how much of that to chalk up to the original writing or the translation of the edition I read which had some descriptions that really threw me off. As for the tone, there’s a general feeling of surrealism. Not in a nightmare sense, just those barely conscious dreams you can have. In some brief moments that surrealism works and creates some cool imagery but not enough to justify the painfully slow build up. It’s amazing how painfully boring the stories are despite the brief moments of something interesting happening. The best story of all of them is Rachel, Nevada. An interesting body horror story of a grieving man trying to connect with some otherworldly machinery that has some great descriptions and a good feeling of place and character arc that none of the other stories have at all. If it wasn’t for that story, I might’ve just stopped reading the book alltogether. The other stories especially the first two, are some of the most meandering and pointless stories I’ve read all year. I’d justify them in the sake of creative imagery or unique explorations of sexuality that pepper moments of the book but there isn’t enough to justify me even thinking about this book again, let alone looking at it or god forbid reading it.

I finally came to the end of this book today. I really struggled to finish it and only did so because I hate leaving books unfinished. I found it interesting at first to have a story narrated by a ghost and thought it was a bit similar to a Toni Morrison book in that respect. I like to read historical novels and this did have historical facts intertwined in it. I'm quite happy to have a bit of fantasy and spirits in a novel too but got very tired of the inclusion of every jinn, mermaid, ghost and every other mystical creature ever heard of in Iran as one after another made their appearance. The enlightenment itself didn't amount to much but it makes an interesting title for the book I suppose. What happened to Beeta just went past the bounds of myth into ridiculousness for me. I won't spoil it for you if you choose to read it. I really don't understand the many high ratings at all.

I started this book with no real preconceived notions. I was excited to see how the story unfolded based on the synopsis and the fact that it was from Reese Witherspoon’s book club. It’s rare that I want to just stop reading a book, however I had to force myself several times to keep pushing to the end of the book (or listening to the audible version in this instance). *Disclaimer- The narrator’s awful voice characterizations/stereotyping in the audible version may have somewhat (but just a little) swayed my opinion of the book. This book had such a promising premise. Very relevant in today’s society where people of color are constantly accosted and often placed under a veil of suspicion for simply existing while being black/brown. From that point forward, the book completely falls apart and is down right offensive. All of the characters were shallow, unlikable and had no depth (with the exception of the 3-year old child). Emira and her Girlfriends- I find it baffling that a fellow black woman wrote this book. Emira and her friend’s were college-educated, black women, yet they cursed every other sentence and spoke primarily in slang. Does the author have any black friends? If I heard one more “yeah GIRL” “okkkkkay” “b*tch” I was going to lose it. Their primary concern is partying, dancing and twerking anytime something mildly worth celebrating happens. They were all caricatures. I was EXTREMELY upset by a scene involving Zara at the end of the book (won’t give it away). Her actions were downright embarrassing and served absolutely no purpose. I have several friends that are professional black women- nurses similar to Zara. They would never act in this manner. They would never embarrass themselves and their families. Emira- Absolutely no depth to her character- NONE. Emira graduated from Temple and now is searching for what she wants to do with her life. This often happens. What bothers me is that we are supposed to believe she had the drive to go to Temple and graduate but after graduating she has zero ambition. What was her plan when she went to college? What was she going to do with her degree? Her character is also flat and devoid of emotion. After the grocery store incident, she cries briefly for one line in the book but that’s it. Never expresses any anger. No feelings sadness, humiliation, vengeance, shame. NOTHING. The author never explores any of the psychological effects this incident had on her. Instead Emira constantly says “Oh, it’s okay. It’s fine.” And without giving away the end of the book Emira’s payback fails to even address why she is upset. Im sure the viewing audience was left thinking- what a bizarre, weird girl. Alix- Yet another flat, stereotypical character. I was left with so many questions. Why was Alix completely disinterested in her child? She’s all for “women’s empowerment” but hates her three year old daughter? I understand her daughter talked a lot and was a handful but what kid isn’t? How did Alix go from being completely disinterested in Emira to literally obsessing over her after the incident? The book is so poorly written that at one point I thought she had become romantically interested in Emira. She spends the entire book wondering what she’s doing, who she’s with, etc? Very bizarre. This went beyond being a white savior and was a complete 180 from the beginning of the book. Kelly- Another flat character but probably the most realistic. He’s a male Kardashian. Obsessed with black people and black culture, but not black struggle and social justice. Overall, this book was just awful. My concern is for the people that read this book and don’t see how horribly biased and filled with stereotypes the book is, while instead opting to think they are “hip and woke.”

Longlisted for the 2024 International Booker Prize - quite why is, indeed, lost on me. I've lost the will to write reviews of the books on this year's list. This one reminded me of a Bridget Jones/Fleabag type of mash-up, with its main literary technique the use of catchphrases - 'And Verika likes to draw' ... 'Francesca's on the phone' ... 'We've reached the height of paradox' For balance, what the judges said ‘A funny, sharp, wonderfully readable novel in which a fresh, playful voice takes us to the heart of an obsessive, unpredictable family. This engaging book tells the story of a young writer finding her special place where the “most fragile, tender, and comical parts” of herself come dazzlingly to life in wild escapades and moments of unexpected reflection.’

Poor Choice Oprah’s book choice was a poor one. The plot was weak and the characters lacked substance. There was little knowledge of the slaves following emancipation. Rather it was a story if George and Isabelle, white land owners. The two ex-slaves had minor parts….

DNF @100 pages. I just wasn't in the mood for reading this.

Well we have ourselves a cuckoo in the nest for I don’t know why on earth this is on the Booker Longlist. Angry white man having himself a wee mid life crisis, whinges for 200 odd pages in a stream of consciousness sort of a narrative, and goes on a small road trip that had as much point as the book. In that it had none. I have little nice to say. The font is alright. I also don’t know why it was necessary to know everyones height, there’s a fair bit of oh she’s gained a few pounds and it’s just incredibly meh. Basically Tom’s wife Amy cheated on him a number of years ago and they stayed together but the intention was that he might, maybe, possibly leave her once their youngest daughter goes off to college. Miri goes off to college and Tom after her driving her to her new dorm takes an impromptu road trip across some of America for a few days. He meets up with people from his past and there’s a theme of all their lives not quite living up too expectation and rather them having to compromise or settle to an extent. This maybe helps Tom reframe the life he had with Amy and that actually it was decent enough, but also he seems to think the world owes him something and to be honest he can just fuck right off. Pretty much everyone is rich and the privilege be hanging out of them and yet somehow chips on shoulders about how hard they all have things. There’s an underlying health condition in which he often wakes up with a swollen face and leaky eyes and to be honest I was just hoping he’d keel over dead so I wouldn’t need to read anymore. Very no. And yet wouldn’t be in the least surprised if it ends up on the shortlist. 1/5

A middle-aged man discovers that his wife has an affair. Although their marriage has been in trouble for quite some time, he decides to do nothing until all his kids leave home for college. Finally, the day came. This could have been such an emotional, reflective story about broken love, broken hopes, and shattered lives. The empty nest syndrome, combined with betrayal and devastating loneliness, sounds like a perfect recipe for a bestseller. Unfortunately, what we have here is a mess. Thoughts, memories, and countless unimportant dialogues made me lose interest at the beginning of the book. I decided to keep going, hoping that the book would pick up. DNF at 45%.

Booker longlist #5: I’m genuinely baffled as to why this made the longlist. I found small glimmers of interest in Markovits’ reflections on time, how regrets accumulate, and years slip by unnoticed, and the way inertia can trap us in lives we no longer choose. But those insights are unfortunately buried beneath a relentless deluge of middle-aged-white-man whining. Are we truly expected to feel sympathy for a character who plays the victim when he comes face-to-face with the fact that his views are outdated and harmful? And was it really necessary to include the scene where he plays basketball with a Black man, as if to prove he isn’t “really” racist? The plot repeatedly flatlines, drifting from one dull encounter to the next with a plethora of one-dimensional, unremarkable side characters who do nothing but underscore the protagonist’s thoroughly unremarkable mid-life crisis. Not to mention how aggressively American it is, with pages upon pages of car brands, basketball references and junk food descriptions - details that suffocate rather than enrich the narrative. Most of all, I finished this book wondering why on earth, of 153 books, this made the Booker longlist? I refuse to believe the field was so poor in a year that has seen new work from Alan Hollinghurst and Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. I could enjoy the plain candid prose to a degree, but Markovits offers nothing inventive in form or style, and nothing revelatory in content. With a Booker nominee, you would hope at minimum for some fresh perspective on the world, something to take away with you. Instead, I was left with more questions than answers: What is this saying? What does it teach us? Why is it relevant in 2025? So far, my answers are: “Nothing,” “Nothing,” and “It isn’t.”

The Rest of Our Lives follows Tom, a middle-aged man who drops his daughter off at college and simply… doesn’t go home. Instead of returning to his wife, he drifts across the country, visiting old friends and acquaintances, circling around his past and his regrets. On paper, it’s a classic midlife road-trip setup, but the way the story is told feels just as wandering as Tom’s journey. For me, the book often felt like it was meandering right along with him. The narrative slips from one visit and memory to another, and at times I found it genuinely difficult to follow where we were in his timeline or even what the emotional throughline was supposed to be. The plot isn’t really “plotty”; it’s more like being inside Tom’s head as he circles around his marriage, his choices, and the life he’s built (and maybe wants to escape). One thing that did help me make sense of the book is the idea that Tom may be dealing with undiagnosed medical issues that affect his state of mind. There are hints of physical symptoms and an overall fogginess to the way he processes events. Reading it that way, the confusion and lack of structure almost become part of the point—Tom doesn’t fully understand what’s going on with his own body or his future, and the book’s hazy, drifting style reflects that. That said, even if that’s intentional, it still made the experience of reading it a bit frustrating at times. I had trouble staying grounded in the story and emotionally connected to Tom because I kept losing the thread of where we were and why certain scenes mattered. There are thoughtful observations about aging, marriage, and disappointment scattered throughout, and I can see this really working for readers who enjoy very interior, character-driven novels where voice and mood matter more than clear momentum. Overall, I’d say this is a thoughtful, introspective road-trip novel that leans heavily into its main character’s muddled inner life. For me, the meandering structure and difficulty in following Tom’s journey kept it from fully landing, but readers who don’t mind a more diffuse, wandering style may get more out of it. Thank you to NetGalley and Simon & Schuster | S&S/Summit Books for the advance copy.

1.5 stars. Nice to read a book from this perspective about this time of life, but overall, despite looking forward to this one, I just felt meh. Felt as aimless as the main character. Only interesting bit was the ending and that ended too soon, with not enough resolution/engagement from the characters in the main theme of the book. Disappointed

"I forgot what you're like," she said. "You don't really care about anything." This book follows Tom Layward, middle-aged sports-ball laywer who takes a small road trip to drop his youngest, Miri, off at college. And then, as an empty-nester, decides to take a few more days to decide whether he'll stick around with his unfaithful wife of 20+ years, Amy. The premise is fine. The writing is fine, it serves the story and is inoffensive. The plot and characters are soggy lettuce leaves. Tom is a very unlikeable narrator. His whole personality seems to be: "go with the flow" and "be as aloof as possible at risk actually being concientious". Everyone around him: his wife, his children, his friends, colleagues, former lover have this opinion of him. We're experiencing the road trip from his perspective though so we're able to access his hidden depths - except he doesn't seem to conciously have any. He is a beast driven by his subconcious which is as dull and shallow as his exterior suggests. There's also his "centrist" US politics, his borderline racist colleagues, his full-on white supremacist admirers, and that he has been put on leave by the 'woke' police... ugh. So what is the purpose of the book? Is it a way to pander to middling republican/democratic old men that they should go to the doctor and marriage counseling, maybe take the closet racists off their Christmas card list? His wife isn't a whole lot better. She is a classic rich asshole, whose disappointments she takes out on everyone around her. Even if we write-off Tom's narration as unreliable, her interactions with Miri - don't be fat WASP-daughter - as she heads off to college are insufferable. So too are her attempts at speaking to Tom. I feel bad for both of his kids who he seems to love in a way but cares very little about in others. I still can't believe he just takes off after dropping his daughter - especially after all of the weeks of prep they made (or I guess just Amy made) for her Freshman year. I think, again, I'm just bamboozled as to why this book was written. Was it the author trying to empathise with his father? Or the upper middle class? I found an interview, here: https://thebookerprizes.com/the-booker-library/features/ben-markovits-interview - he's just writing about himself. His own kids were off to college, he had the same health issues. Great. Just like some of the others in the Booker longlist I am utterly confused as to how this made to cut. There are so many better things that were written this year. Did Roddy Doyle really like the character? Because literary-wise, it has nothing going for it. It's the most straightforward, accessibly written nomination I've read thus far - but shallow shallow shallow. ===== Booker Prize Longlist 2025 ====== It's been 9 years since I last read a booker longlist and decided I'd jump back in and see if it felt like a prize worth following again. Here's the reviews in the order I read them: 1) Love Forms by Claire Adam 2) The South by Tash Aw 3) Universality by Natasha Brown 4) Flashlight by Elizabeth Choi 5) One Boat by Jonathan Buckley 6) Audition by Katie Kitamura 7) The Rest of Our Lives by Ben Markovits

I didn’t like this, didn’t get it and I really need to stop get sucked into books by their front covers 💩

DNF. I got about 60% of the way through and all of the rape/assault scenes and all of the cheap, simple-minded sex scenes just got to me. It’s like someone looks at a female character a certain way and her privates get wet and she grabs his privates and off they go. The writer seems to let himself off the hook by shrugging his shoulders and saying, “This is the law of so-and-so.” Well, this is the law of lousy writing. I peeked at some of the reviews and found that the mute daughter protagonist is subjected to horrific torture and abuse in the last quarter of this novel. Why would I want to read that, knowing how crudely things have been written thus far? And besides, I hate creators who are cruel to their creations. Hence, this is a no go for me. This is the law of Goodreads book reviews.

an interesting premise and sparse (read: very sparse) moments of beautiful prose marred by an overwhelming almost indulgence of sexual and literal violence, to the point where it seemed the author just wanted to come up with new and exciting (/s) ways in which mostly the women (but also occasionally men) can get raped and mostly the men (but also occasionally women) can get brutally murdered. On top of that, everything in between these things was for the most part incredibly boring and I barely made it to the end

This is ... quite possibly ... the worst book I've ever read. It made literally no sense. There is no plot, no development, no rhyme or reason between each paragraph. It is bafflingly shit and I cannot for the life of me comprehend the high ratings when it makes no sense??? What the fuck is going on???

Shortlisted for the Womens' Prize for Fiction, 2021. Shortlisted for the Booker Prize, 2021. Ugh. (If I have to add anymore shortlists or god forbid, wins here, I will lose my mind.) The unnamed narrator in the first half of the book reminded me of the protagonist from the tv series fleabag. The quirky sense of humour and the sarcastic wit were very charming, but my admiration of the book ends here because the rest of it reeks of enlightened centrism. And I tried really hard to ignore it because all those great reviews insist that this book possesses tremendous substance, but welp. Capitalism! It was important to hate it, even though it was how you got money. Slowly, slowly, she found herself moving toward a position so philosophical even Jesus couldn’t have held it: that she must hate capitalism while at the same time loving film montages set in department stores. Ha, capitalism, it's how the author gets money clearly, because many of us don't and can't relate to this. Maybe it's just my third world spirit though. There's also a narrative discontinuity between the two halves of the books, it's so easy to imagine that the narrator is actually two different characters. I don't mean to politicize the author's grief, I don't need to, she did it herself. And in such a vague manner that I couldn't connect to the grief or the politics. And frankly, try as I did, for most of the book I couldn't discern what she was trying to say. “Colonialism,” she hissed at a beautiful column, while the tour guide looked at her with concern. Yeesh. Must be nice to be able to joke about such things. I wouldn't ever know. And why are we still having the "is the internet good or bad" debate and in such a superficial manner? Stop milking this cow. It's turning out to be like the whole "millennials are destroying 'insert capitalism-propogating, pro-poverty, toxic' industry."

This book is on the Women’s Prize shortlist this year, which is why I read it with Beth, and I am so sad to say that I have no idea what it was about. I normally DNF books I’m not enjoying and don’t review them here. I think you all know this is rare for me, but I was buddy reading, the second half was supposed to be more grounded than the first, and again, the Women’s Prize. This does not fit the mold of what I think a story or storytelling is, and I guess that’s the point. I could write for days, but the bottom line is that it wasn’t enjoyable, I could not connect with the main character, and the whole thing went completely over my head.

Boring, pretentious and basically a ‘hip’ rehash of America in 2016 building up to the election which fails to be anything but irritatingly pompous.

You know that old saying "Never judge a book by it's cover". This book is the epitome of that expression. The cover is amazing but the rest of the book is a pretentious mess. The whole book can be summarized in one word: "CRINGE".

It my own fault. I rarely read blurbs or reviews before starting a new book, and this time I’d simply seen a reference suggesting I might enjoy this novel having just finished an interesting piece of speculative fiction. Good enough I thought, I’ll give it a go. But what I found was a stream of sentences I couldn’t piece together, lines that were seemingly unrelated to each other and were neither clever, interesting or remotely funny. What the hell was this? I stuck with the audio version I’d purchased for long enough to take my dog out for his morning walk – and that was way too long. As far as I could make out it consisted of a string of random thoughts laid down by a woman who seemed to be living her life via an online ‘portal’. With only a few days left of 2022 I’d stumbled into my first DNF. The worst book I’ve ever sampled? Quite possibly.

106th book of 2022. 1.5. ‘NEVER SEND ME THE EGGPLANT AGAIN, MOM! she texted. I DON’T CARE WHAT YOU’RE COOKING FOR DINNER!’ / ‘A picture of a new species of tree frog that had recently been discovered. Scientists speculated that the reason it had never before been seen was because, quote, “It is covered with warts and it wants to be left alone.” me me unbelievably me it me’ / ‘Every time she passed the model train store she clenched her fists and said, “You did this . . .” And it was true, it was true, life as we knew it was coming to an end because 160 years ago or whatever, some old weirdo who was obsessed with trains had to invent trains because trains didn’t exist yet. Choo-choo, motherfucker, are you happy now?’ / And so on. The sort of quotes you’d imagine from an Internet novel. I thought this one would be slightly different (and in some ways it was), but, look at the quotes. I get that it’s modern and it’s savvy, but I just can’t bear to read it. The humour was very American, or what I think of as ‘American’ humour (perhaps the most stereotypical vision from an English person). Part Two is about a dying baby. Looking at the acknowledgements, it looks like it was based partly on a real baby Lockwood knew. There are moments of sadness muddled up in the trying to be funny and hip malarky. I’ve tried a few Internet novels now and I think I’ll just stop trying to be open-minded and say, they aren’t for me. Maybe that makes me small-minded. Who knows. All I do know is, I won’t be talking about this.

** spoiler alert ** I really hated this book. Our protagonist is disconnected from everything in his life. It's hard to get invested in his story when he is so closed off from the reader. It was torture to read the neverending series of hateful interactions he has with the group of simply awful people he calls his "friends." Not to be too trite, but friends don't abuse friends or sit back and watch while other people do. The constant accusatory monologues against our protagonist were unbelievable - that is not how people talk or behave! At all! And given how awful the "friends" are, it was just weird to have their horrible, selfish, purposely cruel behavior treated as normal. There are so many conflicts that could feel true, but these didn't. Is it that Wallace can't recognize how fucked in the head these people are? The only scene where I connected with Wallace was when he was thinking about his first dinner party with The Awfuls. He worked hard to make a dish for the party and was filled with so much hope. Then a vegan rants at him shittily and no one eats his efforts. He feels alienated and I just want to scream at Past Wallace to RUN. I did like the scene where Wallace connected with his labmate and she said outright that the people treating him badly were assholes and that she had struggled too. I just wish he had internalized what she was saying. The takeaway can't be that he's been broken by his past, but that seemed to be where we left him. I didn't get any hint of hope from this novel. Guess everything will be shitty forever! Hooray.

“Real Life” is the painful type of auto fiction — exhibitionist storytelling that feels like the author needed to get something off their chest and scrambled to put it into book form. This particular book seems to have skipped the editing process and any considerations of how the work might read to someone who is not...the author. While I appreciated the unique experience this book tried to discuss, there were very very few points where I enjoyed myself. Where to start? There’s a lot of bare shoulder kissing. Taylor describes voices as muppet-like. He discusses the politics of Grindr under the transparent veil of naming it “the app.” He likens mugs in a cabinet to foster children. 26 year olds say “my old man” and ask “I can’t believe the weekend is almost over, can you guys?” Friends touch one another, rubbing physical scars on limbs and kissing, in ways that are so deeply constructed it hurts to read. Perhaps worst of all, every, and I mean EVERY, character in “Real Life” is grossly toxic and cruel. 12+ graduate students in the Midwest who are ruthlessly mean and sometimes physically violent (and somehow mostly gay men?) Given how close the basics of this story mirror the author’s life, I often wondered how the dialogues and interactions in this book could have ended up so plainly unreal. How did characters presumably based on real figures become so gawky and cringeworthy? I had high expectations for this book and after reading really am surprised it was shortlisted for the Booker last year. However,,, I will hold out hope for Taylor’s short fiction.

Gay black man engages in painfully awkward interactions, belittlement and abuse, feels hopeless, depressed and occasionally suicidal. There is zero plot and all his “friends” (with friends like these...) are in bad relationships. Reading this is akin to trudging through thick mud forever and ever.

I read and read and read this and felt like I was swimming against a current of words and meaningless disconnection and and minute detail. I realize that perhaps all types of writing aren't for me, and this is an example. I am certain other readers will love it, but my primary emotion was being relieved I was done with it.

