I am shocked by all the positive reviews. This book doesn't feel at all like it was written by the same author who wrote the first few in the series. I can count on one hand the number of books I've decided not to finish and this is one of them. It's like an AI software wrote the story after someone plugged in the character background and major plot points. It's a bummer because Memory Man is such a strong book and I keep hoping Baldacci will recapture that same essence, but at this point I'm abandoning this series.

This book was filled with gaping plot holes, and the end had me so confused I re-read it three times before accepting it was Coben’s fault, not mine, that I couldn’t follow what went on.

Oh this was terrible. So so very confusing, too many story lines, really awkward and repetitive dialogue. I have always really enjoyed Coben's books, but not this one. I can't believe I am giving him one star.

We surely could have done without reading this book. Get Lucas the hell out of being a Marshall and get him back in Minnesota where he belongs solving our stupid crimes. He doesn't like politics, what makes you think WE like politics? We are SICK of politics. And I also don't like what Lucas is being turned into. Bring us back to Del, Rose Marie, Letty, Weather, Jenkins and Shrake Oh, we must not forget Virgie! Minnesota is way more exciting than DC.

This is your typical police/FBI murder investigation book. Nothing new or exciting. Also very one sided, anti-conservative, anti-gun, anti-freedom. Pro-liberal, pro-big government, pro-corrupt politics. I will not read another book by this author.

I read through page 179 and that was quite enough for me to know that this was a really awful book. It was recommended by another author that I love so I gave it a try. I am sorry but this was just not for me or for anyone that I know. Going to have to trash this book.

**yawn** Remember in the '90's when Sandford put out the very best hard-R cop thrillers in the business? Those days are looong gone, with the author churning out two books a year like clockwork with nary a hint of heart or soul in anything he does anymore. At this point, the stories, crimes and characters are as unmemorable as the bland titles he slaps on his work. Was the unconventional ending supposed to be shocking? By now, Davenport is so unlikable, bland and uninteresting, I honestly couldn't care less about his internal moral compass.

I don't know who wrote this book, but it wasn't Janet Evanovich. I have read and re-read all of the other 26 books and including the between the numbers books in this series and have loved all of them very very much (except for the last few chapters of Twenty Six which was the set-up for this book). None of the major characters spoke "in character" and there were major mistakes such as Morelli living in his "Aunt Ruth's" house which has been his Italian "Aunt Rose's" home thru out the series and other minor mistakes that have never been made prior in any of the other books. And while there have been ongoing subtle changes for the Ranger character as he has gone from a street-wise war vet bounty hunter to a becoming a high end security management service provider, there was a rapid jump out of character, especially as he related to Stephanie, in this book. It is understood that like Diesel (a prior successful spin-off character), Gabriella Rose is a new spin-off character, but she was hardly addressed in the book as she merely followed around Stephanie while Stephanie and Lula acted very odd and spoke dialog extremely out of character from previous books in this series. The whole book gave the feeling that someone who knew very little about the series quickly and with very little research ghost wrote this book for Janet. This book hurt fans of Stephanie who were looking forward to it and did little to engender Gabriella Rose to Stephanie Plum fans. Call it all a bad dream and fix it?

One star or two? I landed on one and a half. I remember my first Stephanie Plum book - Hot Six. I laughed until I cried. Now, twenty books later, I laugh not because it's funny so much as because it's, well, laughable. During the course of the series Morelli grew up; he became a homeowner and committed himself to Stephanie. Ranger went from rough around the edges, street smart with a dialect to match to a richer than rich professional providing security to more rich folks; he owns his own buildings now. He even had a near-death scare that made my heart clench, and we learned he had a daughter. Stephanie's mom and sister both changed, and Grandma Mazur moved on from the loss of her husband and remarried. And Lula progressed from 'ho' to file clerk, to bounty hunter. Everyone has changed except Stephanie. For me this is a failure too great to overcome. The lead in these books remains the same spoiled, inept, brainless slut she has been since about book three when she began to lust after both Ranger and Morelli (and let's not forget Diesel!). The formula isn't working any longer, Ms Evanovich. But, wait I was meant to be reviewing Fortune and Glory. Okay: weak on plot, strong on plot holes; more of the same lame embarrassing jokes; continued slutting around with and hurting the two great guys who for some reason can't see any other woman on the planet. As Alexis once said on Schitts Creek "End this. Now!" I do not recommend this to anyone. But, read the first six or seven books. They are a hoot. Then move on like I plan on doing.

** spoiler alert ** I think it's time I gave up on the Stephanie Plum books. It feels like the last 20 books were all about how endless supplies of muscle, money and cars (supplied by Ranger) make Stephanie's life work. I'm beginning to think the series should be called "Ranger: The Man Who Saves his useless Sidepiece of Tail over and over at great personal expense."

Guilty of Writing a Bad Book I was so disappointed with this book. Connelly's determination to contemporize the story by inserting his own views on the election and the pandemic only undermined what was a weak and contrived plot with a weak and contrived ending. He churned this book out for all the wrong reasons and it shows. The Lincoln lawyer deserved better and so did his readers.

I didn't like that we were lectured to numerous times about the fact that conservatives are bad, and any thoughts about the right are ignorant and only the minds who rule in California can possibly know what is best for us. If you want to write a political essay, Connelly, go right ahead, but don't pass it of as fictional entertainment. This has NEVER been an issue in your writing before, but if this is what we can expect from now on, I won't be supporting you any further. I've been reading the Harry Bosch series from the beginning but I've never felt personally insulted like I was reading this. I get one man's opinion doesn't matter, since you've shown such disdain for my political leanings, but I guess you've gone Hollywood, so you won't even notice us leaving.

Enough Already The latest in Michael Connelly's character driven novels is not very good. I kept wishing that Mickey Haller would get killed off. But I was truly finished with this book when Connelly joined the group of multi-millionaire authors who feel the need to include their hatred of Donald Trump in the story line. In Connelly's case he not only gave his readers his opinion of Trump but also portrays a possible juror as a "jury Judy". One of Haller's flunkies identifies the woman as a problem after seeing a Trump bumper sticker on the woman's car! Haller then sums up the potential juror as someone for whom " truthfulness is not part of her framework". This sentence, by the way, from a writer who stated in an interview that he " never wants to tell people what to think in my books. I don't want to be didactic". But insulting and hypocritical re your readers is just fine? This book was released about 10 days after the election so the jury Judy character was really his way of forcing his political opinion on unsuspecting readers. Bosch is getting old, Haller is a moral loser and Connelly's hypocrisy lost him a former fan.

I have read every Michael Connelly book he has written and Harry Bosch is by far my favorite fictional detective. I await eagerly for his newest book to come out each year. I actually teared up in the last book when Bosch is diagnosed with Leukemia and you know Bosch is going to eventually die in one of Connelly ‘s books. BUT I do not listen to Micheal Connelly ‘s books to hear his personal political views expressed via a character re: Mickey Haller. If I want to hear political views I will watch a 24 hour news network of my choosing. The slams to Fox News, the Trump supporter juror, on how Trump was handling the Coronavirus situation and the insult to not wanting the same Trump supporter juror because she had attended a Conservative Christian college were totally unnecessary and I found them insulting- especially the put down regarding the fact that she had attended a Christian college. I am sure there would be a ton of outrage had Mr Connelly made similar comments about someone of say the Moslem faith..... but I as a Christian am supposed to just read that and say nothing. It is interesting that what put MrConnelly on the map was his fictional writing about a police man turned detective - and after reading this I can about guess Connelly ‘s views on the “ Defunding the Police “ movement- and I find that totally ironic and hypocritical if my suspicions are correct. If Mr. Connelly would go back to just writing books....and leave out the political views - they would hopefully return to be enjoyable again.

Keep your politics to yourself Connelly spins a other good take but cannot help himself disclosing his anti-Trump bias. We get enough of that with a defective media by people who pretend to be journalists...for free. I don't have to pay $15 to get it from Connelly. I have read most of his books... This will be the last!

Connelly has joined the ranks of or lowly media trying to influence people into believing his political Ideas. He tells things as facts that have no backing. I have bought my last book written by him. Sad what he is spinning.

Entirely forgettable Meh, it was OK . I don't know why the author had to inject his own biased political views but that will probably be the only part I remember

1.5 mostly for nostalgia. This was just awful. I finished in a day ... not because it was so intriguing, not because it was a great story, not because I couldn't put it down ... because it was a ball of fluff. Zero character depth. Zero story development. It fizzled out instead of ending. This was a generic Grisham or Patterson airport throwaway. Harry Bosch? Could have been any random detective as we saw no depth or any of who we know him to be. Same can be said for Mickey, Maggie, Cisco ... all of the characters Connelly has drawn so well over the years. All the reasons that make Connelly's books so good were absent. This felt rushed and that was evidenced in some pretty glaring editing misses that felt like I was read a draft not a finished novel. This is all not even taking into account the hastily thrown in Covid bullshit and political junk that was obviously tacked on later in the editing process. It added nothing and made the story choppy and disjointed. I cannot imagine I'll ever read another of his books after this. Incredibly disappointed in an author I have come to expect much, much better things from. I wish I hadn't read this because it taints all things that came before.

After last fall's poorly written "Treasure State," featuring Cassie Dewell, comes a usually reliable Joe Pickett novel, this one called "Storm Watch," but it is anything but reliable... filled with half-baked conspiracy theories, antigovernmental screeds, Chinese spies, cryptocurrency, coincidental plot points, and yet another daughter too stupid to see the warning signs flashing off of a boyfriend who, as soon as he is introduced in the novel, obviously is going to become a problem. The only 'twist' here is the character readers will most likely expect to act one way, acts another, although for absurd reasons. The fact that this book boasts a 4.47 rating after 96 reviews -- in fairness, as always, Box renders the area landscape well -- is astonishing; two stars would be generous.

Very disappointing! Box has gone full Trmper. This is the last one of his books I’ll read. Not only is it too right wing political, but also the plot is predictable and worn out. Don’t waste your time. Btw before Box went totally MAGA his earlier books were quite enjoyable.

I have loved the Joe Pickett series since I first started reading it two years ago, but the last three books have made me realize I don’t agree with Box’s politics to the point that I can’t read them anymore. It started with Dark Sky when he mentioned antifa (which doesn’t exist). It was just a mention but it didn’t affect the story so I finished the book. Then I read Shadows Reel where one of the main plot points was antifa, which again doesn’t exist. He even made up an “antifa logo” to brainwash his readers into believing it really exists. What’s the point of this? Is he trying to increase dissension in this country? But this book…I don’t know where to start. Don’t want to create spoilers but I can say I got about 1/3 of the way through the book and couldn’t read his bs anymore. There are so many books to read and I don’t need to read garbage like this. C J Box books will be permanently removed from my reading list.

** spoiler alert ** I used to like this series but they seem to be getting increasingly ridiculous. Nate loves nature and the outdoors but doesn’t believe in climate change and is on board with crypto mining? Sheridan went to college and seems to be a smart girl but is dumb enough to be dating a guy that thinks he should join the cities’ tweakers and kidnap the governor with an assault rifle? The former covert military agents are all super patriots that can do no wrong, but the higher ups are corrupt and out to get them? Sad to see the political turn this series is barreling down.

Actually I didn’t finish it. I have read the entire series and enjoyed until this and last book. Too political and treason made reasonable. I have better ways to send my time and attention. Guess I won’t read him anymore.

Disappointed. Actually, disappointed doesn't even begin to describe it. *Unpopular opinion time* Once upon a time, I wasn't into historical romance. I thought they were silly and anti-women, and I wasn't even interested in trying them. Thankfully, I discovered historical romances by Tessa Dare and Courtney Milan, and I fell head over heels for the genre. I'm thanking my lucky stars that I didn't try this book first because I fear I would have never read the genre again. I've been meaning to try this series for some time now. I've read Julia Quinn before, and I really liked Because of Miss Bridgerton. EVERYONE has told me to try the original Bridgerton series, starting with The Duke and I. So, of course, I decided to take the series on, and I even bought the next couple of books following the first. However, I'm absolutely flummoxed by the love for this book. Daphne Bridgerton was the worst heroine that I've read in a long time. She is meant to be strong and spunky, but I thought that she was self-serving and TSTL. I actually hated her. She manipulated poor Simon every step of the way. She forced him to befriend her, she forced him to marry her, and forced him in other ways that found absolutely morally reprehensible. She was vile, truly, and thought herself to be entirely blameless throughout the story. Simon didn't quite make sense either. He had a rakish reputations, one that I didn't see any evidence of in the story, and had a twisted mentality about his situation. He was self-pitying and broody, and though I didn't like him, I thought he got the short end of the stick being stuck with Daphne. To top it off, the book was way too long, and it took me ages to finish the audiobook. I wasn't motivated to keep listening, even with a flawless narration from Rosalyn Landor, who did her very best to add personality and sympathy for these odious characters. I know, a very unpopular opinion, but this book only gets as high as 2-stars because of the narration. Otherwise, it would be in 1-star territory. *update, I still hate it. Downgrade to 1-star* goodreads|instagram|twitter|blog

I was surprised when I discovered this book is gonna be a tv show. I mean are we going ignore that rape scene? But maybe, just maybe, since tv adaptations are rarely loyal to the real thing, they’ll ignore that scene. And won’t include it in the tv show. Spoilers or not I no longer care. This is unacceptable and if genders were reversed the book and tv show would’ve received hate to no end. Please guys tell me how most are raving about the tv show and ignoring what happened in episode 6? He clearly said “wait”. Sure it did not start that way but it wasn’t consensual at the end. I advocate women’s rights. I work on empowering women. This is not it. Now the sales of this book increased again. And the show runners thought this is a part of Daphne’s education process. Sure. I did not continue the show but I heard BOTH apologized? Mind you Daphne didn’t in the damn book at least she did in the show. But what did he have to apologize for? She made it sound like it’s HIS fault because he lied? Like lol sure that completely justifies your behavior. If a man did the same thing.. I can’t even imagine the outrage the book would get. Or show. And rightfully so. But simply reversing the genders makes it “uhm sure not the best behavior but I’ll turn a blind eye”? Not in my book. This is very annoying and unacceptable. — I was considering giving this book 2 stars but I can’t get over what Daphne did at the end, if roles were reversed and the guy did the same thing, this book would’ve probably never seen light! Every now and then, I pick up a romance book and decide not to take myself seriously. Just enjoy the story. Ignore the insta-love, the irrational decisions, and the overused tropes and simply enjoy myself. The Duke and I was one of the lucky ones. I decided to go easy on it. And all was well until the end... So how did it deserve this low rating? -1 star because only close to perfect books deserve 5 stars -1 because Daphne acted too needy and could not but impose her opinion on others -5 because of that damn hideous thing she did at the end. No matter how much I liked a book, such act cancels everything. You see, I have yet to come across a worse behavior from a heroine. Some do bad things and regret them. Others aren’t supposed to be “good” from the start –even then none did what Daphne had done. But this is different, forcing herself on someone is NEVER okay. Not regretting is NEVER okay. And not even seeing why it is wrong is NEVER okay. This horrendous act shouldn’t have been romanticized in this book!! Spoiler or no, this is terrible and crosses the “acceptable things” line in books! If a man did the same, the books community would’ve been outrageous! I honestly want to give it 1 star because I simply can’t stand what Daphne did at the end nor the fact that she wasn’t worried/remorseful about what she’s done. If she apologized and admitted the error in her behavior, it would’ve been okay with me. But nope. I honestly don't understand the high ratings, how can people shrug off what she did (view spoiler). What a waste honestly, the story was very fun and the characters otherwise enjoyable for a mindless read.

The plot was boring, the smut was cringe, and the main characters were dumb. This book was so irritating and annoying. Daphne is just a naive and annoying young lady who wanted kids so badly that she didn’t even hesitate once to get herself impregnated by force. I just hated her so much in the show, and I hate her even more in this book. This was a huge disappointment, but I can’t wait to read Anthony and Colin’s books 🤭 There better not be cringe smut scenes in Anthony’s book, or I’ll just 🔪.

Some spoilers ahead, so consider yourself forewarned. Oh where to begin... I suppose the beginning was not that bad. The characters were a little bit flat, but it was interesting enough. Cheesy, but readable. The part when they kiss for the first time was hilarious. I'm not really sure if it was intended, but still. But then, as Daphne became increasingly pathetic with every chapter, and Simon became an even bigger asshole, the book was quickly turning from readable to insufferable. And then it culminated. So Daphne's biggest wish in life is to marry and have children. I understand that women in the past were brought up with only that purpose, but in many HR novels, while the heroines do want marriage, they are also more than just that. The defining feature of Daphne's character is her wish to marry and have children. Like she doesn't exist beyond that. While I personally, don't feel like Daphne, I would respect her dreams if she had any other aspirations in life. Anything at all. So Daphne, limited twit that she is, decides to take advantage of her drunk and sleeping husband, even though the night before they had a HUUUGE fight about how Simon doesn't want to be a father. And I can't even. How is that okay?! Of course he would run away!! The man was sleeping, he was not a consenting adult in that. That scene made my blood boil. It's considered ungentlemanly and dishonorable when a man takes advantage of drunk woman, but when a woman does it, it's okay? The worst thing is, Simon felt betrayed and Daphne didn't even understand that what she did was terribly wrong like what the fuck?!?!?!?!?!?!?!? Girl, you were not that sheltered. So anyway, after that scene I lost any interest I had left for this book and for the characters. But the book has pretty high ratings here on GR, so it seems that a lot of people don't mind rape if it's done by the female character liked it. Read and decide for yourself.

** spoiler alert ** alright. I read it. I went with it. and i'm really disappointed. For like the first 84% of this, I legitimately enjoyed this book. Sure, Daphne and Simon were a touch overaggressive and had a bit too much lust in their relationship, but it was overall fine. Annoying, but fine. And then what happened at the 85% mark? rape. just because they're married and just because a woman did it to a man does NOT make it okay. That was awful. And the fact that Daphne faced no consequences? she bloody didn't even feel bad? I feel sick just thinking about it. dnf at 86%

Well that was....terrible. At least the show was better but Daphne still remains the worst.

DNF. Poorly written. Shallow character development. Flat plot line (enough about the bees!!!).

This is why I don't read Nicholas Sparks. This book was so boring and annoying and the love story didn't make any sense at all. What did they love about each other? They went on like 3 dates and Trevor was super pushy and then they were all of the sudden in love with one another? I don't think Trevor ever says why he actually loves her, like there is zero explanation. And Trevor is the worst main character ever. I don't know if it's just because I don't like this style of romance, but his subtle sexism whenever he talked about or to Natalie, and frankly any female in the book, was infuriating. They tried to make him funny, but he was just that older guy who customer services employees feel like they have to laugh with when they make stupid awkward jokes, the guy is a male Karen...a Kevin. His relationship with all of the characters felt extremely hollow, even with his grandfather, and that was like the entire point of the book. Also, the dude is a borderline alcoholic who continued to drink but it was okay because he was only have a beer or two...wtf?! His entitlement and holier-than-though attitude made him so incredibly unlikable. The dude was so cocky, but had zero reason to be cocky. I lost track of how many times he said something along the lines of, "Well I could do it but it would make Natalie uncomfortable" like YEAH!!! So don't it if it would make the person you're in "love" with uncomfortable. Even though Nicholas Sparks tried to give Natalie some agency, because he had her be a cop, she had zero!! She wasn't in control of anything, and not even in a cool plot device way, but in a sexists I'm just going to be pushed around way. She kept saying no to Trevor's advances and instead of getting pissed at the dude for not listening to her, she caved? And her big surprise wasn't all that interesting, and that scene when we meet her husband was awkward as hell. It was cool she was talking to him, but once they enter the room Trevor just like doesn't exists and is weirdly sitting the entire time. I though she was going to be married to a woman, but the relationship was going south and she realized that she was actually bi, that would've been way more interesting but Nicholas Sparks wouldn't do anything that "out there".

** spoiler alert ** Prepare for spoilers/expletives/harshness. I wish I could rate this zero stars, holy shit! I admit, I was a huge Nicholas Sparks fan at a time. However, his last few books (besides Every Breath) have been God-awful. I definitely think his personal life (i.e. divorce) has had an impact on his writing, because I cannot fathom that the man who wrote Dear John wrote this embarrassment of a story. I’m sorry, Nick; I’m sure you poured your heart and soul into this one, but it was just…bad. It took me 28 days to read, which should say enough about how much of a drag this was. I don’t know if this was supposed to be a mystery or a romance or what. Trevor Benson is a surgeon who moves to New Bern after his grandfather dies amidst unusual circumstances. He meets a woman named Natalie and falls in love with her five minutes later (and hounds her incessantly and ignores her obvious rejections like a fucking creep), and he also occasionally runs into a withdrawn teenage girl named Callie who basically grunts at him & doesn’t engage with him whenever he approaches her. We kind of forget about Callie amidst the Natalie romance that spans two weeks, in which they suddenly fall madly in love but cannot be together because of some secret she refuses to divulge. But then suddenly Callie becomes the focal point of the story once the Natalie plot fizzles out. Super inconsistent. I was willing to move past the unrealistic two week romance that lacked any substance, but then Nicholas Sparks pissed me off. As I emphasized earlier, we are supposed to believe that Trevor is a SURGEON, albeit ‘retired,’ and these are some quotes that were actually printed in this book that made me speechless: “I fired up my laptop and did a little digging on medical sites on possible causes of fainting, then other conditions that might explain her poor color and assorted bruising.” You mean to tell me that a SURGEON had to GOOGLE causes of fainting?!?!?!?! I don’t care if his specialty is supposedly orthopedics, does Sparks not realize how much medical school this character would have had to go through before even touching his specialty of Ortho?! It gets better….or worse, if you get my sarcasm. Natalie says at one point, “Trevor’s an orthopedist, so he might not know exactly what a persistent vegetative state is or how it differs from a coma.” Shut the fuck up!!!! I’m, like, insulted FOR this guy. The injustice that Sparks has created for him!!!!! I’m sure this was written for the benefit of the reader to understand the difference between the two, but there are so many different ways it could have been explained without making the protagonist physician look like a fucking dimwit. Am I asking for too much? I just want an author to actually know what they’re talking about when they write about specific subjects. The epilogue had me laughing at the ridiculousness of it, too. *Spoiler* “Mark passed away. He was a good man, my first love.” she flashes a wistful smile. “And I guess you’ll be heading back to Baltimore after this, huh?” I shit you not, this woman is literally talking about her HUSBAND that just DIED and asking in the same breath about Trevor’s moving plans. WHAT!!!! And good ole Trevor follows it up with asking, “Hey, by the way, are you dating anyone right now?” Wut. I need a drink from this mess.

DNF Wow, this was terrible. I loved Nicholas Sparks’s earlier books but the last couple were disappointments. I decided to give him another chance but after listening to 40 minutes of my audiobook I can’t go further. In those 40 minutes, I heard a life story that was info dumping, what this main character’s favorite beer was and why, and how he fakes further injuries to play a sympathy card. There was an interaction that discussed how alcohol is a drug, between two adults that I think was supposed to be a joke? Oh and a description of her beautiful eyes like the color of mouthwash. But it’s more the writing style, these characters aren’t deep or developed well (even if I didn’t give it very long). Everything falls pretty flat and is boring and annoying. I miss the Sparks books from 15 years ago that were compelling from the first few pages and felt so much more real. Real conversations and people that may fall in love quickly but the growth is there. This honestly feels like a ghost writer or that Sparks doesn’t care anymore since he knows people will buy the books so he is barely trying.

DNF Read almost half way through cringing at all that modern slang and then a ghost story? I tried…

Awful writing.

Months ago, one of my very best friends suggested that I read 𝘛𝘏𝘌 𝘉𝘓𝘜𝘌 𝘉𝘐𝘚𝘛𝘙𝘖 by Hilderbrand. I didn’t get around to it but, when Netgalley offered to provide an ARC of the author’s new novel, I jumped at the chance. I’m so sorry to say (Paige, please forgive me) that I could not finish this book. I really tried! I took it with me on our trip to Mexico, thinking it would be the perfect beach read. What I got instead was one long, pedantic, run-on sentence. The narrative was replete with extraneous details and trendy, current phrases and references. Reading it was like sitting next to someone at a dinner party who continuously name drops yet never actually says anything substantive at all. I have picked up and put down this book so many times, trying to immerse myself in the story, but can never seem to do it. Is there a story? Honestly, I’m not so sure. “𝘎𝘳𝘢𝘤𝘦 𝘸𝘪𝘴𝘩𝘦𝘴 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘳𝘦 𝘸𝘦𝘳𝘦 𝘮𝘰𝘳𝘦 𝘢𝘤𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯.“ Me too, Grace, me too.

Thank you NetGalley for the opportunity to read an Advanced Reader’s Copy of Counting Miracles by Nicholas Sparks. Growing up, I’ve read a ton of Nicholas Sparks books, most notably The Notebook andThe Walk to Remember and I was excited to read his newest deeply loving romance he’s known for. Unfortunately, this book is not one that I enjoyed or one that I finished. Tanner and Kaitlyn’s relationship seems to happen very quickly and out of nowhere unlike Sparks’ usually deep characters and thought out love story and I didn’t care for the old man Jasper’s interactions with Mitch either. Kaitlyn’s kids, Casey and Mitch, however, were the only characters that really held my interest. I appreciated Tanner’s good natured military boy, protecting women and carrying out a family driven journey, but his relationship with Kaitlyn felt rushed and flat. What made me decide not to finish’ this book though, was the constantly flow of religious messages. There was no indication in the description of the book that this would be a heavily religious story and had there been, I wouldn’t have chosen it.

I have read most of Nicholas Sparks’ backlog and seen all of his books be adapted into film. I am a Nicholas Sparks girlie through and through but this was an absolute train wreck. His religious themes don’t normally bother me but this was complete and total overkill. FISH FELL FROM THE SKY!!! The romance was lacking, the main characters were immature and annoying and their story felt rushed. They had absolutely no chemistry whatsoever. Jasper’s a religious bible thumping freak and all he did was recite scripture on page. He was impossible to connect with.

Most disappointing Sparks book to date… & this is said coming from a true fan! Overly religious, for no real reason. Surface level “love” story — more of a situationship. Mismanaged character development. Anticlimactic villain arc. Ugh, I’m truly disappointed.

If I could give no stars I would. Predictable preachy bible stupid story.

Endless bible quoting, tons of military jargon, privilege, and white guys with guns, hunting. This was just so bad (not sure if others were reading the same book??!) DNF at about 60% and it was a struggle to get that far. I don’t know how Sparks is still being marketed as mainstream romance. I NEVER write reviews like this but I’m sure book sales won’t be affected by my thoughts. Ugh.

What a weirdly unsatisfying book (not to mention deeply problematic - more on that at the bottom of this rant). I've read plenty of JG over the years, and have come to expect a level of clunky exposition, even clunkier dialogue, and mostly-wooden characters. But the counterbalance to those shortfalls is an old-fashioned potboiler, with a great central character, one or two interesting collaborators, and a web of intrigue that you know will be untangled by the penultimate chapter...you just can't quite see how. This book was a big letdown on all those fronts! First, it's not remotely clear who Jake Brigance is anymore - he does at least a dozen things throughout the book that are craaaazy unethical, to the point where you wonder if this is going to be a low-key Breaking Bad situation (which would be cool!), but then not a single one of those things gets addressed in any meaningful way. And while some old faces float in and out to say some wise words, the only new, interesting character - a Scotswoman who runs a children's criminal defense non-profit - mostly just sits around and marvels at Jake's supposed (but entirely unapparent) brilliance. Aside from the deceased abusive cop, JG doesn't seem to have the stomach to make anyone a "bad guy" (the prosecutor's a nice dude, the cops are respectful, even the thuggish family of the deceased are just acting out of anguish), so there's no real tension as the trial date nears. Meanwhile the B and C plots - a secondary big-dollar civil trial, and a profoundly unethical and gross adoption scheme by Jake and Carla - just sort of meander along, distracting from the heart of the story, and then are resolved, with no tension or conflict, in the final pages. But most frustrating was the centerpiece trial finale which was, simply, a dud. The big drama of the trial is explained in detail a quarter of the way through the book, then discussed ad nauseum (as in "gee whiz, when X happens, that's really gonna create some big drama at trial!"), then it plays out exactly as the characters imagined. There's a lengthy section about jury selection, but virtually none of the "dream jurors" get picked, which makes the arrival of sudden jury drama in the final pages all the more disorienting. All told, I did pick up steam in terms of grinding through this thing when the trial began, but it was the most dissatisfying trial sequence I can recall among the dozens of JG books I've read over the years... I'm a firm believer in assessing books on their own terms - JG is not a literary giant, he just writes good old fashioned thrillers. But even on those terms, this book was a hot mess! ***Finally, I wanted to make sure to unpack this book from a "good read" perspective first, before getting into the messed up politics, because even setting aside the latter, it is decidedly NOT a good read. But there is a subplot - a 14 y/o girl is raped, impregnated by the rapist, and then (along with her indigent, desperate mother) is urged to/coerced into/forced into having the baby in order to (a) benefit her brother's trial, and (b) allow the main character to adopt the baby - that is fucked up and not even a little okay. I could see a scenario where all those things actually come to pass, where the sticky politics of Mississippi circa 1990 lead the characters to do the things they do - but since JG seems no longer able to write with any level of nuance or human insight, it lands like some Handmaids Tale horseshit.***

So disappointing, as I loved Time to Kill years ago. The book felt hastily/sloppily written (overuse of the passive voice and lots of paraphrasing and “tell” instead of “show” moments) and extensive use of flat, undeveloped, and/or token characters. The most glaring problem to me, though, is the covert (and sometimes overt) sexism. Women are frequently described in terms of appearances (vs. descriptions of male character’s successes/actions...was it really necessary to describe how Libby looked, or to include Jake’s perspective that she is *almost* attractive...gross!), and any successes women enjoy (as with Portia’s character) are *because* of male support/assistance. Carla (who is a teacher with her own profession) is often found in the kitchen, preparing food or coffee for the men, dismissively does “girl stuff” (p. 297), and hangs on the fringe of Jake’s team and only knows about courtroom/legal affairs “because she was married to a criminal defense lawyer” (p. 354). The Gambles are also treated as token poor people in need of saving by the strapping Brigance, rather than as actual human beings. Won’t even get into issues of race or the abortion debate and how the Brigances pressure the poor, poor Gambles into taking on their perspective on abortion. Ugh. However, I will give it to John Grisham that he knows how to write courtroom scenes. This was the (only) highlight of the book for me.

Standard, below par Eve Dallas book. Well written and formulaic, but the story fails to stand the test of logical reasoning in the central scene. This is the one where Eve intuits who she thinks the killer is. That chain of thinking is weak and hinges purely on "instinct". If investigators everywhere used their "instincts" like that, God help the innocents who get caught in the cross-fire. There's a deliberation about the writing in the first chapter leading upto the murder and Eve's introduction, it looks like it was "bolted on" with thinly buried clues, purely to substantiate the eventual killer. It seems like the author wrote herself into a dead-end, then used the investigators "instinct" to force fit another central character into the role of the killer and finally edited in a bunch of cues and clues in the first chapter to tie it together. Like a recipe with salt sprinkled on instead of cooked in.... its not bad, but its missing something in terms of smoothness and flow. This book is the straw that breaks my personal value for money equation - the reason I stop reading JD Robb, 20 years after I started, with "Seduction in death" in 2002. The quality of the writing is still great, still very visual; but the characters have stopped resonating... I suppose its fair to say that this series and this author isn't relatable anymore. I guess, I've finally outgrown her. Good bye. Thank you for 20 years of good books. It was nice while it lasted!

Boring This is the last JD Robb book I will be spending hard earned money on. The kick ass cop has turned into a shadow of that There is no passion in this story and how many times is she going to kill off a movie or Broadway star? This book was just plain boring. If this is the best she can give to these books she might as well have Eve get pregnant and retire from the force .

I have all of 'death in' books, a lot of them in hardback. However I think the author has strayed from what I particularly want - the personal bits of the story. I love to read about Roarke, Mavis, Peabody, Feeney, Nadine, even Somerset. The latest books have, at best, a passing reference to them. I have always preordered the hardback version, even starting to read it on the way home as so excited. The last half dozen or so books are such a disappointment that this time I decided to read it online - I have all the others as hard copy but I guessed I wouldn't re-read this book. I am so glad that I didn't pay almost £20 for this book. Yes, it was okay BUT I sussed out the killer pretty quickly. Wouldn't have worried about this fact but I personally read these books mainly for the interaction between Eve and her friends and colleagues. To be honest a computer could have written this one. A 'plot' (which was fine), but then only a passing reference to Peabody, Mira, Somerset, etc, bit of romance with Roarke but absolutely no comparison to her earlier books - which by the way I often re-read because they were brilliant. So disappointed with this but although I will not continue to blindly buy this series I will definitely continue to re-read the earlier books which were absolutely brilliant!

My last review… I thought it amusing when in the acknowledgments, Penny thanked her editors. It may surprise her know the editing for grammar was nonexistent. The story editor hadn’t shown up for work either. The characters haven’t evolved since before her cataclysmic failure that was two books behind this…well…this cataclysmic failure. They are trite, irritating and stupid. Gamache’s wife and the children are now the focus; the mystery simply sucked. I’ve decided to say goodbye. While it makes me sad, I can always re-read the series. All but the last three books. I can remember the writer she used to be instead of this puffed up hack who believes in beating us over the head with her politics and beliefs, instead of offering us what we REALLY want. Which is the beauty, warmth and gentle friendship of Three Pines.

This novel actually put me off reading for two weeks. It takes a major insult to do that, and this one is a major insult. Among other things, it wraps its anti-abortion message in a warm and fuzzy blanket, so unless one is a careful reader, as I am, this anti-abortion theme is easily missed. Make no mistake, this is not a crime novel but another chapter in Louise Penny’s moral crusade. But she hides her moral crusade within a blanket of half truths. Furthermore, although she appears, on the surface, to be supporting left-wing causes, she is actually right-wing in most of her views, especially in her anti-abortion stand. Normally, when I don’t like a book, I simply stop reading it. But this one made me so angry that I couldn’t read at all. I wanted to finish it so I could write a good review of all the sneaky ways Penny uses to get her right-wing views sound acceptable, and I did almost complete it, by reading a few chapters every couple of days, almost finishing it before the library book had to be returned. She invents a convenient fabrication that is so off-the-wall fascist (i.e., Professor Robinson’s views) that no one could fault her for opposing it, but it is a science fiction situation, one that could only exist within a totalitarian government, and Canada is not a totalitarian country. She uses this fabricated situation as a “straw man” within which to place her fuzzy, warm arguments for a strong right-wing family environment. She also uses some old, real-life fascist experiments to bolster her moral crusade (the 1950 Cameron experiments done at McGill University, used to treat schizophrenic medical patients). She ignores real-life, right-wing situations that could be examined within the framework of her Three Pines community, such as the anti-vax movement, because it is messy, with no easy answers. With the anti-vax movement, no matter what stand her hero, Gamache, took, he could not remain a god — and Penny definitely considers him a god, the saviour of families. What made me so angry was that she was able to fool so many readers into believing that she was on a moral crusade against right-wing ideology when she was really pushing her own right-wing concepts — anti-abortion concepts, family patriarch concepts.

Just as awful as the previous one. Done with this writer and her series. She can go ahead and write some more with her new bff HC (ironically, one of the most corrupt politicians of modern times), and see how it goes for her. I don't know what happened to the one of my favorite authors. Oh well, actually I know! She completely turned her writing into preaching about leftist mainstream politics and everything what goes with it, sadly. Lucky me, there are plenty of other awesome old good mystery writers. Just finished the new book of Paula Hawkins - LOVED IT!

I’m very disappointed in this latest book in the series. This one was way too convoluted and felt like about 15 social justice issues all thrown into the mix. Don’t waste your time! This one is just not worth it!

Just as real people, characters in books can evolve and not necessarily in a good way. Where I enjoyed Gamache’s company as he was a gentleman detective in the charming village of Three Pines, he has turned into a smug, pedantic pater familias who thrives on sheer devotion from his surroundings and he expects everyone to bow to his demands. About everything irked me in this book and certainly the writing style. I think it is ok to want to emphasise a certain detail once by cutting a sentence short and adding a single or a few words for effect. But it is downright irritating if you do it all the time. Literally. All. The. Time. Yes, pun intended. Also the use of the French words or turns of phrases that aren’t always accurate are annoying. In previous books I would think that it could be a Canadian thing, but when in Paris the characters are supposed to speak correctly. The storyline is sordid and unbelievable. An employee that leaves a computer at the office? And her boss knows her password? The best policeman of the world (according to Gamache) is bullied by a security agent? Only one greyed hair woman is working as an executive in Paris? I could go on and on, but let’s just say that I rolled my eyes every two sentences. Just one last thing that just shocked me: according to Gamache, all French people think that Canadians are backwards and speaking with a funny accents. You didn’t know? Now you do. You’re welcome. At the end I didn’t even finished the last chapters. I’ve always enjoyed the quirky characters of Thee Pines, but it is time to say goodbye. But I will miss the old Gamache and Ruth and the cosy dinners at the bistro in the midst of winter. Time to move on.

** spoiler alert ** Warning: SPOILERS (edited from my original comment on a friend's review). I finished this recently and I totally agree with other reviewers about the cloying reverence of Gamache and the sentimentality. I was pleased it wasn't in 3P though as the other usual characters have become caricatures and the whole experience there very mannered and predictable. What annoys me most though are the preposterous plots. The whole nonsense about Neodymium in this book - it was LOL when she described the screw flying across the room like a bullet. If it was that strong every bit of magnetic material in the room would have flown the other way and be stuck to the little watercolour. Are nickels magnetic BTW ? - even if they are it's their own magnetic strength that would matter, not that they were magnetised by Nd. Not to mention the Surete being corrupt to the very top. And previously the idea that the locals would not know about an enormous effing gun in the woods (not to mention the hermit in the cabin in an even earlier book). Or that by taking out two ringleaders of the cartels the whole drugs trade would collapse. Or that the great detective wouldn;t have figured out why Daniel was pissed off with him for decades. Sheesh. Risible, even apart from the technical details she gets wrong. I have read the whole Gamache series from the beginning through to the end in the correct order, paying for most of them. This might be the last one.

I was disappointed in her last book, and really hated this one. She moved the main characters to Paris but the charm of the series is the village setting in the Canadian woods with the larger cast of characters. Paris was bleak and we were told that the Armaund had a detailed past there but this was never mentioned in the previous 15 books so it seemed contrived and rang false. But, the worse part was her writing style- lots of choppy, three word sentences that quickly became annoying. I slogged through the book because after 15, I felt obligated.

I love the characters that Louise Penny has created in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series and look forward to spending nights with them as they hue to a moral code where truth, honesty, service toward others and family are revered. Reading the back of the Barnes and Noble special edition, where Penny similarly comes off as a thankful, gracious individual, it therefore pains me to rate this book one-star. In fact, it was closer to five stars until the end of the book, where Penny decides to go for a happy ending instead of a realistic one. I will not reveal any spoilers but for the sake of the literary integrity I have to rate this one star and admonish Penny for taking the easy way out--one that preserves the Gamache franchise so that it can continue to serve as a bastion where "all the angels" can continue to live in Three Pines. Certainly the characters in this series have suffered mightily, and in these times, it is comforting to read about families, friends and neighbors who achieve a hard-won happy ending. Penny is writing fiction, and she is entitled to create these deus ex machina events whenever she wants, but these authorial miracles do a disservice to literature and the characters she has created, and ultimately readers. Yes, there are good people. Yes, there is often light to be found in the darkest of situations and brave men and women who don't succumb to what is easy. But it almost seems that these last second graces that occur in tense situations during Penny's novels has become a contrivance that actually annoys and ultimately upsets the reader. Why? When one can empathize with the humanness of characters(including the individuals in our own lives whom we love and will eventually die), it feels like we need to be protected from grieving and pretend that all will be well until the next installment of the franchise arrives. Such characters, including their readers, deserve the honesty of reality and the ability to cherish their humanness, and not be protected from unpleasant feelings. The holism of great literature demands that death be explored so that a full understanding of life can be understood. Without this willingness to confront the realistic expectations of the scenes she creates, she is short-changing her characters and her readers as a result.

I can not believe this was a Pulitzer finalist…it felt like reading an eighth grade writing assignment.

Percival Everett takes one of the greatest tales ever told and, first, sucks the whole life out of it and fills it with dull, boring anger and resentment. He takes the wonder of a young boy seeing the world for the first time and trying to understand his place in it and the role he is to, and could, play in it, and replaces it with the insipid morality of his main character. He takes one of the most beautiful-hearted characters in literature - Jim - and turns him into a disdainful intellectual who has somehow, in between his backbreaking labour as a slave in antebellum America, managed to read and interpret the political philosophies of Voltaire and Locke, enough to hold vapid imaginary debates with them. Then he proceeds to rinse out all the adventure from the story and create a plodding account of escape from slavery, full of simplistic plot progression that borders on Gary Stu wish fulfillment. In the process, he fills Jim - now, self-importantly, James, on account of he can debate social equality Voltaire, don’t you know - with, at best, disinterest, and at worst, disdain for young Huck Finn, a gentle, kind-hearted boy who looks to him for advice and connection. Halfway through, though, he decides to abandon this whole affair, jettisons Huck unceremoniously, and sets James off on a “daring” escape from his miserable condition. After a few specious and unconvincing hijinks during which he introduces, and then conveniently dispenses with, various half-developed side characters, he brings Huck back again. At which point he decides that this whole thing should actually be a soap opera and introduces one of the most cringeworthy “twists” I’ve ever come across in a storytelling initiative, right up there with the Pam Ewing dream sequence from Dallas and an inadvertent send-up of the most famous line from Star Wars. Oh, and if the storytelling and plot aren’t absurd enough, the characters are all one-dimensional, most being introduced just to be easily discarded without adding anything to the narrative or helping in the development of Jim’s - I’m sorry, James’ - character. From Sadie and Lizzie to Norman and Sammy, with brief cameos by Easter, Duncan Emmett, Brock and Katie, they all blink in and out of existence momentarily for no discernible reason whatsoever. And then he ends with some Django Unchained-esque violent denouement which is supposed to bring to a head the anger and despair that the titular character feels, a suitably ferocious climax to this tale of putative redemption. I’m sad to say that I felt nothing for James. I felt neither his pain nor his helplessness, neither the desperation nor impotent rage of the condition of slavery, nor the catharsis in his expiation at the end. This was a nothingburger of a book, a pointless, unnecessary, incompetent travesty of an attempt at trying to tell a beloved classic from another point of view.

** spoiler alert ** When I heard about this book I was so captivated it motivated me to finally read Huck Finn so I could properly appreciate this retelling. By the end of the book I was looking for any reason to give it something other than 1 star, but I couldn't do it. Other than the idea, there wasn't anything I enjoyed about it. This book is bad, my first 1 star review bad (I dont rate my DNFs). This was a bad book for a lot of reasons, including.... The Characters James/Jim - James felt like an obnoxious college english or philosophy major that wont shut up about the latest book he was assigned. He somehow was more educated and well read than the average American today, but that passion only ever showed in imaginary vapid debates with Voltaire and Locke. He was an extremely one dimensional character. His interesting moments of growth in the original, such as beating his daughter for not being responsive, then immediately realizing his wickedness, were scrapped. Jim was the exact same character at the beginning and end of the novel. Huck - The only character with even a little bit of growth, but it was only a sad reflection of the original novel. His biggest moments of development were muddied, he was anti-slavery way too early given the environment he grew up in, and the twist at the end (Ill return to this later), completely ruins the point of the original novel. The Women - They served no other purpose than to be raped, kidnapped, abused, or murdered, all to fuel Jame's rage. Zero character development, just simple rage inducing plot devices. The White People - Every white person in this was basically a character from Django Unchained. They were all stupid, racist, and evil with zero chance of any growth or an ounce of character depth. Yes, slave owners were bad people, that doesnt mean they cant be interesting. The Rest - There wasn't a well written character in this novel. Emmett almost was, but then he just devolved into every other white character. Without using Twain's work, I cant describe a single character trait of anyone in this book. The Writing The language in this book is extremely simple. 95% of the novel is dialogue with almost no descriptions, and the descriptions we get are nothing more than basic observations. This wouldn't be so bad if the dialogue was well written, but it read like a high school writing assignment. Here are some of my favorite examples: "You mean you was pullin' on my leg?" I said. He was enjoying himself and that was all right with me. It always made life easier when white folks could laugh at a poor slave now and again. "I had you goin'," Huck said. I acted like he'd hurt my feelings. White people love feeling guilty. "I'm sorry, Jim. I just thought it was funny," he said. "Yeah, it be funny, Huck, sho nuff funny." I pushed out my lower lip a bit, an expression I displayed only for white people. The author has zero faith in the reader, he constantly reminds us that everything Jim does is an act for the sake of white people. I heard rustling in the trees. It sounded like a human, so I had to assume it was a white human. "What dere be in dem woods..." Just remove 90% of this exposition and replace it with some world building or character complexity to make the book feel less sterile. Here is another gem right after Sammy's death "Do we bury her?" "Do you believe in God?" I asked. "I suppose I do," he said. "I don't. But maybe Sammy did. So, yes, we'll bury her. Isn't that what people who believe in God want?" "I don't know." Literally any time religion is mentioned in this book, James has to make some dumbass comment about how he doesn't believe in religion. He is basically that one friend that just turned away from the church and wont shut up about how great atheism is. Also Jim is well read to the point he can school Voltaire and Locke in a debate in a single sentence, but doesn't know that people want to be buried when they die? Give me a break. The Ending By far the worst part of a terrible novel. While the original novel has it's problems and is definitely showing it's age at times, the point was that it took the mind of a child to grasp the wickedness of slavery. Humans are capable of terrible atrocities, and the power of societal influence is sobering. Huck was the perfect perspective since he was mature enough to have developed plenty of racist beliefs, but young enough to eventually see the absurdity of them. He needs to be white, because the book is about moving forward, it's about the next generation. By making Huck Jim's son, you further make the book more of an us vs them story. That's to say nothing of the execution. We are in Jim's mind the entire book and not even once does he acknowledge internally that Huck is his son? Nobody noticed that Huck is a little darker and maybe he's half black? Nothing more than a single observation by Tom that his hair is thicker? Terrible, lazy writing. We also have this legendary exchange when Huck finds out "Why are you talking like that?" "Are you referring to my diction or my content?" Nobody talks like this, especially to a barely literate 12 year old. The book reads like I am very smart fan fiction. Maybe Jim is doing it intentionally to flex his intelligence over Huck, but that's even worse. If you have to demean a child to feel better about yourself, you're an asshole. Multiply that by ten if the child is your own son. Overall this book reads like a horrible cross between Twain's work and Django Unchained. It's lacking all the humor and complexity of the original, and all fun from the latter. I truly don't understand the reviews raving about this book. It really is that bad.

Dear Nicholas Sparks, the audacity! Next time you have the nerve to write from a pregnant, 16 year old female’s perspective, do us all a favor and don’t. There were so many cringeworthy parts of this book. Like the time you described the bright side of her postpartum depression was losing all the baby weight. Gross. The ONLY reason I finished (skimmed the heck out of) this book was to confirm that I had the entire story figured out within the first two chapters, which I did.

I felt like I was reading a list of facts in a high schooler's report. I could not engage with anyone or any event in the story. Even the events that were supposed to be heartbreaking. Another disappointment from Sparks. His earlier books were better.

This story is basically Catholic propaganda promoting adoption over abortion in the event of teen pregnancy, which notably occurs in higher rates in regions which promote Catholic teachings such as abstinence-only sex education and not using condoms. The medical circumstances of pregnancy are diminished to a big belly and some morning nausea. Giving birth was presented as easy as some pushes and then voila! You can sleep easily for 24 hours! You can lose all pregnancy weight gain in a few months. Not only will your grades get better during the pregnancy but also a perfect boy falls in love with you and wants to be your baby’s father. This rosey picture about teen pregnancy is absolutely wrong. Teen pregnancy risks are higher and complications do happen, especially in a country without universal health care.

I know for sure I will never read another Nicholas Sparks book. So predictable. I had guessed the ending way before the middle of the book and was reading the book just in the hopes that I may be wrong. Alas, I wasn’t wrong.

If being the most predictable book in all the land was the goal, nailed it.

I’ve been trying to get through this book since last summer, and THANK GOD ON HIGH I finally finished it last night. Given that Wicked was popular with both critics and lay people, AND the fact that there’s a wildly successful stage play associated with it, I figured this book couldn’t possibly disappoint. And yet… First, the themes/motifs were all. over. the. place. Animal rights, “otherness”, gender, good v. evil, and religion were the major players underlying the plot. And when I say underlying I mean thinly veiled by a meandering story. I kept thinking, he’s not really talking about animal rights or religion. He wouldn’t be that obvious. But he is. So much so that at times the story appeared to be merely a vehicle for positing his theories on that laundry list of Big Questions. Even then, I’m not sure what his theories are. It all seemed a bit pointless. I never could figure out where he stood on any of the issues, except for animal rights. He also seemed to jump from one theme to the next without any clear transition. Like the animal rights issue. It’s all over the first half of the book and then you don’t hear one single word about it until the last 40 pages or so. It’s like he thought, “oh yeah! I still need one more animal right allusion to make quota..." Second, this book was toooooooooooooo long. The editor should have worked harder to reign in Gregory Maguire’s meanderings. I know I used that word about three sentences ago, but that’s what it felt like. He was rambling through his thoughts with me as the unfortunate tag-along. Finally, this book told me absolutely nothing (save a few gossip-worthy details) about the Wicked Witch of the West that I couldn’t have figured out on my own. If it had ever crossed my mind to consider how the Witch ended up so Wicked, I could’ve saved myself the 406 pages and chalked her behavior up to the classic little girl lost. Poor WWW, she was so misunderstood and mistreated. Now she doesn’t know how to behave as an adult because she grew up with a very unsatisfying home life. It’s the story half of the current prison population could blame their troubles on, and quite frankly I expected more out of a book that received so much critical praise. My advice: See the musical. I hear it’s fantastic. But then again, that’s what they said about the book.

Don't waste your time! And don't let your teen read it. I kept reading to the bitter end of this book hoping that suddenly it would all come together in a glorious flash of beautiful, meaningful allegory that would make all the crap worth it. Not even. I was just really mad when I was done that I'd wasted so much time on it hoping that it'd pull through. Not only did it delve into the kinky, it was just plain boring and didn't make sense to me. If you're interested in it because of the broadway musical, don't bother either. The only similarity between the musical and this book are the basic identities of the characters. The storylines aren't even the same.

Ugh. Where do I start? I am giving this book one star, even though it appears that I am in the minority in thinking this. I got through the first couple of sections and I just couldn't stand it anymore. It was painful. I'm sure the Broadway musical is great; I really do want to see it some day. People who have seen the musical and have read the book too say that they are very different. I hope this is true. As I turned each page, I found myself skipping entire paragraphs out of sheer boredom. The only part that I liked was the prologue. In a great story, especially a fantasy, a reader should feel swept away, captivated by every sentence. Instead the author created a story where the characters are flat, uninteresting and usually perverted. Was it really necessary to add that to the Merry Old Land of Oz? The book is also full of politics and the author seems to go out of his way to show us how fancy his vocabulary is. I'm not impressed with his vocabulary. In fact, it's one of the most annoying things about this exceptionally annoying book. If you are expecting this book to be, as I was, a fantasy along the lines of L. Frank Baum's "Wizard of Oz" series, you are going to be very disappointed.

I don't even know where to start. This book -- actually, the concept of this book -- had so much promise. This could've been a great revisionist retelling of the Wizard of Oz. Yes, it fleshed out Oz itself - what a rich land, people by various creatures: humans, animals and everything in between. The political and religious strata of Oz was well-thought out. But I couldn't connect to any of the characters, especially the main character of Elphaba. I felt that none of them were fleshed out. None of them were likable, either in a positive or negative way. Sometimes, you're drawn to characters who are so evil because they're interesting. You become interested in their back story (and there is always one) and what makes them tick. Of course, almost everyone is drawn to the hero of the story, be they good or flawed, regardless of whether they're the hero-type or the underdog. But in my mind, while Elphaba was the center of the story, there was just nothing about her that drew me in, nothing that made me want to know her better. Nothing tugged at my heart strings or made me go "Grrr...I can't stand her!" Maguire proselytized. Ad nauseum. To the point where I saw no point in going further with the book. While I can see that this work would appeal to some people who revel in exposition and live and breathe religious and political polemic (there are die-hard Wicked fans out there -- of the book, I mean, which is significantly different from the musical, and that has a large fan base as well) but sad to say, I am not one of them (a fan of the book). I think there's a place for everything, and when I pick up a book that purports to be about the life and times of the Wicked Witch of the West, I expect a fantastical backstory about her. And that's the thing. I know very little about her. She's green, but why is she green? She's got normal parents, but how did she become this freakish green baby with shark teeth? You know about her parents' dalliances, their religious fervor, their sexual proclivities, their societal vagaries. But you don't see how this shaped Elphaba. There are so many holes in the story, so many unanswered questions, and whenever I expected to find an answer, there were one or two vague, often nebulous, non-answers. The story meandered all over the place, dropping characters here and there into the narrative -- characters that (one hopes) will enrich the characterization of Elphaba's life. Sometimes they did; most times, they didn't. About a quarter of the way through, I wondered where this was all heading. About halfway through, I wanted to rip my hair out and beg for something -- anything -- to happen that would make me feel connected to our heroine or the story. But there was nothing. Not even a clock dragon to crawl into. This novel could've done so much. It held so much promise. So much. But it failed to deliver, and at least for me, it was a supreme letdown.

DNF at 55%. I don’t normally add DNF’s with ratings but dear lord I deserve the credit for my reading challenge at least for being put through this book. The movie and musical are great!! I was hoping for something similar to them and instead it was a book with strange sex scenes, flat characters, and just writing that was simply a chore to read. Beware!

It would be giving the book too much credit to say that it went nowhere fast. It was, in fact,a slow, painful journey. I'd heard great things about the musical and thought therefore, that the book would be somewhat great. Nope. The first problem is that it's hard to get used to the language. A lot of completely new words come up, and you get used to reading them over and over and figure you'll eventually find out what this new vocabulary means, but you won't. Time passes very strangely between the chapters. Sometimes a new chapter means it's 5 years later, and sometimes it means it's the exact same time as the last chapter, only in a different region with different characters. Sometimes it's a flashback. It makes it pretty hard to keep track of everything. I will say that it has some interesting parts, most stand-outish in my mind are the sexual things. It makes you feel "fantasy-special" to read a book that makes you think in terms of the politics of munchkinland (and surrounding regions), and to empathize with the "wicked witch" who was the blown off sister of a spoiled red-slippered, no-armed, political head. However, this book could have been 4 pages long and covered all the fun parts. I noticed that I was tempted to cut out a piece of my flesh to reflect my inner pain, each time I decided to continue onto the next chapter. I probably should have, because it would have saved me a lot of time. The payoff you figure must be at the end of the book never comes. Maybe in the sequel? I won't find out till I feel like punishing myself.

I watched the movie with my mum and brother, and it was absolutely phenomenal. It was so well acted and sung, and it's automatically one of my favorite movies ever. The movie is what the book wanted to be but couldn't. I'm so glad this book is over. It was painful to get through at times and so boring for like 90 percent of it. I didn't like any of the characters because they were so annoying and cruel. There were so many times that I considered dnfing it. Also the politics in this book didn't make any sense and I found this book confusing in general. Characters would be removed from the story and I later found out they were dead with barely any explanation. The only good parts in this book were The wizard of Oz parts. I would recommend to just skip the book and watch the movie and the musical (apparently the adaptations aren't even similar to the book anyway). I'm going to watch the movie of this tomorrow so there's no better time to review the book than now. I hated it. I'm also still confused by it and it's been almost a month since I read it. The plot of this book is so incoherent and it doesn't make any sense so I don't know how I am going to describe it in my review (also Glitch reads aka Goodreads has rated every single book I've read lately 5 stars when they had different ratings). Some of them were even one and two star reads so please ignore that if you see it. Anyway back to Wicked. This novel is the story of Elphaba aka the wicked witch of the West, who we all know from The wizard of Oz (I've read the book twice and the movie is one of my absolute favorites along with the Harry Potter movies) . Elphaba's parents are human but she is born with green skin. They are horrified by this and want to kill her. However they don't end up murdering their child. Melena, Elphaba's mother is awful. She's so annoying and self-absorbed (she grew up in a rich family so she expects everything to be handed to her). She and her husband (I forgot his name) are in this weird relationship with this turtle something guy (I think his name is Turtlehead) that makes no sense. Eventually Melena becomes pregnant with Elphaba's sister before disappearing from the story entirely. It is revealed literally like a hundred pages later that she died after giving birth to her third child, which is not Elphaba's sister by the way. Also apparently Elphaba's father loves Elphaba's sister because she may be Turtlehead's daughter and not his (this still doesn't make sense to me). Anyway Elphaba goes to school and this is where she meets Galinda aka Glinda, the good witch of the South. They become friends even though Galinda doesn't actually like Elphaba and is only with her because she is forced to be her roommate at this school. They meet Borq who is a munchkin that quickly ends up falling in love with Galinda (this part was so cringe to read). Galinda rejects him in Elphaba's presence who is commenting on the entire thing but Borq and Elphaba end up becoming friends. Anyway moving on the politics in this book. I still don't understand it but apparently it is an allegory for antisemitism which is the horrific treatment of Jews just because of what ethnicity they are which rapidly grew during Hitler's rule of the Third Reich, which is also known as the Nazi regime (I am a long time modern history student that has lost count of how many times that I have studied the second world war). I can kind of see that because animals are being mistreated and brutally killed just for being animals. Going back to Elphaba and Galinda, who now goes by Glinda they are now friends but Elphaba ends up abandoning Glinda after their visit to the Emerald city (which was a complete waste of time anyway because they got nowhere in the mission that they were sent on by one of their teachers). The years go by and Elphaba ends up in a sexual relationship with a former classmate despite the fact that he is married and has three children with his wife. However her lover soon disappears from the narrative and it turns out that he is now dead as he was brutally murdered for a political reason that doesn't get fully explained (Elphaba blames herself for his death and I still don't know whether she caused it or not). Anyway I wouldn't recommend this book but you can give it a go if you're curious about it or want to read it before the movie (I read it because I wanted to read it before seeing the movie). I'll let you all know what I think of the movie after I've seen it.

DNF at 57% as a huge fan of the musical and the girl power it portrays, this book was so written by a man 🤮

Go see the musical and never read this and you will be much better for it.

Let me just say something: this is the only Maguire I've ever finished, and I've tried all of them. The only reason I finished this one is because of my love of the musical, and sheer force of stubborn will. I loathe Gregory Maguire. As an author. And maybe as a person, if you are equating a person's writings with their soul, which I do. He takes all the fun out of fairy tales, instead turning them into boring creepy horrible snobbishness. True story: the only author that can make creepy things boring. If you know me at all, you know I tend to find the best in every book I read and that I tend to LOVE things easily. This book had such potential, and I was SO excited about it, and just BLERG. Boo, booo, boooooo.

⛧ Considering the fact that I enjoyed the vast majority of 𝘚𝘵𝘦𝘱𝘩𝘦𝘯 𝘒𝘪𝘯𝘨's work, and that he just happens to be one of my favorite authors, I approach this review with frustration, as the highly anticipated 𝐇𝐨𝐥𝐥𝐲 has left me with nothing but a foul taste in my mouth. A week prior to its release, I heard about the controversy surrounding this book and became even more curious about it, so I decided to take a leap and see what it's all about. Reading it felt like opening the fridge at 3 AM while you're parched, just to realize the only offering is a half empty bottle of juice. You're not quite sure how long it's been open, yet your intuition tells you it has been a while. Your curiosity and desire for something cold overcomes your suspicion, so you get it closer to your nose. When your olfactory bulb fails to provide clarity about whether the juice has gone bad, you decide to take a sip and find out. Well, I sipped, I gagged. Here are my conclusions: 𝘚𝘵𝘦𝘱𝘩𝘦𝘯 𝘒𝘪𝘯𝘨 used 𝐇𝐨𝐥𝐥𝐲 as a vehicle to shove his political views down the readers' throat. Mind you, I enjoy the blend of politics in fiction, when it's done with good taste and expands the mind. Most importantly, I respect other people's rights to think and see things differently. However, I was disappointed to find that 𝘚𝘵𝘦𝘱𝘩𝘦𝘯 𝘒𝘪𝘯𝘨 has failed to do the same by pointing his finger at people who think differently than him. The audacity. The excessive mentions of Covid, vaccines, masks, and the representation of those against it as the root of all evil, made it impossible for me to show a fragment of appreciation towards what could have been a barely mediocre detective thriller, yet ended up being a slow, toothless, formulated, preachy reading experience. The unnecessary, constant mention of Covid has served no purpose whatsoever to the plot of this book. In my opinion, it did the exact opposite. It buried it. Holly's character, who once held a spark which I quite liked in 𝘒𝘪𝘯𝘨's previous work, has been assassinated by her very own maker. 𝘒𝘪𝘯𝘨 has turned her into an intolerant, judgmental hypochondriac. Certain revelations regarding the villains from the get-go made the plot become even more mind-numbing and oh so predictable. This book exhausted my patience sorely and made me roll my eyes one too many times. It was the first time I ever wanted to abandon a book by 𝘚𝘵𝘦𝘱𝘩𝘦𝘯 𝘒𝘪𝘯𝘨 before reaching halfway through it, yet I decided to finish it in the hope it would get better. It didn't. "𝐃𝐞𝐬𝐭𝐫𝐨𝐲𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐢𝐭𝐜𝐡 𝐛𝐫𝐢𝐧𝐠𝐬 𝐫𝐞𝐥𝐢𝐞𝐟. 𝐃𝐨𝐞𝐬𝐧'𝐭 𝐢𝐭?... 𝐓𝐡𝐞𝐲 𝐝𝐨𝐧'𝐭 𝐭𝐞𝐚𝐜𝐡 𝐭𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐚𝐭 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐜𝐨𝐥𝐥𝐞𝐠𝐞, 𝐝𝐨 𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐲? 𝐍𝐨. 𝐓𝐡𝐞 𝐢𝐝𝐞𝐚 𝐭𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐜𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐭𝐢𝐯𝐞 𝐢𝐦𝐩𝐮𝐥𝐬𝐞 𝐢𝐬 𝐚 𝐰𝐚𝐲 𝐭𝐨 𝐠𝐞𝐭 𝐫𝐢𝐝 𝐨𝐟 𝐩𝐨𝐢𝐬𝐨𝐧." The only thing I liked in this book was this quote. I truly hope 𝘚𝘵𝘦𝘱𝘩𝘦𝘯 𝘒𝘪𝘯𝘨 has managed to destroy his own itch and get rid of some of his poison.

Book is awful with very little story. It mostly spews Kings views on Politics, Covid, climate change and racism. I care nothing for the views of a wealthy and spoiled man on these subjects.

This book is a very clear indication of Stephen King's personal political bias. The book is so clearly anti-republican that it damages the storytelling. To think that this came from the same author that wrote Salem's Lot, It, The Green Mile, Pet Semetary, The Perfect Storm and more is flabbergasting! This book makes a very conscious effort to attack Republicans and Trump (by name) frequently. I'm 54 tracks into the audiobook and I'm hoping that the story gets good enough to justify listening to all the political berating. So far, it's not fulfilling that hope. I'm glad that I used an audiobook subscription credit for this instead of paying for it.

Bad Guy Shocker! Vacuous Villains Blow Story! "Well, Rodney and I did our best. We can't help it if we're just a pair of control-freaks who like dominating humans and call it experimentation to give it a veneer of respectability." - Emily - The Cardboard Cut-Out Villain Gazette I've said it in other forums, and I'll say it here. The villains have to have charisma to make me care what happens to them. This on its own is what drove the DNF decision. But adding copious salt to the wound to enter 'egregiously bad,' territory, we have... The heroine, Holly's constant and strident attention to every authoritative neo-fascist monopoly capitalist establishment belief in 2021 about the 'correct,' and profitable response to the covid panic is like having someone tie me down in a chair and shout their rancid politics at me while hitting me across the face with a stinking fish dripping with pus. I thought I was signing up to read a thrilling horror story, not to get preached at... I've loved other King reads, Salem's Lot, The Shining, The Dead Zone, The Stand, Needful Things, Misery, It, but I petered out with Rose Madder back in '95 ... perhaps I should've stayed out. This book is sad, an indictment of a genius imagination that has lost its mojo. Worse, it feels indulgent, and weirdly, comically, ironic given the villains are obsessed with domination and control and view humans as fit to be experimented upon.... all in a time of Covid... EDIT: 01May2024: For those unable to comprehend the irony above. We were all experimented upon by the pushers of the mRNA vaccines ... the villains (Rodney & Emily) are aligned with our corporate masters in viewing us as fit only for experiments. Stephen King's alignment with the corporate establishment pandemic response aligns with his villains... and I suspect he has no idea that is the case. Not Recommended. DNF'ed at 16%. Just Terrible, and gets the one star - egregiously bad - treatment reserved for those books that are entirely terrible due to author choice. P.S. A final word from a villain that mattered. "Nothing irks me more than fad-diet zealots!" - Hannibal Lecter - The International Journal of Cuisine and Culture EDIT: 27Jan2024: Responding to a comment below. Here is a link to a fact check regarding Trump and bleach: https://www.statesman.com/story/news/... EDIT: 17Feb2024: Regarding the phenomenon of 'Review Jumpers,' those benighted souls filled with self-righteous entitlement licensing their attacks upon non-conformative thought and expression. The phenomenon of low-information neo-fascist monopoly capitalist establishment supporters displaying their inability to self-reflect upon their slavish adherance to authoritative market narratives such as 'The official Pandemic Response, was just the Best,' by jumping onto other people's reviews to tell them 'how awful and wrong they are,' intrigues me. There's also this weird belief that disagreement with the 'wonderful rightness,' of the official pandemic response as articulated by our corporate state establishment makes someone an automatic tub-thumping Donald Trump supporter??? It's like ... Robert F Kennedy Jr is a figment of people's imagination. Really? Really? Can anyone believe the world is literally that black and white? It's almost as if they have no awareness that the official pandemic response prioritised market/social control and corporate profits, over the welfare of the people, in absolute accordance with our western civilization's overarching framework of neo-fascist monopoly capitalism. And yes, I believe Western Civilization has succumbed to a bad bout of neo-fascist monopoly capitalism. We really should be using anti-trust laws a lot more rigourously, and avoiding public-private partnerships like the plague... but that is another topic. I suspect these 'Review Jumpers,' lack the moral, intellectual and spiritual maturity to manifest their own moral and intellectual authority in any way against public authority. Stockholm syndrome writ large. It's a sad fact that some people can't tolerate thinking for themselves and will simply align with whatever power and authority manifests the greatest 'center of gravity,' within their environment. As a direct consequence of their own moral and intellectual enslavement, they cannot tolerate the presence of other people's moral and intellectual freedom. It's the contrast that gets to them. Like a vampire confronted by a mirror - they have to smash what reveals their empty souls and petty tyranny. The willing mind-slave is a spectacle to behold, and a cautionary tale for the rest of us. But, for my assertion of moral and intellectual authority over my own life, there go I. Just remember ... we're all hairless monkeys and no one gets to tell you who you are ... least of all people terrified of taking responsibility for their own lives. EDIT: 12Mar2024: For those who believe that Trump was against the official 'as led by Anthony Fauci,' Covid pandemic response, here is Trump bragging about the rapid deployment of the Covid vaccines after the 2024 SOTU speech. REF: https://archive.md/pL7ih Trump did not oppose lockdowns, suppression of human rights, suppression of off-patent treatments, or the rush to market of the covid vaccines, he was complicit with the Fauci-led approach and continues to brag about it to this day. If you want to understand what actually happened during the Covid Pandemic read these books. , and

Half the book is unattractive self righteous COVID/trump waffle which king should have unpacked with his psychologist/psychiatrist, not dumped on his reader. The story is also very weak, I kept waiting for an interesting twist, but it never came. Moreover, this book has ruined a previous trilogy for me because Holly is unbearably unlikeable here.

The story line wasn’t bad if it wasn’t for all the covid and politics talk this book would get better ratings and more interesting to read. Its clear Stephen King is a pro Vaccine/ Biden supporter, while bashing everyone that has an apposite point of view in this novel.

Stephen King writes good books and bad books. This is one of his worst. I can’t believe I actually read the entire book.

I did not like this book at all. The main thing that threw me off was the science. It was simply WAY over explained. Over explaining how the GABA inhibitor is a new discovery is very unnerving as GABA has been around neuroscience for like 70 years… I was trying to have an open mind but the science wasn’t sciencing. Culprit A: "Katherine," he said quietly, "can you take a breath and explain to me, in simple English, what's going on?" Like no. I understand that for the general public it’s necessary, but for scientists it’s just too much. Like WAY too much. Culprit B: The bad guy stopped chasing them and said “before I kill you let me explain to you exactly how this science work so you get the facts straight”💀 (I didn’t get the exact quote, BUT STILL) I might also have grown out of Brown’s writing style because I physically cringed at some of the sentences. “Filled with fear, he yanked open the apartment door, burst into the deserted entryway, and ran out of the building into the snow, wearing only his socks. Wheeling in circles in the slush, he shouted into the empty air, "Who are you?! What have you done with her?!" Who does that? Who receives shocking news and runs barefoot in the snow??? I just couldn’t. As well, some of the dialogue felt forced because there was too much over-explanation. I couldn’t get in the flow of anything without someone pushing science down my throat. The overall plot was very bad as well. WHAT WAS UP WITH ALL THESE FLASHBACKS???? Are we allergic to a good timeline? I couldn’t keep reading about characters recalling events from the past to get main information. It really wasn’t logical to ALWAYS do this. I felt like I could read each chapter individually and out of order and would probably still understand what is happening with the amount of repetition that I was seeing in this book. There was just so much it was driving me insane. The Golêm also tried to retrieve a key for 372 pages… This tells you just how much repetition happens. We were getting nowhere. My last point has to be about the use of chatGPT in this book. The way the IT worker asked people to use chatGPT was just so ew. I didn’t like it at all. As much as I used to love Robert Langdon, I will not pick up another Dan Brown book. This was my last one.

DNF at 40ish%. How can so much and so little be happening simultaneously? Maybe it’s time for Langdon to retire.

DNF’d at 554 pages. I just simply cannot mentally take in another sentence. This book is incredibly slow paced and quite frankly, boring. By the time the book got to the ‘big moment,’ I no longer cared. But yet I still continued to push through hoping it would get better. It did not. Trust me, this hurts so much to say, especially after Angels & Demons was one of my favourite reads for 2024, but I think Robert Langdon needs to retire. Or these books need to be a touch shorter. There’s building anticipation and then there’s slowly suffocating the audience with back to back filler chapters and lengthy sentences. If this is going to be your first Dan Brown book, proceed no further with this one. You’re in for a better ride with his earlier works, like Angels & Demons or The Da Vinci Code.

Nothing new, nothing blue, all borrowed. Can’t wait the rightwing youtubeconspiracists to take this as another revelation from the overlords. Maybe two stars if the writing was good. It’s not. Sigh.

My first DNF… 29 mentions of “russian” in 2025, really? 0/5, I’m sorry

Thanks so much for the sequel that no one needed. I found this book to be just as insufferable as the first one. Except there was a fun deja vu bonus because it was basically an entirely recycled story. There was no real plot twist. If you read the first book, you knew exactly what was going on.

nothing happened, literally nothing, 400 pages of nothing

Wow I seem to be in the minority here but I did not enjoy this book at ALL. This was my first Coben read and either it wasn't the best choice, or this author is not for me. Our first person protagonist Win is INSUFFERABLE. What's the word for an incel who's not celibate?? Like, a dude who behaves like an incel but is good looking enough to get sex anyway? I'll tell you what the word for it is: Win bloody Smarmy McSmarmypants the Third. This guy is so far up his own butt that when he opens his mouth it's like Win-ception. He likes to go on and on about how terribly rich and well-dressed and good looking he is. He is an absolute SOCIOPATH with the emotional range of a teaspoon. He literally used the word "methinks" - TWICE. He has no empathy and basically doesn't care about other people at all, and yet holds himself up as some kind of moral arbiter above the law - because, I don't know if I've mentioned this yet, but he's really rich. So rich. His family has a big mansion and it's just so ho hum to him when he flies in on the "copter" cos he's like... super rich, you know. Rich. He answers the phone by saying "articulate" . Seriously. If that makes your blood temperature rise so high you're gonna need a COVID swab before you can go to the shops, I suggest this book may not be for you. The cover of this makes you think this is going to be a high stakes thriller - but there are no stakes. Or thrills. There is never a sense of threat or adrenaline - in fact, my only stake in this was sincerely wishing someone would smack this guy's smarmy face in to bring him down a peg or two. It's all weirdly emotionless and detached. The story is... boring. It just plods along and he finds a bunch of people and asks them a bunch of questions and then finds out the answer... and that's it. The most potentially exciting part of the story (the threat to his daughter... sorry, his "biological" daughter because again, sociopath) is told in a retrospective throwaway paragraph. I honestly wish I had DNF'd this when I wanted to, which was pretty much the entire time I was reading it.

DNF Patterson, Grisham, Kellerman, Child etc have all become “churners” and with Win, Coben has joined their ranks!! Win sounds like and dresses like Archy McNally on steroids. Archy was a lovable goof who you read with tongue in cheek - Win is a pompous ass! This was total “Dick Lit”, quit after 57 pages of martial arts, testosterone filled rantings, prostitution and over the top wealthy consumption. So long, Harlan 👋

Easily the most inane and imbecilic book I've had the misfortune to read in years. While the genre is permitted a great deal of leeway and tolerance, the unbelievable characters and outlandish plot here are beyond the pale. Coben is certainly capable of writing great "airport bookstore" suspense, but this one had me hoping the plane would crash, and quickly.

I like Harlan Coben books but this was a load of rubbish. Win works as a minor character but as the main protagonist he is simply awful. The message is if your a billionaire you can get away with anything with impunity. Win is an unlikeable character. He is narcissistic, psychotic and the story is ridiculous. I will continue to read this author but this is the worse book I have read in a long time. His cousin Patricia, the other characters are all caricatures. I mean a mob boss who cries. A tinder application for billionaires. It all is so ridiculous. Do not waste your time reading this book.

Formulaic, and not good. At some stage in writing these books she decided to stop character advancement and just have readers check in on characters. The crimes are not as interesting as she seems to think in the last several books. Also the focus on teen slang is sooo boomer. Ad the parent of teenagers, I can assure you that they would drop the slang due to serious circumstances. If anything cuss words fly, but “doosers”? No cap, that writing is mid.

I didn't enjoy this one as I had the previous. It just seemed forced.

Patterson is now calling it in. This book read like it was written by an AI bot! No Hamptons authenticity at all. It could have been anywhere USA. The plot was confused and stupid. I am sorry I wasted my time.

1.5 stars Song - Wellerman by Nathan Evans Why do I always have to be the hater? I refuse to believe the 4.40 avg rating. Something sus is going on🤨 Will be following tradition and writing in the format of my first review. HANNAH 💿 The supporting character (no matter how much they wanted me to believe otherwise) 💿 Passionate for music & vinyl records 💿 Hopelessly infatuated with her Russian boss Andrei (or was it Sergei?) 💿 Aspires to make playlists for movies 💿 Rich LA girl but acts poor HANNAH'S VIBES: 1) 2) 3) FOX 🦀 Designated fuckboy 🦀 Perfectly stunning, blonde, and sun-kissed 🦀 Has hella issues 🦀 Got a better taste in music than Hannah (yes I listened to every single song mentioned. It was my only shred of happiness during this time) 🦀 Deserves a moment of silence because this man was lost to us from page one (to Hannah and his denial) FOX'S VIBES: 1) 2) 3) CHRISTIAN 👑 One of Hannah's colleagues 👑 The main character 👑 The moment 👑 Everything Hannah wished she was 👑 I just know he carried that whole movie as much as he did this book I would like to additionally say that Christian made a total of maybe three appearances. “I hate that I like you.” “I like that I hate you.” CHRISTIAN'S VIBES: 1) 2) 3) I included Christian's little........mood board? Because I wanted to start this review on a positive note. And I think I've made it clear enough that he was the only entertaining or interesting addition to this book. Being Hannah's frenemy led to some hilarious interactions. And before any of you go building ships and whatnot🛠️🚢 he's gay. “What are you drinking? Poison, I hope.” She pursed her lips and perused the various liquor bottles. “What can I drink to give you a personality?” Looking pointedly at her dress, Christian gave an appreciative snort. “So, what are you, like, trying now?” “Could you do the same, please? It took you sixteen takes to nail four lines of dialogue this morning.” “Can’t rush perfection.” Dare I say the most offensive quote of this book🢁. Why? Because the gall of Hannah to say CHRISTIAN has no personality when he exerted more of it in the 2 seconds of page time he was given... than her - the apparent "main character" she was soo desperately trying to be. Hannah Bellinger had always been more of a supporting actress than a leading lady. The hype girl. If she’d lived in Regency England, she would be the second at every duel, but never wield the pistol. Both characters had their own personal issues to deal with. Whereas Hannah was struggling to be a leading lady (and failing), Fox was extremely insecure in everything that isn't sex due to being objectified for so long. If you think the heroine will contradict herself with time by becoming less of a hype girl and more of a main girl. You're in for disappointment. Her entire purpose this whole time was being Fox's support system/therapist, which is where the main problem stems. As cute as this story was, it was also unbearably boring. I couldn't form an attachment to any of the characters. I found Christian amusing and there were times when I could relate to Fox but other than that...there was a big hole in place where interest should've been. Is it bad that whenever the main couple was left alone I kept hoping Segrei (or Andrei?) would pop up and we'd get to see the boss jealous😩. ME... no.1 hater of Russian men WANTED the Russian man, and he wasn't even that interesting. It actually got worse. As Fox had Hannah pinned against a wall, in a full make-out sesh, I am completely zoned out thinking of best gifs I could use for Christian😭😭 That is how dry the romance (actually everything) was. I just wanted dramaaaa. Which is ironic because I thought It Happened One Summer was a lil too dramatic. Now that I'm rereading the synopsis, I guess we did get what it was pitching, in a very lazy lacklustre way: 1️⃣Friends to lovers? Yes except Fox was already head over heels in love since the prologue. Friends where? 2️⃣Dating advice to entice OM? There were maybe two dumbass advices like "hey maybe bite ur lip more?" and she never even used them. 3️⃣Jealousy? Delivered in a very dispassionate way. I just didn't really care because he was already so much of a simp, it was bordering on pathetic how much he drooled over her. 4️⃣OM drama? NOTHING. Nothing that matter anyway. 5️⃣Rom-com? Idk I might be wrong but wasn't this supposed to be funny... 6️⃣Hot hot smut? The sex scenes are a mystery to me because I skipped them all. Oopsy so sorry. It seems though, every time time I decided to not skim I just had to encounter words like these: “Drop the oil, wet girl” “I know what you like now, freaky girl.” “How’s your tush?” He cupped the buns in question. “Sore, I bet.” Took a pic of my face while reading all of the above as evidence of emotional distress. fkng try n beat me in a court of law now. BUUUUUT! You know what we did have? 7️⃣self-sabotage on top of self-sabotage on top of self-sabotage from Fox. That was what the story started, continued, and climaxed with. IN CONCLUSION: The best part of this book was the prologue.

a girl literally rejected him once and he never got over it so he decided to hurt everyone around him instead of go to therapy

the one star is for the scraps we got of brendan and piper

I’m so disappointed that this book came out during Women’s History Month. I had some hope for this book because I liked Fox and Hannah in the first book. I remember saying that i liked them because they weren’t written about as much. And boy was I right. All Fox thinks about is fucking hannah, to the point where it’s creepy. He has this sob story where everyone called him a womanizer and he “played the part”. No one made you sleep with all those girls, that was your choice king own it. Hannah had this mentality of “I can fix him”. Their annoying will they or won’t they was truly painful to experience, it hurt so bad. Fox trying to protect Hannah from his reputation and Hannah telling him it doesnt matter was mind numbing. Even after Fox confessed his feelings to her and they had sex he still did that shit to her. The sex scenes. I don’t understand how this author continues to find synonyms for sex. The most grotesque foul phrase I have ever heard was “she milked his thickness with her femininity”. I’m not even paraphrasing. And what is up with the massage oil??? There was a part where Hannah is in her room half naked with it and Fox tells her to open the door. SHE DOES FOR SOME REASON AND HE SAYS AND I QUOTE “drop the oil wet girl” and on women’s history month?? This is a hate crime. I will admit that the sex scenes were a little more bearable than the ones between Piper and Brendan. But still, hard to listen to. Fox’s dirty talk was cringe worthy. The characters were.. okay? Fox blaming his man whoreness on others’ perceptions and his father was just hard to wrap my mind about. Hannah was less annoying than Piper but still on that line. Honestly she would’ve been better with Sergei or just not end up with any guy at all since the author writes all of them to be moody obsessive alpha males. all of the ass clowns in this book are red pilled as fuck. The epilogue was just why?? I know it was to show that “they all lived happily ever” but it was just another unbearable passage to get through. I can’t keep thinking about this book so I’ll end my review here. Would not recommend to my dyslexic brother. Milk curdling/5

Fox and Hannah are both insecure boring losers so I guess they’re perfect for each other.

yeah, that was bad.

why was his name fox

This book is the poster child for everything wrong with romantasy—and I do not say that lightly. 💀

Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for the audio arc. DNF @ 50% Rating: 1/5 Sorry this is giving "I'm a good slave owner so love me" energy..... I'm not falling for that propaganda.... Also if you're not a fan of the fanfic or harry potter then you might not like this book. It's probably my fault but I went into this book semi-blind as I really only looked at the Goodreads tags and cover. I knew it was based off of Harry Potter fan fiction which is.... already making me side-eye the author in itself but whatever... so when I started it and heard the triggers I knew this might not be the book for me. I'm not a dark romance/romantsy girly but I have free will and will read whatever I want so... to those who want to leave negative comments... fight me... I was expecting this to be kinda good as Julie Soto is a big name but I regret reading this book first as.... it was not good whatsoever... The world-building was so.... inspired and it's almost like you can tell it's so unoriginal... Like I wish the editors made Soto flesh it out even more because it was just giving "unoriginal" to me.... The heart strings magic also just seems like it's an excuse to subjugate women into submission... which is weird considering the Bomardsun have a woman leader... like how does that work???? Also what even makes mind and heart magic different? I read through 50% of the book and I don't even understand the basics of the magic systems other than heart magic seems to be more "evil" because it's pulling magic from other living beings.... but what makes "mind" magic so different? Why is it better? It's like the author never explained that. Not to mention the pacing of this book was so BAD. I was confused for the first 10% of the book because the transitions of the past and "present" were so damn confusing and just badly written..... It felt like it meshed together and with the past backstory being hashed out it was like I was being info-dumped by a whole bunch of characters I know and yet don't know at the same time... like honestly I was asking myself what I was reading for the first 10%...... Not to mention I feel like this book, while it may have a "handmaid's tale" story with women fighting for their freedom in the future... this book instead weaves the story of the FMC falling for HER LITERAL SEX SLAVE OWNER and almost romanticizes the slave x slave owner dynamic... It felt like I was reading a war crime of a book for women. Especially publishing this book in TODAYS UNITED STATED OF AMERICA POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CLIMATE?!?!?!?!? This book is so fucking TONE DEAF OMGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG. Like my rights as a woman are being violated and I HAVE TO READ ABOUT THE SAME REALISTIC SHIT IN THIS BOOK AND HAVE IT BE ROMANTICIZED TOO?????? Like bro I'm not even religious but God must hate me fr. Especially since there this content of the sex trafficking of the women were repeated almost every chapter... Like I, as the audience, get it.. you don't need to repeat that the women have no rights every 5 seconds.... Then let's move onto the MMC.... Why does Briony even find the MMC attractive? (I'm not saying his name disrespectfully) He almost contributes nothing and while being an absolute jerk (and this is me being nice). The AUDACITY this man has is fucking astounding. His character was giving "oh I'm so holier-than-thou because I have good intentions for PURCHASING A HUMAN WOMAN because I love her".... like bro what? No, you're still very much a piece of shit. It was giving very much performative savior and then torturer.... My last gripe about this book is Briony... she gives me the ick... nothing and the ick... she was such a weak character I feel like she can't stand well enough to just be on her own... like her personality is based off of her own brother so much throughout the "backstory" it was sad and then she was immediately turned into a sex slave. She also reads like a YA protagonist instead of an adult one... like why didn't see immediately try to escape the auction? Who cares if people die bro ur literally the "Queen" or "Heir" and you just give up? Bruhhh just sacrifice someone and escape bro... but nah you end up giving up and being attracted to a pathetic ass man.... I'm sad this was my first Julie Soto book but I'm glad I never have to see this series after today and will not be continuing it. I'll try her other works and hopefully that will be better.

⟆ ⊹ 1 star ꒱ ⟢ ⭑ contains spoilers ⸝⸝ “for those among us who have loved have done so with our hearts, yes—but through a willing fault of mind as well.” ⠀ ── ⋆˙⟡ ⠀ ⤿ ⌗ ୭౿. ⌇ my thoughts . . . 🗡️ ✦ shit book. like this was so not what i thought it would be. honestly i don’t even know what i was expecting, but it wasn’t this. i’ve been wanting to read this for months, and for me to finally pick it up and be this disappointed?? yeah. annoying. i mean, i was literally bored from the first chapter. nothing about this ever caught my attention. not once. i was at 30% and it felt like the plot hadn’t even started yet. this book just did a whole lot of nothing. ✧ like the world building? what world building. we’re told there’s heart vs mind magic and this whole long history between bomard and evermore, but it never feels fully explained. the concept could’ve been cool but nothing felt developed. the whole prophecy setup, the war, the cultural divide—it’s all just background noise. the magic system had potential but we barely learned how anything worked. like what are the rules? the limitations? how does any of it actually function?? ✧ and the plot? practically nonexistent. part one alone dragged on forever and accomplished literally nothing. and the flashbacks??? i cannot express how much i hated the flashbacks. they added nothing. they were supposed to build the romance and deepen the connection between the mcs, but it didn’t work. it tried to convince us they had something without actually building it. ✧ this was just not a good reading experience. not fun. not interesting. not even dramatic in a way that entertained me. by page five i already knew this wasn’t gonna work for me. ⠀ ˖ ࣪ ⊹ ⠀ ⤿ ⌗ ୭౿. ⌇ characters . . . 🕊️ ⟢˚◜ briony rosewood. ꕀ oh my god. i think i actually might hate her. she was just so… passive. like everything was happening to her and she was just going along with it. and she’s supposed to be a princess?? one of the last remaining heirs of evermore?? and she never even learned how to fight?? she said she didn’t need hand to hand training because she had guards. that?? is?? insane?? her reactions made no sense, especially after being taken to hearst. she just adjusted to her new reality with barely any resistance and then spent every other chapter thinking about toven. it was annoying. ⟢˚◜ toven hearst. ꕀ okay. let’s start with the fact that he literally bought her. i’m supposed to accept this man as the love interest? seriously? the book tries so hard to soften him and show him doing nice things to make us forget how messed up the situation is, but it’s so transparent. and then there’s the fact that he hit her. like??? what are we doing here. the story acts like that moment just didn’t happen. they just move on. ⟢˚◜ side characters. ꕀ hated most of them. the few who weren’t awful were just there. no one stood out. no one felt worth remembering. i kept forgetting who was who because none of them mattered. ⠀ ˖ ࣪ ⊹ ⠀ ⤿ ⌗ ୭౿. ⌇ romance . . . 🥀 ✦ this was genuinely terrible. i can’t believe this was marketed as enemies to lovers. briony has been into him since the very beginning. there was no hate. just obsession. and her obsession with him made the whole thing unbearable. she thought about him constantly. in every scene. during important moments. during traumatic moments. during random moments. it was so exhausting. ✧ and not only was it annoying, it didn’t make any sense. he literally bought her. he owns her. and she’s wondering if he wants to touch her?? feeling jealous when other women talk to him?? like. she has no reason to like him. they have no emotional bond. the book just tells us she feels something and expects that to be enough. ✧ and of course, everything in this book revolves around sex. not just between them—the entire story. every plot thread comes back to sex, sexual violence, sexual threats, or sexual tension. how am i supposed to root for anything in this book?? ⠀ ˖ ࣪ ⊹ ⠀ ⤿ ⌗ ୭౿. ⌇ extras . . . ♟️ ⟡ the plot had no urgency. or stakes. ⟡ the magic system sounds cool until you realize we barely learn how it works. ⟡ the flashbacks were so repetitive and so unhelpful. ⟡ the pacing was atrocious. nothing happened for 70% of the book. ⟡ hated the writing. too much and not enough at the same time. ⟡ the war, the politics, the rebellion… all fell flat. ⟡ i genuinely don’t get how this was supposed to be romantic. ⠀ ˖ ࣪ ⊹ ⠀ ⤿ ⌗ ୭౿. ⌇ overall . . . 🐉 ✦ this was bad. like actually bad. i was bored the whole time, hated the characters, didn’t believe the romance, and got nothing from the plot. i don’t even care what happens next. i’m slightly curious, sure, but not enough to suffer through another book. i’ll read a summary or something. this series is not for me. ·················· ☆ 🖇️ pre-read 𖥻 ＜꒱ — ❪ 0377 ❫ pt 2 of starting books i said i would read four months ago ╰┈ ok i’ve heard good things, bad things, and things that made me go “huh???” but i actually have no idea what this is about. like i’m going in blind blind. wish me luck because i genuinely don’t know what i’m about to walk into.

I throw my hair up in a messy but and go downstairs. I hear my brother burning to a crisp and his ghost manifest next to me, to share the last important message I’ll ever hear from him. He gulps. ‘’Sister, I have sold you to one direction’’ But were there any high stakes here aside from the constant threat of rape? Making your story super dark is not a replacement for depth. I remember back in the day people were writing the most vile shit possible in fanfics because I think we were all going through this group psychosis in which anything tabu was seen as good quality or at least a little better than those ‘’Imagine Harry Styles sees you reading a book in the middle of their concert and falls head over heels for you!’’ ones. I found it very funny how we were told both sides had issues pretty much by a leader saying ‘’Oh, your kingdom is so misogynistic because only the male heirs can rule. We, on the other hand, are so progressive, we let women be war criminals too. Anyways, enjoy being raped and striped of all humanity and bodily autonomy, bye!’’ The MMC was incredibly boring. You would think we would be introduced to someone who’s very morally complex (given that he’s a slave owner but somehow also… a romantic interest) but he’s just plain boring. You could have gotten rid of that romance and make this a story about a queen rising from the ashes after a lost war, exploring the darkest times after everything seems to be lost, and maybe even finding love along the way with someone from her own kingdom who also happened to survive. But you wouldn’t sell many copies without the romantasy tag. And it wouldn’t be enemies to lovers if she fell in love with someone not on the evil side. And you couldn’t still sell it as a Dramione fanfic in all the marketing. Very ‘’girl who claims to be a good person and an ally to the marginalized yet loves her far right boyfriend because he actually has a heart of gold, you just can see it!’’ coded. Not enough world building, it relies on you already having a previous notion of what kind of world we’re in. No map is a criminal thing in the year of our Lord 2025. By the 80% pretty much nothing had happened; most of this book was a big ball of nothing with flashbacks sprinkled it.

For a book about magical sex slavery, this ended up being incredibly dull and asinine. But if you want to dip your toes into dark romance, then this will suffice as an intro to the subgenre. This is definitely for the Dramione fans (lbr, there's absolutely no way to separate the fanfic and Harry Potter IP from this, however hard you wanna try). and anyone else who prefers their romantasy with the worldbuilding as an afterthought. (I can't judge. I loved Divine Rivals.) I'm not a Dramione fan. I read some dark romance every so often, but the sex slavery trope isn't my thing. I tried reading The Auction (the fanfic that this was adapted from), but everyone was so unbelievably OOC that I just couldn't get past the 10% mark. So in my naivety, I thought maybe the trad pubbed edition of the story would work out better than the fanfic. OOC fanfic characters meant that the Rose in Chains characters have space to be their own people, right? Like I said, I was naive. Feel free to judge me. I should definitely be shamed. This novel was so ridiculously boring. I liked the intense parts in the beginning with the auctions, the human (magician?) trafficking, etc. But then everything went downhill after that. Toven was boring as hell. He was the typical shadow daddy cardboard cutout. It felt like he was cosplaying a bad boy instead of being an actual bad boy. Like a terrible actor working with a terrible script. It's giving Twilight. It was stupid, annoying, and frustrating. I was anything but turned on. Briony wasn't any better. I honestly thought she was a teenager before she told Toven that she was 24. Wow. Could've fooled me. I'll be brutally honest. Nothing stood out to me at all. Not the mind magic or the heart magic. Or the barely there Big Bad and whatever her endgame was supposed to be. Actually, I lied. Toven's special ability to kill people was pretty damn cool. I finished this audiobook over a week ago and I'm still not sure how I feel about Ella Lynch's narration. Her voice and inflections and intonations didn't really fit the dark romantasy vibe. They way she narrated the book made everything sound so trivial and lighthearted. But then again, that might be because this book was trivial and the author was terrible at conveying the intensity and emotions of a magical world at war, much less the (absurdly posh) life of a prisoner of war. I added in my updates that the stereotypical whiny villain voice that the narrator used wasn't doing any favors to beat the antisemitism allegations about this book. So, there's that. The only thing I found interesting was when Nagi—I meant the dragon—was giving off vibes that it wanted to fuck the Big Bad. I'm totally down for whatever the hell that's happening there. I probably misread that entire exchange, but I really don't care anymore. #MonsterFucker4Lyfe When the credits rolled, I was so happy to be done. Thank you to Forever and NetGalley for this arc.

Mistakes were made. Dark romance is not for me. Nope. Not even a little. I am traumatized. I need a blanket and a hug. (I’ll say that it’s no fault of the book, it’s just very much not anything I would enjoy reading. Ever.) Lesson learned.

this was painfully boring lmao i should have dnf’d early on but unfortunately my dumb ass felt the need to wait it out to see who the killer was (it was not worth it lol). if you like police procedural books youll enjoy this as its 95% of the book and 5% yapping about things that dont matter 💀 couldve been at least 200 pages shorter

Sometimes books are so slow that it makes me wonder if the author got bored writing it.

Buckle in. It’s a long one. Here are the notes I took along the way, once I realised how much I despised this book… Firstly, I’m questioning whether this book was written by AI. Or at the very least, was not edited: Obsessive compulsive disorder is three separate words. How did obsessivecompulsive get through the editors? A simple rule like adding a line space between dialogue to show that a different person is speaking has been ignored at least twice in this book. Was it even edited?? The correct term for disassociation is dissociation. Some general plot/character development issues: Emmy making up stories in her head and treating them like evidence and fact. Supposed to be a trained officer but constantly needs daddy to tell her what to do next in a tone that should be reserved for 5 year olds. Tampers with evidence so many times it’s a joke. Her mother with apparent late stage alzheimers, but is still mobile, having logical conversations, knows how to turn on a stove. Irish twins are born within 12 months of each other, not 14 months apart. What’s with the obsession with the cars in this book? Feels like every page has a detailed description of a vehicle. Cut that detail out and the length of the book would have been halved. What older woman would file someone’s name incorrectly in her address book, purely based on a nickname given to them by local teenagers? She wouldn’t have known the nickname when she hired him and that’s when she would have written his contact details in her book. In their little story time session where they make up the details 12 years later, why call the perpetrator the Bad Guy, rather than simply the perpetrator? Turning it into a freaking children’s story? Now let’s move onto my issues that contain spoilers, so read no further if that’s an issue for you: There’s no way Hannah had that much love for her stepdaughter to say she was the most important thing in the world. Especially when it was made clear she turned into a sullen teenager almost immediately after they got together, and then they had a baby of their own. Did she forget she had her own child? The only way this outburst would have made sense is if she had been responsible for the kidnapping and was trying to cover it up. So dramatic- if she doesn’t get the bodies out soon she’ll drown with them. Just swim back. It’s a pond. It makes absolutely no sense that two people would have been arrested, jailed, and placed in isolation for the exact same crime. In addition, it makes no sense that anyone would have thought Hannah had pulled the trigger when Paul was the one aiming the gun and she yelled out to stop him. Jude asks Emmy to run through the evidence and she provides a whole list of circumstantial evidence and then goes through all of the evidence that didn’t match- ballistics, DNA, fingerprints etc. But a jury found him guilty beyond reasonable doubt? Was he unrepresented in court? One minute it has to be a medical professional because the bones were broken systematically; the next minute we’re back to a labourer and the bones are irrelevant? I have loved many of this author’s books but this was, without a doubt, one of the worst books I have ever read.

edited, I decided to remove my previous review , I feel like it didn't get across what I was trying to say properly. I did not like this book, In my last review. I said that it felt like a " Disney like gay romance," not the most eloquent way of saying something. many people easily misconstrued that as " I hate gay people." that is not what I meant, I don't hate anyone, that is one of the tenants of Christianity, if you are confused see The Reformed Reader's review, he explains things far better than I could. The real biggest issue with this book is that it doesn't feel like the other four, the gay romance is part of that, but really i didn't like the book before that. All of the characters just feel off. like I was reading a fanfic, whatever the case may be, this book gets one star, what it deserves.

“How?” Ishar repeated. “What are you?” He gestured toward Szeth. “Are you … are you his spren? His god?” “No,” Kaladin said. “I’m his therapist.” Oh shut the **** up. Stormlight Archive has always been a flawed series, but the drastic drop in quality in Wind and Truth is just downright bizarre. This will be the last Sanderson book I read. I am done.

DNF. My conscience and convictions disqualify me from continuing this book. Same-sex romance is an instant DNF for me. Disappointing, but on to something else. *Edit* To clarify for those intolerant of Christian values: It is quite a bit different in intentionality when Sanderson mentioned same-sex relationships in previous books. What I mean is that, yes, there was a passing reference to a couple in Oathbringer, and you can definitely see Renarin's preferences. The differences lie where in Oathbringer, he mentioned this to make the world seem more realistic in scope. For everyone saying that I "don't want homosexuals to exist," that's absurd. I don't see an issue in referencing that homosexuality is real in the same way that I don't have an issue when Sanderson talks about abuse in his books. It's real.....but it isn't glorified or promoted. What I can't, in good conscience, permit is when the promotion of this relationship becomes a prominent plot point, story line, or focal point. I don't want to be entertained by the promotion of sexual sin, just like I don't want to be entertained by the promotion of blasphemy. Sanderson even admitted that he was taking a risk in that regard by including it. A risk that, from my worldview, was not worth taking

I can't beleive I've just rated one of Brandon's book with 1 star. But it's well deserved. This book feels like it was written by Google Gemini or a commitee of alaphabet people. There is no Brandon in this book. Characters are out of character, story arcs have no goal. Its terrible. He might want to burn it and start anew.

DNF at ~22% This was a mess I didn’t want a Marvel movie I miss book 1&2 Sanderson

Brandon Sanderson has dabbled in LGBTQ+ themes before, but with this book, he goes all in. If that’s what you’re looking for, you’ll probably enjoy it. Personally, I miss the days when his stories felt like genuine explorations of philosophy rather than thinly veiled attempts to push an agenda.

The only good thing about self-help books is that they’re usually quite short. This one is really long and the ‘psychological insights’ are presented in the most blatant and tacky way possible… On a serious note though: Where did Kaladin go and which second grade actor, who really got into music therapy in some weekend seminar, replaced him? Really suffered through this book most of the way. Adolin had some good moments with Maya but his daddy issues eventually got into the way. But hey, at least Shallan made some real progress right? Right?!? Journey before destination was a real struggle with his one…

Been a Sanderson fan for years. Unfortunately it was a real struggle to finish this book. This book needed to be 30% shorter, It would have felt more focused. Secondly it had too much going on...complexity doesn't necessarily mean clever. Third, one of the most immersion breaking things people can do is talk about science in fantasy. While an attempt at exploring mental health, every time they used loaded terms associated with therapy and therapy speak it took me right out of the book. Might as well have been making pop culture references it was so immersion breaking for me. Also along these lines adding mental illness felt more like reading DSM-5 symptoms like a checklist than organically exploring mental health issues in the context of a characterization. Some characters had their personalities reduced to stereotypes and broad generalizations. Had there not been so much going on, he may have had more of a focused opportunity to explore and flesh things out instead of the shallow representation we got. It felt so ham-fisted. We used to get winks and nods to the greater cosmere, and have a sense of wonder and mystery as planets are explored and stories unfold. He's thrown that away in a lot of his newer books where again it's about as subtle as a sledge hammer now. No mystery and wonder with world building. I feel like he's a victim of his own success, and maybe he needs people to edit things more...or maybe this is what happens when you get quantity over quality. It makes me sad, because I've loved his works and the Mistborn - final empire trilogy is one of my favs. Maybe I'll give his future works a try, but I doubt it...which is unfortunate.

The Wokelight Archives That book sucked

In 2016 I was in a relationship with someone I cared for very deeply. She cheated on me, and I had a lot of trouble falling asleep for several months. Benadryl wasn’t enough to quiet my mind, but Sanderson’s audiobooks (The Stormlight Archive in particular), played quietly on a Bluetooth speaker with a timer, distracted me enough to let me sleep. These have been important books to me, and I wanted very much to like this one. But it’s just really bad — Sanderson’s bludgeoning prose, the jokes, the sudden injection of 21st century language, the Reddit/high school freshman level philosophical musings, the insistence on sending all important characters on side quests, the lack of any new character development, the rehashing of already-resolved storylines, the heavy-handed treatment of autism, gay romance, inter-species romance, etc. It doesn’t work, and felt like reading fanfic. Chapter by chapter I found myself increasingly bored and apathetic, willing to look up spoilers, and very ready to be done reading this very tedious book.

This book was a massive disappointment. I have read everything Brando Sando has ever written, most of it multiple times and loved almost all of it, but this was just awful. Obviously, spoiler warning. Part 1, problems with the plot: 1. If you remove every POV from Shallan/Rlain/Renarin does the plot change at all? Nope, nothing they did contributed to the ending in any way. The entire ghostbloods/mishram storyline was basically pointless, not to mention boring. Oh no! Emotional issues that should have been resolved last book! You’re back! Should I free the openly genocidal demigod? Yes, because… oh I actually can’t think of a good reason, but there is one, I promise. Will there be any consequences from freeing the genocidal demigod? Nope! Everything works out just fine! Tbh if we had just not seen anything from them until the end, when Shallan gets trapped in the cognitive realm, then they show all of this stuff as flashbacks in book six, while mishram is causing problems, these scenes would be much better. Because you would actually care about what happened, because it would provide information about what’s currently happening. 2. The Adolin storyline was the only genuinely good storyline, but the ending of it was horrible. The “un-oathed” twist seemed like such deux ex machina. Brandon broke all three of his rules of magic with this one, but especially #1: “An author’s ability to solve conflict with magic is DIRECTLY PROPORTIONAL to how well the reader understands said magic.” Adolin should have become a radiant. That would have been a better more satisfying ending, that actually fits in with the current magic system. Adolin’s headspace was also really frustrating during the ending. His obsession with there being a difference between promises and oaths seemed ridiculous when an apocalypse is going on, and I thought it would have been much more satisfying for him to forgive his father, then swear some oaths and become a radiant. I was waiting for it the whole book, only to have it stolen away so some random characters I don’t really care about can get plates and blades. One last criticism on this topic: All due respect to Adolin as a duelist, but a guy with one leg, who just fought for hours and hours on a battlefield, somehow beats a full shard bearing fused with a candlestick? Nah. 3. We didn’t need all of those flashbacks in the spiritual realm. Leaving aside the fact that the spiritual realm feels way less impressive and way more gimmicky than it’s been hyped up as this entire time, we could have gotten the exact same information if all of the flashbacks had been eliminated and we just got the tanavast POV scenes. It was also really frustrating on every battlefield for them to be losing so badly when dalinar’s presence and Stormlight could have helped them win literally every battle. Not to mention that the Stormfather could have just told Dalinar all of this stuff from the beginning, without them needing to waste the entire book getting exposition that they DONT EVEN USE. 4. Losing Thaylena(hope that’s spelled right, I’m an audiobook person) should be important, but it doesn’t feel that way. The important thing is that Jasnah lost an argument and now she feels bad about it. 5. Moash. I’m annoyed that Navani finally punished him, and he finally had to feel bad about what he had done, just for neither of those things to matter whatsoever. The man was broken, blinded, overwhelmed by guilt and suffering because he had murdered his friend, then less than a week later he’s just out there doing it again, no consequences except now he can see spren! 5.5 Sigzil got done dirty in this book just to force him to into the sunlit man. 6. The big one, Kaladin. This man tried to end his own life literally 1 day ago, at the end of RoW. It feels pretty absurd for him to be Therapist(Tm) one day later, not to mention that there is an apocalypse and a war going on, like bro, all due respect, but what exactly do you think your character was developing toward? “I will protect” *leaves everyone to protect themselves* I did like that he became a herald, but I didn’t like how it happened. Especially after Szeth was built up towards it, I always knew it would be Kaladin instead, but it was literally just because Szeth was knocked out? And soup and music over ~a week is supposed to cure Szeth? What was the point of going to each monastery in turn? Just to drag the plot out so it takes enough time? Kaladin’s sections have always been my favorite, but this time it just dragged. I have more criticism but it will go in the writing section. 7. Finally the ending. A main question of the books has been is it okay to kill to protect? That’s been a mainstream theme of the entire book, and is the focal question of Kaladin’s entire character. But then when the time comes to answer it definitively and let the consequences fall where they may, Brandon cops out, dodges the question, and refuses to commit. Dalinar, the blackthorn, legendary warrior, refuses to kill one person to protect millions, if not billions. And his sacrifice is for naught, because taravangian resurrects his ghost anyway. 8. Oh and some older wiser super god pauses time to chat with Dalinar before he makes his final decision?? What is that guy doing, and if hes so old and wise and smart, why doesn't he come and solve some of the problems. It felt implied that Nohadon is adonalsium, so why is he just letting the bad guys win all the time bro? Its not as big a problem for this book, but its going to be a massive problem for future books. Part 2, the writing: Two of the three most interesting characters in the entire series on a quest to find and recruit a mad demigod, accompanied by another mad demigod, fighting duels with superpowered immortal beings mind controlling an entire nation is somehow boring???? How do you mess this one up that bad? 1. Modernisms: Nothing destroys immersion faster or harder than modern day ideas, words, phrases, or messaging. It is impossible to stay immersed in the story when words like therapy, racist, shit, genetics, dating “back in fifteen”(like everyone has clocks that measure minutes???) etc. are being thrown around constantly. Therapy as a concept is basically a post ww2 invention. So having completely modern therapy techniques and ideas pumped into everything is utterly ludicrous. It absolutely destroys any sense of antiquity, immersion, or gravitas in the world when all the characters seem to be worried about are modern problems and themes. I’m reading this book to get away from modern political and social themes, not to wallow in them. 2. I don’t need to know how every character is feeling at every single moment for the entire book. Show me what they do and say, and let me draw my own conclusions. I don’t need 3 paragraphs of explanation of their every feeling every time they do something. It’s exhausting, boring and makes the book lose flow. Let me make some inferences about the character! If you explain every single thought, it actually makes the character feel less deep, less real. The more dimensions of a character you tell me about, instead of showing me actions and letting me guess, the less there seem to be. My imagination about their motives will always let me relate to the character more than you telling me about every single motivation they have ever had. Less is more, and in this case, more was way way less. This is why Shallan drags so much as a character, we have had too much insight into her inner thoughts for way too many pages/hours across too many books. 3. Just straight up bad prose: Go read the intro to ch 24. It’s a very prosey section where Szeth is dancing, then for no reason at all we have this line: “Five feet across and three feet high—at least the part that emerged from the soil—“. Bro what? Why include that? It wrecks the flow of the scene completely! I was listening, and I remember being jarringly brought right back into the real world by that one line, disrupting the story, breaking the immersion. 4. Too many POVs, too frequent POV changes. I don’t think I need to say anymore about this. 5. Sexualization characters. Why did we feel the need to mention that Syl has human anatomy? Are her and Kaladin going to have a physical relationship? Like whats the point here? It feels very fanservicey. The same with the Adolin Shallan shower scene. This is not a romance novel, don't make it one. I don't mind when characters are obviously in a physical relationship, I'm a huge fan of the wheel of time, but the way it is done is just not it. Part 3, Vibes: 1. Preachy: Lots of scenes where Brandon has a goal of a message he wants to get across, and instead of showing, tells us exactly what message he wants us to understand. Eg. Kaladin roasts librarian lady for being mean to Syl. 2. Not hard hitting: I don’t spend much time on reddit or reading theories or anything like that, until recently I havent spent much time on sanderson related YouTube, so I didn’t get any spoilers about stuff like Shallan’s mom, or Gav as Odium's champion etc. But even though I had no idea, they still did not make a big impact. I remember being surprised, but instead of that surprise sticking with me, it felt hollow. Maybe its because I didn’t actually care who the champion would be, or who Shallan’s mom was? But I don’t think there were any surprises in the whole book that actually hit hard. 3. Too much explanation: I want to know stuff, but he gave us too much stuff. This book felt like he had a prequel written about the heralds (which sounds totally dope), and he just cut random chapters out and gave it to us, but it didn’t actually give us any deeper understanding of HOW they did stuff. We got more about what they did, but not really how or why. 4. Boring. I could not care less about huge sections of this book, the plot, the writing, the character development, all just fall flat. 5. Felt very YA. I came here for an adult epic fantasy, not a YA romance stormlight fanfic. 6. Too long, and I like long books, but not when they are full of this crap. Part 4, politics: What makes great stories great is that they are relevant in any time period. Lord of the Rings was written almost a century ago, and it is so enduring that people are still making movies and TV shows about it. Eternal concepts like good vs evil, order vs chaos, duty, honor, suffering, and self sacrifice, will always be mainstays of good storytelling. Themes like these are what made the first 2 books so good. What will not be a mainstay of great storytelling is hypermodern gender, queer, and therapy themes. People will still be reading books like the wheel of time(which has progressive themes, just not at the expense of the plot) and the lord of the rings in 50-100 years. Up until this book I was sure that the SA would join them, and some of the books still might. However I fear WaT will join the likes of other politically active stories from hugely popular storylines that quickly become irrelevant and forgotten because the focus shifted away from good writing in favor of political messaging. Its the same reason that Christian entertainment has done so poorly for so many years, because the message comes at the expense of the story. One last point about the political messaging is that once again it breaks the immersion. In the Wheel of Time, progressive themed characters felt natural and organic, part of the world, the same way they are part of historical events in our world. In WaT, they felt like a lecture from a gender studies major at a private university. Whether or not you are in favor of it, it breaks the immersion. Conclusion: I love the Stormlight Archive, up until WaT it was my favorite series, and I would recommend Sanderson to everyone I knew. I cannot do that anymore. The first two books are phenomenal, the third is kind of boring early on but sticks the landing, I really like RoW and everything that we learn and the character arcs. WaT is an unmitigated disaster. It's depressing for me to have to write this, because I love Sanderson as a storyteller, but this isn't it. His editors and pre-readers did a horrible job, and I can't help but feel that political messaging was put above storytelling. I highly doubt that the story I just read was the one he imagined when he wrote TWoK 15 years ago.

** spoiler alert ** Sanderson, please, please, hire another editor! I came to hear about healing a mad herald, find out why the Shin were silent, and hear how the tense Final Ten Days go for celebtrities and common folk alike. Instead, I hear tiktok-quality praise to the glory of the spren of meetings and committees. Let's gloss over how Shallan and Jasnah cannot function without a strong male counterpart. I accept healing isn't always going forward, but...come on, why is Jasnah nerfed? And don't get me Started on how being a Ghostblood grants you unlimited plot armour. If anyone but a Ghostblood had tossed that dagger in, d'you reckon it'd utterly destroy a perpendicularity and singularity-tug everyone in? P.S. I was unprepared for so many fanfics to be written by a legit author. Had to check the cover to ensure this wasn't Twilight DLC.

This is a frustrating review for me to write. For a long time Brandon Sanderson has been my favorite modern fantasy author, and the Stormlight Archives my favorite unfinished series, but after reading this book that has changed for me. While parts of this book are absolutely incredible, and it doesn't change how much I love the first three books, there are several issues I have with Wind and Truth that I just can't overlook, and they ruined the reading experience for me overall. The first issue, and by far the most detrimental to how I view Wind and Truth, is the same-sex romance agenda that Sanderson places front and center. While he's included passing references at homosexuality in some of his past books, in Wind and Truth, these same-sex relationships are championed by some of the main characters, and it is heavily glorified. Due to my convictions, and my conscience, I started to skip each section where these characters would show up once I realized what was going on, but I'm incredibly disappointed that Sanderson chose to include this. It was completely unnecessary, and makes it so I can't recommend this book. Other issues I had include the way that Sanderson tries to write humor. A lot of the jokes sound like they're coming straight from a group of middle school boys, which quickly loses its charm and feels jarring to read in this kind of epic series. Likewise, Sanderson's attempt to address "mental illness" in a fantasy book where people wear super suits and kill stuff with magical swords comes off as shallow at best and preachy at worst. It seriously feels like he took a psychology textbook and copy pasted some sections into this book. Taken together, these issues compile to make one very frustrating read. Were there some awesome parts? Yes. Does the ending absolutely blow your mind? Yes. Will I ever read it again? Nope.

Porn and alliance with Satan and his alphabet agenda. When did Sanderson the "wise" abandon reason for madness? Disgusting and sad.

** spoiler alert ** If my boyfriend disappeared for 24 hours and it was to help his ex move I'd literally never talk to him again.

Goldy was the best character in this book and she was a fish. If Freida won’t take a break from writing her books then I’m taking a break from reading them. I can’t anymore.

the fish is the only normal character.

What in the Goldy Limonene Quillizabeth snickerdoodle fruit fly was this book ? Freida is never beating the AI allegations (they only exist in my head but still, I’m convinced). I know I know. I should stop reading her books but I can’t quit them. I need a level ten hug after reading this nonsense. 1.5 stars

a pile of shit is more fascinating than this book.

I am so done with Freida! Uggggh. I was relieved to see male pov in hopes I wouldn't have to read the line "deviatingly handsome" but nope, fuck me for thinking that. She weaseled it in, on page 69. I don't know why I keep doing this to myself. So sick of this one trick pony and her completely formulaic drivel.

I hated this. I hated every character and it was so predictable even though it made me hugely anxious.

Same old thing but more annoying!! Things happen in previous books that are completely ignored as if it never happened. Do different people write these books and not check to see what happened in the book before???? Plus like so many other readers, I don’t think it’s cool that she cheats between Joe and Ranger. Cheating is never a good thing. I think I am done reading these books!!!!

What the eff was this. It was written the way I’d write stories in 6th grade. I don’t understand 1, why there are THIRTY books in this series and 2, why do people like them!!!!??? Only reason i didn’t DNF was bc i wanted to see how the mystery aspect unfolded but it was so anti climactic. The characters were so unrealistic and the dialogue was just so…..idk the right words. Basic? Unrealistic? Just so weird.

** spoiler alert ** So deeply unfulfilled after finishing this book. No character development, no new character, same old same old. Stephanie still doing the same bullshit with morelli and denying that she’s worth more than he is willing to give while being reeled back in by his sudden realization that he wants to marry her after Ranger has already propositioned her…why? We don’t know because he had to “talk to her” all book and never did! Ugh. Frustrating.

That’s what I deserve for going in blind and not reading the first 29… was not what I was expecting AT ALL 🫠😅

Thirty did me dirty. No laughs. No short chapters leaving off with a cliffhanger. Too much recapping of the series.

I hate a book that does not end. The book was boring and ended very poorly. Couldn't you think of a true ending to your story line. I have bought all thirty books in this series and will not buy another one because I felt cheated. Why does an author think it ok to try to sell you their next book by not finishing the last one. If your writing is good and the story is good people buy the next book.

This book was so bad I’m shocked to see the amount of 4 star and up reviews. If I didn’t get this book for free on Libby and have 10 hours of driving this last weekend I never would have suffered through these characters. What in the literary hell is going on with this book and anyone who would read not one but 30 in this series.

Sucked compared to her others. Couldn't even finish it

After the second Archer book I told myself I was done with this series. I ended up giving this one a shot just because Baldacci is (was?) one of my favorite authors. Big mistake. Too many characters, too many descriptions, too much repetition, not enough plot or reason to make me give a hoot. Just plain boring. Archer is not for me and, Heaven forbid, this series continues, I won’t be wasting any more time on it.

OY!! Too many characters, too much plot, not enough interest. Fuhgeddaboudit!

I always really look forward to new David Baldacci books, and I never thought that I'd say this. I thought that this book was downright poor. It was overly and unnecessarily complicated, fell flat at the end, and the character portrayals were superficial. Definitely a skip.

Just not a good read this time around. Way too much back story and way too many threads weaving into one not good novel…for me. I did not like the characyters. I am certain next book will be much better.

Just awful. Cannot be from this author. I never finished it. I would avoid spending the money and time on this book.

The audiobook is narrated by Whoopi Goldberg. If I had have known that, I would have never bought it. Nails on a chalkboard! I’d rather have ice picks jammed in my ears than listen to this Illuminati puppet.

author is unimaginative Nothing like the other two books in this series. I waited so long for it! Now I’m sad. Too bad.

I am a book listener and this book was ruined by the reader. The reader had no idea how to put the inflected needed and very hard to tell which character was talking all sounded almost the same. A lot of the time the reader seemed tired or board. The reader of the other 2 books would have been a much better choice! I bought this book on Amazon and could not get thru it so I got a refund. Being able to listen to books has been a God send for me.

I have read the first two books in the series and this one ruined it for me. In the preceding novels one has to suspend belief in parts of them, while in the third, it’s just too much. A White male novelist who thinks its appropriate to describe the feelings and actions of African slave women and then concocts a story around a racist curse is just too much. I’m done!

Could not finish. Usually love Grisham books but this one dragged and I had no interest in the topic.

Save your money and your time.

DNF Chic Lit meets Simon Legree - from a cheesy beachfront wedding to the deepest and darkest horrors of the African slave trade. All this by page 33 - that was enough. John Grisham has written some of my most favorite novels - this was not one of them. The writing seemed very juvenile and I was just plain bored as it dragged on. Did he really author this book?

Grisham just mailing it in now. Just wasn’t enough to call it a book….was almost a short story. Been a fan for 30 + years.. but might be time to call it a day. Oh..and of course they’re all so PC now…and a little self rightous.

I sense intense anxiety, bordering on paranoia, from Jack Carr’s latest “work.” His preface is this long spew about the USA’s withdrawal Afghanistan, the military budget (he claims 50% of the military budget and 70% of the intelligence budget goes to defense contactors, but I would love to know where he got those numbers from), the politicians in DC (I am guessing these are not the same politicians that recently VOTED AGAINST the PACT ACT you know, the one that would assist veterans impacted by the BURN PUTS?!)), companies tracking us all the time (turn off your cookies and use incognito mode, dummie), Silicon Valley, social media, trolls (those negative reviews getting to you, Jackie?), THE LEFT, triggered critics (basically anyone who did not kiss Carr’s soggy cheeks and praise his work), military officers (especially those who write and pass legislation that will serve their donors and investments well, which honestly, same. I hate Dan Crenshaw too) and especially the insiders versus the outsiders. Jack Carr/James Reece places himself on the outsider but it’s like – Jack Carr hangs out with the dudes from Black Rifle Coffee on the regular, has been on Fox News and Tucker Carlson multiple times, and gets to speak at conferences and events like the Ronald Raegan Library. Jack Carr is the insider. Jack Carr has the megaphone and can spew out this political treatise disguised as a book. There is also this obsession with really bloody, really nasty deaths. I am putting in spoiler tags to hide it because this is very upsetting and nasty, but there are some long descriptions and depictions of the following: (view spoiler) Jack Carr’s mind is in a very dark place. The book is just bad. Bad. Bad. Bad. I hated The Terminal List, but this is just much worse. Even (some) fans who wrote they enjoyed the previous books seemed to have soured in this book. Jack Carr could not realistic dialogue if he had a gun to his head, and that gun was held by Mark Twain. James Reece’s dialogue is about 50% exposition, 40% repeating what someone said back to them, 10% is untreated PTSD spewing out of him. Jack Carr also has this very annoying habit repeating facts and little tidbits two, three, sometimes four times over (let’s trot out the 1972 Munich Olympics massacre, because that somehow ties into the plot! Did you know that nicotine is absorbed into the bloodstream? Did you know Jack Carr is freaked out by algorithms!? Well you will know all that and more by the end of this book)! The plot, whatever it was, is the same as it was in the previous books in that James Reece is emotionally manipulated by those around them to kill people for the hell of it. And along the way he pines after Katie, thinks about Laura and Lucy (remember them? Neither do I), and ruminates over his dad, Thomas (because of course this has to be some sort of legacy family). If you have read any book in this series, then you know how it goes. James Reece sails on through, taking hits and bullets like a Terminator, dealing out torture and murder willy-nilly. Along the way product placement are dropped like really bad diarrhea – one long, stinky steam that never seems to end and leaves you feeling drained and shaky and wondering where you went wrong. There is this odd emphasis on Russian Spetsnaz. My favorite character was Oleg, who sadly, does not get to survive the book. Oleg is sent to kill James Reece (even though Oleg is 62, or 52, I can’t remember and I already returned the library book) and this action and subsequent torture sequence is used for filler. You could cut it out completely and NOTHING would change. I wanted to know more about Oleg. How did he meet his wife (whose name we never get, btw)? How did he get along with the step-kids (the implication seems to be that he got along fine with them)? How did he start his gym? What was the culture shock moving from Russia to Italy? What was his favorite foods? What did Oleg do on his days off? What was Oleg's workout routine? This character reminds me of this anonymous diarist who was a Russian Spetsnaz fighting in Chechnya. I cannot find the full diary translated online, but we are lucky enough to have excerpts and this is such a rich, dark, complex text that blows Jack Carr's completely out of the water. And when I think of Oleg, I think of this dude and what he was going through. How come this book wasn’t James Reece teaming up with Oleg on some sort of mission, two aging veterans from different pasts and backgrounds but sharing the experience of fighting a losing war in Afghanistan going on an adventure together. I thought about it, then realized THAT WOULD HAVE TAKEN TALENT THAT JACK CARR DOESN’T POSSESS. Oleg fails in his mission (because James Reece is not allowed to fail) and wow was his punishment brutal. Oleg is tortured with drugs and needles and I feel sympathy more for him than for Reece. The man’s blood pressure and heartbeat (through meth!) are accelerated to intense levels and needles keep being inserted into different areas... the man is literally foaming at the mouth, his eyes are full of blood, and his brain is being boiled inside his skull and its like… you are slowly killing an old man with a family being left behind. But it is okay because JACK CARR says it is okay! If Jack Carr had a favorite character out of 1984, it would probably be O’Brien. Oleg and his wife and his step-kids deserved better, damnit. Random thoughts: • This is just a stupid fantasy world – how does James Reece, who has killed multiple government officials across multiple countries, get to walk around and show himself in public? The way Jack Carr writes James Reece and how people interact with him you would think there would be people lining up to gargle James Reece’s reese's pieces (if you know what I mean.) I wish Jack Carr had gotten into Dungeons and Dragons – it would have been a much healthier outlet for him. • What non-American would prefer a water with ice in it? That’s our (American) thing, Jack. • A chick who is approximately 5’5” and seems to weigh a little over 100 lbs? That chick is Very underweight. • How in the hell is James Reece meeting with the President of the USA at Camp frigging David?!!? Also, how did the President (whose name I could never remember) make it into the White House when he was unmarried? Is that even allowed in the court of public opinion? I think the one exception to the "rule" of married Presidents was James Buchanan (and he was probably gay). Yeah, I know his fiancé was murdered in a previous book, but come on. If James Reece could move on quickly (like, within weeks after Laura and Lucy being murdered), than I think the President can as well. • Katie has the personality of a fleshlight. There, I said it. • What does James Reece do on his days off? Drink heavily and then yell himself at the mirror? • I bet the only way Reece can get his piece up is by watching Come and See or having to look up waterboarding videos. The man ain't right.

This was so boring. I read the Terminal List and it was entertaining and full of suspense, and I expected something similar...but this...I am at page 71 and nothing has happened so far (if you don't count the start). I am not engaged, I don't root with the hero, I am just bored with the endless telling. I love action packed books, but this is not one of them. Up on the recycle heap.

No more Jack Carr for ne

Abandoned half way through. I grew weary of the violence and tedious language. It seemed like half of every page was filled with acronyms followed by their definitions.

DNF 38% I really, really tried for two long months to go through it but even my love for LuceSloane couldn’t make me read it. Dinaa this DNF is for you babe😂

If I could, I would give a negative rating to this book. I stopped at 12% after reading "Thanks to Drag Queen Story Hour, the children's section had energy of a preschool at snack time". Enough said. I think we are on the same page now Lucy Score. Bye.

this book should be hidden from the light

Copaganda with the “it’s just one bad apple, the rest of us are good” trope. If you’re not going to acknowledge how the current system upholds racism then just don’t touch it. This is a white woman’s fantasy of racism solved while still making cops heroes. Aside from that, the romance was pretty good. But it’s actually never been “one bad cop” as white people tell themselves to sleep at night. They infamously protect eachother and get away with murder every single day.

1 ⭐️ wow…I was so excited for this…but it was borderline painful to read (especially after how good the first one was). It was about 400 pages too long of rambling and cringey behavior. Not to mention the fact that at some point Nash started acting like Knox and Lina was completely insufferable. I only finished it so I’d have more backstory for Lucy/Sloane’s story— although after this disaster, my expectations for that book are very diminished

DNF. i think the problem is just me, maybe i’ll give this next time another chance.

I don’t understand the rave reviews but so be it. For me this was boring, as in, put the book down and want to scream boring; as in grit my teeth because it’s still not finished boring. There was no edge, no humor, no slant. None of the characters were developed into believable, living people. The daughters were distinguable only by their chosen vocations. The main character is someone I would feign illness to avoid at an office party for lack of personality. What is Joe like? I have not the faintest clue. And Duke? Just his vices and his teeth. And our Sebastian? Wtf? Please. I know nothing about these characters after slogging through the book for hundreds of pages. The novel consists of the main character relaying a brief acting career and romance from her pre-married life to her daughters who are riveted for reasons I don’t understand. Who are these docile creatures? Why are they so lacking in fight, independence, mischief and rebellion at their age? Instead they wait with baited breath day after day for the least interesting pre-married life romance I’ve ever heard. The story telling within the novel is interrupted periodically by cherry picking and yes, I felt like I was there in the orchard plotlessly looking at cherries. I assumed something interesting would be revealed from her past life. Boy was I disappointed.

What a disappointment in both the lack of character development and of a creative storyline. I read this book at the recommendation of multiple book clubs and on my way to a summer vacation in cherry orchard country Michigan. The story was unbelievable and unimaginative for such a well touted author and lacked any depth or development of the characters. While I appreciate the format the author constructed, telling a narrative story in retrospect with conversational interruptions, even the main character’s internal dialogue lacked consistency and any depth. I believe the author tried to capture the heart of a mother interacting with adult children, but it consistently felt short of sincerity and believability on every front. The characters in both the present and the past were shallow with some of the main characters almost being cartoonish representations of their profession or role. The main character’s remembrance of her former self lacked any self realization or any internal thought process.The interaction in the modern characters compared to that of the narrative of their past lacked authenticity and consistency and seemed like entirely different characters, not the same people at different moments in time. The last part of the book seemed a rushed attempt to make the storytelling format of the book come together and make sense but almost all but abandoned the original narrative format altogether. The only chapter of any interest or depth was the chapter about the character’s grandmother. This was the only chapter that had a glimpse of internal revelation or a spark of true character. At the end I thought this was akin to overhearing a banal and boring conversation between unremarkable people. And I learned little, nor grasped the immense beauty of, western Michigan from this book, sadly.

spoiler, this ends with a mother feeling "grateful" that she got to kill her child. spare us this unrealistic whitewashing of the greatest human rights abuse of the 21st century.

This book was so boring I don’t know how it received more than 4 stars. I was on a island with no internet or tv, and found the local newspaper more interesting

DNF. Read halfway through and while she’s a great storyteller there is no story here, in my opinion. I can summarize the half that I read in 3 sentences and you wouldn’t miss anything important.

Yikes, I hesitate to put DNF because I know I'm gonna get pummeled by Silva fans. But this one, like the last one, just didn't have the mojo to hold me in the story. I gave it until page 200. I'd read three wonderful books of his right in a row, then the last two...not so much. This is a great book the way it describes all the ins and outs of money laundering but there's too much of it. This is a spy thriller. What I also missed was the conflict being firmly set. I didn't know what was going on, what the goal was. And the real big one, there wasn't any jeopardy in the first 200 pages. There wasn't anybody after anybody, no tension. If it gets better toward the end I didn't wait for it. Alas, because the two in a row, I'm afraid I am no longer a hardcover-the-day-it-comes-out kinda guy. I'm gonna have to wait on the paperback for the next.

Disapointment Terrible, first half to 2/3 was great. But when it goth to Washington it became pure propaganda.Silva has a severe case of Donald Trump derangement syndrome. Mr. Silva has deeply disappointed me. Wayne Elkinsa

Disappointing. Truly disappointing. After 21 books I guess it’s time to retire Gabriel Allon. I didn’t think I’d ever say that, but it was a good run. Unfortunately, this is just the latest entertainer, actor, sports person, now writer that thinks the public needs to see and agree with their political point of view. I’m so tired of this. I wish entertainers would understand that if they bring politics into things, you are going to alienate 50% of the public. You could still get your point across by using a fictional president like all of the other books in this genre. Did you really have to go to such great lengths to destroy years of readership? I’m just so tired of this. I never thought I would DNF an Allon book but after chapter 44, I just could not go on. 21 books……wow, it takes a lot to destroy a fan that completely.

Too political too forced to boring If I wanted to relive the last 18 month of the pandemic and a one sided view of US politics, I might, only barely have liked this book. It’s really sub-par writing for Silva. I’ve enjoyed most everyone of his prior Allon books! However, Silva’s treatise on his obvious world views, from carbon footprint, to sustainable green energy, evil billionaires, corrupt banks was too much. And no I do not forgive this author for making me pay to read his personal opinions! I read for enjoyment, and at this time in history a little escape into good fiction is something I’ve longed for! I cannot recommend this book to anyone of any political persuasion, if you want to read a better written political review of the last 18 month or a scientific read regarding climate change there a better more fact based well written books out there. As regarding the pandemic, books will come but there are decent ones already out there! In summary, I wish I could get a refund on my purchase, because the book is not recognizable as a true Gabriel Allon book! I can only suggest to anyone who has so enjoyed the past books in the series to not pay full new price, but to wait and buy it as a used paperback if you are so inclined not to skip this one!

Oh the sadness of the woke! For no good reason plot-wise in this novel Silva pushes his usual liberal/progressive politics out of the novel's background and into the foreground. Orange Man Bad, "insurrection" worse than 9/11, etc, et al, and very tediously boring and much of it (no election fraud! No way!!) rendered dubious by post-publication events. There's a decent novel in here (Silva can write, after all) but this is woke nonsense. The summary - with a tweak to Mr Silva - is simply this: "Sad!" Edit: the last 15% of the book is unreadable conspiracy theory material. "Terribly sad."

I have read every book in this series and the last two were back on track. This book was one of the three worst in the series. Wow this book really missed the mark. I thought the book had a good premise from the beginning but it went south fast. One two many books in a row where there is a super model who is super talented who Gabriel is going to use to get the bad guy-played out. I think this book was the most boring in the series, it was flat, story was a struggle it just was not there. There were huge parts of this book Where Gabriel and his crew were not even present and I am not sure why some came back for a cameo role. I did not like the ending. This book went political big time like no other book in the series and I thought he was getting away from doing that but he fell back into that trap. The funny thing is usually when he does that he was attacking the Democrats which I vote for but not this time-he savaged trump in this book and that did not bother me lol. In the end that stuff for the most part should be left out of the book. There was no real suspence to this book and when it did happen I was long gone. I did not care about the bad guy and if he was called mr big one more time meh. This book was a huge , huge diseaster like some of his other fans have written just read the reviews.

Thinner than ever, Allon disintegrates The plot of these gets thinner and thinner with every new release over the past few years. And, predictably repetitive: a beautiful woman, an espionage novice, is guided by Allon to take down the bad guys. Limited character development of new characters, repeat characters reduced to caricatures, abundant repetition of boilerplate, and unforgivably bad editing. The vivid supporting cast from previous novels barely appears and has virtually no dialogue. Most of the novel is presented via a smarmy-toned omniscient narrator who does nothing to breathe life into the characters we all love. I so much miss the depth and rich complexity of the early Allon novels. The past few have been worthless money grabs profiting from the affection readers have for the earlier works. A sad disintegration of what was once a great series.

Gabriel Allon used to be one of my favorite characters of all times, too bad he got killed by political ranting and bias. Oh, and he was too busy fixing his mask, and/or disinfecting his hands in order to be relevant as a character anymore. Sadly, after the last two books in the series, it’s time to say good bye, at least for me. Mr. Silva, please go back to writing amazing stories like you did for so many years, and forget about your own personal agenda. Thnks!

I wasn’t entertained. Drivel. Biased. Idiotic. Ranting. Unbelievable. Ridiculous. Juvenile. Disappointing. Based on ideological belief rather than fact. I’m no longer a fan of Mr. Silva.

Wow. This was a series I loved and looked forward to every year and this will probably be the last I read. The author decided to make this book about the latest US Election and voiced his political opinions on every chance he got. The actual story was inconsequential and maybe it would’ve been better had the author written a blog describing his feelings rather than ruin a terrific ongoing series. This will unquestionably be at the bottom in terms of book ratings this year.

I'm afraid this is my last journey with Gabriel Allon. Up until the end the author crafted a compelling tale, but he chose to inject his own political biases and inflated conspiracy theories. He and I obviously voted for the same person for president, but I read books like his to escape from the polarized state of affairs in our country. I don't lack for reliable, documented information about what is happening, and I don't need this sort of shocking speculation in what used to be one of my favorite series of thrillers. I'm sad, but I still have James Lee Burke's books to look forward to.

Too much politics I have read all of the Gabriel Allon novels. This will be my last. I enjoyed the books for their twisting plots and intrigue. I chose them for their plot not their politics. The last two particularly ‘The Cellist’ have been heavy on the political views of the author and not so much on the story. If I wanted to hear about the author’s political views I could have just watched CNN and saved the money

I started reading this series when Mr Silva started writing it. I have bought my own copy of this book until this publication. I borrowed a copy for this round because of all of the political commentary he was forcing on us. This is the last book of his I will ever read, if he even bothers to write one. This story was slow and seemed to be written mostly to expound on his political beliefs.

What a let down! I was looking forward to reading a new addition to what has been a great series and was really disappointed. This book is only a pale shadow of the earlier books. The story line is simplistic and worse, completely predictable. The main characters of Allon's old team make only a cameo appearance and their roles/characters are not developed. They, along with female heroines from early books, (Anna excepted) have no role beyond merely being furniture on the stories stage. Concluding this book with a ham-handed rewriting of the ending to shoehorn in an overblown partisan political statement was the coup de grace. My advice: If you have enjoyed the Allon series, don't read this one. Let Gabriel sail into the sunset with the last book, The Order.

@danielsilvabook, I have a suggestion for your next book: Gabriel Allon and his intrepid group of Israeli spies discover a laptop belonging to the drug addict son of American's Democrat Party presidential nominee and former vice president. The son had been hired to sit on the board of a corrupt Ukrainian energy company, even though he had no expertise in the energy sector, corporate governance, regional affairs, or even spoke the language, and had recently been kicked out of the navy for repeated substance abuse violations. It is a clear case of influence peddling. The laptop contained salacious videos of the son getting high on illicit drugs and screwing hookers. Additionally, email on the laptop lead Allon to find even greater corruption in China, where the son orchestrated deals that enriched the president's family and pumped millions—possibly even billions of dollars—into businesses controlled by family members, while his father was veep. The plot thickens when American corporate news media renounce all journalistic ethics by burying the story of the laptop's discovery to protect their preferred leftwing candidate. Eventually the corrupt Democrat nominee, who spent most of the election cycle at home because he apparently lacked the good health to campaign and who's handlers could not trust him not to make public gaffs, is elected by an unbelievably high record breaking vote count fueled by suspicious and untraceable mail-in ballots. The same news media that for three years perpetuated a false Russian collusion story about the incumbent president declare the election free of fraud before any serious inquiry can be conducted. Allon and The Office, like all others who dared expose the corruption, are censored and ridiculed as conspiracy theorists. At last they are cancelled and never heard from again. The end.

Daniel Silva is an excellent writer and storyteller. By now these novels all follow the same formula and yet they are so well written that we are pulled through them to find out what happens. However, Mr. Silva might also be working for CNN, like his wife, or perhaps for the Democratic National Committee. Starting with his last novel and even more so in this one, he trashes Trump relentlessly, along with his supporters. There is lots to criticize about Trump but I somehow doubt that the next novel in the series will find any fault with Trump's successor. If one of the novels exposed Hillary Clinton, I must have missed it. He is convinced (as expressed in the author's notes) that every alleged connection to Russia was totally true. There is ample evidence of Biden's corruption throughout his political career, yet the media elites don't think the American people deserve to hear about that. As Lester Holt instructs us, "Fairness is overrated". As Harry Reed told us, "It worked, didn't it". Daniel Silva and his ilk lied and suppressed information to help ensure that two of the most unqualified individuals ever were elected to the most powerful positions in the world. Current events are proving how pathetic they are. I initially rated this a 4 for the storytelling but I could not leave it at that. Silva really abused his loyal readers in this book. After concentrating on the story for the first half of the book, the reader begins to be troubled and then disgusted by Silva's hijacking of the story to push his political narratives. Selecting a Republican legislator as the character for a violent attacker was not just letting his bias get the best of him, it ruined his credibility as a storyteller. Sorry, Silva, you have lost me as a reader!

This is the 23rd Silva book I’ve read and it thoroughly disappointed and saddened me. The story was very good, but Silva’s writing pen was filled with the ink of his own bile. Silva laced his story with his politics.I get enough of that in real life, but I wonder how many of his readers have been turned off by this. Rather than trying to respond to his lengthy attempts to validate how he feels, I will leave these questions: will his next book take a critical look at the administration he so admires for opening our borders to cartels, felons and human sex traffickers; to the sickening escape from Afghanistan leaving hundreds if now thousands of Americans and our supporters behind; removing our troops before civilians; sacrificing our energy independence to Russia and others; his preferred side’s deafening silence as many of our cities were being torched and denied much police protection while crime, including murders of young, innocent black children who represent our future continues on a daily basis? If Gabriel Allon is indeed finished and there are no more books recording his exploits, then Silva has chosen the right time for himself to also exit stage left. For, he has failed to consider many in the audience of his readers who, like me, are both disappointed and saddened. Perhaps my thoughts will reach the author. And, if there are more Silva books to come, perhaps he will consider the fact his readers include people of many persuasions who read him and others for escape rather than being preached to through his political spectrum.

Reading “The Cellist” is like a long drive on a super highway that has a hard speed bump every 40 feet. If it’s not a political jab against Trump– totally unrelated and forced into the book–it’s an unnecessary and inconsistent Covid mention. Both take the reader out of the plot and are extremely annoying. Daniel Silva has developed an Alan Furst problem. Both are excellent, suspenseful writers who lost their mojo after cranking out a book a year. It is very unfortunate for their readers. On top of that Silva exacerbates the problem with his blatant political bias and hatred, thus alienating half of his readers. Not too smart, but obviously he doesn’t care anymore. The first eight pages of “The Cellist” are background information on one of the characters. Not grabbing at all, booooring. If it wasn’t Silva, publishers would have told him, “Edit the opening please, it DOES NOT hook the reader.” Then from Chapter 60-Chapter 67 it’s FIFTY pages that have nothing to do with the book except venting against Trump. WTH? Not reading any more Silva won’t be a loss as the old Gabriel Allon is gone.

I don't think I can ever read another Daniel Sliva book after this one. Wow. It read more like a comedy than a thriller. And making the comparison to 9/11 was the last straw. I couldn't even finish the book. So sad that he let his deranged political views take over the entire book. Very disappointing indeed.

This book is a further example of the decline of a once competent writer. Is this a novel, political tract or what? It’s an insult to Allon and all his fans. Silva has either had a stroke or been recruited by George Soros. Don’t waste your money or your time

some people desperately need jesus and colleen hoover is one of them

I mean if you like sex scenes dryer than a biology text book sure go off I guess

what the actual fuck

I've just finished 'Verity' and wish it were possible to open up my skull, take out my brain and dip it in disinfectant. It's such horrible, nasty trash that I feel a bit 'dirty' for spending 99p of my hard earned money on something so unpleasant. I never heard of Colleen Hoover before and on the strength of this, I've not missed much and I won't be giving her a second try. I read a lot of mystery/suspense and consider 'Verity' to be third-rate and predictable suspense with a lot of gratuitous and unpleasant sex thrown in to spice it up. I'm still feeling icky about the bite marks on the bed frame and wondering HOW somebody can do that and not knock their teeth out. Not since Bobby Ewing's shower scene in the mid 80s Dynasty has there been such a ludicrous plot twist as 'Verity' relies on. What a waste of the roughly 4 hours it took to read. The trend for the novel without a hero (as Thackery styled 'Vanity Fair' many many years ago) has been really popular in the past 5 years or so. Books lacking any sympathetic or likeable characters are 'big' but aren't we at the stage of wanting something new now? Sorry to those who clearly love it but from my perspective, this Hoover sucks!

Never going to get the brain cells back I lost reading this, am I?

** spoiler alert ** Unpopular opinion ahead! (Also many, many spoilers.) A lot of purportedly intelligent people have to make a lot bizarre, nonsensical, baffling choices to get us through this storyline. How this book should have gone: 1. Lowen finds the manuscript. 2. Lowen begins to read the manuscript. 3. Weird crap starts happening in the house. 4. Lowen immediately tells Jeremy. 5. Lowen gets to one of many graphically gruesome child abuse scenes in Verity’s manuscript. 6. Lowen hands Jeremy the manuscript and says, “read this.” 7. Lowen leaves. 8. The end. How this book goes: 1. Lowen finds the manuscript. 2. Lowen begins to read the manuscript one tiny chunk at a time, spread out over weeks, so as to pad the entire length of Verity. 3. Weird crap starts happening around the house. 4. Lowen ignores the weird crap or convinces herself she made it up because…she sleep walks? (Something that was discussed so thoroughly I thought it would have a point. But it didn’t?) 5. Lowen gets to one of many graphically gruesome child abuse scenes. 6. Lowen takes a break from reading the manuscript, writes a novel (all off screen), develops sudden feelings for Jeremy, then continues to read the manuscript. 7. Lowen consents to having Jeremy lock her into her bedroom from the outside, so as to prevent her sleepwalking all over the house. 8. Lowen has unprotected sex with Jeremy with his wife and child upstairs. 9. Lowen realizes Verity killed Harper, sees Verity moving on camera, confronts her, and finally shows Jeremy the manuscript. 10. Lowen helps Jeremy kill Verity. 11. Lowen moves to North Carolina with Jeremy, where they will raise the baby with whom she is now pregnant. 12. But surprise! The whole manuscript was JUST A WRITING EXERCISE DUH 13. The end. Additional notes: The first time Lowen and Jeremy meet (yet another wildly contrived scenario including a car accident and a woman trusting a strange man to hang out in a bathroom with her while she changes her shirt) Jeremy acts like he has no idea who she is. But later says he was the one who suggested she co-author Verity’s novels because Lowen’s writing was so special to him. So he lied? Are we sure there wasn’t something more sinister going on with Jeremy? I just kept waiting for it, but it never happened. No way Verity “fakes” her condition. Doctors, nurses, specialists, all the scans and tests, and no one could tell she was just lying really still?! Excuse me. That ending is so contrived! Was I supposed to be shocked? Or upset? Because it just made me roll my eyes. I honestly feel like Colleen Hoover wrote this with the mindset that she’ll be taken more seriously as a writer the darker and more graphic her novels become. And this was the darkest and most gruesome yet. But she’s at her best when her plots are solid and don’t rely heavily on contrived “twists” and explanations and nonsensical behavior by characters. So yeah…she pushed this novel to its absolute limits, content-wise. But dropped her plotting and story telling along the way. 1 star

that was fucking awesome

There’s a whole tiktok series of me losing my sanity. Have fun (I didn’t)

I wish I could go back and unread this book. SEVERE trigger warnings for child abuse to anyone considering this read. I can’t believe the high average rating of this book. I felt physically sick multiple times throughout, and can’t seem to figure out what the point was. Maybe I’m not suited to this genre, whatever it is, but I am completely disgusted. My advice? Don’t read this book.

Colleen Hoover thrillers are, while very bad, still better than her romance novels. I firmly believe that Colleen just read a bunch of bad thrillers one day and decided to combine everything she read to create the ULTIMATE bad thriller. This truly had every clichéd thriller trope imaginable: (view spoiler), (view spoiler), (view spoiler) and a completely nonsensical plot-twist that’s just there to serve a „GOTCHA BET YOU DIDN’T SEE THAT COMING“ moment. And none of these tropes were even done particularly well or in a new and exciting way. Also, when will authors realize that having a completely out of left field plot-twist isn’t exactly a good thing? This one was especially dumb. I knew something completely ridiculous was coming so I just spent the last 30 pages laughing and I still can’t stop one hour later because it’s just SO STUPID. There was also so much unnecessary sex but what can you expect from something that’s calling itself a „romantic thriller“. Whatever the fuck that’s supposed to be. The two words together make me want to throw up. Please never write another one, Colleen. I’m going to give her this though: It was kinda entertaining. Netflix has this TV show where they bring together a bunch of „hot“ people and tell them they can’t fuck or else they won’t win the prize money and all of them immediately start hyperventilating as if they would die if they can’t have sex for one week. It’s ridiculous and I have watched an entire season because it’s so entertaining and it’s exactly what reading this books feels like: it’s so goddamn stupid but it’s also very funny and I just couldn’t put it down. Still, me facepalming and crying tears of laughter for two hours straight doesn’t make this a good book. It remains 324 pages of pure bullshit. 1 star.

scariest thing in this book was the writing

Ehhhh, cliche thriller. I know it’s not her normal style and the twist is a little interesting but it’s not a gripping novel by any means. It’s an effortless read though, not boring, but too steamy for me - as in, not enough story because there’s so much steam it takes up a ton of the book. And the steam itself, very gritty. If you want a really good mystery suspense thriller, read “All The Dangerous Things” by Stacy Willingham. MUCH better read…

VERY mild spoilers ahead. Boy, do I have a lot to say about this book. Ok, first off, the plot was fine and set up for a good story. My frustrations lie within the delivery. Hoover quite literally lays it all out for you, leaving no room for speculation. And any of the surprising moments are moments that are so far-fetched and insane that nothing makes sense. Everything just started to become a jumble of super strange events, and in the end, no development happened. Now, I understand this is a romance thriller and it’s meant to be creepy and fucked up, but at LEAST make it creepy and fucked up while still making sense. The romance in this was so stupid, especially between Lowen and Jeremy. It was so random and had absolutely no substance or value; it was just like “we’re both people who’ve seen pretty fucked up shit….now let’s fuck” and everything else in the story is equally as stupid. The ending was awful and a cop out. I can’t explain it in much detail without spoiling, but imagine you're on a journey...You’ve been collecting bits and pieces of knowledge along the way. When you’ve almost reached the end, you have virtually all the knowledge you need….until you reach the end of said journey and find out that you didn’t need any of that knowledge to begin with. It was all for nothing, and there’s no purpose in life, and you start to question why you went on the journey in the first place, and suddenly wish you were taking a journey that’s much more worth your time than the one you just took. Yeah, that’s pretty much how I felt. After I read that ending, the first thing I wanted to do was forget. The characters were equally disappointing as the plot. Lowen is OBJECTIVELY an idiot—no doubt in my mind. None of her decisions in this book were wise or necessary. Verity is equally as stupid because all her problems would have been solved if she had just, idk, told her husband about her work life (and don’t give me any of that “she said he wasn’t interested”). From what I remember, she ASSUMED he wouldn’t listen, which created the poor communication and all the problems that followed. Jeremy is also fucking AWFUL. Idk why Hoover paints him as this super sweet guy when, in reality, he’s not. Even in the end, when you learn what he’s done, Hoovers still like, “he’s the sweetest guy”. HE’S ABSOLUTELY NOT. He’s an idiot, and he also has bad communication skills, just like Verity. The only reason I gave this two stars is that it was super easy to read and sparked good discussions at the book club. But it FAILS in every other category. UPDATE: I lied…book club convinced me to push it down to 1 star

Well I've set a record with this one. Sometimes I DNF early, usually around 25%, sometimes before that; but I quit here in the middle of the 3rd sentence. If you are a person who is impressed by overwritten slush, stop reading here and walk away. Or in your preferred langue du commerce, relinquish the tome in your bejeweled, alabaster digits and prance haughtily from this verbose online chamber of literary enlightenment. With your chapeau atilt. You're welcome. Anyone who has read my opinion pieces knows how very little I value fancy dancy lacy pantsy writing, pages sludged down with pretentious creative writing class pomposity and unnecessary piles of detritus and detail. The offending phrase here involved a perfect green pear with "the stem atilt." This single word was a spoiler warning that I was going to be gagging on sugar syrup and to quit while I still had a lunch to digest, and before I found out whether there was actually a cake under all that icing. So I blew that pop joint. Life's too short to waste time reading crap. Why are you still reading this?

You lost me when the bug touched the nipple. Couldn’t do it.

** spoiler alert ** This book was going to get two stars for me but then I looked back and saw that I gave two stars to where the crawdad sing which I hated but at least that had some redeemable characters this however did not. The entire premise as most people know is this Elle cheats on her husband with her childhood best friend at 50. So they met when she was 11 and he was 8 and he’s held a candle out for her for 40 some years and he decides a quickie behind the cabin from behind is the ticket. You’ve got to be kidding me. Also 3 scenes of gruesomely detailed child sexual assault is like 3 too many for me to be completely honest like I get this was important to the story however…you can miss me with the nitty gritty details I am good. Plus Elle was miserable and she just went back and forth from Jonas and then to her husband a bunch like she just couldn’t decide like give me a break. Then they could have stopped where she chose Pete her husband who was if we were being honest not that redeeming himself and sort of a part time funny guy but a chain smoker…his only redeemable quality was his British accent which probably didn’t translate for the book readers. Also they didn’t stop with her choosing Pete to be clear they left it open ended…let me just be clear selling this as a slow blossoming love spanning time and distance of hearts growing fonder just isn’t doing it for me. Utter garbage like if you are gonna cheat on your spouse that you have a happy marriage with a 3 kids like fucking commit and at least make one a measure able upgrade in a discerning way. The only redeemable character was the sister and they killed her off. Anyways don’t waste your time…it’s trash binge watch something on Netflix instead.

Absolutely not. Sexual child abuse is a hard no. Didn’t even make it to chapter 3.

I read a lot of dark reads that don’t tend to bother me, but (very descriptive!!) incestuous pedophilia is a dealbreaker. Returning my purchase, disappointing this one has such high praise on Bookstagram.

WHERE IS THE CONTENT WARNING ON THIS BOOK? Dnf'd within the first three chapters due to gross content involving the sexual abuse of children. Look, if you as an author want to write that into a character's backstory, fine. But no one needs to see it described on the page. Majorly disappointed in this.

Puts a rather gritty and unpalatable light on child molestation and parental negligence. As a mother of 2 young daughters I found the grim detail of this book incredibly difficult to stomach and stopped reading at chapter 15. Audible kindly allowed me to return it. I’m sure this book has a place in the world, but as a parent I feel like other moms might appreciate a heads up that it may be a particularly unpleasant read for them.

no one: not even a single soul: me: sorry if this is your favorite book but I AM DRAGGING IT TO JAIL!!

What. Absolute. Garbage. If you can explain to me the purpose of this book and what was interesting about it, I’ll give you a million dollars. I mean, very early in I would have just DNF if I were the type to DNF. So bad. I swear I’d fall asleep reading it. And I didn’t care to get back to it - more like, OK let’s get this over with. Completely without point. Completely without intrigue. Characters sucked, was there a plot, was I supposed to care about any of this…? I’m so aggravated. BYEEEEEEE

** spoiler alert ** I got to read this as an ARC by NetGalley. I didn't request it because I am somewhat "over" Picoult. Her latest books are a chance for her to stand on a soap box and proclaim her views of controversial topics. It's not that I disagree or agree with her views, but she has become biased in giving just one side of the issue. In the past, her books have given the reader a chance to consider both sides, however, not so in her latest novels. The idea of Covid is a very touchy subject in many people's lives. I couldn't believe it took her over halfway through the book to switch gears so suddenly like it was an easy out for her to use the unreliable narrator. She needs to put more thought into her twists because people who are familiar with this style could see this coming. The idea the main character left the day of the world shutting down seemed very unlikely and the fact she continued on her dream journey seemed even more unlikely. I don't think I'll be reading her latest and "greatest" novels any time soon. She's lost me as a dedicated reader. Sorry that I'm maybe being too honest.

Nope, this isn't it. There's a line in here somewhere that has the protagonist saying about her boyfriend, "it strikes me that COVID isn't the only thing that can take your breath away." And that's really all I need to say. A hokey love/finding yourself story shoehorned into a frame of a global tragedy. And the main character somehow became more unlikable at the end than she was in the beginning?

Not interested in reading anything with covid in it. We need a break for crying out loud!

It's sorta like finding your English teacher is a raging liberal. I read to escape reality. Can't say I have ever read a novel that bashes a sitting President. The use of a fiction book as a bully pulpit is a new one for me. I've never read anything by her that I can recall. Mediocre plot. Quick and easy read. The bones were good....just severely predictable. If you have 4 hours to waste, think "orange man bad", and want to read about someone that survived covid it's a great book.

I am a double vaccinated, booster-taking, non-conspiracy theorist on Covid - so my problems with this book doesn’t stem from that (unlike a few other disgruntled reviews I’ve seen). I had pre-ordered this book, as this author is one of my favorites. I throughly enjoyed her last book - Two Ways - although that one had very mixed reviews because of all the nonfiction & educational text (which I had enjoyed). I was expecting the same from this book - but with a focus on the Galapagos, evolution, and possibly Darwin’s theory. Unfortunately, this book seemed to mainly focus on Covid and all its intricacies from the beginning of March 2020 - and I do not consider this fiction as we are still living in the middle of the pandemic. It’s as if the author thought that the person reading the book hadn’t experienced the pandemic yet, and wanted to walk you through every single step of what it was like. No thank you - I read to get out of reality, not be reminded of it. I have read a successful book recently, where the author was able to use Covid as a device for two people being thrown together unexpectedly - but that’s all it was - a device. I was completely okay with that & enjoyed that story. But Covid being the focal point of a story, especially with so much of it being “informational”, is too soon. Besides that, I did not feel any connection with any of the characters - especially not the main character, who seemed selfish & self-absorbed. Unrelatable, and frankly, unrealistic. I’m not buying the complete personality makeover in a few weeks, no matter where you’ve traveled. And finally, stemming off the personality unrealism - the author makes it seem like having a Type A personality, where someone has “lists” & “plans” doesn’t get to experience life fully. As someone who is a Type A, married to someone who is Type B - we have done things both ways & still had fun. In addition to this - I see no problem with how the main character was before this - ambitious, driven, goal-oriented. Apparently this was supposed to be a character flaw that needed to be righted by the author. Overall, giving this book a one-star pained me greatly as I love this author. But I almost DNF-ed it several times - and only didn’t, because I always read through every & any book.

** spoiler alert ** I was so so so excited for this book. I’m a nurse. I love Jodi. I love a big twist. I love remote islands. I should love this book. I hated it. So so so much. I went to Jodi’s book tour where she described this as the biggest twist she’s ever written, which if you’ve read My Sister’s Keeper is a big promise to fill. But she also said that it doesn’t come out of nowhere, and there were hints dropped. *looks from corner to corner of the Galapagos* girl, where? I went back and looked for hints I might’ve missed—they were not there. It was unbelievable, inauthentic, and I just felt cheated. Almost as cheated as Finn, who absolutely deserved better than the ungrateful obnoxious Diana. “You’re just not perfect for me.” …girl why? Not one of the recollections of Finn was negative or exhibited why he wasn’t good for her. Except for the fact that a doctor shouldn’t be hitting on his patients—he’s gross and he’s fired. Also, women can go three weeks without a dude. Honestly, we’ll be ok. Then there’s the portrayal of the pandemic. Even as a nurse, I eye-rolled at the melodrama of Finn’s letters and the descriptions of the pandemic. There was so much pain for frontline workers, which I saw and felt for my coworkers, and I did not feel a single thing besides annoyance while reading this. It felt absolutely forced, where every horrible detail of what happened during the pandemic was literally just written in list form and vomited on the page. I described it to a friend as a high schooler going on a first date with someone who liked Nirvana and subsequently cramming everything they read about Nirvana on Google the night prior into conversation over dinner under the guise of nonchalance. Just horrible. I’ve had discussions about whether a story like this could be done well—can half the book be a lie and still be enjoyable for the reader? I think it absolutely could. But it would require at least a hint of unreliability from the narrator, a frame that makes it believable, and a point. This book had none of those. I have nothing positive to say except that if done well, this could’ve been a masterpiece. If there was an actual setup that made it believable that she had Covid this whole time. If the pandemic was portrayed in an emotive way. If there were inconsistencies in her dream world that made you question what was actually happening. If she gave actual reasons why she should leave her fiancé other than him being a part of the plan she no longer wants, or a hot guy being available on an island. If the point of the story was what we all learned during the pandemic, which was holding what we value close, instead of discarding it like garbage. Just so disappointing. Jodi if you see this I still love you but you did us dirty.

I have read all of the in Death books by J.D. Robb/Nora Roberts, and quite frankly this book was extremely boring and did not seem to be written as well as the other 53. No suspense to the book, no sarcastic chatter to the book, no chemistry to the book. I, at times, felt that this book was written by someone else and not by N. Roberts. I order all in Death books, sight unseen, info unread as I, and my best friends, love the series. After reading this one I am not sure how I will treat the next one. It is too bad, as this author, writing as J. D. Robb, was a go-to all the time. Extremely poor read in my opinion, and the beginning, where the story is usually set up, is a lot longer than the other 53 and very different from the others.

Oddly, this started out rough with tons of grammatical, typographical and spelling errors. Wrong names used, quotes that started but didn't end. It felt as if it might have had a ghost writer. It took forever to get going and yet the characters didn't have the same interaction, nor tone they usually have. Very little dialogue with Summerset, not the usual banter. Again, just felt off as if JD/Nora didn't write this one in it's entirety. I've owned the entire series, this one...Overall it fell short.

Not a Stand Alone Book! This book had so many inside references to characters that it was impossible to follow. The main character has so many quirky friends who are introduced without explanation. The author assumes you aleado know them. Other authors who write books with a main character at least will explain the other characters. I gave up on this book- impossible to follow.

How does this book happen ( a murderer in the NYPSD) without referencing the OTHER TIME IT HAPPENED? Lottie the crime sweeper murderer and Andy the lab tech murderer.... The series has lost it's appeal for me...

Worst one ever I give up. Each one is worst than the last. Don't waste your money. The story is formulaic. No new directions. Plug and play at its worst.

Disappointing. Gabriel Allon is attacked by a DEI mob. In an effort to placate the mob he fires his cadre of long time Israeli associates and tries to pass as a Gentile. Not worth the effort, compared to earlier books.

convoluted So many characters that can’t lbe kept straight. Hard to follow. Dull at best. Too bad because it could have been a good story.

2 books released since 10/7 and Israel’s top spymaster/assassin isn’t interested in anything going on in Israel. Ripped from the headlines gabriel allon is pulling a heist with Pope Francis while christopher keller is off fighting in Ukraine ignoring kibbutzim firefights, pager explosions, hidden drone factories… basically the currently day Middle East is interesting and the gabriel allon series is boring?

Boring book, did not finish. Nothing new here, same old same old . Time for something new.

Slop. Main characters are unlikeable pompous prigs. His pope is made in the image of Pope Francis.Mention of traditionalist dinosaurs standing in the way. I wish he'd leave his political views out of the book and just write an entertaining story instead.. DNF.

I understand novelists enjoy "literary license" but the Anti-Catholic premise here is grotesque!

Silva spins an interesting tale but his politically leftist flavor and his contempt of Catholic theology is apparent. He obviously admires the likes of George Soros and despises President Trump, though neither is clearly identified. It is in his acknowledgments that you collect the names of his numerous friends, all rabid liberal progressives and say to yourself “suspicions confirmed”. Worth reading? Yes, with a huge but if you can somehow overlook the author’s bias. With his feeble attempt to politicize the story he thinks a CNN or MSNBC audience will be regaled by his brilliance. Reminds me of the “fake media” and their attempt to spin their narrative.

** spoiler alert ** Daniel Silva has been one of my favorite authors for years. His books are well-written with great action, smart dialog, excellent pacing, and relevant topics. While the pacing and some of the dialog lives up to his normal standards, the rest of The Order is simply a mess. Basic idea: Gabriel and family go to Italy for vacation. Gabriel gets pulled into an investigation of the Pope's death. Gabriel and his family go home. The end. No, really. Gabriel's team make a brief cameo. Otherwise there's a lot of talking and some country hopping. No action. The crux of the story is that the Pope discovered a book written by Pontius Pilate (yes, that one) where he takes full responsibility for the death of Jesus. The Catholic Church cannot have this known since it would make the beliefs and actions of the Church, especially during WWII, wrong, and the Church cannot weather another storm like that. You might be asking yourself how a book like that could wreck the church. That's because the basis of thought here is that the persecution of the Jewish people is based on one sentence in the New Testament (Matthew 27:25 "His blood be upon us and our children.") It is certainly true the Jewish people have been persecuted over the centuries (and long before Jesus was arrested 2000 years ago). It is also true that the church and the people in it (notice I don't say Christians) have used the bible to justify horrible things. Any text can be twisted to abuse people. But no true Christian would put the blame of Jesus' death on anyone except his or her own shoulders. Jesus willingly gave up His life (Silva ignored all the verses in the bible that say that, such as John 10:18 - "No one has taken [My life] away from Me, but I lay it down on My own initiative...."). The heart of the Christian faith is that Jesus died in our place, taking our punishment for the sins we commit. The Jews didn't kill Him. Pilate and the Romans didn't kill Him. I did. But Silva goes far beyond simply blaming Christians for the persecution of the Jews and the Holocaust. He uses seemingly every liberal theological work available to say that Christianity is a false religion. While he doesn't use those words, he has several characters talk about all the reasons why the bible is wrong, one going so far as to say it's lies. Any person who claims to be a Christian but denies the divinity of Jesus or His resurrection has no idea what it means to be a Christian. He claims the gospel accounts were written decades after the fact with the intention of blaming the Jews to appease Rome and recruit Gentiles to the faith (which is ludicrous). He also claims the disciples who wrote these accounts didn't believe in the divinity of Jesus. Yet all but one died as a martyr for his beliefs. He also ignores the rest of the New Testament writings that back up the gospel claims. The most mind-boggling part is that the argument he uses to try to discredit the gospels (no original copy exists) is not taken into account for the "gospel of Pilate" that is found. It is a copy of a copy, and yet can be trusted to be the "truth." You can't have it both ways. And for some reason, Silva decided to walk into the mystical arena with Father Joshua. For those that may not be well-versed in the bible, Joshua = Yeshua. The Greek equivalent of Yeshua is Jesus. (The New Testament was written in Greek.) Father Joshua can only be seen by a few people, can seemingly walk on water, and disappears at will. Silva even has the audacity to have him speak the words of Jesus (Matthew 16:15, "Who do you say that I am?"). Even though Silva walks down this mystical path, he never once considers that perhaps evil is responsible for the persecution of God's chosen people. He also seems to think that Jesus needed to wait 2000 years to get the truth out. In the afterword, Silva expresses his desire to address the rampant anti-Semitism sweeping across the world. He is not wrong. However, there had to have been a better way to do this than to attack Christianity. He even acknowledges that those who believe in the inerrancy of the bible, of whom I am one, will be offended by this work (I am). He definitely had an agenda to pound here. I hope it was worth it to him. He has lost this reader.

I am stunned to see that this book has a rating of 4 1/2 stars. I can't believe how bad it is. Anything Dan Brown can do, Silva will do worse. And I loathed Dan Brown's books. This is a dull, tedious diatribe that is so unbelievable and unconvincing.

Silva desperately wants to be Dan Brown. His hatred of Christians, and the Catholic Church in particular, are tiresome.

A terrible book by one of my favorite authors. Full disclosure: I'm an Orthodox Christian. The partisan attacks on the Apostles and the early church were ahistorical liberal claptrap. I couldn't finish it. Hard pass.

Wish I had my money back. I truly have loved every Gabriel Allon novel but this one is disappointing on so many levels. Gabriel has gone politically correct. I struggled to finish this one, as I found it boring and bordering on heresy. Father Joshua is the only truly interesting character and is the only reason I give one star. I do not recommend The Order, but can recommend all the previous Daniel Silva creations. Another 2020 disappointment.

If you want to read a thriller grab a Robert Ludlum or Clive Clusser as this novel has no resemblance to any thrills. The only reason to read this book is if you are trying to be the next Pope.

Sydney: I mean, I’m not a complete idiot Also Sydney: *goes above and beyond to prove that she is in fact a complete idiot at every opportunity*

This is a 𝘀𝗽𝗼𝗶𝗹𝗲𝗿-𝗙𝗥𝗘𝗘 𝗿𝗲𝘃𝗶𝗲𝘄 An unpredictable plot twist doesn't make a book better. Freida, that's the bare minimum to deliver when it comes to thrillers. After having read 8 books by this author, I see the pattern. Freida likes to play with the timelines and honestly, that's one of the most irritating things. Especially when that happens in every single book written by this author. For once, can you change the pattern and do something different? Or maybe that's too much creativity to expect from an author who's always working on so many books in one go. However, let's get to the beloved female main character in this book. In the typical Freida style, the FMC (Sydney) in this book was so doltish, imbecile and empty-headed, that I'm at a loss for words. No really. This author definitely has something against smart women. In all her books, I feel like I'm reading about the same fmc, because they're all equally brainless and moronic to the extent, it's just funny at this point. For once, Freida, just ONCE, write a fmc that doesn't lack brain cells. I was getting second hand embarrassment with how desperate Sydney was to find a boyfriend and that blinded her from the danger she was in throughout the book. Her urgent desire to find a man was her entire personality. Literally. I'm not even exaggerating. Her lack of innovative mindset to connect the dots doesn't surprise me but the way I tolerated her constant whining and her desperate need to find a boyfriend throughout 360 pages surely does. I didn't know I had it in me to be THIS patient. Lastly, speaking of the plot twist, even I can agree, it caught me off guard, but the next few scenes after that, more precisely– the ending, had me cackling. Because what the fuck was that? All that trouble for THIS stupid ending? I'm literally laughing. The set up, foolish characters, ludicrous ending and the timeline change didn't do it for me. My ratings on her other books :— The inmate - 1 star The perfect son - 1 star The housemaid - 1 star The gift - 1 star The psyching - 1 star Never lie - 3 stars The widow's husband's secret lie - 2 stars.

The main character was so ridiculously ignorant that I would have been happy if she was murdered. That’s all.

the mc is ab as smart as a paper clip 😆 but just saying that insults the intelligence of a paper clip, so idek 🧍🏻‍♀️

1.5 stars. reading vlog: https://youtu.be/ePCmYysI_HQ miss freida you're just not for me and we're just both going to have to be ok with that

** spoiler alert ** Frieda is hands down, my favourite thriller author. I’m first in line when she releases a new book and am normally blown away. But this… This novel felt rushed. I’m not sure if it was a hastily written book but something was just off. I found myself noticing short sentences that tried to sum up something much more broad that needed to be said. I find a recurring pattern in her books and it is a WEAK FEMALE. I’ve yet to read one where a woman trusts her intuition and doesn’t make a painfully obvious, dumb decision. I’m really not sure why these characters are continuously staying with these men that give their intuition a terrible feeling… but in all honesty, to reflect dating app culture, women should ALWAYS listen to their gut. The ending…. I normally live for the twists but I just couldn’t be bothered with this one. They run off and live happily ever after? Really? Unfortunately, this book will not be remembered and I’m not really that sad about it…… 🥹

Jesus. H. Read this if you enjoy a doormat, personality-free (unless getting bloody noses counts as a personality trait?) main character with the inner life of a potato. This was too boring to even recap. MEH.

That's it, I'm no longer reading any books from this author unless a trusted source tells me it's worth it. I HATED the characters and the situations are just so....bs.

** spoiler alert ** i really didn’t like this book. i disliked both narratives as i found every character unbearable in their own way. this was my first time reading a nicholas sparks book and it will probably be my last. the never ending references to TikTok made me physically cringe. the whole plot felt painfully overdone, i felt like i knew the entire story before i read it, except it took me a while to figure out how the stories linked which had me bored for 3/4 of the book until i figured it out. beverly’s plot line really irritated me, im SICK of hearing about her decorating her fuck ass house and talking to herself. every goddamn paragraph reads like this: “beverly looked at the shit stained wall and thought to herself this is what i deserve. she opened one of the cabinets and found another can of paint. beverly disliked this color, but it was better than the shit. beverly began to paint the wall, one stroke at a time. beverly began to cry ‘wall please don’t tell Gary my whereabouts’ but she knew the wall already did. beverly’s stomach growled so she made tomato soup out of ketchup and water.” colby is also on my nerves. i’m sick of him being all goo goo ga ga over the fact that morgan is more than a pair of tits and a teeny tiny itty bitty baby waist…she’s also a TikTok star. 🤮 i never felt any of their chemistry and it stressed me out how fast they moved. after realizing he was in “love” i kept the book closed longer than colby could keep it in his pants. not to mention all the weird comments about morgan being so small 🥺 BUT she’s not like all the other skinny bitches because she can eat a cookie if she wants 😎 i only finished this book because i bought it, and it felt like a waste of my time.

This book was just not it for me. The insta-love…🤢 Just no. It seemed all very rushed and thrown together so the love story was just very unbelievable to me. The characters lacked any depth so I had a difficult time feeling connected to any of them. There didn’t seem to be much resolution. The ending was very unsatisfying and forced. I like how the two stories tied together and that’s about the only part I enjoyed about this book.

** spoiler alert ** Ugh. I read this quickly just because I wanted to be done with it. It was absolutely my least fave book of his (and probably this year) that I’ve read. Colby is boring and not written like a true 25 year old. I get it, in the end you see he has a lot on his plate with responsibilities, but what 25 yr old guy says things like “popular watering hole” for a bar or “noodling” on the guitar or “moseying” around? None that’s who! Morgan is 21 and supposedly gorgeous and even she is written horribly! She says something from “I’m from German-Irish stock”… cmon she’s not talking like that! She’s graduated early from college and has millions of followers on tiktok and wants to be a singer like Taylor swift. Like…. I just don’t see how he developed her into a realistic character at all. I don’t hate her but I’m left just thinking she’s not acting like a typical 21 yr old hoping to be the next tay swift. And their convos?? Soooooo boring. I literally rushed through most of their romance. And falling in love automatically with each other in less than a week? I mean… cmon, it’s lust and it’s not even written in good smut! Beverly is a hot mess and about halfway through I’m assuming she’s actually having a mental breakdown and ding ding ding- I’m right! I literally only kept reading to see how Colby and her were intertwined and about 70-80% through I knew my hunches were right and I was all like okay this is silly. Anyways- Colby turning morgan away and then her being ultra famous and then returning to him? I mean the whole thing was rushed and I guess the big happy ending that’s typical of Nicholas sparks. I have been a loyal fan since I was a preteen and obsessed with his books that have become movies…. But this one was a hard pass for me. Sorry Nicholas Sparks- the wish was absolutely amazing but this was a huge flop!

I rarely leave a book unfinished. I read Nicholas Sparks in college, and really enjoyed his stuff. So, when my mom got this from the library I thought it would be a good, quick read. It was quick, but so completely absurd and unbelievable that I literally said out loud, "are you effing kidding me," so many times I finally decided to walk away a little over halfway through. I don't even care how it ends, I think I have less brain cells from the 4 hours of my life I lost to this book.

Someone put Nicholas sparks in a senior citizen home with all the money he made from his previous books, take his pen away, and tell him to stop writing slightly racist and completely misogynistic books with even less of a plot line than his typical cookie cutter stuff. Pick your poison: the story of two bland character who are seemingly PERFECT at everything they do and want to do and fall in love with each other’s saltine crack personality, or the story of a woman who runs away from her husband and spend the next several chapters cleaning. That’s it. Cleaning. I need reimbursement for reading this.

Neither moving or inspiring. Would like to feel both in a romance. Felt like I was reading an Instagram highlight reel mashed together with some kind of suspense show that got cancelled part way through production.

ST. PETE. IT'S ST. PETE, NOT ST. PETE'S. ST. PETE BEACH. How does an editor not catch that the literal city the book is set in is misspelled? Did nobody visit St. Pete Beach for research and notice, like, any of the location signs that clearly say ST. PETE and not St. Pete's???? Edit: I read the book and it was not good. The guy is supposedly 25 and the gal is supposedly 21 but these people act and think like 40 year olds or older. For example, the lady was discussing things to be done after moving to a new city and one of the items on her to do list is to open a new bank account. ??? The characters were pretty one dimensional. The "flirting" was weirdly passive aggressive, again kind of what you'd expect from a couple that's been married for decades but kind of hate each other so they're mostly needling each other. And you know what else? I'm pretty sure the stuff on the cover is wheat. It definitely doesn't look like sea oats or anything I've seen growing on sand dunes here in St. Pete.

Got halfway… literally cannot continue. The dialog between Colby and Morgan felt stiff and unnatural. I felt like I was reading a farming magazine instead of a conversation. No one talks like this. The love story doesn’t fit quite well and felt rushed, choppy and like an infomercial. The way Sparks made Morgan talk about her body and tik tok was also strange. Also the really weird obsession with how thin she was. The alternative storyline is more interesting but already extremely repetitive. Ultimately, it’s very confusing how these stories fit together and I truly don’t care anymore. The Notebook this is surely not. Either I’ve outgrown this author or his books aren’t that great anymore.

Well, friends. That’s it. Crescent City 2: House of Sky and Breath will be the last Sarah J. Maas book I will ever read. What a disaster. What exactly is the plot of this 800-page nightmare? And with a super perfect, overpowered, every-dude-wants-to-bang-her main character, this just feels like another weird vanity project so SJM can live in a fantasy world where everyone loves her and her husband can never leave her. I just…what did I just read? PLOT SUMMARY: After saving Crescent City, Bryce and Hunt just want to lay low. But they can’t. SUBPLOT SUMMARIES: WHICH INCLUDES SPOILERS. HEADS UP FOR THE PEOPLE ON GR’S APP! -The gang searches for a human Thunderbird (whatever that is) and her brother, but (view spoiler) -Ruhn becomes an inept spy and (view spoiler) -Ithan moves in and moves out, is concerned about his brother’s soul, and then (view spoiler) -Bryce is forced by her father to get engaged to Cormac, her asshole cousin who (view spoiler) -Bryce bickers with her only female friends. -Tharion doesn’t want to get married so he (view spoiler) -Despite being the most powerful person ever at the end of CC1, Bryce discovers she’s (view spoiler) -Danika is inexplicably still a major part of this story and somehow has even more secrets, (view spoiler) -Humans continue to be put into concentration camps and our main characters (view spoiler) -Bryce and Hunt are (view spoiler) You might be thinking, “Wow, that’s a lot you just listed, and yet you’re still saying, there’s no plot?” That’s correct, my friends. All of those subplots (and I didn’t even list them all) just circle around each other like giant turds in a toilet bowl. The storylines either stop abruptly or never have a payoff. This is really disappointing because even though I didn’t like the first book, there were some plot points that I was interested in seeing how they would play out. I was most interested in how Aidas and Jesiba were going to factor into the plot. (view spoiler) This book doesn’t accomplish anything in terms of character development and seems like a 790 page buildup for a cliffhanger ending. And I’m sure most Maas fans will love that ending, and I get it. But from the standpoint of good writing, it’s severely lacking. (view spoiler) I am just completely confused on why SJM set up this world where humans are being put into concentration camps, and yet Bryce, who is half human, doesn’t really do anything to help her own people. Because she’s able to pass as Fae, this injustice does not seem to concern her in the slightest. I would be fine if the book acted like it was aware of the main character having what is essentially White Privilege within this fantasy world, but there is a total disconnect between the injustice that is happening to an entire species of people in this book and the wacky hijinks our characters get up to. Instead of actually doing something to help others, they act completely self-righteous while the human rebels are portrayed as being the absolute worst. I just don’t get this at all. I don’t get why SJM decided to make human slavery and genocide the backdrop for the book while moving a public gym sex scene and so many references to Bryce’s thong underwear to the forefront. Seriously??? Having said all of that, this is my goodbye to Sarah J. Maas. I enjoyed ACOTAR when it was just me reading it and not having to listen to an entire fandom bow down before her and worship her every writing flaw. I’m just at a point where I feel like she is creatively bankrupt and shows no signs of making her books stronger or more interesting. And honestly, maybe she shouldn’t. If her fandom is happy with reading yet another story where the female protagonist has every single male character drooling over her while she ignores the basic rights of an entire species, then I guess I can see why she feels justified in not changing a damn thing. I wish her all the best, but this is it for me. I’m tucking and rolling off the SJM train. Y’all have fun without me.

I finally did it y’all! I conquered this masterpiece of fantasy fiction!!!! And its somehow … worse than the first one. By quite a lot. Fr like I actually feel like I was too harsh on book 1 after this fuck fest (literally). Anyway onto the review for HOE SAB. (SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS) My Stupid Tallies pt. 2 but this time as an award ceremony Welcome back gentlemales, gentlethots and gentlethems, for another round of tallying Our Lord and Savior SJM’s word usage! A riveting game I know we all love to play. Me especially bc now I can just make my computer do this work instead of by hand like I did with the physical ARC of book 1 (see what I did for you people). Growling: SJM’s favourite furry word is back and better than ever baby at 84 TIMES. U may now clap (which is incidentally what every character in this book now has). Snarling: only 64 times cmon Snarling you can do better! Get ur head in the game! Silk/en/y but only in relation to Bryce Silky Quinlan: 9. My Disappointment is Immeasurable and my Day is Ruined. This book deserves no stars at all for taking away my favourite adjective. Mate: the holy word was written 150 TIMES. Absolutely pathetic. Those are rookie numbers, we gotta bump those numbers up. I’m Australian and ive heard that word more today than in this book and its only 11am smh And finally…. FE/MALE: coming in at first place with 478 uses is FEMALE/MALE :D this is a great word for SJM: not only is it a pronoun to talk about literally everybody in this book (even humans who would go by woman/man/person) but it’s also a beautiful adjective for SJM to paint how manly and muscular her characters are, lest we the audience (who are objectively idiots with no brain cells) forget that her males are MANLY AND MUSCULAR AND MALE-ISH. Characters :DDDDDD (kill me) Bryce Silky Adelaide Starborn Snowflake Quinlan Danaan: (and I thought Aelin’s name was ridiculous, sheesh) What more is there that can be said about this female of the highest order? Take it away Tharion: “It’s Bryce. Everyone has a thing for her.” Then there’s me, the smartest most galaxy-brained level FEMALE to exist: hates her. Bryce remains the vessel for SJM to project her fantasies onto: she is hot af, snarky, cool, badass, and more powerful than basically every other character because shes the heir to the Starborn fae, but not like how Ruhn is, no no no, Bryce is MORE SPECIAL because her power dates back to the Starborn QUEEN. Also, everyone still wants to bang her, but now they have to endure being glared at by Hunt because tHaT’s HiS GiRlFriEnD bRO!!!! Bryce is now just like Aelin from Throne of Ass in that she is constantly making plans and keeping things from her friends and even us who read her POV just for a dramatic reveal later. Isn’t that lovely 😊 Half this book is literally wasted and useless because of this 😊 I rate Bryce a 2/10 probably because I don’t want to bang her Hunt Orion Athalar Mate Man: He is now Bryce’s mate. Congrats. That’s all he is good for in this book. (and his velvety you-know-what). I rate him a 69/10 because it’s all he is now good for apparently. (His magic once again barely impacts this book or impresses me) Instead, I will take this section to talk about SJM’s favourite thing to write: sex. This woman should seriously consider abandoning all pretence at being a fantasy author and just convert to erotica. It’s clearly all she bases her books around at this point. There are like 8 sex scenes in this book, most between Bryce and Hunt, which are all awful and make me wonder just how bad the Sex ed in America is. They’re also repetitive and make no sense – okay nevermind, forget erotica, she should stick to her niche of fae porn for BookTok minors. Sex scenes aren’t bad in books, but these ones are because a) they suck, and b) they get in the way of actual plot, of which this book has barely any. The Other Losers: - Ithan: omg who gives a fuck lol - Tharion: I want him to die in a pit. Oh you’re now betrothed to the princess whose virginity you wanted to take and then run off? Boohoo you fucking baby stop comparing this betrothal to slavery, you literally fuck around on her this entire book. I desire your existence to be erased. - Ruhn: he’s fine I guess but again he’s literally just there hovering in the corner of every scene like my sleep paralysis demon. - Flynn/Declan: these characters are basically interchangeable except one is gay (and a background character). They’re also apparently 100+ year old Fae lords yet have frat boy names so I laugh whenever they speak. - Fury/Juniper: the only good characters in this whole series. Please please please more of them, the best scene in this book was when they were talking to Bryce in the coffee shop because it’s the only scene where I didn’t have to read about over-sexualised men and how luscious and curvy every female is. - All those background angel characters whom I don’t care about neither does SJM The Plot I mocked book 1 relentlessly for its shitty plot but this one has it beat, mates! It’s 800 pages of FILLER. I hardcore miss the mystery investigation from book 1, because it’s literally recycled and done again here but much worse. Wow, Danika once again has some secrets we need to discover. How the fuck did she have time for all this without Bryce being suspicious? Is Bryce just a moron? Probably. Anyway, the plot is really, really bad, I was hooked for like 10 minutes when we were trying to find the thunderbird kid but of course that plot got put in the trash real quick. It’s clearly building up for a big book 3, but GIRL. Having an Avengers Endgame cliff-hanger ending does not a good book make. The knowledge that Daddy Rhysand will be in book 3 of this series makes me want to throw up I THOUGHT I WAS DONE WITH HIM FOREVER! I have PTSD from ACOTAR I swear. The WORLD BUILDING SIMPLY AWFUL DARLING. SIMPLY AWFUL. Everyone has BORING magic in a BORING world with BORING places. I know she’s trying to create some kind of extended universe here so all the magic is similar between her books but my god it’s boring. PLEASE SOME VARIETY I BEG OF YOU. I don’t think SJM could create a magic system that isn’t based on hereditarily gained elemental magic even if she tried. So tragic. Also I love how Bryce can now teleport so we don’t have to waste time travelling between places because that is simply boring and takes up pages that could be used for sex instead. I’m not making a whole section for this, but the writing was about on-par with book 1, with too many em dashes, an obsessive amount of telling instead of showing and word repetition. Gives this woman’s editor a raise! (so that they can finally leave their job and maybe hire someone with a backbone or a brain.) Ultimately <3 I did this for the people and I do regret it 😊 that being said, I will be tuning in for book 3 because I must know how this dumpster fire of a series plays out. Can’t wait for all the characters to meet their twins from the other books and get confused because their personalities are carbon copies of one another, showing that SJM’s imagination stretches as far as my patience for her books. <3 1/5 stars thanks for coming to my second ted talk goodbye I resent you all

I was going to give this one like 3 stars, which surprised me. But then this had to be the ending and I'm telling you. There's rage and then there's what I'm feeling right now.

This was the most boring, dumbest fucking shit that I have ever read in my life. It actually made Iron Flame look decent. Let's start. Onyx Storm felt like a kid lost in a supermarket trying to find their mother. This book was so disappointing!! Like, I don’t understand the need to drag this series for 5 books!! Especially when it was supposed to be a trilogy, but apparently after the success of the first book, it suddenly became "a five-book series" in other words, the perfect cash cow. To be honest, I really enjoyed Fourth Wing and it was such a refreshing read. I was frustrated a lot with Iron Flame and had problems, but the enjoyment was still there, and I could see it being a trilogy. This book really proves why it should not be 5 books, because this was honestly a filler novel. 544 pages of filler is too much; there was so much plot filler in this one, and the pacing was so slow. I got a copy early, so I started this book on the 18th and finished it on the 21st, only because I was forcing myself, as I had ARCs to read. But this made it so hard because the writing style was surprisingly boring?? I know Rebecca doesn’t have a perfect writing style, but at least make the book enjoyable, lol. The writing style here felt so foreign to read, it was almost as if she didn’t write it. This book will certainly not help with her AI allegations, and for the love of God, Goodreads and RY, don’t take this review down. You still have your paid 5-star reviews, so leave mine alone. It was so bad that it made me feel bad for rating Iron Flame low, because Iron Flame, when it came to the plot, actually somewhat delivered... this, on the other hand, didn’t. Despite the slow pacing, there were some things that were so rushed. At times literally nothing happened, but information was also being dumped at us, and at the same time, I had so many questions that were there from the start, unanswered consistently. Like, Savannah, slow down. The writing not hitting also just made the whole vibe go off. There were so many new plotlines opened without actually closing the previous ones, and instead of doing that, they were dragged along. There was a lot of traveling in this book, and some of the scenes could have been chopped up; there was no substance provided by them. There were scenes that were just wayyyyy too drawn out. There was literally no consistency, and it was so messy to read, not to mention how boring it was. Like, you know when the writing's good, you don’t mind the fillers that much because at least you’re enjoying some stuff, but yeah, that was absent. It would honestly be better if RY took a long break to think through and deliver because it’s going in a downward spiral and she needs to prove us wrong. The ending... Yes, it’s a massive cliffhanger, but executed poorly. The writing during that was just terrible. I was so confused when I first read that I had to reread it to understand what was actually happening, but honestly, I was so disconnected from the characters that I actually felt nothing at the ending. But I know people who are still attached to the characters may find the ending more likable. I just feel like the execution was so poor, and it’s actually embarrassing because you have potential but end up bottling it by messy writing. A long break is way overdue. Also, for a filler, this book was awfully long. I don’t know if it was because the greater the length = more money or just her drifting off, but when I saw that she was going to take a year off to write this, yeah, a book worse than Iron Flame was definitely not what I expected. Get a new editor, for the love of God!! In terms of writing, this book was a big miss. The Characters (this might get spoilery, only warning!) (this might get spoilery, only warning!) (this might get spoilery, only warning!) (this might get spoilery, only warning!) Violet, I just don’t like how her character has been going on a downward spiral since the last book. Like, I loved her in the first book, she was amazing, and in Iron Flame, despite trying to understand her actions, I was still annoyed by her a lot. Here, I still felt the same feeling I did when I was reading Iron Flame; her character was giving me war flashbacks to that one traumatizing disastrous conclusion whenever she called Xaden "mine." Like, it’s okay, move on, please. I liked her in that one island scene; that was badass, but besides that, where did her badassery go?? Her monologue got so tiring, and I honestly can’t read her POV only for the next two books. We need multi-POV, PLEASE. I feel she spent most of her time worrying over Xaden in this book and calling him "mine" rather than doing actual stuff. And tbh, the whole island stuff felt so pointless at one point; there was just not enough substance in it for it to be drawn out this much. Like, edit, edit, edit, please, for the love of God, EDIT!! Another thing about Violet is that with this book, every ounce of love that I had for her vanished. I don’t hate her. I dislike her, yes, but it’s because I no longer feel connected to her, and it just made everything revolving around her boring. Also, the Irids created so much hype around her signet, which is apparently dreamwalking... this could be interesting to see. Also, we finally got to know about Violet's dad and who he was, and tbh, most of the information we got from him didn’t really help them that much, lol. I was expecting it to make things easier for them, but it barely did anything. Xaden, What was going on with him? I actually liked Xaden in books 1 and 2, and I like the jealousy trope, but him being over-the-top possessive in front of his friends made me roll my eyes so hard. Also, what happened to Xaden in this book?? He just didn’t have the same charm. It felt like Rebecca was trying to recycle the things that he did in the first books here to make him more likable, but it failed :( He was charming though, ngl, but it just didn’t hit right. Also, how is Violet stronger than him when they were fighting on the island? Like, girl was doing everything, and man was doing barely anything. Xaden has a lot of potential, and he sometimes delivers, but other times not so much, and most of those "not so much" moments were in this book. Also, his Venin part at the start was confusing because I thought he turned into a full Venin, so I didn’t think he could control and resist it. I actually liked seeing his restraint, but I wanted more of them finding a cure or at least leading up to it, because Yaros just put a wall everywhere, saying "dead end." The Romance I have no idea how they are trying to make it work. Like, if it was a trilogy, it would’ve made sense, but Yaros cannot write 5 mega-sized books with them as a couple and not make it boring. They already got boring for me in this one. I loved the romance in the first book, not the part where they... you know... at 80%, because I wanted the slow burn to burn, and them to do it in the next books, but then even in Iron Flame, since it was new, it was fun until it got so messy. I felt so disconnected from the characters here that I just totally lost all my love for the romance. They had a lot of domestic moments in here, but I just didn’t care because the writing was already getting on my nerves, nothing was happening, and everything was being dumped on us at the same time. I couldn’t be bothered to give two fucking shits about the romance, which btw got so annoying because the throne room scene had to be mentioned since it was so iconic, and I just couldn’t with how gross both of them felt and how they were still so horny. I even skipped all the smut scenes, like, come on! I have no idea what she’s going to do with the romance in books 4 and 5, because it’s dragging and repeating. Side Characters Aaric – Deserves more screen time because he had good moments. Sloane – Was missing from this book a lot. And her and Dainn?? Um, when and why and how? I don’t understand how suddenly Dainn is so nice. Like, hello?? Didn’t we hate him still, or at least dislike him? Why are we on good terms? Cat – Could be a good character, but her storyline was being butchered. I knew Rebecca Yarros wouldn’t kill anyone from the main crew, and it was disappointing because I was building up to that, only for the least interesting people to die. Like, yay, go ahead, girl, take away the only opportunity where I would feel something in this book besides boredom. Garrick and Ridoc – Were actually so good. Like, they should have been the main characters! I would at least get enjoyable POVs! Ridoc and his dragon were such cutie patooties; I loved them!! Bodhi as a Venin?!? Damn, wasn’t expecting that. And Garrick going after them with everyone splitting could serve us a good reunion, but knowing Yarros, I know she would bottle that. We would go in expecting an Aelin/Rowan reunion and would be hit with a mediocre slap. The New Characters Halden – Boring and only used to make Xaden jealous, sooo skip. Xaden's Mom – Interesting, tbh. I wouldn’t mind knowing more about her and Xaden's brothers. Theophaine – Her character was certainly very strange. I have no clue why she was not in the previous two books but suddenly popped up in this one, and I only say this because she was crazy after Violet. Like, people praise Yarros for foreshadowing, but is the foreshadowing in the room with us?? There was no foreshadowing; she just randomly popped up. There were so many things and opportunities she had which made zero sense, and her character just fell really flat. I think her character could have been way better. Brennan and Mira – Brennan was fine; Mira was on my nerves as well. Like, when her throat slit, I didn’t know whether to be worried or relieved!! Putting Imogen here as well because she was barely in it, and I forgot; she made the ending even more trippy by removing Violet’s memory. Rhiannon – Oops, I almost forgot about her. I liked her in the previous book, but not so much in this one. I feel like the banter was missing, or that it just didn’t serve up to be as good. But I liked the banter between Ridoc, Sawyer, and Vi. The plot was the worst part of this book. If things moved well and consistently, this book would have been much stronger, and I would have been much more invested. But when it would move at a snail's pace with boring ass writing and two dimensional characters, I sure as hell won’t have any good words. Like, instead of taking vacations on islands, Rebecca could have shortened it and made the book progress, but oh wait, that way there might be one less book, and one less book would mean less money, and I don’t think without that missing book rent would be affordable. LIKE UGHH. You're getting millions; you could write one more and call it quits. There's no need for 5. If the plot progressed here, we could have gotten something. I have no clue how she does nothing the whole book, writes a cliffhanger that she knows will lure the readers into the next book, and drags it again. Because you're telling me the next book would be Xaden finding the cure and Violet finding Xaden while fighting her amnesia? I already know the length is going to be 600 something, and you can already feel how boring it would be. But if everything wraps up quickly and the cure is found and something of substance happens within the next book, then there is hope for books 4 and 5. Otherwise, book 4 would be on track for the same fate as book 5. Overall, this book was a disgrace to this series! ___ Look who got the book before the release date 😝 I'm either gonna love this or hate this 🤭 let's seee 🤸🏻

1/5 ⭐️ stars ☺️✨ an unfortunate (though not unexpected) affront to the craft of writing Call me naïve, but I honestly hoped after the train wreck that was Iron Flame, Yarros would take her year and work out the kinks in her storytelling and world building and at least deliver something on par with Fourth Wing. At my most optimistic, I hoped she might work a miracle and make something decent enough for me to give her two or even three stars, but in a concerning continuation of her downward trend, Onyx Storm is somehow worse than both Fourth Wing and Iron Flame. I thought Fourth Wing was a one star book that had potential, though perhaps in the hands of a different writer that actually had a decent understanding of fantasy and an ounce of writerly ability. Iron Flame nearly redefined my criteria for one star books with its nonsensical plot lines, abysmal writing, and nonexistent editing; and with no spark of the potential Fourth Wing had once possessed. Onyx Storm, frankly, was embarrassing. I find it to be insulting to the craft of writing, dismissive to art of storytelling, a crime to the profession of editing, and even embarrassing as the shitty military romance wearing a fantasy trench coat that it is. And worst of all, it has committed one of the most heinous crimes any “just for fun” book is capable of: Onyx Storm was incredibly boring. This “book” would have been more engaging as an email. It wasn’t worth the paper it was printed on—it wasn’t even worth the time Yarros spent thinking up the plot (which mind you, certainly wasn’t long). ⚠️⚠️Spoilers for the first three books of the Empyrean series is you care about this dogshit for some reason. (My personal advice? Don’t read it.) ⚠️⚠️ I’d give you a recap of everything that occurs in this plot, but it’s quite clear to me that Yarros was just throwing shit at the wall in hopes something would stick. A lot of things technically “happened” but nearly nothing really matters to the plot. The book begins a week or two after Iron Flame ended, with our beloved Xaden (🤢) freshly turned Venin and Violet’s mother dead. The Wards are up and working in the Murder Dragon College, but they’re only partially working in Xaden’s super special province (which is the only one we actually care about of course because it’s ✨Xaden’s✨). I’ll continue with the plot in a moment, but first I want to talk about an issue in this book that has reached a breaking point for me. This book is bloated with “characters”. Now let me preface, I’m no stranger to incredibly large, sprawling, and complex fantasy books. I’ve read everything from ASOIAF, the Stormlight Archive (and most of the Cosmere), LOTR, Temeraire, the Realm of the Elderlings, and I’ve even picked up the Wheel of Time. Point is, I’m accustomed to a long series with a lot of characters. But this book? It has so many unmemorable, uninteresting “characters” that don’t have any semblance of a character trait between them. And not only that but Yarros expects you to remember their first names, their last names, their dragon/gryphon’s names, their military rank or school year, and their magical abilities (many of which have multiple), and don’t forget the random locations, provinces, islands, countries, cities, outposts, etc. that you have to know. Not to mention she refers to the Dukes or ruling body of a province just as the name of the province. Llewelyn is both a person and a place and you really just have to hope and pray you can figure out which one Yarros is trying to refer to. It’s confusing. But more importantly it’s insulting to call this “accessible fantasy”. This issue alone (and it is far from the only issue) would (understandably) turn so many people off of a really wonderful genre. AND on top of this the rabid part of the fandom has been running around on BookTok telling anyone that has expressed confusion over this, that they lack reading comprehension or aren’t Real Fantasy Fans. Now if I’ve ever seen a pot calling the kettle black…🫵 Anyway, Venin boy Xaden proceeds to be exceedingly annoying and broody because he’s tortured⛓️ and edgy🥀 and he’s always two seconds away from giving into the temptation of ultimate Venin power (and does SEVERAL times). And Violet doesn’t ever really think about her dead mother, save for when she wants to be angsty and pretend Yarros’ farce of a war has cost her something. Yarros isn’t interested in exploring grief, oh no, we, the stupid idiot audience, couldn’t handle something actually meaningful.🥰 Instead, Violet’s goals for this book are 1. Find a cure for her dumb boyfriend and 2. Find the Seventh breed of dragon (Andarna’s kind) because last book it was revealed that Violet’s super special gold dragon was actually a super special iridescent camouflage dragon. Violet’s first goal, predictably, doesn’t happen. She doesn’t even make the slightest bit of headway in finding a cure for being Venin. That’s something that will likely be resolved in the coming books. Which would be fine if her second goal didn’t have the lamest resolution of all time. Violet’s second goal is locked behind, I kid you not, FIVE different island hopping adventures (and btw Violet decides to skip 2 islands so it was nearly 7). 22 out of the 66 chapters in this book are devoted to visiting these islands. Okay. Sure. Whatever. 🧍🏻‍♀️ Surely, these land masses which consume such a large portion of our time will be on the map so we can easily visualize their journey and remember the names of the “world” Yarros built, right? ⚠️🚨LOUD INCORRECT BUZZER🚨⚠️ Of course not, stupid! Yarros is on record saying she and Red Tower decided not to include these islands on the map because that would be a spoiler, obviously! 🗺️ Sorry? How is a MAP a spoiler?? Damn guys, I accidentally opened google maps and realized that Antarctica, does in fact, exist.😓 I can’t believe I’ve been spoiled. I’d tell you the name of these islands but oh! Wait! I don’t have a map to look at, and there’s too many damn names in this book so I don’t remember them. They’re named after the forgettable pantheon of gods and that’s about as much as I can tell you. Sorry! 🥳 Oh, but guess what? Remember the huge mass of land that Violet’s from, that for two and a half books has just been referred to as “the Continent”? Well, actually it has a name! It’s called Amaralys, apparently, but nobody on the Continent knows that for some reason. I’m not even being facetious. Yarros simply didn’t deign to tell us plebeians why tf the people that live on the Continent don’t know its name nor why all these random island dwellers do. Granted this is portrayed as some kind of revelation so I understand why the name of the Continent might be a spoiler and might not be on the map, but that doesn’t make any of this less stupid. 😐 The islands are supposed to be unique and showcase Yarros’ immaculate world building skills. ☺️✨ But a couple problems arise: 🤯 1. The gods that the islands’ whole cultures are based off of are ill-defined and bland. 2. The islands and their interpretation of the gods is as uncreative as you can make it. For Example: 🍀The Luck Island = their culture is based on luck 📕Knowledge Island = they collect knowledge 💰Economy Island = they love valuable things 🗡️War Island = they love and train for war And listen I’m not looking for much from a contemporary romance author’s poor attempt at fantasy world building, but would an OUNCE of creativity kill us? Sources are telling me yes. 3. Yarros seems to think world building is slapping names on things and sometimes describing them. Violet points out random animals such as the Dolphinum or Errisbird then doesn’t describe whatever those are, but takes up valuable time to give an in depth description of a palm tree. It’s baffling. I’m going to mostly skip the islands because they’re so boring but here’s the 😱important 🤯 moments: On the Knowledge Isle (aka Mommy Issues Isle) we meet Xaden’s mother. She’s alive and married to one of the leaders to the island, and Xaden has two half-brothers that he doesn’t acknowledge. Violet feels sad about her own mom for two seconds and then teams up with Ridoc to beat the shit out of the kitchen staff because the island leader attempted to poison (mostly unsuccessfully) Violet and friends. Nobody dies and they leave. On Luck Isle they have the lamest white elephant gift exchange ever and some rando on Violet’s team picks the wrong gift then he gets shot, and he and his gryphon dies. Violet demands that they send troops to Navarre and the Luck Isle agrees. For some reason? Violet keeps requesting aid for the war from these islands but offers nothing in return, and the Luck Isle is the only island that offers any aid. Why do they do that? Mostly so Violet doesn’t fail her mission entirely. That’s it. God forbid Violet fail at anything ever. Violet and company then fly to a random island to burn their dead friend. They do this and then the rest of the squad leaves to fly around and look for the magical camouflage dragons. By the way, I just want to point out that so far Violet’s method for looking for dragons that can completely blend into their surroundings with magic is to just fly around and look for them with their eyes, and ask the human island dwellers if they’ve seen any dragons. That’s it, that’s their whole strategy. I wish I was joking. 😐 Anyway. While Violet is watching the rest of her “friend’s” body burn, the magical iridescent dragons just show up on the beach. Again, I wish I was joking. The magical dragons are pacifists and Violet calls them cowards (weird coming from the military wife author but whatever🤪). They tell Andarna that she’s too violent and not enough like them so they reject her. They also tell Violet’s friends that Xaden is Venin and then they leave (and they definitely won’t show up later when the plot needs them). Violet’s friends don’t care that Xaden is Venin because they trust their best friend Violet, she’s our super special main character, after all, she’s never been wrong🥺 With Violet’s island adventure done, and 22 chapters wasted, it’s time to go back to school. Yep, 70% of the way through the third book in this series and in the midst of a war, and we’re STILL having Violet attend classes. While Violet and Company were gone, the Venin killed a city of 25,000 people and killed the Gryphon Queen. Violet is horrified for like a paragraph and then all of these casualties are never mentioned again, and she doesn’t even think about killing Xaden despite telling us how catastrophic it would be if he turned Venin. You see, a problem with this book is that despite Xaden literally becoming a member of the big irredeemable evil cult of this series, it’s never treated with any real seriousness or concern from Violet. She’s too man obsessed and convinced that Xaden would never hurt her because he loves her so much🥺✨ Never mind the weird possessiveness Xaden has over Violet and the aggression that Xaden displays toward anyone else? Nor the many times that Xaden keeps telling Violet that he would kill everyone else just to save her? This book (and seemingly Yarros) are too obsessed with this idea of a man caring only about their love interest that they ignore all of the disgusting implications, stakes or consequences this adds to the story. And Violet is too fucking hypnotized by the dick that she brushes away the MANY red flags that flare all around Xaden.🚩🚩🚩 The book tries to convince you that it’s because they love each other so much but that’s so laughably unbelievable, I’m convinced Yarros thinks her audience is stupid. Xaden and Violet constantly want to fuck each other sure, but romantasy needs to learn that weird horny lust is not love. And having Violet’s whole motivation revolve around Xaden is disgusting. It’s embarrassing. It’s repulsive. It’s not feminism. It centers men and men only, while trying to convince its audience it’s feminist because it’s written by a woman and has “girlboss” moments. The only province that matters is Xaden’s province, the only person that matters to Violet is Xaden with only an occasional exception for her siblings or friends, every chapter mentions Xaden over and over, Violet is sad when Xaden is sad, she’s mad when Xaden is mad, she’s constantly monitoring Xaden’s emotions and making sure he’s comfortable and happy. It’s a ceaseless refrain of Xaden, Xaden, Xaden, Xaden, Xaden, Xaden. And if the characters aren’t yapping about Xaden they’re dick riding Violet. Everyone defends her and coddles her, and anyone that doesn’t is literally just a villain. “Violet’s our strongest weapon, she’s so good at everything! She’s so smart even when she blatantly ignores things that are obviously important. Of course We blindly trust her and her evil boyfriend!” 🥺🥺✨ Oh and everyone cares about Violet and Xaden’s relationship and comment on their cringey sex life! And can we talk about the sex scenes in this book? Not to be the smut critic but they’re boring, grossly and viscerally described, and WAY TOO LONG. 🤢 Do romantasy writers not see how this obsession with their main characters completely defangs their entire story, message, and world?? Please stop coddling your main characters and please stop dick riding them! It’s so weird. 🙏😭 Even the politics of this world bend to Violet and Xaden. Xaden, after committing blatant and open treason last book, gets awarded the title of duke. And he’s such a good leader even though he spends the whole book telling Violet that she’s his top priority. Sorry, but I don’t want a ruler who wants to fuck his girlfriend more than he wants to keep his people safe?? That’s such an ick. Someone usurp this bastard immediately please!☝️☺️ Violet and Xaden spend half the book disrespecting orders and royalty, and ignore the basic rules of diplomacy, and when everything goes to shit they just threaten and blunder their way through everything without a single consequence or roadblock. When Violet might lose to the evil Venin miniboss, a random iridescent dragon from earlier shows up and lights the ward stone for Xaden’s province. And even when the plot-convenient dragon takes Andarna with her to “teach her the Irid’s ways” Andarna shows up again just FOUR chapters later. We don’t even sit with her (not very sad) loss for a second. Violet’s sister gets kidnapped and her throat gets slit and she just gets immediately healed and Violet kills the big bad evil Venin miniboss with a plot convenient stone dagger. A turtle has more teeth than this story. A vegan’s fridge has more stakes. (I know steaks/stakes are different shut up let me have a stupid pun as a treat for surviving this book) The book ends on yet another big battle with a cliffhanger ending because why would we deserve anything more than formulaic slop?☺️✨ TLDR: Violet and Xaden get married 👰‍♀️🤵‍♂️but Violet’s memory gets erased so she doesn’t remember it, and also Xaden went full Venin so now Violet has to look over Xaden’s province. Womp womp. And another more thing!!🗣️ The main centerpiece of this idiotic plot is the “war” between the Venin and the humans. But do you know what this war amounts to on page? A handle of nameless civilians dying, boring dragon fights on occasion when Violet gets attacked, random cities getting attacked so Violet can defend them, and dull final battles where a location gets attacked and Violet has to defend it. Notice how the humans are always getting attacked? The humans just patrol their borders and wait to get attacked. Never once do the humans go on the offensive or even try to figure out what the Venin even want? Do the Venin truly just want to suck all the power out of the land? I guess. That’s all Yarros has deigned to tell us. The stakes are so low, and the main conflict is so bland. The humans just sit around until they’re attacked and then are surprised that the evil enemy is attacking them. And the dragons do even less. Oh yes, once more the dragons are nothing more than glorified Uber rides. They have no character growth or personalities and really only chime in to insert stupid quips. That’s all. Andarna almost has a plot line but it’s entirely unexplored because Violet is self-absorbed and man-obsessed.🐲🐉 And remember how Violet has magical fantasy EDS? Well Violet doesn’t. It never comes up when it would actually adversely impact the plot. Violet routinely takes 24 hour high impact dragon flights and is just a little sore after it, that’s all. Occasionally she dislocates something but that gets mended up instantly. What’s the point of Violet even having this disability if the book is just going to ignore it so Violet can have rough sex and treat her body like shit? She doesn’t get anymore accommodations or have any real struggles. We just get heaps more internalized ableism and not much else. Yay!!🥳 I’m sorry if you like this book but I just don’t understand how. It’s altogether a generic, uncreative, unimaginative, and poorly put together book. The modern slang is egregious. The writing is abysmal. The editor was certainly sleeping on the job. The plot is boring, formulaic, and has no substance whatsoever. It’s not even funny bad anymore, it’s just depressing. Yarros is not a good writer and Red Tower is certainly not an ethical publishing house. They treat their diehard supporters like trash and get away with it because their audience is primarily women that are used to being treated poorly by big corporations and it’s really, really sad. Please demand better. And please stop giving Yarros and Red Tower money. There are a million fantasy books that are better written, with far more care put into them. Plus there are good books that are actually accessible for new readers. Well. I hope that was helpful or entertaining or something because this book certainly wasn’t. If you made it this far, thank you for reading my review!! If you want more of my thoughts on and reactions to this book I’ve made my kindle notes and highlights public (there are a LOT of them). Also if you like this book or Yarros, that’s cool. We can agree to disagree. Please don’t comment dumb shit, and keep it mostly respectful! Thanks! ☺️🙏✨

➳ i need imogen to use her powers and wipe ALL of my memories from this shit ☆ i am giving one, only ONE disclaimer. if you are going to be a smartass in my comments... blocked + reported. i am so done with all of these stans coming in and harassing and borderline abusing me and my friends for not liking this book. if you like it, good for you. this is a reflection of the author and her craft, not other readers. read whatever you want and leave the rest of us ALONE. ⌞world building + magic system⌝ the politics of this world, or lack thereof is SO jarring. there is not one consistent plot device that yarros uses in any of the three books. as an author who primarily focuses on military propaganda romance smut, i was not expecting anything profound and intricate. however, if you are going to have this world full of dragons, wyverns, signets, and powers you NEED to explain this. there is not one fucking thing explained or kept consistent. every book thus far has the most flimsy story and plot with no competent characteristics that are relevant to this story. all of the cracks were showing with book one with the hopes that concepts and aspects of the story are explained in the latter books. this is such a lazy world with over info dumping that is superfluous and blaring to read about. ⌞the romance + relationship⌝ brother eugh. HORRENDOUS. everybody is a LIAR. the romance between xaden and violet is the most elementary level love story i have ever read. these two have no chemistry with each other besides physical lust and attraction. their kink is fucking in the middle of wars and whining to everybody about how in love they are. where the fuck is their personality??? this is one of the only fictional couples that are stupid both separately and together. the other one is poppy and her stupid ten thousand year old liar. yarros shoving up our ass about how much they LOVE EACH OTHER was the goofiest shit i have ever read. while i actually found xaden pleasant initially, he was giving me peak circus clown core with this book. rebecca RUINED his character. your relationship has fallen apart when you cannot name more than three things about each others temperament. they are not enemies, they are not lovers, they are both just fucking stupid. pack it up with this tom & jerry ass tension, because that’s all it is. fuck this, fuck you, fuck off. ⌞the NPCs???⌝ who the fuck are these bitches??? why are they here and where did they come from??? there is an INSANE level of info dumping of ZILCH with the most useless characters that have no purpose being here. this is a pure example of authors not knowing what the fuck to write. you cannot tell me that she wrote this novel. not only does it read like AI, there is no correlation between the first book, to the second book, to now this third book. there are some random people that suffer, sacrifice, and ultimately die... but like WHO CARES!!! i did not shed a single tear for these hoes. the only relevant character is violet. ONLY her. no one else has a purpose being here after book one. the “found family” was easily the most forced aspect of this dragged out plotless book. the family is LOST. ⌞the ending⌝ this is a comedy act. PURE comedy. tell me why this ending was the most theatrical, melodramatic soap opera worthy finale. this is worse than ACOTAR with the feysand bullshit sjm pulled in ACOWAR. this cannot be THE ending everyone is shaking over??? please, i was laughing the whole time. i was not crying, screaming, begging for the next book because this was SO stupid. i have never read a more rushed, messy, first draft as i have with this bullshit. there was NO reason this book needed to be almost 600 pages. read the first three chapters and the last three and you are not missing ANYTHING. the biggest snooze-fest, dumpster fire shit since FBAA. a WHOLE MESS with no payoff. risk and reward? no. risk and brainrot at its finest. lastly, i am petty and i DO infact hate this series more because people are acting too brave and sending RANDOM READERS death threats over this bullshit. if you are going to insult me, i'm gonna need you to be original for once in your life. this was the equivalent of fast fashion with the same recycled covers that she milks for all the cash. arrant tomfoolery on crack cocaine.

First of all... lemme tell you how mf tired I am of the internet and all the mf weirdo super Yarros fans who try and bully you when your opinion differs from theirs. Respectfully, eat a 🍆. I'm a January Aquarius bruh... we do not yield. Moving along.... This book was all filler. No resolution in sight from the ending of Iron Flame. Can someone, anyone tell me why the dragons in this book act like they're toddlers that need help from human mommy and daddy at every turn? It's no secret that I haven't been a fan of this series since the beginning. Look, I'm truly not trying to be a hater, but the romance in this has always been cringe - now it's gotten worse. The dragons have always come across equivalent to a child's dragon cartoon character to me, and they have gotten worse. The first half of this book - who even were half of these people? Mine. Mine. Mine. Mine. Bruh we get it. The writing is lazy and repetitive, dare I say sounds AI generated? If she wouldn't have sold out for a cash grab and kept this a trilogy, I could have (possibly) respected the series more. ⋆✴︎˚｡⋆ Connect with me on Instagram ˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹

not another 500 page wattpad fic

i don't have words for how bad that was.

I am all for banning books if this is the only one. Wouldn't wish this atrocity on my worst enemy... It genuinely makes me want to never pick up another book ever again

ChatGPT is so bad at writing, but Rebecca Yarros is even worse.

** spoiler alert ** In this book with the Riverdale ass title, Violet’s mother has just died and she will spend exactly 3 pages being sad about it before forgetting that woman ever existed. Xaden now has the magical equivalent of roid rage and everyone except (wait for it) Violet has accepted that he is a danger to society. Being a venin means that Xaden can’t go all the way with Violet, lest he lose control. Okay. We as readers are thus greeted with over 600 pages of Violet being sad that she can’t get railed by her meathead boyfriend… he is Edward and she is Bella. Violet also has a stalker named Theophanie (stupid name) who wants Violet to be evil like her. When she’s not sad about celibacy, Violet and friends embark on a hefty side quest in search of Andarna’s family: the shiny dragons. They travel to a plethora of islands that don’t really matter and meet a plethora of people that don’t really matter. Said family is found. It does not go well. The moody dragon continues to be moody. Violet and Xaden finally do it (much to the dismay of this reader’s eyeballs). Andarna breaks her bond with Violet (so valid) and flies away to an unknown location for dragon training. Sgaeyl friend-zones Tairn and he pulls a Sleeping Beauty. During the final battle of predictability, Violet kills Theophanie and Xaden sacrifices himself and turns to the Dark Side so he can save Violet. He then disappears, of course. Violet wakes up 12 hours later with a ring on her finger and no memory of how it got there. Thus setting up book 4 to be (probably) another 600 pages of amnesia tropes and every day for Violet being a no bones day. Can’t wait.

ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ 1 star ⤿ finished: unfortunately What a blatant money grab. What should’ve been a solid trilogy has been dragged out into five bloated books because apparently squeezing every dollar out of a franchise matters more than storytelling. After Iron Flame, I was so ready for political scheming, fantasy and dragons with personality, right? WRONG. Instead, I got 527 pages of filler, flat characters and a romance so lifeless it made me physically ill. Let’s talk about the first 60%. Actually, let’s not, because NOTHING happened except repetitive fight scenes and Violet and Xaden thirsting over each other like hormonal teenagers. I nearly dnf’d because it was so boring, and honestly, I wish I had. -`♡´- worldbuilding? The magic system still makes zero sense. We’re drowning in info dumps about random lore and npcs no one asked for, yet none of it actually clarifies the rules of this world. It’s lazy, it’s chaotic, and it’s insulting to anyone who expected even an ounce of effort. -`♡´- characters ⤿ violet Violet’s personality has been stripped down to monologues and calling Xaden “mine.” Remember when she was smart, resourceful, and had depth? Me neither, because she’s now a one-dimensional placeholder who’s more concerned about her romance than the actual stakes. ⤿ xaden Speaking of placeholders, Xaden’s entire personality now revolves around being possessive and moody. He’s gone from brooding and mysterious to repetitive and flat. Their relationship, which once had tension and chemistry, is now just cringe dialogue and predictable scenes. ⤿ the dragons The dragons were everything in the previous books. Now? They’re props. Lifeless, boring props. How do you ruin DRAGONS? I’ll never forgive this book for making Tairn, Andarna and Sgaeyl so irrelevant. ⤿ the npcs Who ARE these people? This book throws so many new characters at you with zero development or purpose. They die, they disappear, they monologue. I DON'T CARE. Meanwhile, the side characters I actually liked were shoved into the background or just forgotten entirely. -`♡´- pacing The pacing is a nightmare. It drags when it should move, rushes when it should build, and spends way too much time on pointless scenes. Half the book could’ve been cut, and nothing would’ve changed. Actually, better idea: don’t write this book at all. -`♡´- the ending The ending is a literal joke. A rushed, chaotic cliffhanger designed to set up the next book without resolving anything. Nothing meaningful happened. Nothing landed. And the desperation to keep readers hooked was painfully obvious. -`♡´- concluding thoughts This book is a failure on every level. The plot is hollow, the characters are lifeless, and the romance is unbearable. It’s clear this series is being stretched for money, not because it has a story worth telling. If you’re still planning to read this, lower your expectations, or better yet, save your time and don't. Skip it. Pretend this disaster never happened. ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ Pre-Read ITS TIMEEE!!!

I don’t believe for a minute that John Grisham wrote this book. It has none of the depth or character development of his other books. The plot is padded with unnecessary prattling and descriptions, and the plot is ponderous. If he continues to turn his novels over to others to write, I will lose interest quickly in reading any more of his books.

** spoiler alert ** Contrived, convenient and without care. This story needed a character to care for, whom I believe is Jeri & she is left with nothing and with no mention of her future. Lacy was really unfeeling at the end. Her lack of compassion for the victims had me scratching my head. “Jane Kronke gritted her teeth and said, “I don’t know what to say. Are we supposed to be relieved, or angry, or what?” Lacy shrugged and said, “I’m afraid I can’t answer that.” Excerpt From A Novel Grisham, John This material may be protected by copyright. She SHRUGGED like she didn’t care. And that describes Lacy’s character for the entire book which, in turn, means she didn’t care which is felt throughout the book. This is completely devoid of her character developed in The Whistler. Lacy did nothing but complain and push off taking on the case. She was cold, burnt out & unkind. She has many conversations like this on repeat. The entire book was pages and pages of apathy. Grisham fails to replicate a compelling main character. He usually allows us to sink our teeth into the MC and the story. I know he doesn’t use ghostwriters 🤷🏻‍♀️ but, I still can’t believe Grisham actually penned this novel. I hope you enjoyed this more than I did. I am disappointed, at best.

I think Grisham’s early work is really good and enjoyed reading stories like The Firm, The Runaway Jury, and The Client. Stories with an early hook to grab your attention and interested in how the story develops and unfolds. It’s too bad his latest work doesn’t measure up to those stories. This is less a story of the law but rather a murder mystery loosely connected because the murderer is a judge and the case is brought to a judicial investigative office. I’ll avoid any spoiler descriptions and just say the brilliant judge who leaves no clues or evidence turns out not to be so smart while new id, money, or properties are conveniently introduced when needed. I wish authors that wrote bad stories had to give the reader back the time lost reading the book. I knew this was a dud early and shame on me since I plowed on hoping it would revert to Grisham’s excellent early work. I'm done reading the Whistler series...

This is one of the worst books I’ve ever read. It was incredibly boring considering the promising synopsis. There was almost no connection to the murderer being a judge. We never got to see the judge really use his position as a judge to cover up murders. He didn’t even use his position as an authority figure to rope anyone into his scheme. There was very little suspense given that we already knew he was a murderer from the beginning, and half of the book was spent on one character trying to convince the others to take the case. The characters were so boring I could barely tell them apart. I wasn’t rooting for anyone. The two female leads of the novel ultimately both had to be saved by very minor characters. Nothing set this book apart from any other thriller except that it wasn’t very thrilling at all. Given that we already know the judge is the murderer, there could have at least been a twist or more interesting writing showing how the judge was able to use the law or his position to avoid being caught. Everything about this book was hollow and the plot took the path of least resistance the whole way through.

If you’re into social justice warriors this is your book. This book reads more like a political statement than anything else. story line is barely held together. Mmc just happens to own a bike he uses to transport himself. Really that all there is with the bike. And he occasionally reminds us he works for the mob. Not that we see that side because the focus is on fmc’s fight for rights and her being offended by fairly reasonable questions. Her sister, who we’re told is a bitch, is pregnant and mentions hey - your line of work as a sex worker isn’t suitable for kids to be around. Fmc loses her shit at this. Seems reasonable to me to not want kids to be running around a sex club but hey what do I know. Don’t bother. Go reread lights out and pretend that’s where it ends.

DNF. I don't need political nonsense in my mafia romance. Thanks 🙃

I don’t care if people use pronouns in real life, whatever. It’s bizarre, but do you. However, it makes it really confusing to read. I’m thinking I missed a character, when it’s one character using confusing pronouns. I’d think a good author would see this, and avoid it. I couldn’t even get to chapter 3.

Caught Up with how bad this was.

0% in - Let's effing gooooooooooo. 0.5% in - Junior? We're going with JUNIOR??? Are we solid on the name or can we workshop it a bit...? 100% in - That was certainly...a book. And we really should have workshopped the whole Junior thing. That was a rough patch that didn't improve with time. The biggest impression I had upon closing this book was... that was a lot. Not of plot or character development. Just a lot of sex and I feel numb. Look, I like a spicy scene here and there but when nearly the whole book is a montage of sex (and rather explicit, kinky and...unusual scenes), I noticed that my brain actually started disassociating from the book. Objectively, it was an interesting phenomenon because I've read hundreds of audiobooks but I've never had to work so hard at keeping my attention focused on the book. But there was such an overwhelming number of explicit scenes that it ceased being fun or spicy, but something I had to slog through to get to the next plot point (which felt few and far between). The whole Junior/Lauren relationship felt bland to me despitethe frequency of their... scenes. Basically, he was her top subscriber, she was a top-earner on the OnlyFans equivalent of this world. But there wasn't much depth to their relationship. He's stalked her for years and she finds it charming. He's obsessed and willing to pay, she's a sex-positive online content creator who happily took all the money he offered. Something I did find interesting, is that junior says over and over that he is fine with her job and while we do see Lauren "at her job" quite frequently, she's never really shown sexting or filming specific videos for other clients. It's mentioned that she does and will continue to do that, but the author only focuses on her custom work for junior. So there's this weird dynamic where realistically, junior feels like he's getting this unique experience but he really isn't but the author chooses to only highlight relationship building moments from sexting and whatnot between the two MCs. Anyway, what's wild is that the first book (Lights Out) had a somewhat similar premise (obsession and being charmed) and yet that one worked so well for me. I thought the banter between the characters was hilarious, the scenes were spicy but exciting, and I liked the push-pull of the relationship. But Junior and Lauren felt like shadows compared to Josh and Ali. Honestly, the most interesting thing was Lauren's best friend getting a request to cover herself in food and when the friend was like, "hey, is this weird?" And Lauren's like, "oh he's a cannibal, just ignore it. " and I'm like, "What? WHAT!?" but nothing ever comes of that plot point! I'm not saying one of the characters should've been eaten but why throw that tidbit in there if you aren't going to use it? With book 1 being so good, and book 2 being rock bottom...I wonder where book 3 will land? P.s. I don't believe for a second that Junior actually has money. At the rate he was throwing it at Lauren - couple of hundred to thousands a week? Yeah right. He couldn't save up to save his life. I think the author had an "ohsht" moment where she realized she was making Junior poor cause he spent so much on custom photos and videos and retroactively wrote in that he was uber rich to compensate. That's my headcanon and you won't ever convince me otherwise.

This made me so sad……

Had to DNF it at 65% just wasn’t for me and gave me the ick in a lot of different ways.

1 STAR😑 I don’t even know where to begin with this because WHAT. WAS. THIS. 😭 I went into this expecting a dark romance, and not even a mild one—I was fully ready for obsession, chaos, morally grey choices, all of it. I can handle toxic men. I can even love toxic men. But this? This wasn’t dark romance in the addictive, messy, “I can’t look away” kind of way. This was exhausting, uncomfortable, and somehow… painfully boring. And that is honestly the worst crime of all. 🫠 ⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘ ✧ The Premise (aka the biggest betrayal) ✧ On paper, this book had EVERYTHING going for it. A morally grey man. An off-limits obsession. A second chance dynamic. Dark, dangerous vibes. It should have been irresistible. It should have been intense. It should have had me hooked from page one. Instead, it felt like nothing ever truly landed. There was no emotional weight, no buildup, no depth to make any of it matter. It just floated there—scene after scene—with no real impact. I kept waiting for something to click, for the story to finally become what it promised. But it never did. 😭 ⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘ ✧ Nico “Junior” — I CANNOT ✧ I have defended some truly unhinged fictional men in my time. I have read characters who are objectively terrible and still found something compelling in them. Junior, however, tested my patience like nothing else. He wasn’t layered or complex—he was just frustrating. Arrogant in a way that wasn’t charismatic. Emotionally volatile without any real depth behind it. And the constant repetition of his trauma, especially the “my father” excuse, became so exhausting to read that it started to feel like a loop rather than character development. There’s a difference between a broken man who grows on you and a character who just stays stagnant and irritating. Junior never crossed that line for me. He didn’t intrigue me, didn’t make me feel anything—except annoyance. 😭 ⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘ ✧ Lauren — girl… please ✧ I wanted to connect with Lauren. I really did. But she felt so underdeveloped that it was hard to latch onto anything about her. She didn’t feel like a fully formed character with her own emotional depth—she just existed within the story without leaving any real impact. Because of that, the relationship also suffered. I couldn’t understand her pull toward Junior, couldn’t feel her emotions, couldn’t root for her decisions. Everything between them felt surface-level, and without a strong emotional anchor from her side, the story just fell flat. 🫠 ⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘ ✧ The Romance (if we can call it that) ✧ This is where the book completely lost me. Because I genuinely struggled to see the romance. There was obsession, yes. There was attraction, yes. But there was no emotional intimacy, no meaningful connection, no foundation strong enough to support a second chance love story. Their past didn’t feel significant enough, and their present interactions didn’t build anything new. It felt chaotic and immature rather than intense. Instead of tension, there was just noise. Instead of longing, there was confusion. And instead of chemistry, there was… nothing. 😭 ⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘ ✧ The Writing & Plot ✧ I kept waiting for the story to deepen—for more backstory, more emotional exploration, more insight into why these characters are the way they are. But everything stayed frustratingly shallow. Some parts dragged endlessly, while others rushed through moments that could have actually mattered. And despite being labeled as a dark romance, the plot somehow managed to feel… dull. Which is honestly shocking, because this genre should be anything but boring. But here, it was. Over and over again. 🫠 ⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘ ✧ The Only Saving Grace ✧ Josh and Aly. That’s it.😭😭😭😭😭 Every time they appeared, it felt like a breath of fresh air—like suddenly the story remembered how to have charm, chemistry, and actual emotional connection. Their presence reminded me of what this series could have been, and honestly, they carried whatever small enjoyment I got from this book. 😭 ⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘ ✧ Final Thoughts ✧ This book had so much potential. The tropes, the premise, the setup—it could have been something intense and unforgettable. But instead, it ended up feeling hollow, repetitive, and emotionally disconnected. And worst of all… it was boring. Not even chaotic enough to be entertaining—just draining to get through. This wasn’t the kind of dark romance that makes you question your morals in a thrilling way. It was the kind that makes you question why you’re still reading. 🫠 ⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘ ✧ Rating ✧ 1 ⭐ (This is only for Josh & Aly because they deserved better than being stuck in this mess 😭) At the end of the day, this book didn’t leave me heartbroken or obsessed… just tired. 🖤 ⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘⫘ ⋆⭒˚.⋆ pre-read ⋆⭒˚.⋆ Just here for a good laugh and pure entertainment😂🙂‍↕️🤸🏻‍♀️

I came into this expecting the laugh-out-loud, chaotic energy of Lights Out and instead got…umm nothing. The FMC was passionate about advocacy (slay, queen, truly ✊), but aside from that? The characters didn’t pop, the romance didn’t spark, and the spice didn’t even simmer because I wasn’t invested in the relationship at all. & look if I’m not rooting for the couple, the steam reads more like room-temperature mist. I wanted banter. I needed banter. I got… mild conversational exchanges. The trio of besties had flickers of the Lights Out vibe, but it never fully landed for me. Maybe this just wasn’t my flavor of romance. Maybe you’ll love it! I’m just sad I spent money hoping for a five-star romcom and ended disappointed.

“Grab her hand in the streets and her hair in the sheets.” That quote is the only thing I liked about this book.

Honestly, fuck this fuck ass book.

Yeahhh…. That’s a DNF for me. Not worth my time. Navessa needs to go back to focusing on storytelling because this ain’t it. 👎🏼

Terrible follow up to lights out. I despised the FMC and found myself not wanting to read. I rarely quit a book, but this one was just that awful.

Awful plot. “ jokes” were just awful. The spice was like of a skeezy 80’s movie. I think she was trying to recreate her book lights out but failed miserably. 0/10

This makes me soooooo disappointed to have to say I have DNF this one. I had high expectations after Lights Out and this was such a let down! The writing is just not it for me!

LIKE BELIEVE ME WHEN I SAY that this book took me the longest to get into and guess WHAT? A SOLID DNF.. yeah, I was really excited for the story cause if you don't know me I AM obsessed with bikes and bikers on tiktok, I AM A SUCKER so I was going ASAP to pick this book and binge it. The initial allure of the narrative, encapsulated in the assertion of desire from a man who typically achieves his wants, sets the stage for a potentially gripping dark romance. However, the execution disappointingly falters, relying excessively on clichéd archetypes such as the brooding, possessive anti-hero and the innocent heroine who undergoes a sultry transformation. Nico “Junior” Trocci is depicted as obsessively dangerous rather than intriguingly enigmatic, and his fixation on Lauren veers unsettlingly close to stalking rather than the passionate romance the story aims to portray. Rather than cultivating a nuanced and compelling relationship between the protagonists, the plot hastily propels them into lust-driven encounters that lack the emotional resonance and character development necessary to engage the reader fully. Lauren’s journey from a timid bookworm to a confident club-goer holds the potential for a powerful narrative arc, yet it is regrettably reduced to a mere backdrop for Junior’s objectification and possessive tendencies. Her internal struggles and emotional complexities are superficially addressed, rendering her more of a fantasy figure than a fully fleshed-out character. The club scenes, while undeniably steamy and explicit, overshadow any genuine attempts at plot progression or meaningful relationship dynamics. Ultimately, the novel resembles a collection of spicy fanfiction rather than a thoughtfully crafted romance, leaving readers yearning for depth and authenticity that remains tantalizingly out of reach. the only thing that I loved is the bike that Junior has...and it's such a waste..

1.5 -͟͟͞☆ I was excited about this book. I liked Junior’s character in the Lights Out, so I was looking forward to his story. However….I didn’t like it as much. It lowkey made me miss Josh. My opinions on Lo’s job may be controversial, so I’d keep them to myself, but I’m sure there are women who appreciate an author writing a love story for such line of work. I wish this book had less smut and more mob storyline, I was interested in that. And honestly, that’s what got that start out of me. I’m not interest in smut in books. I live more for yearning than the straightforward ones. There were scenes that were “hawt,” but the rest felt flat. There was this particular scene where Junior’s words cracked me up and it goes like: ”Such a gentleman all of a sudden.” “That’s me, a real gentleman. Grab her hand in the streets and her hair in the sheets.” and let me tell you, only a woman can come up with such funny, rhyming words. Anyways, I don’t have much hope for Taylor and Stella’s storyline, but I will read it for sure. ✎ᝰ. During-reading: Just finished chapter one and…didn’t expect that lol. ✎ᝰ. Pre-read: I need this yesterday

Got through page 58 and had to stop I don't know what happened to this author. I guess he got woke. Too much talk about masks, bumping elbows, vaccines, etc. Sorry but I am sick of that stuff in real life. Once I ran into the obligatory gay couple, (don't care which way you swing, just sick of it always being the topic of conversation) I thought, I am done. Book is not interesting and it's not one you can't put down. Pass..

DNF. First Connelly book I could not (and DID NOT want to) finish. After dozens of great novels (Bosch, Haller, etc ...) without ZERO current political commentary, evidently Connelly had the same reaction to the Trump election as did Stephen King ....crazed mouth-frothing hatred! The most recent Haller novel had a gratuitous Trump slam while they were picking a jury, but it was a quick joke. But this is a total immersion into the alternate reality of the Regressive Democratic worldview. I certainly don't need to read CNN inspired virtue signaling prose like "mask up, badge out" every fourth page. Also don't need the rah-rah BLM instructions. Wow, what a total collapse of a once great writer ...

Read this only if you want to have your intelligence insulted. Connelly deftly portrays the physical and psychological deterioration of Los Angeles while remaining utterly blind to it being directly traceable to the leftist views and policies long governing the city. Blind because he holds those views. And holds them with the same arrogance his fellow travelers do: most glaringly, by repeatedly parroting CNN reportage of “storming” the Capitol on January 6, 2021, demanding or at very least expecting acceptance of it as given truth. If he’s not blind, then he’s deliberately trafficking what he knows to be poisonous and destructive ideology. I’m beginning to think it’s this latter because not one drop of the flaunted attitude was necessary to tell an otherwise well-crafted story, which he absolutely has to know under the responsibility of authorship. In any event, I won’t contribute to the propaganda by buying any more Connelly books.

Yet another casualty of the current narrative; how incredibly disappointing. Will be saving my money.

I discovered Michael Connelly’s books this year, and I read almost all of his books, whenever I could escape to the action-packed world of Harry Bosch, Mikey Haller, Jack McEvoy and Renee Ballard. I was looking forward to reading his new current-time novel so much that I preordered it months ago. I started reading The Dark Hours today, and I was not able to get through the first few pages of political propaganda: presenting the police as a victim of the last years’ events, blaming the defund the police movement (and not the incompetent leadership or purchase of military equipment) for not having enough well trained detectives, then repeating again these accusations… Connelly is great describing crime plots and process of detective work. I knew that his renditions of deep emotional interactions are less convincing (ex: Nine Dragons); now I’ll list political-economic reasoning as his weakness too. ADD: I tried to return to book, but I couldn’t. So, I have to admit it, I speed-read it. Interesting story, but many plot holes (no-spoiler example: where did the killers get their car?), uncharacteristic actions (Renee Ballard suspects something, presents as certainty to others, then shows up unprepared) and unrealistic ending. I am standing by my rating. (It is interesting that other readers found this book’s tone too liberal, even “woke” - perhaps because the socio-political thoughts in it are contrived, forced, inconsistent.)

This one felt like it was just mailed in. It didn't make me care about either Bosch or Ballard. There was almost no character development, other than a potential new boyfriend for Ballard. Harry was a cardboard character. It was hard to keep track of what, exactly, Ballard was doing as she worked two cases and apparently went days without sleep, yet functioned fully. He also threw in more than the normal number of acronyms, then explaining them in the next paragraph, which was just disrupting. Finaly, the references to Covid were distracting and unnecessary, as were the political references. I read this for pleasure and to escape.

I love the Harry Bosch character and have purchased and enjoyed every single book of the series... up until now. As others have written: Too political. Woke. Covid, vax, Covid, rinse and repeat. Sprinkle in a touch of BLM and some virtue signaling. An entire section of the book entitled "insurrection" (complete with misinformation). More than one reference to CNN (lightbulb)... A reference to Trevor Noah, seriously? When were those Anti-American things ever relevant? I'm not sitting in an airport, I do have other options. But since you opened the door to politics, I guess we'll go there. As others have written, it's insulting to build up character loyalty for a Vietnam Vet over many books and many years, now to turn on one's readers by painting a picture that is so clearly propaganda. I'm sure Harry can't wait to "get the jab" of a shot that's still in phase 3 clinical trials with many unwilling and coerced trial participants across the country having to choose between this and their livelihood. Many cops, firefighters, and healthcare workers who were working overtime and putting themselves at risk while much of the country was getting paid to hide in their homes. Many already got Covid and recovered. Anyone remember the Nuremberg Trials / Nuremberg Code? Didn't Vietnam vets fight against authoritarianism? By the way, a jab for a virus that (up to this point in time) has had a less than 1% mortality rate. This is the same Harry Bosch who said "FU" to the LAPD and sued them - he's itching to get the jab. Okay, I'll extend an olive branch. Harry's up in the years now and is on chemo, so he's in a relatively high risk category and probably should get it. But would he care? especially considering all the high-risk situations he's been in? Ballard being young, healthy, and already having Covid 3 months ago - she's worried if her antibodies will hold on until she can get the jab? What kind of nonsense... Oh yeah, she does watch CNN. I guess she hasn't heard of memory B cells (or maybe she forgot). Come on, Connelly, at least try to paint a fair and balanced picture here. I had always been impressed with how much research it seemed you did for your books, until now. Turning on your loyal readers and biting the original hands that fed you. Leave that to the government, they're much better at it. I guess the readers don't matter anymore due to the far greater reach amazon video provides, but I wish you'd still dance with the ones who brought you. After all, we're not the cancelling culture. I, like many, enjoy fiction as an escape from the craziness that we see unfolding everyday. I don't need it to be even more propaganda lobbed at my face, especially since I'm paying for it. In the past these things could just be ignored, but now they're everywhere you look. If anyone can relate to this sentiment, please start supporting conservative sources (or at least neutral ones) while we still have the chance. Far too much of our money is going to these anti-American woke institutions.

What was this? I’ve read at least 35 Michael Connelly novels, some more than once, so obviously I’ve been a fan. But “The Dark Hours” can only be described as a slap in the face to his loyal base. First off, Renee Ballard has developed over time into a mostly ridiculous main character. Self-pitying and self-sabotaging, she is NO Harry Bosch. As a matter of fact, she mostly has to be bailed out of tough situations by the retired old detective. But what is most insulting to Michael Connelly’s multitude of readers is the constant cram down of his WOKE political agenda. I lost count of how many Covid-19 mask references in this idiotic book—a detail completely annoying and unnecessary to the plot. After about the 100th time the book describes Detective Ballard adjusting her mask, elbow bumping, or driving Harry to get his jab—it’s pretty clear Michael just LOVES all the Covid-19 mandates in California. But do we want to read about it when all we expect from his writing is a little entertainment and escapism? NOPE, not even one little bit. Connelly’s overt homages to BLM, Inc. riots and DNC talking points makes it pretty clear this author is now so rich he can afford to: 1) alienate half his audience, and 2) crap all over the LAPD. Adios Michael Connelly.

Too Late is an excruciating read that could not appease me in any way. When CoHo released this book, she suggested that this story would be a little edgier and darker than her other reads. It was, but mostly, Too Late was a melodramatic get-together of underdeveloped characters and a ridiculous plot line. The story is about Sloan, a girl that is apparently very strong and unyielding, however, in my opinion, she comes across as a whiny doormat. There, I said it. ^.^ She has an abusive boyfriend, Asa, and she stays with him since he pays the bills for her brother's care. He treats her poorly, he is violent and shows little redeeming qualities. Nevertheless, she pretends it all is okay and stays with him for her brother's sake. I cannot comprehend why the main narrator does not find a job or whatever like a typical college student... Why does she make herself dependable on this douche? I still cannot grasp that idea. All changes when Carter comes in the picture with a few secrets of his own. Carter is the typical CoHo boy. He is sweet and dramatic, he talks like a girl and he is quite boring. Sloan and Carter immediately fall in love and I am not exaggerating. After one hour of being together, Carter cannot stop thinking about her and starts to ramble on and on about Sloan. I did not see the connection or even character development. Asa could not deliver a coherent sentence. He went from bad boy to psychotic lunatic very fast. Sloan was this so-called strong-willed girl, although she was crying on almost every page. Carter did not have any personality whatsoever. His only purpose was to be the sidekick of Sloan. The book was trying too hard to be offensive and edgy, but it did not work. There was too much telling and not enough showing, due to the missing character development. Invective words were thrown into this story like sugar in cake. I do not have any problems with a bit swearing in books, but this was over the top. It went like this: Asa: "I want some motherfucking spaghetti." Sloan: "I don't want to make you fucking spaghetti." Asa: "Well, I don't fucking care. Make me some fucking spaghetti." *Sloan wipes tears away* "Fine, here is your fucking spaghetti, you damned fucker." O.o And let's not talk about that ending. 0 stars.

VERY disappointing!!! I cannot believe CoHo wrote this book. Perhaps one of the worse books I've read this year. >: (

this was 370 pages longer than it needed to be hint: it’s a 370 page book

Okay, I'm pissed. Really pissed. So let's get this over with. A good portion of this book was fine. I had minor issues with it, but it wasn't until the last fourth of it that I really started to hate it. I can sum up my reasoning in three words: mental health stigma. I'm not going to pretend that homicidal tendencies aren't real and can be related to mental health issues, but I think it's absolutely disgusting that Colleen Hoover relied on schizophrenia not once, but twice, as the basis for someone to abuse and kill others. I'm not exaggerating here. We were not provided with any other reason for Asa's father to kill his mother other than his schizophrenia. And when it came down to it, Asa's own schizophrenia was why he was so fucked up. Repeat after me: being schizophrenic does not mean someone is abusive or wants to kill anyone. Frankly, I'm fucking appalled that Hoover resorted to that as some kind of half-assed excuse. I've known schizophrenic people. Believe it or not, they were sweet, kind people, and I hate seeing them stereotyped like this. This is a very personal issue for me, and I'm not going to pretend that it isn't. Mental health stigma is shitty and oppressive enough without popular authors adding to it. Fuck this book.

** spoiler alert ** Asa is a college drug dealer. He’s an over the top, cartoonish villain with daddy issues. Oh, but he loves coconut cake 😆 Sloan is his girlfriend. Her best qualities are that she can cook and she’s “hot.” Luke is the most inept undercover cop in the history of policing. He’s supposed to be building a case against Asa but you wouldn’t know by reading the book. No police work is done in the story. ZERO. He’s also bland as can be. So, Luke and Sloan have one single Spanish class together and fall in love instantly. I’m not kidding. After that, Luke’s only interest is in her. Undercover work is no longer a factor. One night Asa shoots up heroin and passes out. Seems like a great time to look around the house and get some evidence. Nope. Luke and Sloan go have sex in the back of his car right in front of the house instead. One of the many moments I thought, “What the hell am I reading?!” Sloan figures out Luke is undercover with no effort at all. Then, Asa hires some people to impersonate FBI agents to raid his house. Luke confesses to them he’s undercover. It’s unbelievable how bad a cop this guy is. Later we find out he blew his cover on another case too 😂 There is no way in hell the police force would let him go back undercover again. There’s a shootout and somehow Asa avoids prison. Luke and Sloan move to a safe house. Asa kidnaps Luke’s partner at gunpoint and he leads them to the house. More gunfire. So, after all that Asa only gets house arrest?! He kidnapped a cop! Don’t worry, it gets more ridiculous. Asa is able to slip out of the ankle monitor by taking pills that shrink his ankle wtf. He finds them again. More gunfire. The end. This book is absolutely ridiculous. I howled with laughter many times. So, there is some entertainment value at least. Every character is awful. Zero depth or development. This book is the equivalent of some drunk telling you the most outrageous, obviously bullshit story, then daring you to tell him he’s full of shit.

WOW it is almost as if there was no research done to study the judicial system or the criminal justice system. I can't with this book. It was utterly ridiculous. And Asa got too much screen time in this story for being such a disgusting character. The forbidden romance was nice, but that's about it. Probably by far the worst Hoover book I've ever read. *shrugs*

I have no empathy for a heroine who loves her abusive drug dealer boyfriend It shows she has terrible instincts and poor taste

I want to throw up and not in a good way

my christmas gift to myself was dnf’ing this

1 ⭐️ ... so glad this is over 😌 all this book did, was give me the ick

Due to the recent death of long-time narrator Rene Auberjonois, and an unexplained change from Jefferson Mays, somehow William DeMeritt took over the spot. WHAT A MISTAKE! I do not know if this was simply an availability or contract issue, if the publisher was involved, or if it was about money. All I know is that Demeritt is awful. I made it through 26 tracks, forcing myself to listen, hoping that it might smooth out. It didn't. The coup de grâce was Demeritt's rendering of the character Constance, who becomes in Demerrit's voicing, a screeching crone instead of an ethereal waif. 1-star ratings are reserved for unreadable books. Bloodless in audio, thanks to DeMeritt's massacre of voicing characters, earns this dubious rating from me.

OMG!!! WTF!!! What a terrible book! I've enjoyed many Preston & Child offerings over the years....some more than others...but, never anything that I would label as bad or terrible. But, the time has arrived. This is one story that should never have been conceived, never written, never published. If you are old enough to remember the B Grade black and white sci-fi movies from the 1950's and '60's (I have vivid memories of Tarantula! and The Giant Gila Monster!) then you will recognize much of this story. The writing and descriptions seem almost pulled from the Tarantula script. I was enticed to read this based on the pre-release the authors sent out to followers. Based on that text one would believe they were going to pursue a story dealing with the case of DB Cooper. OMG! There is a thread at the beginning tied to DB Cooper. But, that thread is sooooooooo thin and it snaps quickly. From there the script takes a hard turn into sci-fi... badly written sci-fi. There is time travel, monsters and time machines! Time machines mind you. Pendergast and a time machine!!!! However, the time machine serves as a launching vehicle for exploring the previous life of Constance Greene. So there is that. And....how many times can you say ....the smell of burning rubber? OMFG!

I loved all the books until after City of Endless Night. Since then every book has dropped in quality until the most recent Bloodless, which ironically could describe the plot. I'm 3/4 of the way through, having skipped large portions of utterly irrelevant sub plot. Frankly I'm only still reading as I'm ill in bed. I'm not sure why his partner is even in this, he makes no relevant input & neither does his ward. This is a lazy book padded out with huge amounts of irrelevancy & if it was the first book I'd read of the Pendegrast series i wouldn't bother with more. I wouldn't waste time or money on it. I'd rather re read the early ones & recommend anyone else to do the same. I've read all the others but due to the increasingly poor quality over the last few won't bother with any further in the series. Utter waste of potential

Is this a joke? I feel like this has to be a joke. I've been on this wild Pendergast ride for 20 books now, and while there have been a couple duds, I've very much enjoyed the ride. Until now. This book is so terrible that I created a GoodReads account just to write a review. This book was uninteresting and boring for the first 75% and then completely went off the rails in what seems like a last ditch attempt to save the story, which was wildly unsuccessful. For any other Pendergast fans out there who haven't read it, DO NOT READ THIS BOOK, this will ruin this series for you. Oh, and the audiobook narration of Constance Green... who ok'd that?!?!?! How could any rational person listen to that Warner Bros cartoonish performance of that character and be ok with it? It's as if they are actively trying to ruin this character. Ok, the ending... (view spoiler)

what the everloving fuck? laziest pendergast i’ve read in a good long while which is saying something bc the last few have been pretty terrible!! look what you’ve done to my boy!!! also why would you keep pressing this constance/pendergast nasty bullshit and then send her off back into the past!!!! and how does that make any sort of sense at all!!! this is literally just sci fi but they’re too much of cowards to commit to it!!!!! i am so beyond disappointed that i almost like it for being so incredibly bad. but not quite. look what you’ve done to my girl constance. might as well bring diogenes back from the dead again because who even is left anymore

A disappointment The early Pendergast books by Lincoln & Child were fascinating, but this book plunged so deeply into the paranormal that it bordered on silly to me. If you believe in time-travel and an invasion by other-worldly creatures, then you’ll probably enjoy this. But this will be the last Pendergast book for me.

The 20th book demise? I read all his books and loved his geopolitical adventures and writings on spy craft. This book seemed short and I wonder if it was written not for readers but for audio book fans? Many of Thor's books average over 360 pages. Not sure if longer book lengths translate well to audio books? The story and background are well written but the ending was a very small part of the book and it felt rushed. He only writes one book per year but I feel like Thor is looking not into his rear view mirror, but over his shoulder. Is that the author jack Carr I see coming up behind him? Thor's writings have become increasingly middle of the road and politically benign and it does not fit him. I read his books because he calls people out. He is now playing it safe and he would do well to remember his quote from True Black. “Benjamin Franklin, that those who trade some of their liberty for a little temporary security deserve neither and will lose both." He is trying to hard not to be cancelled and the writing in this book has suffered. More telling is that in his Black Ice acknowledgements, Thor relied on a scholar for Russian background information. That same scholar who is educating Thor on Russia is also a writer for Atlantic Magazine. Slanted is the first word that comes to mind. I am done with Thor paying it safe and not standing up to the crap that is being facilitated and perpetuated by inept politicians in DC.

Wow. This was bad. I've enjoyed several Brad Thor books in the past. Not sure this was written by brad. About 75% read like a Wikipedia article on Norway. The other 25% was terrible cliches and writing. I even highlighted a few while reading Because it was so ridiculous. Save your time.

This book was extremely disappointing to me. All the other Scot Harvath books are action packed and very Bond/Mission Impossible-ish, but this one was slow and no action. It took over half the book before any action occurs. Seemed like the author ran out of ideas, but was forced to write another book.

Oh man, I struggled so badly with this horrible book. I could spend days explaining why I didn't like it, but that would be silly, so I'll just list the main points here: 1. The story. The author deserves credit for the way she brought the events and horrors of the Great Depression to life. However, she immediately loses that credit for creating such a contrived (see 4), emotionally manipulative (see 5) story around it. 2. The writing. The entire book was riddled with boring details (gas prices, anyone?), and constant repetition (gas prices, anyone?), and terrible dialogue ('Gas prices, anyone?'). There was also a lot of telling rather than showing and, more annoying, showing followed immediately by telling, as though Hannah didn't quite trust her readers to understand the novel's very simple plot. The result was a book that was permanently frustrating and at least one-hundred pages too long. 3. The characters. Dreadful, one-dimensional characters like Elsa, who was constantly strong and stoical, brave and self-deprecating, and the novel's far-too-obvious hero. Characters like the quiet but loving step-parents, and the sarcastic daughter who spent her entire time rolling her eyes at each slice of shit that was served up to the family and asking rhetorical questions, which Elsa nevertheless answered with weary stoicism. Characters like the sweeter-than-saccharine son, who sounded like a badly-written Famous Five character ('Jeepers - ain't I just a cotton-pickin' wonder?'). 4. The contrivances. For example, after moving to California, Elsa and the kids experience six months of relentless prejudice from the native population. But then, one morning, they take a trip down Main Street, where they suddenly make friends with a host of kindly townsfolk. 5. The emotional manipulation. Remember that episode of 'Friends', when Monica tried to make the guests at her parents' anniversary cry by giving a speech about her dead dog? OMG, THAT WAS THIS BOOK! Whether it was Ant's lung disease, or a friend's run-in with typhoid, or letters from home, or THAT ending (oh, sweet Jesus, that ending), it's clear that Hannah is playing for tears. The results are about as subtle as a fart in a spacesuit.

So let me get this straight. A book that supports and pushes COMMUNISM as the answer to struggles in America? What the heck is the world coming to when authors write things like this? Was it a good story? Yes. Well written? Yes. But the hidden agenda and blatant glorification of communism is a huge problem for me. I won’t be reading any more from this author. If you don’t like this country and our form of government, it’s time for you to move. Go live in a communist country and come back and tell me how great it is. Go for it.

I have eagerly read all of Diana Gabaldon's books and watched the series. This book is by far the worst of the lot. It drags on, is repetitive, and just plain dull and boring. It badly needs a good editor and a less self-satisfied author. I feel she is pandering to diehard fans who are in love with the world she has created and are loathe to be critical. These fans don't want the story to end, so she gave them a largely filler book which just prolongs the story without adding anything at all to character development, relationships, story arc, or even pure entertainment. It is sad. I am giving away my copy of this book to the first person I can find who wants it.

I started reading Gabaldon in 1994. At least half of you who read this book, and became Gabaldon fans in the first place, did so because of people like me who were in on this from the early days. I remember being in a Compuserve forum with DG. I was one of those that recognized the way Gabaldon blended detail, research, and lyrical prose into a well-paced story and begged for the next volume that would equal the one before. So let's be clear. I have earned the right to say this. This book should not have been written. This series should have ended 3 books ago. At least 3 of the last 5 books in this series were dragged out disasters where the overblown ego of the author has turned a wonderful story into a cautionary tale of what happens when writers start to believe that people hang on their EVERY word. No one who read this book could possibly come up with a plot summary that justifies 900+ pages. Because in 80% of the book, nothing happens.

Disappointing I was greatly anticipating the ninth book in the series yet sadly found myself bored at times with the feeling I had read some of the plotlines in earlier books. The ending came as no surprise - I will not include a spoiler but it was obvious the two characters had to meet again one, predictably, needing the help of the other. Perhaps the final book will tie up all the loose ends and provide a decent resolution for these incredible characters. I just hope the author has enough interest to see the saga finished.

Skip the first half - nothing happens; there is only so much description of how to fish, how to skin a squirrel, how to use a pestle and mortar etc that I can stand. There is no character development at all. Rodger remains a cardboard cut out and unfortunately all the wonderful humour that was in the first two or three books has vanished. So much of the remaining text is just unbelievable - being able to take books through the stones despite humans being scared of burning up; Jamie being able to build a house almost on his own. (He's been v busy in his life fighting, leading men, fishing, hunting, politicking and so on, where did he learn all these building skills)?

Follett phoned it in. Such a fascinating time and could be amazing. But no. No character development. No plot development. Elementary conversation. Low level crap aimed at selling to people who bought into Pillars of the Earth. Do not waste your time.

Disclaimer: I only got to page 250 (+ the last chapter) but I´m still counting it as read. Oh my. What a disappointment! I´ve been a huge Ken Follett fan since I was a teenager and I read Pillars of the earth and World without end in 2010 and felt like those were his best works. So obviously I thought I would love this new book, especially since the middle/dark-ages is my favorite era. I can´t say I found anything to like about this book. All the characters are one dimensional and every page was overflowing with simplified history lessons that might have been aimed at children in elementary school. I hate it when authors explain everything and especially when they explain stuff that everyone already knows about. I guess it´s my pet peeve. To contrast, I am also reading Egils saga, which is one of the Icelandic Sagas, written in the 13th century and takes place in the same time period but from the "viking" perspective. It´s superior to this book in every way. Things are only explained when they have to be, and it turns out that despite the 1000 year time divide, stuff there makes sense to us modern folks (since people don´t change) and the story gets to flow and happen without constant interruptions. Not to mention that the villains and heroes are so much more nuanced than the people of Combe and Dreng´s Ferry... I could write a long essay about all the little and big things I hated about this book, like the bad writing, terrible world-building, etc. But I can´t be bothered. There´s only one thing I have to mention and that is the authors need to shoe-horn homosexuality and feminism into the story, literally every chance he gets! It was so annoying. Obviously the "less is more" concept was absent when the writing of this story took place. Now I am doubting if Pillars was as great as I remember :( Definitely the shocker of 2020 for me.

Stock characters right out of the Disney vault: villains with no redeeming qualities, heroes/heroines that are so virtuous. Plot points that are so obvious if you’ve read anything else by Follett. At a 5th grade writing level. If you’ve read anything else by Follett, then you will see the plot points coming right at you. There is nothing new to add to his oeuvre in this basic, ridiculous book. Compared to his early work, 1990s and and before, this one does not feel like much of an effort. This book just plain stunk. Give it a total pass.

** spoiler alert ** This book was just not interesting. 3 different stories - 2 where the bad guys just say hey I did it. And the 3rd with such an obvious killer it was terrible police work to not know. The writing was unbelievably choppy. Read more like a screenplay describing the movements the actors should make. I’ve read all the women’s murders club and this one was just bad.

Boring This was one of the most boring books I have ever read, and the only reason I finished it was because I wasted $14.50 on it. I have read all the books in this series, and I have to say, I hope the title is correct and this is the end. And there was nothing “thrilling” about it.

This might be my last Women's Murder Club book. This one use to be one of my favorite series by James Patterson, but lately, it's as if he is churning these out, just to keep them going. I will try not to give out any spoilers, but the story line with Joe was completely unnecessary and it felt like, it was put in as an afterthought, just to hit the 300+ page mark. It did not add any value to the book. Yuki's story line started off strong, with an interesting concept, but it fizzled out fast. Lindsay, being the main character had the strongest storyline, but it could have easily been a book shot. In fact, I feel like these were all initially book shots, and they were just mashed together because he needed to put out a full novel. And none of the stories involved real detective work, they were miraculously solved when something suddenly came up, without any rhyme or reason. I had really liked these series initially, but unfortunately, this book might be the last one that I read.

God this book was boring. Took me so long to finish it and honestly in the end NOTHING HAPPENED. Made no sense, stories didn’t connect. Finished it purely so it didn’t beat me. Disappointed is an understatement

This book was not up to par with the others in the series. I get it, you’re tired of the characters and don’t have any good ideas for a plot line. As much as we hate to say goodbye to old friends…this book tells me it’s time.

Really struggled to keep reading this book. Have read all Women's Murder Club books and this was the worst. So bitty. Think JP needs to take a long break then start writing on his own again.

read this in the same way nellie bly admitted herself to the asylum. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... last year i decided i would read every goodreads choice award winner. i thought it would be fun, for one thing, and also i read more new releases than i ever have, so i thought it would be easy. then i saw the list. it included two books that i was aware of, and had decided i would never in my life read: onyx storm and this. i had never read any installment of the fourth wing series, so i determined i would read that first one instead. and i did. i picked it up, i took copious notes on how goofy it was, i finished it within a week or two, i wrote a rant review. i expected more of the same here. but no. i could not bring myself to write a word about this until i was a quarter of the way in. that might not sound like a lot until you consider this is over a thousand pages long, so 25% of it constitutes a full-length normal book. i honestly tried to turn my brain off and just get through this. then it finally drove me to the point of saying "oh, GROSS" out loud and now i'm here. i don't read dark romance. i don't like romantasy. i am a harry potter hater and when the protagonist in the book FANGIRL defends her right to submit knockoff hogwarts fanfiction to a TEACHER in a CLASS it makes me cringe so hard it could convert coal into diamonds. this is possibly the final boss of my reading career. this book has EVERYTHING, and by everything i mean every trigger warning. off the top of my head: violence, torture, sexual assault, necrophilia, execution, kidnapping, abuse, death, suicidal ideation, roofies, self-harm, forced pregnancy, war, racism, cannibalism, misogyny. it throws every edgy and dark subject a hot topic-shopping seventh grader could think of at you in the hopes you won't notice it's strung together with info dumps, cardboard cutout characters, and a dream. it moves from one violent seizure to the next physical attack to the next kys attempt at breakneck speed, so maybe you won't figure out that even a copyeditor couldn't make it through this book. or i guess we might have needed to read about helena being covered in dried blood every other page for three straight chapters. perhaps the use of the word motives three times in two sentences was a meaning-laden motif. regardless — and i never thought i'd say this — the original fanfiction this was expelled from like a dr. pimple popper video was probably better. or at least more readable. then we could draw from familiar characters who at least have traits (whether or not those traits are limited to "Offensive Stereotype" or "Girl"), and the world would make sense without page-long info dumps that still don't add up, and i could distract myself by thinking about all the candy i'd eat if i spawned into hogsmeade. instead, this is just boring. there are no stakes. helena is unhappy before, and she's unhappy now, and she's unhappy in every lifetime just like everybody in this death world of freaks and weirdos. how could you invest yourself in that? there's no point to the most brutal negativity you can imagine if there aren't even slivers of the opposite to prove there's a point. it's a whole lot of "luc was like the best person ever" and "he was my best friend" and "i would follow him anywhere," and then they're standing next to each other in a flashback and can't even sustain eye contact let alone a scintillating conversation. the romantic phrases that might pack a punch when used once or at least sparingly — "i won't let anyone hurt you," "i'm yours," "i'm going to take care of you" — are used multiple times per CHAPTER. there's so much gaslighting and manipulation, so many moments when this misunderstood-evil villain is actually just a normal-horrible-guy-evil villain. i almost said "don't even get me started," because in spite of my wordiness this is the tip of the iceberg. there is no escape here. everything is dull, and dismal, and bad. helena (or sorry, marino — she's referred to by her last name like an italian plumber) has to eat slop, and we have to read it. bottom line: in spite of all the traumas that are depicted in this book, no one suffered like i did to get through it.

DNF: This has the most egregious grammatical errors I have ever seen in a Del Ray, Random House published book. The prose structure is shockingly poor. I can't finish this book. It's just far too difficult to get over the terrible, terrible grammar. In the first three chapters, there's maybe one actual sentence every ten lines or so. The misplaced modifiers are grotesque. This author has throats thinking. She has feet talking. Misplaced modifiers ruin writing. I cannot understand why this book wasn't edited and cleaned up. Writing is a professional art form. It's honestly offensive to me when hack jobs like this are published and hyped up, yet clearly the agent, the editor, and the author have made zero attempt to actually revise very basic errors most sixth graders could correct. As the novel progresses, the grammar begins to stabilize a bit more. Unfortunately, this is largely due to the use of short, choppy sentences which "tell" a great deal instead of "showing." And the short repetition of simple sentences put me straight to sleep. This rating is nothing to do with the premise or the story itself as I really couldn't even glean that thread through the mixed up, coagulation of words jumbled together with a period at the end. This rating is for the worst attempt at grammar and prose structure I have ever seen from a true publisher. If this had been independently published, then I might refrain from chiming in with a rating. But a book by Del Ray has had every advantage with multiple readers. What on earth were they thinking? Is grammar necessary? I'm very aware that some people reading this review will be thinking to themselves, "but some sentence fragments are stylistic." True. But, stylistic grammar errors are always obviously intentional. An example of a book which varies sentence structure to near perfection and employs organic prose structure to show emotion instead of telling it is They Bloom At Night by Trang Thanh Tran. Tran is an author who has clearly mastered grammar, and so they know when and how to deliberately break the rules of grammar for emphasis without sacrificing meaning. I'm certain that SenLinYu has talent, and they obviously have a plethora of ideas. Alchemised is over a thousand pages long, and no one can write that much without having lots to say. I just think their agent, editor and publisher failed them.

EDIT : AS A SA VICTIM MYSELF, CAN Y'ALL PLS GET OFF MY ASS? how beautiful to see a fic where draco r@pes hermione is getting trad published meanwhile everyday actually talented bipoc and qpoc authors are struggling to get even a deal loveeeee to see r@pe fantasy books dominating the romance space!!! it's been years since i read manacled but making romantic versions of handmaid's tale is so unbelievable; years from now we'll look at this trend of romanticizing r@pe in the name of dark romance, how we look back at coho books now. LOVEEEE how the author gave a magical reason for hermione (a member from an oppressed community) getting r@ped by someone who is from the oppressor community a woman forgiving her r@pist and being in a romantic relationship with him!!! peak romance!!!!!

DNF I’m not saying this book was bad or anything 😭 I think the actual problem here is me. I just couldn’t bring myself to keep reading 😢 I started this book four days ago, and I was still only on page 77… CAN YOU BELIEVE THAT??? I usually read 77 pages in a day but this one took me four whole days 😭 So clearly, it just didn’t grab my attention the way I hoped it would. I don’t think this book is for me. So I’m not going to say “don’t read it” or “go read it” because honestly, I didn’t get far enough to really know the book. But if you’re reading it or planning to, I truly hope you enjoy it or even love it 🫂 That’s all I’ve got, haha. Love y’all 🫶🖤🤎 ———————————————— ⋆˙⟡🕯️.𖥔 ݁ ˖ pre-read ⋆˙⟡🕯️.𖥔 ݁ ˖ Let’s blame it on the FOMO 😔😔

original review, 12.3.25 really burning my own credibility here by first going "man that hamilton guy could NOT shut up" and then not shutting up myself; and yet i find that i do have thoughts, and they must emerge. let me say first that i understood acotar. i read all of acotar and i divined it in my mind and i saw that it was good, and i spoke publicly to this effect (wrote about it on my blog) (my goodreads account). i understand many things. i did not understand this. my wife and i read it together on vacation due to our shared mental disorders and the whole time we were reading it i kept saying two things, and one of them was "gross!" and the other one was "WHO ELSE IS READING THIS???" i still don't know. did anyone else finish it?? i also don't know. i hope not. life is precious. let me say second that draco malfoy is gay and he's not good at school. we have a fundamental disagreement if you find draco malfoy is a compelling heterosexual love interest, let alone a lone rival to hermione in being The Best At School; i simply do not know what to say to you, and yet, you will find, i will say many things. you are inventing a new person. the new person you have invented may also have a frail cold mother or a sneer or a rap sheet of war crimes but he is a fundamentally different guy. ok let me make for you a full picture of this book, as an Act of Service, such that my pain will be useful to you. first of all it is war and harry potter is going to die; his name is luc holdfast (hermione's name is helena and draco's name is improbably kaine) and although the author did an inordinate amount of meticulous and disgusting world-building trying to elide the novel's origins, they did not in fact attempt literally any movement away from the emotional structure and character ensemble of-- not harry potter, but how they read harry potter-- and i will not pretend they did. what's war? great question. war is when you live on an island and there are BATTLES EVERY DAY and you work in a hospital and there are dozens of people you must heal every day (you are the only healer, and yet you are contemptible and disposable because you are muggleborn a vivimancer). they are battling like, all over up and down the streets of this island, on the east side, constantly, and war is HELL, but not if you're on the frontlines, where you are young and dream of glory, but only in the HOSPITAL, where you must see pain and heal people only to be harmed again. :( i'm just saying, for a book about THE TRUE FACE OF WAR, i don't think anyone here has ever thought through. what goes on in war. who are we battling? necromancers. they are disgusting and do disgusting things and we hear about all of them. later on they will also do disgusting medical things, on account of obviously spells that affect your mind and body do not exist in this world hahahaha, but we do have many advanced alchemical surgical techniques that all suck. basically there is the present-day narrative in which hermione has been obliviated and is the only survivor of The War and is sent to malfoy to do legilimancy on her and later to rape her at voldemort's command to make a perfect baby for voldemort; during this she is numb and suicidal and then sometimes spunkily thinks to herself "oooh i wish i could punch you in your smug face." then there is the flashback narrative, which is half the book, which is what hermione remembers after she gets pregnant, and that is The War, and how during The War malfoy became a spy and he reported to her and they fell in love while also like, i would say 4-5 separate times he got hideously mutilated almost unto death (he's immortal) and she had to heal him with alchemy. malfoy asks for hermione to be Given To Him as a cunning decoy to avoid telling anyone he LOVED HIS MOTHER (he is forced to become a death eater when he is 16 as punishment for his father and he becomes a spy to avenge his skinny mom who loved him; this is an example of why i will NOT use their alt names). he is already made immortal at 16 and hermione is now like 22 and he is recognizable as draco malfoy, which is to say, a brat; however one of the times that he gets hideously mutilated it's with like, word commands to change his personality, only he gets to choose the words, and they are "Calculating, Cunning, Devoted, Determined, Ruthless, Unfailing, Unhesitating, Unyielding" and then he indeed begins to Become these words and also magically age to become also i guess 22-26, which will be his new immortal age, in a kind of renesmee situation, and also a kind of self-conversion-camp situation, and also a weird way of solving the problem of refusing to reimagine the structural plot of harry potter. so malfoy turns himself into basically a standard dark romantasy love interest and now he's hot (also now his hair turns blond he was BRUNETTE BEFORE!!) and then he and hermione start having these interactions where they're constantly like "ur loathsome and ridiculous and everything is your fault; because you made me love you; i suffer a thousand deaths for love of you every moment of my life" "well im going to suffer and die for u secretly and nobly" "not if i suffer and die for u first" "promise me u WONT DIE" "i promise" "aha jk im going to die for u <3" "u NEVER keep ur promises" "you JERK >:(" it is like, more unbearable than i can say, and yet i plundered on, like a revolutionary war soldier without shoes hermione is also in a very like, stockholm situation in every form of her life because she is unbelievably isolated in the Resistance, everyone else in the resistance is either like "we just have to be good and pure and follow god, not like you hermione with your sinful magical talents lol" (the author introduced misogynist and racist/imperialist (hermione is greek) christianity into their worldbuilding, not sure why) or a plotting leader who knows religion is fake who's like "let's kill hermione or draco or both For the War." we just kind of have to take on faith (our memory of reading harry potter) that harry and hermione love each other bcs in this book it's just every day he's like "hermione do you want to hang out :) i love god btw i can't wait to win the war <3" and she's like "i cant" bcs 1) she knows goodness is not enough to win war, you also need strategy, and yet saying this to harry will make him so sad and 2) she is being threatened by the resistance council that she can't hang out with harry bcs she will corrupt him with her vivimancy and sinful womanhood. harry never asks follow-up questions to any of this and also starts smoking opium. SURE. so she's the only person in the resistance capable of basic rational thinking and remembering things like supplies; they all hate or pity her; this is a situation ripe for falling in romantic love with draco malfoy in a warehouse while he tells you you are a precious treasure and also a stupid headstrong girl determined to die and he will protect you with his life. this is the part, incidentally, that i understand. also during the war hermione is constantly gathering sphagnum moss to use on wounds. she's like, out in the swamps. she's their only healer and there's like hundreds of corpses coming in constantly and yet every day it's filling your satchel with sphagnum moss. i simply dont believe this is a useful allocation of time or an effective resource. also during the war we find out draco malfoy has a huge flying wolf. he picks hermione up off the roof of the hospital and flies her on the giant wolf to his secret fuck palace like several times a week once they start fucking. somehow no one else in the war notices this. ok the same way this is not malfoy let me tell you this is truly not hermione. this girl is all the time trying to die For The Resistance, she's like, i'm basically a worm and i'll suture wounds for 72 hours no sleep-- meanwhile eventually when they train other healers (in case they need to kill her) those healers are always whining about overtime and hand cramps which is how we know hermione is a true heroine; also she's somehow always losing weight, except once she briefly gains a little weight, and realizes she's pretty. anyway malfoy is now in love with hermione so he's like "i'm your slave and every day i kill hundreds of people to keep you safe" and she's like "no i hate death ;-;" and he's like "why must you always do this! carry the whole war on your shoulders! not everything is your responsibility" and i'm reading it on a plane like literally WHAT. WHAT????? i would say this is the most severe case of "my boyfriend is some kind of evil primal dog that kills for me" running face first into "my boyfriend is my therapist" i've ever seen, and it dealt me, like hermione, excessive brain damage. anyway then we find out once everyone dies malfoy makes a plan to escape with hermione but she betrays the plan to try to protect him from getting found out as a spy and also to blow up a bunch of stuff (hermione learns how to make bombs and from that moment she is just constantly making bombs) and she gets captured and self-obliviates to protect malfoy's secret of being a spy and then malfoy hunts for her for like, two years, until she is assigned to be his ward/handmaid from the handmaid's tale (the original fic starts with her dressing like the handmaid from the handmaid's tale) and he, we find out, is actually so so sad every time he has to torture or rape her because he is sooo in love with her (hermione, later, holding his face: we were both raped! me: ok. some nuances here that the brightest witch of her year ought not overlook) and she doesn't even remember him and yet he has to play his part so they both don't get murdered by voldemort who can read both their minds because he is still trying to figure out how to get them both escaped to greece. i'm once again saying WHO IS THIS FOR?????? he's also continuing to kill, i can't emphasize this enough, hundreds of people, all the time, even though he literally doesn't like doing it. how many people live on this vaguely british island? i COULDNT say. it occurred to me towards the end, as many things do, that this book is not dissimilar to baru if instead baru was first of all, horribly bad and stupid, and second of all, if everyone around baru including the author was like "you HAD to do it :(" the whole time. it also occurred to me that if hermione was the one who restructured her own brain through vivimancy.... why not simply have a quick chat with her about undoing it herself. these are a fool's wonderings. there's also something very funny where in the first part of the book, so like 100,000 words, all of which i put in my nice brain, hermione is like determined to kill herself to stop malfoy/voldemort from uncovering her Secrets and has free rein over the whole manor house and yet somehow never manages to find a way to kill herself. my wife who loves comparative literature discovered this is because in the fic they simply put "you cant kill yourself" spells on her. anyway by the end of the book the international community suddenly gets involved and is like "i can't believe you guys were doing all these war and medical alchemical crimes for so long" and there's a sudden hard pivot into like, genocide bystander theory, and also malfoy and hermione escape to greece with ginny weasley who it turns out was secretly alive and malfoy was protecting her this whole time. then we have literally like 30k of denouement, fanfiction-style, where they get a whitewashed house in greece with a library and live quietly together and never ever process or change anything about their insane and bad relationship that makes them both unhappy, except that at one point hermione grips malfoy's face and says "you have to love our daughter too not just me" and he says "fine" then they have said daughter who from toddlerhood falls in love with ginny and harry's secret son and has no other friends; their daughter leaves them to go to hogwarts and ginny writes to hermione like "malfoy is such a dick to literally everyone except you and your daughter i think your marriage is bad" and hermione reflects that ginny will never understand hermione is basically malfoy's dementia caregiver except instead of dementia malfoy has dark romantasy hero brain disease (from the alchemy) and he did it For Her and he is her monster and she is his creator, except that she WASN'T THERE when he did all that. i was going to discuss all this somewhat but it took so long just to tell you what happens and i feel it speaks for itself. like i said, 1/5 stars. get well soon. 12.5.25: an afterword by the author coming back in deference to catherine because i was continuing to ponder in my heart my essential unanswered questions about this book: who else is reading it and for god’s sake why. i think the key is this element that malfoy and hermione are quite literally the only intelligent-seeming people in the book, who understand that women should not be killed and war requires strategy and eating people is gross. an early observation i made and did not include in my final review, on account of i was being possessed by a swarm of hornets, was that this reads much more like reylo than it does like old school draco/hermione. if you’ll walk with me, back to 2001, draco/hermione has always been a ship predicated on the question “what if, after being forced to hang out with you, a rich boy stopped being racist?” because to my knowledge people who thought “hermione deserves an intellectual equal” got into blaise/hermione instead however, reylo was very much concerned with “rey and kylo are each other’s only equals,” with “you’re the only rational thinker you know, the only one who feels deeply and complexly— especially about Him.” the modern dramione renaissance thus sounds more to me like “reylo if rey was not a feral jock but loved books (like us!)” while “we are unlike the others in some capacity, and this is why we fit together” is a classic romantic vibe, it has not always had this condescending edge. i hate to say, as i often must, in all kinds of situations, that the critical precedent here is twilight, but i will; everyone alive remembers bella’s scorn for prom dates and gossip etc against the stark backdrop of vampire passion and melancholy. but even in twilight, she Finds a Family of rough equals once she marries in with edward; it is only the human people who are barely even people. this is also of course the case in acotar, although she is not necessarily “superior” so much as “laden with heroine syndrome,” and later her sisters become people as well. so i’m noting the tightening of “people with deep, intelligent humanity” from “me and my husband and our magical friends” to simply “me and my husband :)” to be honest, i get much of this appeal for a young teenager, and particularly i get the satisfying slippery slope of “i feel lonely and no one gets me —> it must be because i’m better than them.” it’s tougher when it’s a phenomenon driven by adult women. this is not to say every romance is a self-insert; you don’t have to be hermione. but you do have to find pleasure in walking alongside hermione, dwelling within her, feeling what she does— or else, pleasure in the non-pleasure. in the 70s, feminist critics famously pointed out that the ubiquity of rape in romance novels performed a function, which was excusing the heroine for having sex— she did not choose to, so it was not her fault, and she as well as the reader were thus “allowed” to find pleasure, and to go through it to love. which is to say, the desire is not for this to happen to you, but the story is a doorway to something it lets you feel. the feeling demands for a home a specific unconscious structure. here, if the desired feelings are the relief of finding love amidst utter loneliness, and your and your lover’s desperation for the further relief of peace, the structure must say: the people around you are not only stupid but untrustworthy, because things are simple for them and not you. they will not help you; they will not even understand you; they cannot think as you do. except, of course, the war criminal, and he’s a war criminal because we've already hurtled through all the normal bad things a man can be and we need an idea strong enough to strike at the truth of the demanded feeling: that no one else can see either of you accurately, because they function easily on a shallow field, and you exist somewhere real and uncompromising. moreover, there is nowhere dark enough that one will not join the other there. there is nothing he will not do, for your sake, even when as it damns you both in the unseeing eyes of the masses. and this, as well, in an age of surveillance, of publicly performed self-story-telling, is also kind of relieving fantasy: that’s how you can trust it’s real. your reputation’s never been worse so he must love you for you. that feeling of realness also demands extremity, from the reader as well as the heroes, and this is how i enter into the “i got stabbed 20000 times!” of it all to perceive instead the mr. beast of romances. reading about people getting flaying open and chopped apart and raped and tortured on a throne of corpses for enough thousands of words produces its own meaning again: that you are special, that you can endure things others cannot, that you can walk unflinching into darkness and thus find something uniquely true. i'll say it one more time: literally everyone in this book save the central two is so, so useless. i kept asking myself, how could anyone tolerate wading through such thick authorial scorn, such an inhuman surrounding ensemble? and i realize now: because it feels good. because it casts hermione’s desperate and silent self-martyrdom, unseen by anyone except malfoy, as something more than insanely christian: as an importance without unseemly self-worth, which nevertheless brindles with arrogance—an importance that is also victimhood, which is to say, modern domestic womanhood, which can finally feel good in a place like this. and so i think i can see the meeting place between the book and the world, and thus all the hollow places it burrows into: our overwhelming awareness of each other’s faults and stupidities, our dissatisfaction with the artificial with no way out; our stuck helplessness in the pointless grind of our own lives; our certainty that we are better than this, but we can’t say so. thankfully, draco malfoy has just arrived on his flying dog, and he will say it for us, as violently as we feel.

not even one star. this is plagiarism. joanne has lawyers and she’s not afraid to use them, margaret probably does as well. i do truly hope you all enjoy this rape slop that only harms under privileged women around the world.

** spoiler alert ** first off, if you love this book and it changed your life, good for you! i’m genuinely happy for you (wish i could say the same since i wasted a bunch of hours on it) i had a lot of issues but i’m not even gonna list them all, so let’s stick to the biggest ones: the number of repeated/similar scenes (esp in part 2), which made the book unnecessarily long. you could easily cut at least 200 pages without losing anything important. i don’t mind big books but here so much could’ve been cut to improve the flow. it was already a tiring story and the repetition made it even worse. it was so exhausting that i literally deleted it from my kindle right after finishing bc just seeing the cover in my library gave me anxiety. it also took me forever to even start caring about the characters or what was happening (and i’m talking like 700 pages in). even though they’re “new” characters i couldn’t connect with them bc i kept thinking about who they were based on (and let’s be real, just changing the names didn’t make a big difference). if you don’t care about the original characters it’s almost impossible to make this worth reading. another thing that bothered me: i hate the whole chunked timeline format (lots of present chapters → lots of past chapters → back to present). maybe that’s just a me thing but i’ll always think alternating timelines makes for a smoother read. here it was done so poorly that the story kept stalling. i’d think “finally, we’re getting somewhere!” and then nope, stuck again. and finally, the biggest issue for me: the romance (if we can even call it that). yes i know this book isn’t technically a romance, but it’s undeniably a love story when it really shouldn’t be. right in part one we get the rape scene and that overshadowed everything else for me. i don’t even want to go too deep into this but what bothered me the most was the author trying over and over to show that the mmc felt guilty or worse, that he shouldn’t even feel guilty at all bc “he didn’t have a choice.” but really? in a fantasy world where you can literally create anything, we’re supposed to believe that was the only option? every time she tried to justify it, it just made things worse. him throwing up afterwards doesn’t erase what happened. him living with guilt forever doesn’t erase what happened. him not being able to look at their daughter doesn’t erase what happened. and especially the fmc saying “we were both raped” when only SHE was raped doesn’t erase what happened. i know that and maybe you do too, but my biggest question is: if an action needs to be justified this many times, should it really even be there? lastly, i never felt the life-changing emotions everyone else talks about, 95% of the time i was just like 🫩. i was expecting more from a book people act like is the most intense, emotional thing ever. i kept waiting for that and all i found was anger (mostly at myself for putting up with it) and boredom.

Oops I slipped and accidentally rated a super problematic Nazi coded romance that's directly harmful to the LGBTQIA community one star 😅✌️🏳️‍🌈

any sort of positive early review comes from people who do not usually read (and therefore think that any book/fanfic they read is good) or from influencers who are overly positive so they can curry favor from publishers. ETA: i'm talking about early reviewers, since dramoine fans cant seem to understand what i mean or stop harassing me (shocker!!!!)

This book is in very bad taste given the contemporary political climate. I don't care if the perpetrator was forced, rape can never be the foreground of a romantic relationship. I couldn't help but think of the actual Palestinian women suffering similar horrors at the hands of Isr*eli soldiers while skimming through this. You cannot hide under the cloak of "Dark Fantasy" to propagate your rape fantasies. But money makes the world go round, I suppose?

✩ Listen—go ahead, throw tomatoes. I can take it. I know this book has a strong following, and I genuinely went in wanting to understand the appeal. For me, though, it ended up being a case where the expectations set by the marketing didn’t quite match my reading experience. •─────⋅☾⊱♰⊰☽⋅─────• The writing style was one of the biggest challenges. Rather than feeling intentional or stylistic, it often felt difficult to follow, which pulled me out of the story. I found myself focusing more on interpreting sentences than becoming immersed in the narrative, and that made it hard to stay connected. •─────⋅☾⊱♰⊰☽⋅─────• I also struggled with the overall tone and some of the thematic choices. Certain elements felt less like meaningful tension and more uncomfortable in a way that didn’t add depth for me personally. I can see what the author may have been aiming for, but the execution didn’t fully land in a way that felt engaging. •─────⋅☾⊱♰⊰☽⋅─────• In terms of characters, I was hoping for more development and emotional progression. I wanted to feel invested in their journeys, but I found it difficult to connect or see meaningful growth over time. Similarly, the world-building felt more like a backdrop than a fully realized setting, and I was left wanting a stronger sense of place. •─────⋅☾⊱♰⊰☽⋅─────• The pacing contributed to this as well. I kept waiting for a moment where everything would come together, where the story would fully click, but that moment never quite arrived for me. By the end, the plot felt somewhat rushed and incomplete. •─────⋅☾⊱♰⊰☽⋅─────• I can understand why others might appreciate its ambition or themes, even if it didn’t work for me personally. •─────⋅☾⊱♰⊰☽⋅─────• Content warnings: wartime violence religious abuse depictions of complex trauma suicidal ideation self-harm cannibalism sexual assault rape allusions to necrophilia

I'm not one to kink-shame, but this is disgusting. The Handmaiden's Tale is cautionary tale about the horrors women have had to endure in history and this book makes it into a porno. You like dark romance? Go you. But this isn't "dark-romance" this is the bastardization of women's suffering and I cannot understand how anyone could be proud to publish this. This is not hot. And please, if you do find this hot, please go to therapy. You have wounds that will not heal by retraumatizing yourself through this joke of a book. And to the author, you need help as well. There is something that apparently resonates with a lot of people in your fanfiction, but that does not make this story worthy of existing. It is a tragedy that women continue to downplay the horrible things that happen to women. Making art that inspires people is a gift and you could have had an impact with this book by killing off the actual bad guy, your supposed hero. But you did not. Instead you made the OC end up with the person that hurt them in one of the most horrible ways imaginable. Please try to understand why you would write this book in this way and maybe your next book won't be worthy of being burned and forgotten by history.

Probably one of the most preposterous books I have ever read. Hopefully this is the last in this series as I can’t imagine where they could take this story line. One crisis after another with absolutely unbelievable tie ins to one another. Totally implausible in almost ever respect. I skimmed the last 2/3 simply to see how the writing team was possibly going to fill the rest of the book.

too many plots This last book was too busy, with so many characters, and quite frankly, I found the book boring. I knew what was coming, and felt like he was just trying too hard. I have followed Baldacci and all his many books and characters. This was not his best work. Too many books and deadlines?

I really enjoyed the first 3 Atlee Pine novels, but this one was so bad I thought it was written by someone else. The plot twists were juvenile. This finale was worse than a bad "B" movie, What a piece of garbage!

I just finished “The Boy From the Woods”, and I am speechless. I really can’t believe this was written by the same Harlan Coben that wrote so many books that I loved and gave 5 star reviews. To be honest, I can’t believe I even finished it, but I wanted to see if it got any better. Unfortunately, it didn’t. “The Boy From the Woods” begins when teenaged Matthew becomes nervous about a missing classmate and enlists the help of his celebrity lawyer grandmother, Hester, to find her. Hester of course calls the ‘Boy From the Woods”, Wilde. (Yes Wilde lol). After treating a possible missing teenager as serious as a full scale murder investigation, he finds her and the case is over. Right???? Not so fast —she disappears again and Wilde gets involved in finding her again. This (of course)turns into a massive investigation as well that leads to another missing person which leads to a different issue with a well-liked Presidential candidate and the secret he is trying to keep hidden. If this is your cup of tea — more power to you, but from beginning to end this had to be one of the most ridiculous plots I have ever read. Wilde, who was found abandoned as a child after surviving for weeks/ months in the woods has almost superhuman abilities to find clues and make deductions that no other human would be able to. The ending is so unbelievable that I can’t even begin to describe how far the author chooses to go to wrap up the two investigations that coincidentally occurred at the same time. Up until now Coben has been one of my favorites. He is such a good writer and has the ability to build suspense better than just about anyone. However, I hope he retires Wilde after this one and leaves him in the woods where he lives happily ever after, and I never have to read about him again.

Hello, everyone. Roll call time! Let’s make sure we’re all present: - me, the cynical and disappointed reviewer, equal parts dreading the angry comments to come and wizened and numb by the angry comments that have come before (here!) - other people who were genuinely disappointed by this book after really liking the first one - the lifeless incels who are sure to yell at me for being a woman on the internet who dares to have an opinion on something that’s For The Boys (definitely here - see comments) Okay! With that, I think we’re ready to get started! (insert throat clearing, glass tapping, and so on) ... This book is bad. Something impressive is that it’s actually bad in a variety of ways, instead of just really bad in a couple. It’s groundbreaking in that way. I mean, let’s start with the pacing, considering that was the inescapable nightmare that plagued me for seemingly one thousand pages, unrelentingly boring and yelling WHAT IF I RUIN EVERYTHING? WHAT IF THIS IS NEVER FUN FOR EVEN ONE MOMENT? WHAT THEN? until I break down in tears. Just kidding. I don’t cry. I’m too powerful. Be warned, angry men. (It’s funny to pretend they’re actually reading this when we all know they saw the rating and skipped right to the comments section.) But anyway, back to the garbage fire. We kick off this rollercoaster ride of fun and excitement with about a hundred pages of worldbuilding, which would make more sense if this weren’t the SECOND BOOK IN A SERIES. A SEQUEL. We spend 20% of the book pm info dumping, when the action starts we have to pause for 25 pages to go in-depth into every single technological side effect or potential problem. Of fictional technology. It made me want to scoop my brain out with a melon baller. (Already regretting how gross that mental image is, but I simply must speak my truth.) Then, once we get past what I’m calling What We Talk About When We Talk About How Not To Write Sci-Fi, we get to...well, more of that. When we skip past the worldbuilding, we FINALLY!!! get to the quest, which is, uh. Not better. They say if you don’t have anything nice to say, don’t say anything at all. But unfortunately we’re already 400 words in. Once we get to the actual plot, it constantly interrupts itself to info-dump, give more nonsense explanations, and build up romantic relationships NO ONE CARES ABOUT!!! The entire reason the first book is fun is because it is almost all action. This is...almost none action. Because the quest itself is somehow never the focal point? Even the clues and riddles and tasks the story does focus on seem to be the most boring ones. I swear it felt like we spent 82% of this book following Aech around as she ran through Prince trivia. Or people who actually read that section would feel that way, I imagine. I skimmed the hell out of it. Let’s take this lovely little side path to talking about the characters. Our main character, Wade, is super selfish and a dumbass and it sucks to read about. To put it, you know, bluntly. In the first book he can be hard to like, but I liked him, because he was dedicated and single-minded and determined and had a development arc I found compelling. Also he was doing interesting things. In this, he has all of the stamina, backbone, and critical thinking skills of a Build-a-Bear (trademark). And not one of the ones you can put a voicebox in. He is constantly thinking things like “What? How could this technology that enters people’s brains and controls them fully and has life-ending side effects and destroys any hope of fixing the world be bad? To me, it sounds good.” And it’s like...didn’t we just spend an entire book doing this? He’s also, like, a trillionaire, so instant guillotine in my book. Wade has two friends who, unsurprisingly, seem pretty uninterested in being his friend. (Who would be?) There’s Shoto, a Japanese guy who is obsessed with all things ninja-related, and Aech, a Black girl who speaks totally differently from the other characters (“Oh! Yo! I said God damn, Shoto!”) and inexplicably breaks into hip-hop style dance moves. Enough said, no? (See you in the comments, people who want to be angry at me for not letting straight white men write “diverse” characters by drawing on *checks notes* racial stereotypes.) Then there’s Samantha, Wade’s love interest and a true barrel of laughs. I love a girl who is a full-on snooze. I hated this romance in the first book, and I hate it even more now that I have to read Wade thinking about losing his virginity to Samantha, featuring details on how they “couldn’t stop making love.” So, to sum up: bad pacing, bad plot, bad worldbuilding, bad characters, bad relationships, bad morals. Bottom line: This book should be reserved only for punishing society’s most heinous criminals. ----------------- pre-review let the games begin. review to come / 1.5 stars ----------------- currently-reading updates people have gotten angrier at me in the comments of this review than possibly in any other i've written, and i haven't even read it yet. let's give them something to be mad about, shall we? ----------------- tbr review NOTE: i wrote this review in TWO THOUSAND AND EIGHTEEN, when this book was announced. it's not a review, it's me marking it as to-read. chill the ever-living hell out. title!!! cover!!! pub date!!! i don't know what this book is about and i don't know why people are getting mad at me in the comments of this review but regardless things are happening!!! ----------------- announcement review I'M FURIOUS. CATCH ME OUT HERE BEING: FURIOUS. WHAT IS HAPPENING. WHY IS THIS BOOK BEING BROUGHT INTO EXISTENCE. WHO ASKED. WHO SAID, "YOU KNOW THAT PERFECT STANDALONE THAT DOESN'T NEED A SECOND BOOK? YEAH. GIVE IT A SECOND BOOK." WAS IT STEVEN SPIELBERG? JUST TELL ME. I'M NOT MAD. I JUST WANNA TALK. i mean. i'm going to read this book. that should go without saying. BUT I'M NOT GOING TO BE HAPPY ABOUT IT. okay. maybe a little bit happy. okay yes i will probably be at least mostly happy BUT ALSO THERE WILL STILL BE ANGER INVOLVED. in the immortal words of jessie j featuring B.o.B.: it's all about the money.

1.5ish stars. To be fair, the first book was only a 3-star read for me. But at least that one was fun. This is joyless and Preachy.

This was a difficult book to get through. So, I really, really enjoyed the first book. Wade was kind of an asshole, but the book was basically a love letter to my childhood, and I forgave a lot because of how fun it was to see people so obsessed with the world I grew up in. For me, it was a lot of fun. I may not have gotten every single reference, but it read like an epic quest through all the things that shaped me in my early years. Ready Player Two, on the other hand, is a shallow, cliche, badly written piece of garbage that, in essence, completely misses the point of the first book. It's basically the first book all over again, but with, at the same time, both lower and higher stakes, that completely rips off Sword Art Online. Wade is completely over the top into unlikeable asshole territory, and where all the nostalgic references in the first book felt like they were worked into the story, here, it feels more like the bare bones of a story is forced into a collection of references. It's also got some very, very, VERY cringe things in it. Wade's stalker behavior is really uncomfortable for me, because I've been the victim of a stalker before. There was some of this in the first book, but this one is sooooooo much worse. There's also a lot of really cringe gender politics and the book expresses some very, very unhealthy views on sexuality, like, to the point that I'm wondering how many sex offender lists Earnest Cline is on right now. There's also some really, really badly handled philosophical arguments about what makes a person a person, etc. And, I mean, has Cline ever heard the word "ethics" like at all, ever, in his entire life? Like, ever? Making digital copies of a person without consent, and then holding it up as a true expression of love? Good GOD, man, what the actual fuck? This guy has got some serious issues, and I can just no longer support him or his career. This book is so bad that I never even want to touch the first book again, nor watch the movie, and I kind of feel sick over the fact that I've given this guy my money. This is a man that absolutely should not have a platform. This is not a good book. It's both much, much worse than the first book, and completely ruins the first book all at the same time. I think I'm pretty well swearing off Earnest Cline from now on. Good god, what a masturbatorially hideous pile of shit.

I waited 9 years for this? Wow! i thought 2020 couldn't get worse. I was wrong. Power corrupts; absolute power corrupts absolutely. Was that the moral of the story? I don't know. Ready Player One was a fun romp. Comfort food and a pitcher of beer with friends reminiscing about the good ole days. Ready Player Two was a reheated cheeseburger and fries with yesterdays half empty Coke. Day old Coke gives me diarrhea. TMI? Not good. Let me give three reasons why this book sucked. A. The characters didn't evolve. Wade turned into Howard Hughes. I didn't root for him. 2. Weak dialogue with endless description of the surroundings. D. The John Hughes movie montage challenge and the Prince challenge were dull and dumb. This just wasn't fun. The interaction between the main characters was forced. There was nothing fresh or original about the story. “Stuck-up, half-witted, scruffy-looking nerf herder” -Princess Leia "Who you calling scruffy looking?" -Han Solo I'm not asking for Shakespeare but make me laugh. P.S. “I put on my Detroit Lions ball cap, and shifted my brain into Magnum PI detective mode.” Magnum wore a Detroit Tiger hat. Just saying.

I had lowered expectations for this book, and it failed to meet them. It was as if the author tried to address all of the criticisms of his previous work in the most tone deaf way. It's as if one took the first book. raised the stakes, added newer cultural references, more obscure cultural references, and then made it a piece of performative wokeness, but somehow removing all of the joy of the first book.

Meh! Stopped reading it, cannot care less for what's going on. 1st one was like champagne, this one is flat beer. Highly disappointed.

Gooooooooood Grief. I am aware I have yet another unpopular opinion here, but I hated this book. Hated. It. Sometimes, i won't like an audiobook simply because i don't like the narrator. That was not the case here. I just didn't like the story. It felt never-ending. I seriously felt like i was reading/listening to this book for weeks, instead of only a few days. I kept with it, because people kept telling me that the slow moving plot would pay off in the end. You know what? It didn't. I got to the end of the book, and immediately regretted spending all that time waiting to like SOMETHING about that long winded story. I realize many people love the heck out of this book....more power to you. Lord knows, I adore many books that others hate, so....no judgement. I think i need to accept the fact that I tend to not like the 'buzz-worthy' books most people can't get enough of. That's okay. It's fun being a rebel. ;)

This book is only proof that just because a book is successful it's not necessarily a good book. For a rating of 4.16, I was expecting at least a catchy storyline, a plot, or something (just anything!) that would make me want to turn the next page, instead of me having to force to keep my eyes open. I felt the characters were so shallow I couldn't really get to know anyone. Not enough for me to get involved into the story. Just disappointing.

Nothing more annoying than a story boiled down to a "right side" for the "good" characters and a "wrong side" for the "bad" characters - who switch sides depending on whether they're now good or bad within the storyline. Not subtle. Transracial adoption is a complicated issue, and I won't argue against any of the valid points made in the book (connection with heritage, how often wealthy people only want to "help" disadvantaged people when they want something, white savior complex). Keyword, though, being "valid." Once you argue to me that someone is owed a baby simply because they birthed one is when you lose me. Once you argue that someone who can't feed her child, pay the electricity bill and buy diapers in the same month should be a parent because they can "live on a mother's love," you lose me. Especially when the adoptive parents are loving and attentive as well as wealthy. Especially when the birth mother legally abandoned her child. Once you argue that a surrogate is justified in running away with a baby she's carrying for another couple as a surrogate because she's "the mother," you lose me. Especially when she's breaking the hearts of a desperate couple. You completely lose me when you argue that a biological mother's love trumps everything, but an adoptive mother's love is either lesser-than or not worth considering, and adoptive mothers are just rich (often racist) white women who feel owed children despite their infertility. Meanwhile, feeling owed a child because you have a functioning uterus but no money, no food, no home...that's perfectly valid and even praiseworthy. You lose me there. You also lose me when you insist a child would rather live a wretched life with a birth parent than a comfortable one with an adoptive parent. You lose me when you insist that biological parents - biological MOTHERS - are the only truly valid parents who trump all else. You lose me when you insist that stealing a child is heroic rather than a horrible crime. I haven't finished it, and for all I know the become becomes amazing within the last 75 pages or so. I'll never know; this is a dnf for me.

It’s disappointing that Crichton’s widow chose James Patterson to finish this book. Makes me nauseous.

This book is so bad it's almost good again. 😂 Maybe that's why so many people are rating it so high? I love Crichton. I've been reading his books since I was 12. I also love survival stories and natural disasters and end-of-the-world situations. Something went awry with this one though...the writing was the real disaster. The characters were laughable caricatures. I cared about nary a one. I cheered with every death. I almost laughed with glee when children died. The dialogue and writing were repetitive and cliche and super predictable and just...BAD. Bad Bad Bad. Very much NOT GOOD. So what happened here? I mean...I do have kind of an idea. And it rhymes with Lames Tatterson. All copies should be dumped into Mauna Loa with apologies post haste.

As a die-hard Crichton fan, this book was not it. I could barely finish it. I do think its partly the choice of author they chose to finish the manuscript. While I haven't read maximum ride or any of his other works, Patterson's style is clearly so distinct from Crichton that it stands out blatantly. Either that, or maybe Crichton had it in drafts for a reason. I do think this concept could have done better in different hands. Micro did so well, so has the wheel of time books towards the end. Posthumous publications do not have to be this bad. But you really need to work hard on finding someone who works well with the concept and writing that Crichton was known for. Sadly, this book fails and feels like an amateur prose experiment.

Shocking waste of time & money! Crichton's heirs and Patterson collaborated to produce the most shallow book in years. One asuumes a pure money grab on their part, and the publisher too. They should be ashamed.

I've NEVER been a fan of James Peterson; I consider him a no-talent hack, and this book proves my point. B-O-R-I-N-G!!! 🥱 Sorry, Michael, but this volcano book should have remained dormant. Scott Brick is a GREAT Audible reader, but even his narration could not save this tale.

Disappointment When I heard that a resurrected Michael Crichton book was coming out, I was so excited. Michael Crichton books are excellent in that they're so well researched and the dialogue and characters are always believable, even in the extreme circumstances of the novels. This book should not have been published. The dialogue belongs in a soap opera. "We need to execute a fire drill. There's only one problem sir. This is no drill." I mean seriously? The plot is clunky and often makes no sense. At one point they're going to the ice tube for what seems like the 500th time for no apparent reason. The main character explains he'll explain when he gets there, and then when they get there they don't do anything and just leave again. There are nearly three identical helicopter crashes with the same people and circumstances every time. it's like Wile e. Coyote. It's just bad. Like really bad. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone honestly.

DNF 49% “Show, don’t tell” is one rule of good writing. Another is having characters that you care about and something interesting that happens to them. This book only has the event - and an additional, completely unlikely compounding factor - and nothing else. Nothing. It’s no wonder Crichton never published this while he was alive. It should have stayed that way. The volcano can explode and the world come to an end for all that this book makes me care. Fun fact: I was terrified of volcanoes when I was 7 years old. Couldn’t watch any eruption on the news even. You would think that some residue of this lingering phobia could stir up something while reading this book but no. So don’t even think about it, go find something else to read.

i don't understand, how micheal crichton is listed as an author, he has been dead since 2008, and they don't mention that this is yet another found/lost manuscript, of which there were a few but i think that well has long gone dry. This must be some slight of hand performed by james paterson with the book industry's blessing and fingers crossed that the public which it apparently does not respect, doesn't notice the fraud being played on them. Little Brown and Company has put there stamp of approval on it, hmmm

I am absolutely baffled that they allowed James Patterson to touch a single letter of Michael Crichton's work. God creates Crichton, God creates Patterson. Crichton becomes God. Patterson destroys one of God's last gifts to man. I buy a box of matches.... I light book on fire. Check out the trailer for this one on Amazon, it made me ugly wheeze laugh for a solid minute straight. In fact, it was so terrible, I watched it again to make fun of it with my friend as we were shopping online together. Just to confirm my horrible suspicious, I took the L and I bought it. I wasted my money. If you even remotely respect Crichton's work, don't hurt yourself. I apologize to Patterson fans, as anyone is free to find love in whatever sort of literature they like. My god, though, these two authors are so incompatible. Patterson smeared this entire manuscript with himself. I do not see Crichton anywhere, except the base of the idea. I also think it's pretty shady to give the reader absolutely NO clue about what the book is even about. Amazon's page is nothing but reviews that were absolutely purchased. The trailer is even worse. This book is an affront to what Crichton's entire nature is. I expected disappointment; I got disgust, instead.

9/8/20 note: Dear Goodreaders, If you loved this book, I'm very happy for you. As a reader and also somebody who works in the publishing industry, I want all readers to like or love as many books as possible, so the fact that you love this book is, in my opinion, a good thing. If reading a review that does not agree with your opinion enrages you, don't read this review. I do not believe there are spoilers in my opinion, but a couple of commenters think there are. So if you have not yet read this book, you may not want to read my review. I read it quite a while ago and have moved on to many more books that I'm more interested in. So I won't be joining conversation in the comments. If you disliked this book, you may enjoy having some company in your opinion. --Betsy Robinson The Review (November 18, 2018) Normally I would not finish let alone review a book I disliked as much as I did this one, but since I bought the book and am reading it for my book club, I’ve decided to say what I think: I found the writing of this romance/murder mystery to be painfully split—almost as if there were two different authors: an experienced one for the vivid narrative and an amateur for dialogue and character development (which in fact may be the case, since the author’s an experienced nature writer and this is her first novel). The story is told in two time periods: Young Kya, left alone in the marsh to fend for herself, starts the story in 1952; and police investigate a murder in 1969. The opening lyrical descriptions of the swampland and inner thoughts of the swamp kids had soul—I loved, felt, and smelled the land, sea, air, and dense plants. But when people started talking, the writing became stilted, overwritten, and unbelievable. This happened in the earlier time period with Kya and a boy and the boy and his dad, and same thing with the 1969 police dialogue. The kids’ scenes had an after-school TV special sound and the police scenes sounded canned, like a marshlands-of-North Carolina version of Law and Order, where exposition is awkwardly inserted to move the story forward or there is overwriting that takes away from what could have sounded more authentic to the region. For example, a deputy says to his sheriff: “I’m hungry. Let’s go by the diner on the way out there.” “Well, get ready for an ambush. Everybody in town’s pretty riled up. Chase Andrew’s murder’s the biggest thing’s happened ’round here, maybe ever. Gossip’s goin’ up like smoke signals.” “Well, keep an ear out. We might pick up a tidbit or two. Most ne’er-do-wells can’t keep their mouths shut.”(61) Why not just, “I’m hungry,” and cut to the wonderful description of the Barkley Cove Diner and the scene of people gossiping about the crime? In real life, people do not say everything they’re thinking or narrate everything that’s happening or is going to happen. In fact, most of us lie about what we really think—if we are even self-aware enough to know our subconscious thoughts. Leaving out thoughts, leaving gaps in truth, and trusting the characters a writer has created allows subtext and real character to drive things forward. There is none of that here. I found the character development absurd: Simply put, there are no authentic, complex characters. Kya starts as a believable swamp rat, which is inconsistent with what we learn about the derivation of her parents. Her voice is unbelievably inconsistent throughout the book. Then there are the two one-dimensional romances, one of which allows her to learn to read at age 14 and grow into an educated, sophisticated, poetry-reciting biologist, knowing lyrics to songs she never would have heard, etc., and the other, a sexual relationship where she doesn’t even think about getting pregnant although she seems to have learned all her biology from the esoteric scientific texts she reads. I finished this book by skimming large sections, starting at page 164 when the entire plot became apparent, sans an end-of-book twist which was intellectually fun, but just as unbelievable as the manipulations of Kya’s character. Sorry, friends who adore this book, I’m an outlier on this one, I guess.

I can't even imagine how this book has a 4+ star rating. The characters, including the protagonist, are so simplistic as to be unbelievable. The plot is trite. The dialog is atrocious...and offensive. A girl who basically raises herself in a swamp speaks perfect King's English while every black character "goes 'round speakin' like they done did grow up in dat dar barn." I'm 50 pages from the end, and I refuse to waste another minute reading this. Also, I usually put the books I finish in my Little Free Library, but I'm throwing this one in the recycling bin.

Miss Owens is the epitome of the problematic author. 4/2- added another article! /!\ be aware that some parts of the review and video may be triggering /!\ I decided to add the video’s link from the documentary (ps : i didn’t vision the entirety of it, i don’t want to witness another human-being actually being barbarically killed.) Video : https://youtu.be/y2Ip0jZZErg The original review: 1⫸ Botswana She and her (ex)husband, Mark, were traveling around the world mostly Africa for her job, zoologiste. They didn’t like the fact the Bostonian gouvernement wasn’t exploiting the Mass Safari and started criticizing its actions to preserve and not exploit its resources. Article: *Mark and Delia Owens first arrived in Zambia in 1986 after getting kicked out of Botswana, where they had made themselves unwelcome by criticizing the government’s conservation policies. She and her husband claim on interviews that they wanted to protect Botswana’s natural resources because the Botswana was a huge exporter of beef meat. Botswana’s gouvernement says otherwise and insists on the fact that the Owens were outraged that the Botswana didn’t favorise its animal and vegetable diversity to simply serve as divertissement with safari and let’s be honest it was in the 80’s so the first and basically only people that were concerned about safari "diVertiSsemEnt" were PEOPLE LIKE THE OWENS. Still debatable but let’s see this article extrait. Article: * Quett Masire, the President of Botswana at the time, said of the Owenses, “If you cannot operate within the bounds of government, whom you are a guest of in this country, to work these issues out, then work elsewhere.” The Owenses felt roughly handled. Mark Owens later told People, “They fingerprinted us, threatened us, treated us like criminals. We weren’t allowed to call the Embassy or get a lawyer. We lost everything. It took a lot of healing to get over it.”* Hum.. they treated them like criminals? Still wondering why.. but anyway, Botswana 1 . Owens 0 2⫸ MURDER/Zambia SHE AND HER FAMILY NEED TO BE IN JAIL. She and her (ex)husband and his son were/ are accused of committing murder in Zambia 1990-1995. Precisely 1994. Article: *that Mark’s adult son from his first marriage, Christopher Owens, had been placed in charge of training the game scouts in hand-to-hand combat; and that Christopher Owens frequently beat the game scouts as a form of discipline.* Article : *One of the scouts, John Chibeza, remembered him in disagreeable terms. “Chris Owens beat us,” Chibeza said. “He was an expert in martial arts. Mark said he would whip us into shape. He would beat us. He would beat us with sticks. He was a very bad man.”* *Kampamba said, “He said you should teach them a lesson to make sure they don’t come to the park. The lesson was to beat them. There were many beatings.”* Reminds you of something? Yeah, the white supremacy in its splendor again. THE AUDACITY TO GO TO ANOTHER COUNTRY "third world country" and act like the lands are yours, terrorizing citizens and exploiting abundantly its resources. And they acted surprised when the Botswana treated them like criminals. The murder was disguised as a "hunt accident" but what happened there is morbid, inhumane, barbaric. What they did was a "Tuerie ethnique" i didn’t find the right translation in English but literally it means "ethnic killings." Which basically consisted on paying for safaris and hunt and kill Black people these acts are more common than we can imagine mostly orchestrated by mercenaries. /!\ Some gory explicit scenes/!\ Article: *“I don’t know what was going on in Chris’s mind,” Everson said. “He had a rush of blood to the head. I don’t know why he shot him in the first place.I don’t.”* Everson is the cameraman for the documentary* *Christopher Owens has led a tumultuous life since he left Zambia. He has been arrested numerous times, and in 2001 he was convicted for misdemeanor assault after attacking a man in a Portland bar. He has since pled guilty to misdemeanor charges of assault and terrorizing. … In December, 2003, Christopher was living in the town of Palmyra. According to a neighbor, Christopher Silva, Owens was hunting in the woods near his home when he shot and killed one of Silva’s dogs and injured another. “One of the dogs came out of the woods with one of his legs missing, and so I ran out and looked for the other one,” Silva told me. “I found the body hidden under some leaves.” The police searched Owens’s house soon after, and found a rifle with a scope attached. In a statement for the police, Owens wrote that he believed the dogs were actually coyotes.* *And I reported that the Zambian police detective in charge of the subsequent investigation, Biemba Musole, had concluded that Mark Owens, with the help of his scouts, placed the victim’s body in a cargo net, attached it to his helicopter, and then dropped it into a nearby lagoon.* Although her husband and his son are the only presumed murderers some sources denounce that she helped maniganciez it. Article : *Zambian police officials I met with are keen to interrogate Mark and Christopher Owens, but also believe that Delia Owens should be interrogated as a possible witness, co-conspirator, and accessory to felony crimes.* 3⫸Racism? Why is the book problematic? The documentary produced on ABC in 1996 relating "their tragic" experience in Zambia : "Deadly Game: The Mark and Delia Owens Story " First can well all admire the audacity to call what happened Deadly Game this honestly is beyond me and my sanity. But again I shouldn’t be shocked by them being tactless.. She clearly was inspired by the murder they committed to write the book. Article : *Most interestingly – and controversially – the documentary included the filmed murder of an alleged poacher, a clip which can be found on YouTube today. It's explicit and in the shocking segment that shows the dead body, neither the victim nor the person(s) who delivered the fatal shots is identified.* And in an interview she even compared herself to the heroine saying she was blamed for a crime and a murder she didn’t commit as well. yeah, i smell the "white whining bullshit" too Some journalists and readers are assuring that she clearly wrote the character after her. I haven’t read her books. Article : *Readers who made the connection between the Delia Owens of Crawdads and the Delia Owens of the New Yorker investigation. So I got a copy of Crawdads and I have to say I found it strange and uncomfortable to be reading the story of a Southern loner, a noble naturalist, who gets away with what is described as a righteously motivated murder in the remote wild.”* * Her heroine stand accused of murder echoes the Owens’ Zambian experience and the subsequent ordeal of becoming the subject of a 18,000-word exposé in a prominent magazine. Even more eyebrow-raising is the plot twist in the novel’s final pages: It turns out Kya did, after all, murder Chase.* the author’s blatant racism: She also said on an interview that Black people are infer!or and stup!d and you can tell that when they start talking. Some readers highlighted the fact that some of her Black characters are portrayed that way. ABSOLUTELY DISGUSTING. NO ONE PAID FOR THEIR CRIMES! Articles : https://slate.com/culture/2019/07/del... https://www.newyorker.com/video/watch... https://www.nytimes.com/2022/07/19/bo... https://www.theatlantic.com/books/arc... Want to thank Rae for helping to search for the articles, gonna put all the links tomorrow as well!!

Even though this book was there on The New York Times bestseller list for quite a long time, the first time I heard about this book was when a controversy involving the author Delia Owens started circling around the news when she was asked to attend the questioning in Zambia. The ABC documentary reported that Owens allegedly murdered a poacher in Zambia. The author hasn't agreed to any of the accusations, though. Reading this book after hearing about the details of the controversy will be a gruesome experience. There are a lot of similarities between what appears to have happened in Zambia and the story narrated in this book. This book was selected by Reese Witherspoon's book club and she even produced the movie adaptation of the same. I loved the way the author created the character arc of Kya Clark in the initial part of this book. The harsh realities that Kya had to go through in her life will bring tears to our eyes. But that is the only good thing I can point out in this novel. In the latter half of this book, the further character development of Kya is one of the weakest I have seen in any novel. I was wondering how a lady who was confined to the marsh right from her childhood and led a solitary life without much contact with others suddenly takes a U-turn and behaves somewhat like everyone else. The author utterly failed to pull out this transition convincingly. From thereon, everything in this book went on a downward spiral and felt artificial and filmy. It was like reading two books inside a single book. If the author had maintained the consistency she showed in the earlier part of this book, this one could have easily made an indelible impression on the reader's psyche. The way the character of Kya behaves is so inconsistent, and we keep on wondering what she will do next. After something happens, we again keep on wondering why she did that. I think the author wrote this book in multiple schedules, which might be the only reason we are not getting a natural flow while reading it. Everything else in it started to become so creepy that I tried to quit reading it several times. I badly wanted to know what happened in the end, so I protracted my punctilious effort to render through the appalling path to somehow finish it. There are multiple other factors I didn't like in it, like the geographical inconsistencies of narration and poor character development of Chase and Tate, disturbing smut and many others. Overall this book gave me a disappointing reading experience. ————————————————————————— You can also follow me on Instagram ID - Dasfill | YouTube Channel ID - Dasfill | YouTube Health Channel ID - Dasfill - Health | YouTube Malayalam Channel ID - Dasfill - Malayalam | Twitter ID - Dasfill1 | Snapchat ID - Dasfill | Facebook ID - Dasfill | TikTok ID - Dasfill1

** spoiler alert ** Delia Owens took her profound ability to portray the natural world, with a focused and loving gaze yet without overly flowery prose, into the swamps of North Carolina, where she created an absolute stinker of a story that would fail the Bechdel Test save for brief encounters with a Magical Negro mixed with actual forgettable poetry, third person omniscience that jumps from character to character to remove any ambiguity between them, and a timeline thrown into a blender for some reason. Spoilers below, but if you’ve seen literally any Reese Witherspoon movie, you already know the story. A little Mary Sue is born into the swamp to an alcoholic father and long suffering mother, the last of a clutch of Marsh Kids. Starting with her mother, each member of the family gets up and leaves, leaving MS with but her Pa, who is so often literally or figuratively absent she is largely left to fend for herself. Little MS makes friends with all of the animals, and is effortlessly able to find food and water, cook, and navigate the swamp from age six without real struggle, disease, or injury, until her Pa finally disappears for good. She survives into adolescence completely estranged from the world save for the pair of Magical Negros “Jumpin’” and Mabel a short boat ride away, and then discovers the handsome, empathetic, brilliant, and perfect monosyllabic literal boy next door. He teaches her to read and brings her books, and they have a wholesome teen romance until he leaves for college, ultimately leaving MS to fall for the advances of the monosyllabic local golden / bad boy, the literal captain of the local football team. He sticks around long enough to take her shell necklace (yeah.) before she sees his engagement announcement on a rare visit into town. All the while, MS is unfailingly brilliant, entirely self-taught, and without any of the awkwardness or personality flaws one might expect of someone whose sole childhood contacts are an abusive alcoholic father and some gulls. She’s more educated than and perfectly able to be in town with everyone else, she just chooses not to be. Her amazing intelligence and artistic ability land her a book deal worth thousands without hardly trying, because MS needs no man to succeed. Before MS can return to the arms of the perfect boy next door, she’s arrested for the murder of the bad boy, because the jealous and bigoted townsfolk want to blame her, of course. She’s quickly acquitted because a legendary lawyer comes out of nowhere to defend her for free for some reason, and returns to her swamp, where she becomes independently wealthy from her books, given honorary doctorates, marries her perfect monosyllabic boy next door, and lives out the rest of her days in her dream home built by her swamp. She passes peacefully in a boat surrounded by her gulls, and in her death, the BND discovers that she bequeathed her swamp as a nature preserve, and secretly was actually the mediocre poet quoted throughout the book the whole time. She also had taken back her thinly veiled virginity metaphor from the corpse of the bad boy. The end.

DNF...not far in. I kept seeing this all over the place, so I thought I'd give it a listen. I tried. I did. But it just seemed like some kind of a sad swamp girl story and I lost interest pretty quickly. I decided to look up the plot synopsis to see if maybe it got interesting later on, and I'm glad I did. No offense to everyone who loved it, but this kind of thing just isn't my jam.

just watch “you”; with joe goldberg you’re getting the same dude but ten times more engaging i’m a big fan of lisa jewell’s work as her novels are better written and more unique than what the rest of the thriller genre has to offer. but this? what the fuck was this? i could go into the bookstore, throw a pebble into the thriller section and would end up with another book with the same premise 9 times out of 10. hell, i could just go outside and meet a man like this. such a boring, hackneyed premise. such boring lacklustre characters. wasn’t even particularly well written; jewells usually unique style not discernible in this in the slightest. to say i’m immensely disappointed would be an understatement.

DONT LET THIS BOOK IN….YOUR LIFE.

I don’t want to believe this is actually a Lisa Jewell book

kaylie smith, you have done it again. you have created two characters with so little chemistry i would get more enjoyment from stepping on a puddle of water with my socks on than read another line about them

Like a lot of millennials, I enjoyed Harry Potter. I was way too old for those books when I read them, sure, but they were entertaining, quick reads and, even when the later books ballooned up to over 700 pages, they were still brisk page-turners. Characters did stuff, events happened, the plot moved forward. That stands in stark contrast to the Cormorant Strike books, which are bloated with irrelevant details and dawdle on the minutia of running a detective agency for up to 20 chapters before even introducing the main plot. What happened? It’s fascinating. The obvious answer seems to be that, while her publisher gave its star writer more leeway to meander in later Harry Potter books, they were still exercising relatively strict editorial control behind the scenes. They knew Harry Potter was the golden goose and they needed to deliver a readable book. But in the case of Cormorant Strike, no one is minding the store. It’s a vanity project, published purely as a sop to Rowling so that she’ll allow her publisher to continue profiting off of Potter, and no one at Hachette Book Group really cares if it’s a mess. It's unconscionable that they would allow their star author to embarrass herself like this. And it must be said: Without an editor, it becomes obvious that Rowling has abysmal instincts as a writer. Important plot and character moments are glossed over with a single paragraph summary from the narrator, but the story slows to a crawl to deliver blow-by-blow details whenever something “funny” happens — like the chapter where Robin interviews a senile old woman who constantly repeats herself. Rowling reveals new information in massive data dumps, full of comically implausible names that are impossible to remember. We rarely see Strike or Robin engage in real detective work — they’re the heads of the agency, so most of that is done by a rotating cadre of freelancers. (This may be more true to how an actual real-life detective agency works, but it’s dull reading) On the rare occasion that they do detective work, it happens off screen so that they can meet afterwards, in a fancy pub or restaurant, to tell each other (and the reader) what happened. People print out Internet conversations or blog posts on long reams of paper (Has no one in the Strike universe ever heard of a flash drive?) and spend chapters sitting in fancy pubs or restaurants and reading them. Everyone is constantly going to fancy pubs and restaurants. Rowling lards up the narrative with pointless details about random things in the room. Robin gets distracted in the middle of a conversation by the random appearance of an American in a funny hat, because Rowling seems to think it's amusing but the reader is left wondering if this walk-on American is going to figure into the narrative somewhere later. That’s not to say anything of the elephant in the room, the fact that Rowling uses these books as manifestos to drag people that she doesn’t like — which generally turns out to be people that argue with her online. There is a lot if disdain for autistic people in this book. A young autistic man joins a cult because, his father tells Strike, he simply can’t be trusted to make his own decisions; Strike nods along approvingly as the father explains his attempts to get his adult autistic son declared mentally incompetent for his own good. A good writer could put detestable words into her characters’ mouths and it doesn’t necessarily mean that the author agrees, of course, but all of these sentiments line up exactly with Rowling’s real life views as expressed on Twitter. So it’s extremely fair, I think, to assume Rowling agrees. Also, boy, Cormorant Strike is just an unpleasant asshole. Rowling obviously intends Strike to be part of the tradition of rumpled detectives like Horace Rumpole or Columbo. He shares a lot of their blue collar affectations, like a love of good beer, smoking, and shitty food. But part of what makes this type of character such an enduring archetype is his surprising flashes of humanity, where his sympathy for the underdog and his passion for justice break through his hard, cynical shell. How many times has a hard-boiled gumshoe reluctantly accepted an unpaying case because he can’t stand to see a dame in a fix? Strike does not seem to be driven by anything other than, well… he’s in a detective story so I guess he’s a detective. But he doesn’t really seem to enjoy or care about the work. Strike oozes with barely disguised contempt for everyone in his life. His employees at the detective agency are just that — employees — and, by the way that Strike complains about them, they’re not very dedicated to their work. There’s no sense of friendship or comradery among Strike’s underlings nor do they seem to have any particular trust or affection for their boss. Strike meets a growing list of half-siblings (his dad was a famously promiscuous rock star, the narrator constantly informs us) but he seems to resent having to spend time with them. He hates Robin’s boyfriend with the seething passion of a friend-zoned high school dork. Women are constantly throwing themselves at Strike’s feet — despite the fact that Rowling likes to remind us that he’s ugly, rude, reeks of cigarettes, and has chronic flatulence from his diet of take-away curry — but Strike can barely think of them as human even as he’s having sex with them. Yes, Strike will use them for sex, but he doesn’t respect them because they’re dumb sluts. Rowling seems to think that this casual misogyny makes him a lovable curmudgeon, but it really just makes him seems like a dour, unpleasant jerk. When Strike can find the energy to be civil, it’s generally only to his high-paying clients, almost exclusively polished, clean, upper-class dudes who don’t speak in comical regional accents. (Pick up a book from 1890 and you’ll see that transcribing a country bumpkin’s drawl was once considered the height of hilarity, but modern readers will probably find Rowling’s constant “‘ere now, wot i fink” dialogue distracting). He’s the opposite of a Rumpole or a Columbo, a man obsequious to power and openly disdainful of the underdog. “Why would anyone join a cult?” he snorts when Robin tells him about her research into the cult in The Running Grave. He doesn’t ask because he’s curious, he only asks to show his contempt for those more weak-minded than himself. Speaking of dumb sluts, every woman, with the exception of the virginal unattainable Robin, is characterized as a dumb slut. One such slut even goes so far as to impregnate herself with semen out of a used condom she found in the trash in order to trap a man into marriage, a move so ridiculous it’s hard to believe that an ostensibly feminist writer wrote it and not an angry 14-year old chud from Wizard chan. Rowling likes to style herself a feminist but she oozes even more contempt for women than does Strike and the average “she breasted boobily” horny dude bro author has more nuance in his female characters than Rowling. Ultimately, this book just isn't pleasant to read. It's about unpleasant people forced to spend time together but who are too British to ever articulate their boiling resentment. Strike always feels like he’s mad that someone somewhere might be having fun, and that’s really the most British vibe ever.

*0.5 No better than the last 2. Bloated, repetitive and riddled with grammatical errors, with the now all too familiar JKR bigotry sprinkled in. For someone who claims to be an advocate for women, she certainly doesn't portray them very charitably in this series Don't know why I keep doing this to myself; at least no one can accuse me of slagging off books I haven't actually read

Thank god it's over. What a waste of time. I can't believe I read the whole 571 pages in less than a week. Not because it was spellbinding or good but because I couldn't believe that someone actually took the time to write such meaningless, endless drivel. I think I know that the plot follows in the form of a hero myth but it takes so many diversions that you lose the flow. Most frustrating is the author's style. Dialogue not encapsulated in quotation marks. Chapters (and speakers) jumping between 15 or 20 characters. The characters have a role in the story but often for some extraneous reason. One character's name usually enclosed for some unexplained reason in quotation marks (only his and always except for one chapter). Sorry, Amor, I have to say that the hours reading is better spent elsewhere.

More of a preachy sermon than an actual good story....

I will be in the minority in my reaction to this book. Although Mr. Baldacci probably meant well and was very invested in trying to explain race relations in 1969, he actually perpetuated racist ideology. In addition his white male protagonist, Jack Lee, epitomizes the white saviour complex. I know he explained that he wanted to make the story authentic and wrestled with using a racial epithet that made him feel uncomfortable but decided to use it anyway..... Mr.Baldacci providing voice to Desiree DuBose, the Black lawyer, was also extremely problematic. I have NO idea why he would even feel comfortable talking about her hair. I did read the complete book but I was uncomfortable- not because the subject matter but because of the privilege offered to this successful author to write this racialized story and have it published. To Kill A Mockingbird it is not. I am up for difficult conversations and I want to know more about oppression and injustices. I feel this book perpetuates stereotypes.

We’ve all read this book. David Baldacci is cashing in on the same old story. Wish I could give It less than one star. My husband and I have been fans of Baldacci for decades and I guess he’s out of fresh ideas

Read like a recent John Grisham novel so not my favorite. I had to keep closing the book and remind myself that “A Calamity of Souls” was indeed from David Baldacci. 480 pages that in no way represent books of a Baldacci caliber. Maybe he lost his touch too? I hope David Baldacci returns to his normal form of writing as this was not enjoyable . Would NOT recommend. I only finish because I have this perpetual need to complete tasks… even reading . Glad I got from the library and didn’t pay for this re-write!

A book with little substance, little suspense and even less credibility as it came closer to the messy ending. The main character did absolutely no progress for about 80% of the book and then all the action and revelations get crammed up in the last 20%. The multiple POVs could have been useful if the characters were more distinguishable from one another instead of being a bunch of unpleasant con artists.

I am sort of ok with not letting facts getting in the way of good fiction. But the same does not hold good for logic and mystery. This book is one irrepairable mess when it comes to logic and human behaviour. Paris Apartment is about Jess who comes to Paris only to find her brother living in an apartment complex is missing. She decides to find the truth of what happened to her brother. The characters in the apartment complex have their POV stories that hold all the cards and often inconsistent with what has already happened. The point of multiple POV in a mystery where most of them know what happened and yet act with dialogues like "I remember the first time I met him.." is lazy narrative. Also, immaterial of the nationality the basic logic of how people react to a certain situations should be common sensical. When you catch a person eaves dropping on a critical conversation the host does not say "Ok. Do you want to join us for a drink?" or when your guest is snooping around and you catch them you don't think to yourself "Damn, this person knows how to be charming". That is the level of absurd reactions you get from the different characters. Oh, not to mention the meaningless sex scenes between any 2 random characters. The author's premise of the mystery is flawed since what she is trying to do is keep you in the dark of what happened. Every character tries to mislead and remember total pointless memories that are not logical. The only intelligent premise is that of the business operation - which btw is rendered moot by all the alpha aggression. I am disappointed with the book. But then, I am guessing someone who doesn't mind being a windy yarn may like it. Did not work for me. Note: I would like to thank Netgalley and HarperCollins UK for the ARC of the book. The book releases on 22nd Feb.

1⭐️ Even with low expectations, nothing could have saved this book. This is genuinely one of the worst thrillers I have ever read, and thats saying a lot cause I've read a decent amount of them. To those of you who said I would hate this book, YOU WERE RIGHT! Awful, awful, awful. I'm gonna keep this short, sweet, and straight to the point. The plot in this was diabolical. I couldn't tell if this was a murder mystery or a genuine thriller cause there was nothing redeemable about the plot. It made ZERO sense. Are we trying to figure out what happened to Ben? Or are we trying to piece together the zoo that were the apartment? Maybe a little of both. However, nothing was suspenseful and it was BORING. I truly didn't give a shit about anyone in this book. It's the classic, "main character is digging to find out the truth, but OH NO! SHE MUSN'T KNOW!" The twists and turns were predictable and I had to PUSH myself to finish this. If I had to describe this book in one sentence, it would be, "I COULD NOT CARE LESS." Another thing that was so hard to look past were the blatant errors in the writing and the choppy sentence structure. I understand simplistic writing, but this was just bad. This clearly needed to go through editing again because it was all around bad. Overall, I hate that I wasted precious hours and days reading this book. I know a lot of you have this on your tbr, but I promise it is not worth the read. It's boring, lackluster, and all around pretty bad. I wasted my time and I don't want you to waste yours. Skip this one. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This would be my first Lucy Foley book, so I really hope I enjoy this!! However, I have seen mixed reviews so we'll see 😅

Oh my fu*king god finally! I'm done. The Paris Apartment sent me spiraling into my first ever existential crisis. I'm too young for this!!! I just could not understand, how the author of The Guest List, that I enjoyed so much could be responsible for this! But I recognize her style, her writing flair, but, this time it doesn't work. Doesn't fly at all. Who is the Real Benjamin Daniels? How many times are we asked this? He's a Fu*kboy that's what he is. It's not all that mysterious, I know a couple of them well. They think they come across as charming, but you feel gross the closer you get to those narcissistic assholes. Why is he charming, what does he say or do? Nothing. Well alright. Everyone loves him. Okay? Men, women, grandma, grandpa, little boys and girls, they all LOVE HIM AND WANT HIM OKAY!! Really why? Because they don't know who he really is. His mysterious charm... BUT WHY? Show me one moment where he's actually charming! WHY?!!! Wtf!!! God, I felt like I was dying reading this novel. I felt... Geezus. She strung us along this idiotic plot. Like what the hell is this😫😭 I need all this shit to make logical sense. This book fucked up my 2022 reading challenge progress! 😭 I swear to god it made me stop reading for like a month! I questioned why I read, should I ever read again? Should I finish it. I know, I know, I should have dnf' shelved it. But I dont have a dnf shelf. I never needed to be rescued by one. I read and complete everything I start as a matter of pride. And if I can't, I run away from the entire bookworm lifestyle... This book helped me find myself ... My inner book reading mafia! HEY I'm back! 0*

Had to DNF @ chapter 22. I’m so bored tbh - this was a miss for me

boring. as. fuck.

Bombs, bitcoin and murder. This was easily my least favorite in the Thursday Murder club series. It felt like it would NEVER end, and despite liking the wedding at the very start, the whole rest of the book did NOTHING for me. Sure it was fun to reunite with the core gang of octogenarians but on the whole this book did not add anything to the series and I want my time back. Thanks to @prhaudio for a complimentary ALC in exchange for my honest feedback.

After a string of five stars and a preorder for this, it was bad. It was muddled, confusing because there is no real direction and he is trying to give too many characters their time on the pages. There really is no more Thursday Murder Club anymore, there are so many side characters and the story so disorganized/disordered the tangled mess becomes a chore to finish instead of a joy like the others. Publication pressure? I don't know. I honestly didn't care about anyone and other than the wedding it was a mess.

“The third one is good too, but not my favourite. The third in a series usually isn’t that great” Reading this sentence in the book made me laugh out loud cause it perfectly sums up this book in the housemaid series. Boring 😭😭😭 I wasn’t gagged at all. A couple throwbacks to the other books were cool and characters coming back into the story was a nice touch but not enough to make up for the absolutely boring storyline and eye-roll plot twists. I was sooooo excited for this but it fell so short of what I wanted. Maybe my expectations were too high but we definitely could have done without this addition. Sorry Freida. Love ya. Anyway, in true Freida style, everything happens in the last 100 pages, so the first 300 pages were a slog to get through. Literally NOTHING happens. I didn’t guess any of the plot twists because I went way more farfetched than they ended up being. So the actual plot twists were a bit of a let down. It was a pretty frustrating read to be honest. NEXT!

What was the point of Janice. Why was Enzo written to be so annoying in this book? What was the point of the flirting and the husband not caring?? I have so many questions. Also very mad that I wasted my time reading this book I never even write reviews on here but I just had to do it today

Did the twists and turns of Millie and Enzo’s last adventure have you gripped? Honestly, Freida? NO. Hell to the NO. Ugh! This is so frustrating! After being impressed with book 2, I am back to hating this series! Why? Why did you have to write a book 3? This is completely unnecessary! There are a lot of reasons why this didn't work for me. First off, what happened to Millie? I feel like I don't know her at all—this is not her! Such a waste of a good character. And Enzo? I'm not even gonna elaborate—that's how pissed off I am. The thing is, these characters that so many people loved acted completely out of character. No wit, no character development, no sense at all! And the chapters dragged on! Turtles? Praying mantises? Who wants to hear about those? The very boring parts were stretched into chapters! It only got a tiny bit interesting around 89% of the book! And the twist wasn't even that shocking! Ugh! I hate this book! Bye.

Absolutely not

Definitely the worst of the trilogy. So cringy I had a hard time not DNF’ng it. Happy I’m done with the Housemaid series! But ended on a flat note. 🥱

This book reads like a high school entry into a crime writers' competition, and it came last.

** spoiler alert ** I'll summarize the whole book in one sentence. Police ignore obvious inconsistencies and lines of inquiry, rushing to judgement on an innocent man who gets wrongfully convicted and ends up committing suicide with no consequences for those responsible. Did I miss anything? Am I seriously supposed to believe that a murderer who is so careful to leave no evidence at multiple crime scenes would just casually throw one of his weapons over a fence for the police to find later? The primary victim leaves the house with an overnight bag and nobody wonders where she was going? One of this same victim's friends mentions she thinks the victim had a boy friend and that's the last it's mentioned? Sorry, you're going to have to do better than this to get me to come back.

The harder you rise, the harder you fall. Sarah J Maas wrote her own kill switch to the “Maasverse” and activated it when this was published. Disappointed does not even sum up the entirety of how I’m feeling. For those people who are really enjoying and loving this, I am so happy for you, and I wish that was the case for me. But I am just glad to have finished it so I never have to think about it again. Long live the Crescent City duology. I am envious of the characters who got to die in HOSAB/HOEAB so they didn’t have to experience HOFAS and the defamation of character that touched every single character I had previously cared about and rendered them boring, two dimensional and soulless. For a book “millions of fans” have been waiting for for two years, Sarah did not deliver. She did not even purchase a postage label. The epic conclusion to the crescent city trilogy, which had so much potential, was reduced into a messy concubine of soap opera, unwanted comedy and minimal stakes. There was so much potential. So much potential and this is what we got. I am so angry. The writing in this book leads me to believe Sarah no longer cares about Lunathion, or her characters. This book is a testament to laziness, loss of passion and the arrogance of knowing no matter what she wrote, she would be making money. Through love all is possible… yet there was no love in this book. It was rendered impossibly cold and distant from anything else she could have possibly written. Through “convenient coincidences”, all is possible, should be her new slogan. I don’t even understand how in any stage of production, anyone at bloomsbury could confidently look at this and not question the drastic changes to characters, such as Bryce’s complete tyrannical selfishness, and Hunt’s stripped down personality and so on and so on. HOFAS was a failure and nothing more. Due to my disappointment at the entire picture, I could not even bring myself to be excited when certain plot points; which I would have screamed at, were unravelled, they felt anticlimactic and convenient at best. The the potential Sarah carefully constructed in not only the last two books, but the small sprinkles of lore throughout all her books, remains completely untapped and unused. Fans and theorists could have patched together a better ending to this series and (as someone who grew distasteful of theorists and did not look forward to a crossover) I’ve seen theorists who care more and know more and understand more of Sarah’s precious worlds than she seemingly did in this book. I am so so so angry. Sarah chose convenience, palatable and cheap shock factor over writing something meaningful. I can only guess this comes from the fact that “fame” has gotten to her head. Sarah has done a disservice to long standing fans in an attempt to suck in and appeal to celebrities and influencers, blending epic backstories and well planned out history into grey palatable mush that can be consumed by the masses, instead of the quality book it could have been to be consumed by the people that make this all possible for her. Even her regular fashion of fast paced, “epic” final 100 pages could not overcome first 700 pages of convenience, low stakes nonsense. There was no slice of life, no character development, just a long endless cave of info dumping and convenience. Sarah’s best writing is a footnote in the past. Bloomsbury I am so so disappointed in you for allowing this, marketing this, profiting off this. House of Flame and Shadow is a mockery of everything good in fantasy and did not deserve our excitement, our hope, or our joy. I normally restrain myself from negative reviews, because I do believe all art is subjective and everyone has a right to enjoy art as it comes. But this was objectively bad and there are no excuses. There is no explanation. Someone as revered as Sarah J Maas should be doing better as she rises, not worse. I hope HOFAS/Sarah and the rightful people at bloomsbury receive the criticism this book deserves so that they can ensure future books do not suffer the same fate.

all SJM books have: - dudes with massive, cervix destroying hogs - dead ladies who info dump, sorry, PROPHECY the entire plan on how to save the world - every character joining together to overthrow the government and then BECOMING the government - heroines who are strong i guess but also deeply irritating and unchanging - sex scenes in the middle of war, because of course ur friends wanna hear the cot squeak - a deeply unsatisfying final battle scene and yet, somehow i keep giving her my money lmao 🤡

hunt literally can’t wear any underwear because his dick is too big (????)

oh wow no one died again.

This wanted to be MCU Phase Three but we got MCU Phase Four 😶

EDIT: I’m changing this to one star because now that I’ve sat on it there’s truly nothing I found overly enjoyable, satisfying, or entertaining. I also have a few more points to rant about, so I’m adding those to the end. EDIT: FULL REVIEW, CONTAINS SPOILERS AND LOTS OF THEM I am so unbelievably disappointed with crescent city 3 and I have a lot of thoughts I’m about to unpack, if you haven’t finished it yet do not scroll on - if you have finished it and too feel let down, scroll on and enjoy my rant. Obviously the cliffhanger from cc2 was huge and sure I was curious to see how it unfurled (and it did so in an incredibly predictable way), but my main priority?? Seeing Bryce and Hunt reunite. That is ALL I cared about. The PAIN those two went through at the end of cc2 - I needed a proper reunion. And what did we get?? We got a 2 page reunion where Bryce enters a room where everyone is else is not just Hunt, doesn’t even speak to hunt, they barely speak, SJM GAVE US NOTHING. NOTHING. THEY SAID A FEW WORds that was supposed to convey all they felt at being reunited and that’s it? I EXPECTED HUGE DECLARATIONS OF RELIEF AND LOVE AND SEX AND HAPPINESS AND I GOT 2 PAGES OF BASICALLY FUCK ALL. that was my first act gun for this book and really sets the tone for what’s to come. BRYCE WAS SO ARROGANT TO WHAT HUNT HAD BEEN THROUGH. OFC HE MIGHT HAVE SOME RESERVATIONS ABOUT YOU GOING OFF TO DIE WHEN HE CANT HELP??? DO YOU REMEMBER HIS PAST???? WHAT HE JUST WENT THROUGH SEEING YOU VANISH AND HIM UNABLE TO SAVE HER????? but Bryce threw a fit everytime he showed reluctance to go through with a not well thought out plan???? Sjm clearly didn’t know what to do with them to move their relationship forward, and for that I will always be disappointed. Any issues they had were resolved in stupid unmeaningful ways and I hate it because not enough time was given to them. I’m just feeling quite sad about it because I loved them the most out of all SJM lovers and I felt she had decided to move on from them like 100 pages in and idk the small bits we got were just not satisfying. Her teleporting to him bcos he’s her home? Love. Them not talking about anything because they have no page time? Fucking disappointing. There was time to take a beat and flesh out their reunion!!! there was no need to race to the next thing!!!! NOTHING is unpacked. EVERYTHING introduced is wrapped up by the next chapter. There is NO suspense. No drama. No stakes. I’m supposed to believe the Asteri are so so evil and unbeatable? How. When ofc Bryce had the solutions basically from chapter 2. Ofc she found a video from her ancestor explaining exactly what to do. There was no moral debate, no inner turmoil to be resolved - the stuff that was there was resolved too quickly for me to believe it. Bryce hates the Fae and doesn’t want to save anyone? Oop she changdd her mind bcos ofc she’s a kind person at heart. Fucking cop out. Because everything is neatly resolved quickly, this book becomes BORING. SJM has a very addictive quality to her writing, that hasn’t changed. But if you’re going to give me a million POV’s that switch MID CHAPTER, you need to give me a reason to care. Tharion is a whiny prat who is somehow so forgettable despite having so much on page time. His plotline is BORING. Actually all their plotlines are boring because there’s no suspense. For example, Ithan kills the stupid Fendyr heir (why even introduce that character she had zero purpose genuinely none ithan’s arc still would’ve flowed the exact same without her like he could’ve gone and killed Sabine once he had to antidote to unlock his powers) and she’s bought back to life basically immediately?? Like what the fuck?? If you need something to test a characters morality and growth, WHY UN-DO IT IMMEDIATELY. WHY GIVE US AS THE AUDIENCE MEANS TO DOUBT ITS SIGNIFICANCE. It would have been better to have more focused chapters that allowed for suspense - more time with each character so we’re left more in the unknown for the others. And I’m biased but GIVE ME MORE BRYCE AND HUNT. GIVE ME MORE RUHN AND LIDIA. Everyone else was boring and could’ve had their POV’s significantly cut. Also I’m sorry but Bryce not sharing her plan and everyone being like oh that’s fine she has a plan got tiring really quickly bcos part of Bryce’s charm was the fact she’s intelligent and a fast thinker on the spot, not really a planner idk. Felt a bit off. And her not sharing everything with Hunt? Broke me a bit. Over to the crossover - Nesta was a great choice for it. I never wanted a full crossover with the inner circle - crescent city 3 is SO DIFFERENT in tone and themes and just general vibes that too much time with the inner circle would’ve taken from that plot. to have only a couple characters as the focus was a smart move. I love my girl Nesta and she was excellent - it was a delight to see the powerful fae she is. I’ve always been meh over azriel so idc that much about his presence. I just don’t find him that entertaining idk. I think it was fun that Bryce needed something from their world for her fight, and I’m fucking so relived there was no Aelin crossover. To all those suggesting that, are you ok??? That would’ve made this book way too messy. I enjoyed the references to her world and was happy to leave it at that. Anything throne of glass related would need a whole new book, not a cameo!! And omg the little glimpse into cassian and nesta’s life filled me with joy. so I actually think the crossover was a huge pro to this book. The actual info from the crossover was a bit force feeding us information but whatever. A history lesson was kind of a boring way to do it. I’m not stupid so deliver information to me in a way that makes me curious and think and consider. I enjoyed the showdown between Bryce and Nesta and Azriel. But I think overall could’ve been done more interestingly. ESPECIALLY when Bryce takes that info back to the others. It was like ‘Bryce recounts what happened to these people’ ‘Bryce recounts what happened to another lot of people’ ‘Bryce decides to do this without thinking or speaking or actively engaging with anyone’. And she didn’t care enough about being reunited with Hunt idc what you all say SJM decided to lessen that trait of hers when Bryce in CC2 would NEVER. Lidia CARRIED this book but even then there was just not enough. This book suffers from too many POV’s moving too rapidly for me to feel any sort of satisfaction from them. I wish every plotline and character arc was more unpacked, and this was longer as a result and split into two books. Basically everyone’s fan theories were right, and it feels SJM gave up trying to shock or intrigue us - which I find lazy and just downright sad because I loved what crescent city set up. Along the way, everything in that got lost. Only redeemable thing was the ending - SJM writes a great battle scene. Finally some stakes where Hunt has to do something, Bryce and Hunt actually work together, and some redemption for Hunt. The overall plot is fine but delivered in such a boring, uninteresting way that I feel disappointed. Give me a longer book with more intrigue and interaction and maybe I’d be feeling different. This book was ultimately quite boring, which considering what needed to be done, was a surprise and a let down. Any info we needed was given to us immediately, any issue resolved quickly, any questions of power settled. And as a quinlar girlie, I just didn’t have enough of them - SJM clearly has her favourites and gave more attention to those. I will always have cc1 to get me through <3 Edits: I wanted to quickly talk about why even Lidia and ruhn’s relationship annoyed me. They BARELY spoke. They BARELY processed any of their trauma they experienced solo, much less together. They ONLY got back together because they were horny???? Make it make sense??? And ruhn basically treated her kids as a afterthought and a reason to be annoyed at her? Her arc as a mother was literally just written in to create drama and delay her and ruhn getting together and it infuriates me that it was reduced to that. Just TALK. Onto hypaxia and Jesiba - you mean to tell me that a witch who couldn’t even bring someone back to life successfully (which has been established to be a relatively achieveable task) was randomly able to kill the under king after literally no one was able to for thousands of years? Fkn dumb Jesiba’s whole character and history being revealed should’ve been interesting and added lore to this world, but it was basically an end point. Don’t even get me started on the stupid power/life transfer to save Bryce like the fuck? Why was any sort of magic system abandoned on this book? Since when did magic have these properties as established in this world? silly Bryce dumping her parents to Nesta to ‘keep them safe against all odds’ ignoring their literal adopted child or the fact she had an island that was literally a safe harbour from the asteri????? what even was Bryce in this book?????? A disgrace that’s what. A boring, unsatisfying, just BAD book. Rant over I am officially going to try block this out from my memory because this book being a let down has truly ruined my week. Previous edit: Full review to come, I think this was a mess with few highlights and I need time to compose my thoughts As a quinlar girlie I am unimpressed and quite dejected Time for sleep now

IF I HAD A NICKEL FOR EVERY TIME AN AUTHOR RUINED MY FAVORITE SERIES BY ADDING ON MORE SHIT TO THEIR PLOTLINES THAT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE, I WOULD HAVE TWO NICKELS. WHICH ISN'T A LOT BUT IT'S WEIRD THAT IT HAPPENED TWICE. words actually can't capture how mad i am about this one. i specifically ONLY read this series because i knew that my favorite characters (view spoiler) would be in it, and i SUFFERED (big emphasis on SUFFEREEDDDDD) through like 2,500 pages of this series just to feel like i can't believe this is the same author who wrote acotar and tog. the craft in these books is sooo downhill and both the writing, the main character and the pace of the entire story is so weak, annoying, undercooked, nonsensical, etc. there's so much to go into about why this didn't work for me (why is ithan suddenly the worst character ever? (view spoiler)), but since i only read the book knowing (view spoiler) would be in it, that's what i return to. actually this whole section has gotta be in spoilers, sorry: (view spoiler) long story short avoid this book like the plague because i regret reading it so bad. i genuinely just wasted like 3 months on all of these and it's time i'll never get back and now i have to sit here thinking about it, wishing i was none the wiser.

02/21/24: the more I thought about it, the more I got upset, so it’s being demoted a star RIP to the Bryce I used to know. Lidia’s back must need a brace from how much she had to carry through this obstacle course of 800+ pages. I felt nothing for two days straight reading this, and when I wanted to feel something, I couldn’t because I could not excuse the pitiful work up. I have been reading SJM’s books since 2014 and never once thought page space was wasted until now. This was incredibly disappointing, and I can’t even bring myself to be angry, because I’m just SO UPSET. I can’t say this reads like fanfiction because not even a fanfic writer would commit character assassination like this, even in some alternate universe. This felt lazy, unedited, and rushed, yet it was released with the longest break between books since Sarah started being published. As someone who believes HOEAB to be Sarah’s best work and was entirely underwhelmed at the end of HOSAB, my expectations were tempered. I believed I would have been very happy as long as the crossover was minimal, clean and useful. That being said, what I got was a dumpster fire of info dumps, fanservice, awful punchlines, plot holes, repeated quotes, and new character/ plot device drop-ins when there are no developed solutions that make sense. It was so laughable, it made me cry from the audacity. Sarah’s said that her memory is the worst and I believe it, because clearly she forgot the entirety of her other published works. Bryce- what. The. Heck. Happened. I used to love her and I could probably have defended her with my life. She was a BRAT. She was nothing but immature, reckless, and insensitive and frankly, her confidence turned into her worst trait. It turned into an uncontrollable ego. This was nothing but a money grab. You can’t convince me this is a good book, I’d like to see you try. *I have some very precise reasons why I feel the way I do, and I’ll edit this later, for now I just can’t think of this book any longer.

The fact this is the same author that wrote Throne of Glass is really debatable…

Update for this! Spoilers ahead. I’ve sat on this and thought about this…and I honestly cannot give it more stars. I’m still so perturbed about Darragh being changed or poorly edited. He is called DUNCAN now. What? The fact that Silene had the Horn…then no…the Harp….where were the editors here? All the spelling errors, the grammar issues…like I don’t normally nitpick this TOO hard but for a big, reputable company like BB and a brand like SJM…what happened here? For charging $32 for a book…I feel like it should have been edited better. I will say, I did enjoy the content we got between Bryce/Azriel and Bryce/Nesta. I think it was silly it was only in caves though. I did not rate this low because the crossover was short. I understand that certain things need to happen in the next ACOTAR book. Sarah….what did you do? This is a dumpster fire. Legit trash ending that made no sense. What happened to the multiverse? What happened to all that beautiful foreshadowing of Dusk? Bryce pulls a Theia and steals TT? Hunt’s thinking about her TIGHT WET HEAT while getting tortured? What? I had such high hopes for an epic multiversal adventure. And they just skip off into the sunset? Trash. This one should have went in the trash along with the first one you decided was awful. The reunion between Bryce and Hunt was so lackluster I wanted to cry. The amount of fighting and make-up sex was so toxic and annoying to read. If it was SJM’s intentions to announce an impending break up…she hit that nail on the head. Bryce jumps into a crystal sarcophagus and creates a port to return home. What happened to going to Hel to find Aidas? Get an army? You bring back a DAGGER and think that’s enough? Not even the strangest af fae you befriended? I’m keeping my hopes up that Bryce’s favorite ballet is the Glass Coffin, aka Snow White/Sleeping Beauty. Praying parts of HOFAS were indeed a fever dream or hallucination. It is the only thing that makes sense.

I'm sad a King book could suck so bad. I read to escape but I'm sick of hearing this rich old white guys opinion of the world. I don't watch the news for my mental health and King is ruining my mental health. I went in this book loving Holly but this book gave us none of her cute quirkiness. I'm officially sick of her and Kings messed up opinions. It makes me sick I wasted hard earned money for this POS.

Please, no more Holly. No more over the top woke politics and for gods sake no more “poopy.” Yikes

What has happened to Stephen King? Lightweight and poorly written. Lots of product placement for Coke, Apple and other products. King has sold out and this Holly Gibney series is not any where near his best. Couldn't finish it. Sorry.

I agree with Tabitha.

I can’t believe I’m writing a one star review on a king book. The Hodges trilogy was readable, Holly was readable because the Harris’s were so interesting. This book had no redeeming qualities. Not only anti Trump rhetoric yet again but feminist rallies?! Oh and if holly called someone a “real poop” or a “poopy head” again I was going to lose my mind. I love King but I hate what politics has done to him…

Not a fan of this book! It seemed like the same thing was happening over and over again. Bad guys show up, someone gets shot, a new character comes in, and then they get shot to. It was hard to follow the plot when there was so many insignificant details going on.

** spoiler alert ** I don’t enjoy political propaganda in books that I read to escape political propaganda. I enjoyed the first two books in this series. This installment seemed entirely different and unrealistic. I won’t be reading this series (or this author) again.

Yet another author ruins a series with thinly-veiled, poorly-executed political commentary disguised as a thriller. 0.5 stars

This was NOT an Amos Decker book. I love the Amos Decker series. Always look forward to these books. However, I almost stopped reading this book several times. It really didn’t pick up until page 200 (kindle at 48%). These books always grab my attention and I can’t put them down. I’ve taken the last two with me each time I’ve went on vacation because I knew they would be perfect beach reads and I just flew through them. This one just didn’t have the “wow” factor that the other books have had. I felt like there were two separate stories being told simultaneously. A lot of back and forth. I found myself re-reading paragraphs because I couldn’t focus on the story. Also, if you like all of the characters in the other books, you will be disappointed because there’s a couple new characters that have a large role in this book and none of the series favorites are in this book (they have very small, insignificant mentions). Overall my least favorite in this series. And that is saying a lot because I recommend this series to everyone. Took me two weeks to finish this book. Such an incredible disappointment. *Where is Decker? He was totally off his game. And where were his trademark quirks? *What happened to Jamison? She can’t seem to figure anything out on her own. *This is basically a Will Robie book with a smidgen of Amos Decker.

If I ever tell you I’m buying another Baldacci book, please kick me in the stones. He is just flat out going through the motions, and that’s shameful.

Terrible. Can't even believe that this was written by Baldacci. It was a long painful trip to the end of this book and certainly NOT satisfying.

It's ironic that the title of the latest Reacher so perfectly describes the series itself at this point.

I've been a fan of Lee Child and his Jack reacher forever. But this is the end of it. I got bored after a few pages, which never happened to me with any of Child's books before, felt like the plot was more or less the same than a previous book and, worst of all, pissed that Jack Reacher's characteristic language, so very specific, was used also for other characters in the dialogue, making the whole scenes sound ridiculous. I have no problem if Lee wants to have his brother as a helper. But the integrity of the style and the character should still be there, and it's not. This isn't, in any way, what I'd expected from a new Lee Child's.

Very poorly written effort which is written in the language style of an eight year old who has not yet learned to write sentences that have more than four or five words. The plot is meandering, the characters unformed, and the Reacher character bears only a vague resemblance to the far better written earlier books. The book cost me $15.99 and I feel totally ripped off and cheated as I barely got $0.99c of value. Given this rubbish as an indicator of things to come in the Reacher series I will certainly not be buying any more them. and I am astonished that Lee Child would let this sub-standard trash appear on the market to damage his reputation, not to mention that the publishers should also be ashamed of themselves for not consigning this junk to the pulping machine.

Goodbye Jack I have read every Jack Reacher novel and short story. I have looked forward to reading each one. But then came “The Sentinel.” There had been a couple of what I thought were misfires along the way and I know that Lee Child isn’t perfect but these ‘failures’ were few and far between. So I chalked up “The Sentinel” as one of those. “Better Off Dead’ makes two failures in a row. There is something serious missing. Maybe it is Reacher’s humanity. It reads like fitting a square peg in a round hole. Just a lot of maneuvering to get to fight scenes with no center. I am living in a situation where I have to buy my books. This was a waste of my money and it truly pains me to say, “Goodbye Jack”.

"Better Off Dead" (for the reader, that is, as the book is rather enjoyable in its flatlined cerebral fashion) It is possible that Lee has passed the baton to the fledgling Andrew, who cannot even write a decent story featuring the last Neanderthal on earth. I mean, the books by Reacher’s author never claimed to be paragons of literary excellence, but there was a certain “je ne sais quoi” that made them readable, even if it was merely the enjoyment of laughing at the author's excesses. Now, that’s gone too. Clunky, pointless, tedious, and almost as if it were a chore, Better Off Dead suggests that the series might be long overdue for its final curtain call—perhaps it’s time to send it to meet the Almighty, to embark on a great journey, or whatever one tells children when a pet dies. But let’s get back to our story. A man with the Reacher-esque build, in the middle of nowhere, wreaks havoc. He’s the kind of man who could beat you senseless even with his shoes. Shoes which, as we learn over time, improve like fine wine... Shoes that have become "solid as steel" (yes, you read that right, I’m not making this up). Quite uncomfortable, I imagine, if you’re the type to walk most of your journey. All of this, until a woman appears and shoots him. All that beating, for nothing… Next, we’re transported to the morgue of a small town where a 72-year-old doctor greets the "cheerful" one, the "Praying Mantis," and another fellow, all of whom take an interest in the corpse created in the previous paragraph. A corpse bearing Jack Reacher’s passport. At this point, for reasons unknown, we switch to a first-person narrative, and Reacher tells us how he met the limping woman. This same woman, shortly after, will incapacitate two tough guys armed to the teeth, leaving them as legitimate corpses in the desert (after giving them a good beating, I suppose to soften them up). And while all these "highly believable" events unfold, at the end of the chapter—naturally—the limping woman points her gun to her own temple, preparing to pull the trigger, while the reader is sorely tempted to do the same. From there on, it’s downhill for the author. The limping woman and Reacher team up to solve a case involving Arab terrorists, American scoundrels, thugs who crumble with the slightest slap and spill everything, thugs who commit suicide at the slightest hint of trouble because the evil mastermind is just SO evil, and they don't want to confess everything when Reacher is about to slap them senseless. Then there’s the limping woman’s brother, her sister Maria, terrorists with chemical bombs (LOL, Chid come and visit Ptolemaida in Greece to see the real stuff), U.S. officials who owe Reacher favours, and the girlfriend of the lost brother. A plot like this should lend itself to an absurd, action-packed story, but due to poor execution, it devolves into a subpar, tedious tale filled with forced twists, uninspired fights that wouldn’t excite even a recently widowed woman, and let's not forget one of the thugs is named Mansour, inevitably evoking memories of The Strange Kingdom of Prophet Mansour in the Caucasus (I never claimed to be normal, but it’s an excellent little book, do give it a try). Sigh. I’ve written quite a bit. The series is fading, Reacher is barely fighting, the plot is full of holes, and numerous threads remain unanswered or inadequately addressed (what’s up with the Mexicans playing football?). All in all, a defeat. I would give it two stars if the gallant hero had at least given the limping woman a heartfelt "Reacher" porking (for reasons of sexual inclusivity—though I loathe the term), but alas, that never happened, and he continued his journey towards the Pacific Ocean, presumably with his prostate now the size of an orange (if in the next book he starts fighting sharks, I’ll retract everything I’ve said).

Overall I would not recommend this book. It isn't realistic, Reacher a drifter that prides himself for not taking a bath or changing clothes very often, doesn't carry a cell phone, doesn't know computers, whose background is an MP, suddenly is very knowledgeable about the intricacies of advanced electronics, bombs and detonating systems. He gets free rides in military jets, copters, and can drive anything, he knows people who knows things. Yet he is off of the grid. He explains things to experienced military personal that do know electronics, bombs and detonating systems, but aren't smart enough to understand what this wandering ex MP is relaying to them. Seriously? Give me the old Reacher, that knew guns, tactics, people, motivations, greed and stupidity. The defender of one or two or a cause. Not someone defending the world from bad guys, I have Bond, James Bond, to do that. Actually, this story should have been a one star, but I am a sensitive kind of guy so I gave it 2. If you are like me, you will read the book regardless of the reviews, if I read this review I would still read the book, after all it is Reacher. As a Reacher fan you must read it, but as a Reacher fan you will be disappointed. I have decided I am not that sensitive, I am giving it a one star.

Edit 2: I did want to give Jack credit where credit is due, and mention that over the last few novels I have enjoyed the inclusion of cyberspace as a field of battle. Did he need to take shots at hackers for being dweebs? No. Did he get much of how the technology works right? No. But, as someone working on defending cyber space, it was nice for it to be acknowledged as an important component of modern warfare. Edit 1 because I am triggering a lot of folks: The book just isn't well thought out, and the prose is poor. I have read all of Jack Carr's books, and they have only gotten weaker in their plot over the last few years. He leans too heavily on grandstanding about his own political beliefs instead of focusing on what makes James Reece an awesome character. Some reviews will cite the violence as a turnoff; that doesn't bother me. I don't quite care for in-depth descriptions of internal organs—I passed college A&P over a decade ago—but it doesn't bother me. The constant product placement doesn't bother me. The poor storytelling does. I am on pace to read 100 books this year, and this is one of three that I have marked as forgettable. In addition to the above, Jack Carr demonstrates a new skill in this novel: self-fellatio. There’s a whole chapter describing a “liberal soy latte-drinking snowflake journalist.” It goes on and on about vaccinations, love for EVs, inability to find a girlfriend, etc. I couldn’t figure out what the point was until we got to the part where this character had negatively reviewed an ex-SEAL’s thriller novel. I literally started laughing my ass off at this point. World’s biggest self-insert. Carr goes on to explain how the negative review had backlash and then spends a page listing every author who ever served in the military. He takes his revenge fantasy further by explaining how this character tried to write their own thriller but failed due to a lack of detail around the firearms. Defending your incessant description of gun parts much, Jack? Anyway, I’m done with Carr. The books used to be about a badass character taking on the world. Now they’re just a way for Carr to jerk himself off and make us pay for it. I can only hope that this review triggers Jack Carr to kill me in his next novel.

I want to like this book. I want to like the adventures of James Reese but it’s just flat, emotionally void and 1 dimensional. Jack Carr is no longer a novelist, he is a staff writer for an infomercial. There is so much more detail and emotion behind the full load out of a rifle with names of products and add-ons to weapon attachments, coffee, honey and zero emphasis on character or story building. This a book, not a story, not a novel, it is far is less than that. This is a written description of what articles of clothing, what firearm with caliber & name branded attachments used, what coffee, what book to read for the “dress like a warrior” type person. It has the bones to be a good book but it’s not but it’s lost in the loadout; instead it was written for the person whose entire persona revolves around their 2A stance and dressing tactically. If you are not sure who? It’s the guy in the mall parking lot with a punisher tire cover on his suv. The accountant with the tattoo sleeve. The day dreamer of action and nothing more. This book is the sears catalogue of novels for those who feel it’s better to look a certain way than to be a certain way. For clarity, people who love camouflage but are not military vets or hunters. Punisher emblems but aren’t comic book fans. Cross-fitters all day long.

Jack Carr is not in the same league as Tom Clancy, Nelson DeMille, and Lee Child. But if you are a fan of Clive Cussler, Vince Flynn, Brad Thor, or James Patterson, this book is for you. The book could have filled 300 pages was bloated to over 500 pages. Much of that calling attention to name brands, exotic restaurants, and their foods and constantly repeating what the Chinese were up to every 50 pages. The protagonist, Jack Reece is very unlikeable by being too stuck on himself and being a cruel person, probably a sadist. It seemed like in every chapter he was whining about how he had culpability for the death of his wife and daughter. He has a new fiance who he also continually chants about putting her in a situation to die. Reece has the ability to identify the make of every pistol at a glance or by sound and feel if he is in the dark. I did not think it was very believable that he killed six armed assassins using only a pen and a champagne bottle. Carr goes to great lengths to indicate a qunatum will only communicate with Reese but that turns out not to be true since the computer also interacted with the president. Reese sounds like Trump in that only he can save the US from a horrible disaster.

Wouldn't waste my time with this garbage.

** spoiler alert ** Garbage. The book and the “author.” Actual uses for the pages in this book: - kindling - if the toilet paper runs out again - lining your puppy’s crate - paper machete Creepy Bill Clinton mask - confetti - ironic wrapping paper - paper airplanes (nearly as green as Hillary’s G5)

I was curious and was prepared for this to be a fail. There's a lot of political whining, which I had recently read in another review and they were right. I'm just not in the mood for that. If the story didn't have that, I may have been able to finish it but a not so fictional depiction of a troublesome former administration is just not on today's reading Bingo card. No thank you. To bad, as it has been a long minute since I've read a good political thriller.

I’m a big fan of both of these women but not of this book. The only reason I finished it is because a friend gifted me the audiobook. It was a thinly-disguised hate fest of our last president who I agree is the worst person in the world, but the book and the characters were 2-dimensional and the plot was silly. Also the reader was terrible. Ugh!

0/5 ⭐️ you thought Fourth Wing was bad…? Oh you sweet summer child. Goodreads has been real finicky about reviews recently so I will only be speaking on the book and its content (not the author though I have very many opinions (none of them kind☺️)) also there are spoilers in this review but who cares because you shouldn’t be reading this book to begin with! (Don’t let my sacrifice be in vain) I intended to get this review out way sooner but unfortunately (and unsurprisingly) this book was actually so much worse than Fourth Wing!🥳 I naively assumed Fourth Wing would be the top contender for worst book of the year but Iron Flame made me wish I was reading Fourth Wing!! At least Fourth Wing had the decency to be short enough to get through in a week, Iron Flame takes every flaw of Fourth Wing and not only makes it worse but makes it LONGER(???!?!) while somehow simultaneously being even more boring! Wow!🤩 Good job Yarros!!! What a fantasy icon!!🧝🏻‍♀️ Remember how Fourth Wing had one of the most idiotic, and juvenile writing styles in any adult fantasy book ever? Imagine that but now in a world where editing was never invented!! 🥰 The sentence structure was legitimately horrendous. I actually wish I was kidding. If you have the unfortunate displeasure of being in a twenty mile radius of a copy of Iron Flame and are unlucky enough to stroll past it in the store or your local library, I beg you, after you recover from the sheer horror of being in the same room as such an abomination to fantasy, open it to a random page and just ATTEMPT to read a paragraph out loud. I am a creative writing major, I read books out loud all the time. I have never struggled so much with a book in my entire life. Sincerely whoever had to do the audio book must have the endurance and the mental fortitude of a saint. Forgive me, Yarros, for believing reading should be an enjoyable experience, clearly you do not agree. 🧎‍♀️ Also Yarros used 493 ellipses and 1089 em-dashes on my count! The book is about 634 pages!💫 And oh! A Drinking game🥂: take a shot every time a character’s eyebrow or brow or brows are mentioned!! Actually don’t! You’d definitely die! Brows are mentioned over a hundred times!! 🫠 I have to laugh (or else I might scream) at the idea that THIS is accessible fantasy because not only is the plot and the world building convoluted and unengaging but the writing is so incredibly shit that it makes you reread half of the sentences over again if you want to the vaguest inkling of an idea of what is going on in this horseshit world. To call Iron Flame accessible spits in the face of twenty plus years of hard work and effort by truly talented authors to make fantasy books that are actually welcoming and accessible to a wide audience. Let’s actually talk about the plot. Fourth Wing was derivative and predictable and Iron Flame doesn’t even try to be any more. Here’s a list of some 🌈✨creative😍 plot points Yarros used: - A shitty copycat version of the Hunger Game’s rebellion (with zero of the interesting nuance or intelligent discourse)😯 - what is essentially a boring Umbridge at a half-assed attempt to create tension😧 - The Rider Quadrant and the Infantry Quadrant finally interact!! They are dropped in the middle of a forest, are being hunted by dragons, and are given two maps and told to go to a location marked on the maps! A simple assignment for students at a war school who surely know how to navigate using a map because that’s an important skill for soldiers to know, right?! 🗺️ Not only do these riders not learn how to read a map until year two (WHY?) but apparently the Infantry and Riders hate each other so much😠 that THEY DON’T EVEN COMPARE THE TWO MAPS WHEN PEOPLE HAVE CONFLICTING IDEAS ABOUT WHERE THEY ARE. THEY WALK AROUND IN A FOREST FOR HOURS INSTEAD OF COLLABORATING ONCE. I don’t care how much you hate someone at school, if you are given a group assignment literally step one is compare all documents you have been given so you can be done as quickly as possible. ALSO WHEN ONE OF THE INFANTRY ASKS TO WHAT TO SO IN THE EVEN OF A DRAGON ATTACK THE RIDERS LAUGH AND MAKE FUN OF THEM FOR BEING SCARED??? THEN WHEN A DRAGON ATTACKS THE RIDERS ARE MAD AT THE INFANTRY FOR DOING THE WRONG THING AFTER THEY LITERALLY WERE NOT TOLD WHAT TO DO!! Yarros when I find you Yarros Yarros when I find you Yarros🏃‍♀️🏃‍♀️ - Jack Barlow back because I guess Yarros couldn’t come up with another new antagonist… also he’s Venin for reasons. Really it’s not that interesting. The resurrection trope is so fun!!🤩🤗 - A torture scene summary that is not scary in the slightest because this book conditions you to know that Violet is never in any real danger despite trying to tell you she is always on the verge of death 😱 - A visit to what is essentially the Summer Court in search the Book of some bullshit thing called a luminary (btw we don’t even know what it looks like until 60% through the book AFTER they’ve acquired it???)🤫 - a catty ex-girlfriend (named Cat, wow ✨creative✨) making a reappearance and doing nothing but promotes wonderful stereotypes (even though Yarros tries really hard to tell you it doesn’t on page the literal page)💃🏻 - and the most anticlimactic and boring battle with the dumbest ending I’ve ever read!! 🤺 There are more stupid plot points, but I’m getting brain damage trying to remember the plot of this book so I’m just going to talk about things that made me wish I was attempting to consume whole boulders rather than read the most accessible fantasy book of all time: Iron Flame by Rebecca Yarros😇 Varrish. He’s our Umbridge lookalike. He strolls into the Dragon Rider Academy and he’s super scary with his one-eyed dragon Solas!!! 😰 I mean he would have been, but literally the first time he does anything scary by letting his dragon incinerate an entire squad, TAIRN FLYS IN AND THREATENS SOLAS. AND SOLAS AND VARRISH BOTH COWER BECAUSE TAIRN IS SO BIG AND SUPER SCARY AND THE 🌈✨⭐️MoST PoWErFuL⭐️✨🌈 DraGOn😀 Well maybe this is understandable because Solas just killed like twenty people, right?🤔 But no! Tairn isn’t mad about that, he’s mad because Violet got like a first degree burn. I don’t know what Yarros was attempting to achieve with this scene but you know what it does achieve? It tells the reader that Varrish isn’t actually a scary villain because having Tairn put him in his place the moment he does a single villainous action. IT DESTROYS ALL TENSION YOU COULD HAVE HAD.🧍🏻‍♀️And don’t you worry, dearest reader, this is a trend. LATER TAIRN MAKES VARRISH GET ON HIS KNEES AND APOLOGIZE TO VIOLET FOR BEING MEAN TO HER. ⁉️⁉️ IN FACT ANYTIME ANYONE IS MEAN TO VIOLET THE ENTIRE WORLD COMES TO HER DEFENSE. Any character, any dragon, I swear to god a speck of dust could land on Violet wrong and the entire cast of characters would jump them. And it’s not just her friends. THE SIDE CHARACTERS, MAIN CHARACTERS, CHARACTERS WITH LITERALLY A SINGLE LINE OF DIALOGUE, MINOR AND MAIN ANTAGONISTS. THEY ALL COMPLIMENT VIOLET C O N S T A N T L Y. VARRISH COMPLIMENTS HER, THE VENIN COMPLIMENT HER, CAT COMPLIMENTS HER. Sloane (the sister of Liam, the stupid dead guy👱🏻‍♂️ that Violet tries to convince us was her friend) says the most benign of comments against Violet and Rhiannon and every other personality-devoid lampshade of a character in a seven mile vicinity practically threatens to jump this GRIEVING 20 year old girl. Characters that Violet doesn’t even know will compliment her out of the blue. THE BOOK READS LIKE AN INSECURE PERSON WISH FUFILLMENT. 💇‍♀️ It’s so unbelievably unbearable. 👹 The Violet Defense Squad™️ is literally in every chapter. My favorite part about this book was that I couldn’t find a chapter where Violet isn’t complimented for doing literally nothing in any of all 66 chapters of the entire book.🤭🤩 And in case you were concerned that anyone who was mean to Violet would get interesting character development, nope! They either end up dead or want to be her friend by the end🥰 awesome!😎 Violet is my favorite character😍 Are you interested in Violet’s character arc? Well let me tell you the wonderful highs of this perfect character that we’re supposed to root for and support!!😘 Violet starts out strong by making insane demands of Xaden like demanding he tell her literally everything even though she had her mind read last book! And she doesn’t just mention this once. She mentions this every single time we see Xaden. She doesn’t trust him, she tells us, but she loves him, she tells us. 🙄 They’re such a cute and believable and interesting couple 🥰🥰 and their dynamic is made so much better by that random ex-girlfriend that was included because Yarros got bored I guess!😍 On top of being annoying and insecure, Violet decided that this book she would also double down on being one the worst people imaginable! Remember when all those people Violet considered friends died in her first year and she was so sad about that? Well actually this book Violet tells us that she’s gained some new perspective!!🤯 Actually she’s glad all those people died because watching all those people die made her a better rider because they inspired her to… not die(?)! Because that’s a normal and morally good thing for our main character that is SO empathetic and SO kind to say!🙈 Violet is so good, I wish I was just like her!!!☺️ Also remember Sloane and her dead brother?!👱🏻‍♂️ Well Liam spent all of book one writing letters to Sloane, his only living family! Wouldn’t it be so nice if Violet gave those to Sloane out of the kindness and goodness of her heart to help Sloane cope with the loss of her older brother?!😊 Well she didn’t!! Violet withheld the letters for weeks after Sloane arrived at the school, (weeks in which Sloane very well could have died by the way) and only offered to give Sloane the letters if she agreed to train with Imogen (a girl Sloane does not like) and only agreed to give her one letter a week!! There are over fifty letters Violet! What happens if Sloane dies during a freak accident which you KNOW are rampant at this death school???! Violet is such an empath guys🥺 she really understands and cares for the people around her.😣 Don’t you wish you were just like her?!😁 Violet also does a variety of things such as: - Dropping a gryphon flier off the side of a cliff and then being surprised when said gryphon flier’s friends don’t like her? Inspirational💫 - Talking shit on the infantry for not trusting dragons and being cowards after literally being a prime example as to why the infantry should not trust riders or their dragons! So empathetic🥺 - Wanting to murder Xaden’s ex for saying a couple of barely mean comments to her! A totally rational response!!!👍 - Trying to translate a journal from a dead language she doesn’t know (she does know many other dead languages, of course) instead of giving it to the girl that she’s knows understands that dead language! Wow! the smartest main character of our generation! 🤯 - Accusing every scholar and student of the school of perpetuating misinformation and hiding history that she herself just found out about! She’s so kind and thoughtful 🥳 - Forgetting instantly about her friend who got her neck snapped after some assassin asked who Violet Sorrengail was. She cares so much about her friends!👯‍♀️ - And many, many more abhorrent things🤩 In case you forgot (because apparently Yarros did 90% of the book) Violet has EDS. Sometimes it’s brought up, but not really with any substance. And Violet just wraps her joints and “pushes through it” and “puts all her pain into a box” (??) and pretends she doesn’t have a problem at all. No further accommodations are granted to her in this book aside from the saddle from last book which is already dumb because everyone trying to hold onto a flying creature should be using saddles anyway. I highly suggest: Fly Or Die: The Ableist Narrative of Toxic Perseverance by Ella T Holmes for a much better explanation than I can provide as someone that doesn’t have EDS. Let’s talk about Xaden because if I have to think about how super special and powerful and amazing Violet is I might eat all the gravel in my backyard. Xaden’s depiction in this book is gross to say the least. Rebecca has confirmed that he’s a PoC which is great! Keeping that in mind, I love how he’s described as incapable of love and is called a monster and is untrustworthy!!😍😍And I absolutely adore that our super special and talented basic white girl Violet is the person that shows him true love and trust and is the only person who can take his mask of cruelty and violence off for the first time even though she’s so much smaller and weaker than big, strong, powerful Xaden. It’s so cool that all the other characters are so terrified of him and that he acts as little more than Violet’s big overprotective and jealous guard dog! I especially love that Violet’s mom practically tortured him and gave him a hundred and something scars and that he has to take responsibility for all of the marked ones!! That’s not concerning and horrific!!!! And I love that he also got another scar for “claiming” Violet!! that’s so attractive and romantic and good representation and not at all fetishizing men of color at all!!!🥰🥰🥰 Thank you so much for your hard work Yarros!!!🫡 He’s also annoying and refuses to tell Violet anything unless she asks hyper specific questions. Their whole dynamic is just annoying and stupid. And I love all of Yarros’ other characters who have less personality than paper bags with faces drawn on them!!🪑 Frankly a folding chair has more charm than any of the characters in this book. They’re so unique and are definitely really funny and don’t ever bog down the scenes with so many characters that you can’t tell who is even talking anymore! They’re all unique and dynamic with character arcs!! Of course! What else would they be?😆 And the dragons! 🐉 Oh the dragons! How could I forget about the dragons that are nothing but glorified Uber rides!! They don’t do shit but posture and growl and be boring! Here’s some fun facts about dragons: dragons can choose their tail shape but they can’t choose their color which directly influences their personality and temperament!! All baby dragons are gold because that’s interesting! Is there an evolutionary reason for that or something? Not that we’re told of! More dragon sex is mentioned, thankfully we don’t have to live through the dragon-lust again though! Also the dismounts that Rebecca describes the Riders doing are literally physically impossible!! All the riders should be dead if they try to pull that shit! Giant flying dragons are not horses you can’t just walk around on it while it’s diving and jump off of it😭😭 Oh and Anadarna also is now like a super special purple/chameleon never before seen breed of dragon with the rarest tail shape!🐲 Are we surprised? No. Just bored. 😴 She also now has like a disabled/malformed wing. Her wings were fine in the first book, but now they’re not? Idk. I feel like that should have been a thing in book one but whatever. (Tairn literally blames it on Violet which is sort of hilariously fucked up??) But anyway she obviously can still fly because god forbid a disability ever hinder a character in anyway that makes them adapt, but she can’t ever hold a rider? Violet is like 90 pounds as we are so graciously reminded so I feel like if Andarna gets bigger she definitely should be able to carry her but whatever. 🤷‍♀️ TLDR: the dragons are BORING. And they’re not even funny or cool or even scary. Why write about dragons if you make them boring and insignificant to the plot??! And Andarna is a special-special because of course she is. 🤪 This review is getting way too long so let’s just talk about the ending. Oh no! Violet’s mom that got no real development or anything died! Anyway. 🧐 Why the fuck did the revolution refuse to help Navarre? They claim to be morally superior and to care about the lives of civilians but just blatantly ignore like 50% of the continent’s population because they’re Navarre citizens? And we’re supposed to root for them? Right! Awesome! Okay!😆👍 What are the actual morals of the revolution? What is their end goal? Why did Violet join them so quickly without asking any questions??🫠 She’s so intelligent!🤓 I’m completely fine with Xaden becoming Venin, though I doubt it will be resolved in an interesting way. Though I don’t think it’s really an interesting plot twist and I saw it coming a mile away after all the boring Venin info dumping I had to sit through, but at least it’s something. HOWEVER I CANNOT FORGIVE IT FOR MAKING THE FINAL LINES OF THE BOOK “Welcome to our fucked-up family. Guess we’re brothers now.” THE SECOND TO LAST LINE IN THE BOOK IS “WELCOME TO OUR FUCKED UP FAMILY”😭😭😭😭😭 WHAT WHAT WHAT DO YOU UNDERSTAND WHAT THAT DID TO ME?? I READ 634 PAGES OF THE WORST, MEANDERING, BULLSHIT PLOT POINTS, HORRIFIC AND BORING SEX SCENES, INDECIPHERABLE INFO DUMPS, NONSENSICAL MAGIC SYSTEMS, FLAT CHARACTERS, BORING DRAGONS, HORRIBLE REPRESENTATION, AGGRESSIVELY UNFUNNY FRAT BOY HUMOR, UNEDITED GARBAGE AND YOU END IT WITH “WELCOME TO OUR FUCKED UP FAMILY”???????????????!!!!!!!!!!!?!?!?!!?!??! ARE YOU TRYING TO GIVE ME A JOKER ARC??? WAS THAT THE POINT OF THIS BOOK???? AM I SUPPOSED TO TAKE THIS SERIOUSLY AS AN ACTUAL FANTASY BOOK??? THE REASON THIS BOOK TOOK ME SO LONG TO REVIEW IS BECAUSE I GOT ACTUAL PSYCHIC DAMAGE FROM THE LAST LINES OF THIS BOOK. I HYPERVENTILATED I THREW MY PHONE I SCREAMED I STARED AT A WALL AND CONTEMPLATED MY PLACE AND PURPOSE ON THIS EARTH I HAD MORE CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT THAN ANY CHARACTER IN THIS ENTIRE BOOK IN THE 0.5 SECONDS AFTER READING THOSE LINES HOW AM I SUPPOSED TO REACT TO THAT?? DID YARROS THINK SHE ACCOMPLISHED SOMETHING WITH THAT ENDING?? HAVE I LOST MY MIND?? PEOPLE LIKE THIS BOOK? PEOPLE TAKE IT SERIOUSLY AND MAKE UP THEORIES FOR IT??? WHAT?????? GENUINELY IF YOU LIKE THIS BOOK WHY? WHAT HAPPENED TO YOU? ARE YOU OKAY? DO YOU NEED HELP? WELCOME TO OUR FUCKED UP FAMILY??? GUESS WE’RE BROTHERS NOW??? YARROS I AM LIVING IN YOUR WALLS WHAT DO YOU MEAN WELCOME TO OUR FUCKED UP FAMILY WHAT DO YOU MEAN😭😭😭😭😭😭 I FEEL LIKE I AM ENTITLED TO FINANCIAL COMPENSATION FOR PSYCHOLOGICAL DAMAGE THIS BOOK HAS INFLICTED UPON ME so thanks for reading my review <3 I hope this helps your decision making process when it comes to buying books :) (don’t buy this book) Yarros did not receive any financial compensation for my suffering and I highly recommend that if you want to read this book (for some reason??? Why?? I spent so long writing this to give you reasons not to!😭) you get it from your library or literally any other means. Red Tower and Yarros are not people that deserve your hard earned money or support. Also whoever the fuck claimed to have edited this book is a world class scammer because they got paid for doing literally nothing. But also they should be fired and exiled and never allowed to look at words again. I have more to say but I hit the word limit💀

1 Star Alright, I'm not going to rant or be very specific in this review because I know many people are still currently reading the book. I'll come back to edit and write a proper review at a later time, just didn't want to leave it hanging with no thoughts or rating. Please take this with a grain of salt if you are a super fan of this series or of Rebecca Yarros in general. I don't like her writing at all-not even a little bit. The entire feel of the book is still juvenile af. Like all the YA trappings- except they fuck nonstop 🙄 I felt that really diminished Violet's character because (view spoiler) Let me not forget to mention the 'It'S aLl My FaUlT, eVeRyThInG iS mY fAuLt- AlL tHaT iS wRoNg In ThE wOrLd Is AlLlLlLlLlL mY fAuLt' - fr- stfu. The world building again isn't very fleshed out . Miscommunication, jealousy and insecurity GALORE No character development - I actually disliked them more in this book than in book 1. Like, they went backwards. Lemme be specific- the main characters, Violet and Xaden. The pacing is off- the beginning I felt didn't give enough, the middle was a slog, and everything but the kitchen sink is thrown at you so fast and hard at the end. Like wut? I can't wait for more ppl to finish to see how they felt- I know I'm not a fan of this series but there has to be complaints from actual fans out there lol I mean come on. This was a hot mess and a bit of a dumpster fire. ⠂⠄⠄⠂⠁⠁⠂⠄⠄⠂⠁⠁⠂⠄⠄⠂ ⠂⠄⠄⠂☆⠂⠄⠄⠂⠁⠁⠂⠄⠄⠂⠁⠁⠂⠄⠄⠂ ⠂⠄⠄⠂☆⠂⠄⠄⠂⠁⠁⠂⠄⠄⠂⠁⠁⠂⠄⠄⠂ ⠂⠄⠄⠂☆ OMG...ya'll- I'm freaking finished. 😅😅 RTC tomorrow 🖤🖤 Let's see what this sequel is bringing...here we go. ➽──────────────❥➽──────────────❥➽──────────────❥ It's not even the official release date yet (here in the US) and I already feel so late. Late to read. Late to discuss. So behind.

The conflict seems too complicated… The author tries too hard to paint it black and white… I think we need to remember that there are always two sides to the story... Maybe the MC IS the bad guy… Maybe there is nothing wrong with the system!! It’s a shame they are trying to start a rebellion. Violet should just stop fighting and pray for peace ☮️🙏🏽 Right?.. 🙃 EDIT: If you’re not seeing clear metaphor in my review you should read something besides fantasy. Like… the room 🍉

They removed my previous review. So I’ll keep it with this

DNF @ pg 125 if you decided not to read this book, you are missing nothing 😒 I can't believe this trash got approved for 5 books, RY literally what more do you have to say?? *** i better see some good, long groveling goddammit 😮‍💨😮‍💨

ngl this one made me embarrassed that I liked the first book. i will be taking no questions at this time. thank you 🤡

If I could erase one series from the world, it would be this one. Nothing original, badly written with bland characters and romance. The way she has written the main girl, like she needs to be violent under the threat of violence(her nickname, btw), has written Murica all over it. People are dying on the page, but she is horny which is something that Rebecca does in her books. Also, I'm positive this is an industry plant series, so I'm interested if this book is going to get booted in rating like the first one. Read anything else besides this.

who tf is paying everyone to rate this shit 5 stars because I know y’all are fucking lying rn ! RY do us all a favor and kill the characters off in the next book so people can finally be free from this series. what happened to real literature

should be named iron lame because it was awful.

DNF 3% I'm not the right audience for this. I've picked it up 3 times and listened to about 35 minutes of it altogether. But she keeps whining about how she can't trust Xaden because he didn't share rebel secrets with her, and she can't trust her brother because he faked his death and she had to mourn him for years. Seriously? If what they're saying is true, millions of lives are on the line if this rebellion fails. But no. Nobody trusted a kid and you had to be sad for a few years. Oh god. The horror! The pity! When she got all snippy at the leaders of the rebellion for thinking they could "decide her fate" while she was "in the room" - in other words, decide if they should send her back into the school and trust that she wouldn't rat them out to her mother (the general!) - I decided I couldn't do another 27 and a half hours of this. Time of death: 10:05 am 8/25/24

One star bcs I’d rather go through an open heart surgery without anaesthesia rather than read another book written by Rebecca Yarros

There is nothing of value to be had here.

EDIT: If you've read Blood Promise (Vampire Academy #4), that's what the ending has us geared for in book 3. You heard it here first folks. Here before all the “OMG BEST BOOK EVER, EVEN BETTER THAN THE FIRST ONE” reviews start rolling in. For those who are on the fence about the series and want to read the second book, it’s the same regurgitated material from the first one. There’s soooo much more info dumping to cover the lack of plot in the first one. If the real bad guys are coming but no one knows except those in the revolution why go back to the college? Also love how Rebecca tried to insert more interactions where Violet is the smart one LMAO BFFR REBECCA. She gives her brother, who’s been in the revolution for 6 years, tips on how to fight. Yes yes makes perfect sense. This all happens in the first 2 chapters FYI, so you know where it’s going for her character ARC. We do get more divergent feels about the government hiding stuff from their citizens. The middle is soooo long and boring and it’s the same old I was in her shoes last year or his shoes last year do they know what’s really out there? No Violet they don’t. Also an entire city for the revolution and not one person notices? Yes okay makes sense. We also have her ogling xaden fresh off betrayal, so still the same setup. Still confused at the ending and how a certain character came back from the dead and not one person figured out how the entire book. Violet worked out how to strengthen the wards but once you find out how this dead character came back it turns the entire book moot. AGAIN. The entire plot of the book just crumbles after he says how he became what he’s become. WTF??? Now her stupid ass statement on what’s happening in Gaza makes a lot more sense since she’s in lalaland about her own book.

Y'all must be joking… this suckkedd…

son i'm crine it's been two years and this book is still the worst one i've read ever

The author is on her last legs. Knowing what I do about her, I'd say she has run out of ideas. Had I not known about her success laden trajectory, I'd say Shadows in Death is the work of a beginner with traces of talent. Having glanced at all the reviews I've read online, I'd say, without doubt, that I'm not the target demographic for this novel. I'm under 45 and single. I think married couples share their love of the same books through those like this. The author made puerile comments in almost all chapters in this book. She tried hard to please her readers, but I sensed her weaving the story in the background, and couldn't immerse myself in this novel. The ending made me reread several words in disbelief. This climax was more like a low budget 80's action movie's script than a futurist procedural. The one liners were poor. The sentences ending the chapters just as. I wanted to like this book, wanted to believe my friends who gave it 5 stars. Look, if you enjoyed Shadows in Death, fine. But though this book might make millions, its fan base is of a select few. What I'm trying to say is that this will not survive the test of time. Kudos to you fans. As for me, I have to start from square one.

welcome to: “did this book really need to exist?” part 4343225. alternatively titled: a bland man does the bare minimum and people eat it up like he’s an austen character. i swore i’d never read another coho book, but it ends with us was the only one i could somewhat stomach so i decided to read it starts with us to see how it was. yikes. this review will be in bullet points. minor spoilers will be included, but read it anyway as a warning not to read this book. edit: for those of you in my comments going “if you don’t have anything nice to say don’t say it at all!”: we’re allowed to critically consume literature? i’m allowed to write a glowing review of one book and a critical review of another. that’s why this is a book reviewing site. like if you can’t handle seeing a one star review or acknowledging that people have different opinions, then don’t read one star reviews! there are thousands of five star ones you can read. go read those instead literally nobody is making you read this lmao. • i don’t get why this book had to exist. it just feels like she is monetizing off the weird success it ends with us got on booktok, and it definitely reads like a cash grab as well. • if it ends with us was about lily, why did colleen hoover work so hard to try and make atlas into a sexy hero? the only thing i could give it ends with us merit for was the message of breaking the cycle (even that is up for debate). this did not need a sequel at all. • atlas talking and defending himself about the age he and lily had sex was really breaking the fourth wall. coho definitely was trying to un-fuck up her mistake by making this a sympathy point. • lily and atlas didn’t really have a foundation of their relationship (which is ironic because atlas talks about ryle and lily’s relationship this way as well) other than the fact that they both had a bad childhood. lily puts atlas on this pedestal because he was there for her at her most vulnerable. • my theory still stands: colleen hoover, ironically, cannot write a good romance. i believe every single one of her books has these terrible, wild plot twists to cover up the fact that she cannot. lily and atlas had zero chemistry apart from them talking about how miserable they were when they first met and how they were each other’s saving grace. • also. i did not buy this book, i borrowed it from a friend, so i don’t have a ground to say this but: she included so many flashbacks and used pages of writing from it ends with us? lower the price girl. • a sequel, which is an outright romance, being written to a book (marketed as a romance which is so gross) about domestic abuse really throws me off. • (the letters were basically coho saying “see they are in love! they’re not bland! they do have other things in common other than their trauma!) which is false. • speaking of plot points manufactured to make lily and atlas seem like they had more in common: the brother thing came out of fucking nowhere. • lily doesn’t have a decent support system. i know she says that she does, but having your abusive ex husband’s sister as your best friend (and literally only her, as lily mentions in the book), is just not? like yes it’s better than nothing but i really hated the way allysa acted in a bunch of scenes. like is she supposed to be a likable character? • WHY IS LILY STILL WRITING TO ELLEN??? AT YOUR BIG AGE? • also. every time tiktok is mentioned in a book, an angel loses its wings. you're telling me lily knows about tiktok and gen z but she doesn't know that ellen is a horrible person? ok • atlas is literally so bland. like i get it. he’s nice. he makes sure to say that he’d never hit a woman every five sentences. good fucking job atlas. you’ve reached the bare minimum. • atlas writing lily letters and saying “i love you” in a thousand different ways to offset ryle’s character…balance doesn’t work like that. • speaking of: stop writing her letters for the love of god i literally don’t know if my heart is cold and dead but we get it atlas, you love her and can’t live without her and she saved you. you don’t have to say it a hundred times!! what a waste of paper!!! give us some new content king! • naming her daughter emerson dory kincaid is literally the worst thing lily blossom bloom has done. in conclusion, sometimes you try things and they don’t work out colleen! for me it is ice skating, for you it is writing. and that’s ok! —————————————————— instagram: ellereadsomebooks

1.5 In short, ‘It Starts With Us’ is nothing but an extended epilogue that could’ve been a bonus chapter. Everything about this book annoyed me; from lack of plot and bland characters, to commentary devoid of nuance and whole sections of the first book copied and pasted into the text. Something smells like a cash grab… I’ll admit; the discussion around abuse in this book wasn’t AS bad as in ‘It Ends With Us’, but it still felt pretty one dimensional and pissed me off at times. I can’t for the life of me understand why this series is hailed as one about ending the cycle of abuse, since the cycle of abuse in the books doesn’t even end! SPOILERS I understand that it would be very hard for Lily to win over Ryle in court, and the ending was probably more realistic with him still being involved; but if that’s the case, it doesn’t “end” with you and your daughter! If Ryle doesn’t have Lily in his life to abuse, guess who his next victim is going to be? Not to mention the fact that Lily’s closest friends are Ryle’s sister and his best friend; it is close to impossible to heal from abuse when you are still in such close proximity to your abuser. The way Allysa and Marshall talk about Ryle as if he’s a little kid who just gets mean sometimes, instead of the violent wife beater and attempted rapist that he is, is so strange…. Maybe I’m the weird one, but if someone I “love like a brother” were to push their partner down the stairs and bite them so hard they bled, I simply wouldn’t love them like a brother anymore! Allysa in particular was extremely annoying in this book. “Why would Ryle hate Atlas if you didn’t cheat on him 🥺🥺” idk girl maybe it’s because he’s abusive, which you have known for years now! The whole “me cheating on my husband doesn’t count because I was 19 ✨” thing was also??????????? Idk man. Everyone in every Colleen Hoover book sends off massive alarm bells in my brain. “Problematic” aspects aside; ‘It Starts With Us’ was just plain bad a lot of the time. I feel bad for anyone who was looking forward to seeing Atlas’ perspective since he has about as much depth as a paper plate. We get it; Lily saved his life and he loves her! Fascinating. Now stop talking about it every 30 seconds and grow an actual personality, for the love of God! Pages of love letters and wedding vows don’t make up for an absence of depth, and certainly not lack of banter and attraction between characters. I don’t know if CoHo needs to go back to school or something, but there’s a biiiiiig difference between history and chemistry, and our main characters are missing the latter. News flash! Trauma bonding doesn’t mean you’re soulmates!! These people need therapy, not each other. I honestly think the story would’ve been more powerful had Atlas and Lily just been friends. Love cannot cure the trauma of an abusive relationship, no matter how strong it is. Rapid fire nitpicks from yours truly include; Ellen Degeneres, confusing time jumps, this being categorized as romance, the fact that only Atlas’ wedding vows were shown, and Emerson Dory being named Emerson Dory! Do yourself a good old favor and don’t waste your time and money on this ❤️

Read this book out of curiosity but I think I really should have just stayed curious .

i’ll be requesting a fat check from coho for making me waste my time reading this unnecessary book

lily's "relationship" with ellen degenerate was more interesting than her relationship with atlas truly, what was the purpose of this novel? there was no development in the romance since atlas and lily were already in love in book 1. the only interesting scenes were the ones with ryle, but they were more "i want to bash my head into a wall" than anything else what i couldn't wrap my head around is the whole 'asshole' & 'ass whole' thing...i don't get why atlas kept complaining about his mom and redacted saying it as 2 words when it's impossible to say 'ass' and 'hole' separately. like try it... IT'S THE SAME THING! I DON'T GET IT. coho was trying to reach word count by mentioning it so many times 🤩 can't wait to read all the reviews by booktokers trying to convince themselves that this book was good 🫶🏻

fuck this book

Why making a book about Atlas when the main purpose it’s non-violence towards women???? Why when you mention “It ends with us” the first thing they say it’s “omg I love Atlas 😍”??? This is extremely unnecessary and it’s taking away the spotlight from my girl Lyly and how brave she is :(

read this out of curiosity. should’ve just stayed curious

colleen once said she wouldn’t write another book following it ends with us and it should’ve stayed like that

i see a lot of you praising alyssa and marshall for being lily’s support group but idk about yall if my brother or best friend was an abuser, they’d be dead to me.

"it is my wish for you to be my fish" 🤡

im never reading this shit but if i see this book cover one more time on my social media im personally murdering colleen hoover

I have not read this, I just hate Colleen Hoover.

1.5; the 0.5 is only for the little boy that was atlas's therapist (yes, a grown man's therapist 💀) and atlas's (view spoiler) rtc cause i really want to rant this time.

Me reading this doesn't mean I'm going back on never reading Coho book, it just I wanted to see what she does with Atlas and Lily. And to no one surprise it's same CoHo trash. Reading Coho is like watching generic Lifetime movie, that women doesn't know how to write romance. In acknowledgments Colleen says this book was made for booktok and that is true because this is garbage.

“it is my wish for you to be my fish” i am going to vomit this is DEFINITELY my last coho book ever goodbye thank you very much for nothing

What a slog… First time EVER I disliked a Sanford book. Even all the dead bodies were as boring as the computer stuff. What a shame.

Liberal Author Instead of putting down Trump in this rag of a book who did all the right things for the country maybe you could point out that we have a president that is ruining the country. Just the border mess alone should be enough for you and then there is the male female issue. They/he don,t even know what a woman is. What about the big guys cut of Chinas payoff to the Biden family. This will be my last Sanford book that I read.

DNF just couldn’t do it. Think I’m too dumb to understand the plot.

What’s less than one dimensional? These characters. An aspiring singer with a dark past. A retired superstar with a dark past. And a rugged session musician with … wait for it … a dark past. Each character spends the entire book refusing to divulge their secret until they do. And the secret, once revealed, changes… nothing. It's like reporting what they had for lunch. "I didn't want to tell you what I had for lunch, but here it is! I had tuna!" Shrug. Okay. In one instance we discover a character was once charged with murder and the crime was never solved and … the whole thing is never mentioned again. It's like "I didn't want to tell you what I had for lunch, but here it is! I killed a man!" Shrug. Okay? Also, Dolly wrote an album to go with the book and to make sure we understand how important songs are, the book quotes from them. Repeatedly. Every time one character feels down, she remembers her song lyric: "Dark night, bright future It's darkest just before the light" I LOVE THE IDEA that music inspires and uplifts us. And the ONE part of the book that worked for me (hence the one star) was the little bit behind the scenes of Nashville, writing music. But "it's darkest just before the light" is, um, not a particularly ORIGINAL concept, and this same device WITH THE SAME LYRICS is used throughout the book, which circles me back around to the "one dimensional character" statement with which I opened this review. I don't generally like to leave low-star reviews because writers work hard and sharing your work is vulnerable. But James Patterson KNOWS BETTER and this is just an UGLY CASH GRAB. As for Dolly, I sort of suspect that her main contribution was the idea and the album. And even if she is more culpable than that, the woman has given us so many gifts (including vaccines!), I will forgive her the willingness to put her name on such silliness. But how do I forgive myself for falling for it?!

I really wanted to like this book because of the cool Dolly Parton collab, but this was bad. In my defense, I don't read James Patterson, so I really didn't know this was going to be so bad. But James Patterson is a prolific writer, having published over 200 novels, and makes up about 6% of all hardcover book sales in the US (read stat online). So, he appeals to the masses and the writing was really hokey and uninspired. It was worse than that. It was God awful. And life is really too short to be reading bad books. So now I know and I'll never make a James Patterson mistake again. I still love Dolly, though.

I absolutely love Dolly Parton. She is by far my favorite entertainer, but this book is bad, really bad. Predictable, cliche, and boring. The only thing that saved the experience from being a total loss was the audio version with Dolly narrating one character. If you want the best of Dolly, read her nonfiction. Much more interesting!

Nope. A Cinderella story meets Safe Haven meets all the cheese gone terribly wrong. The main character was unlikeable and not written well from a psychology perspective to match the trauma in her backstory. This might be my biggest beef. Since mental health is my entire career, I view people attempting to write trauma as VERY responsible to get it right. This was all wrong. In fact, so many of her choices were ridiculously incongruent, I couldn't believe in her character at all. It was a caricature. The male protagonist was stale and boring. Also a caricature. The story was flat. Things came too easy to the Cinderella story plot. Everything was handed to this girl. And the lyrics...the repetitive lyrics smattered throughout the book made. Me. Cringe. Not great. That is probably my own issue though. I'm not a fan of country. I think Dolly Parton wrote this as one part reminiscence to the start of her own career, one part painting a picture of where she is currently, and one part ode to country music. I'd rate this a PG-13 for violence and suspence, swearing, and alcohol/smoking. Original review posted 4/30/23.

For a long time, Harlan Coben has been riding the success of his early novels. In fact, I stopped reading his work that had become lazy and indifferent. But I gave his new novel, Think Twice, a try. What I read was another disappointment. Sloppy writing, cliched dialogue, contrived plot, and cultural references that had no purpose. Learned my lesson and won’t return to another novel by this has been.

I've always rather liked the Jack Reacher novels. The concept of the Lone Knight, riding into town (on a Greyhound bus or a hitched ride), defending the innocent and riding off into the sunset again, appeals to me. The fact that Jack Reacher is a bit of a Luddite and lives largely off the grid, adds to the escapist fantasy. Finally, I admire the way the author manages to make everything that Jack Reacher does, whether it's throwing a punch, staking out a building where villains are holed up, or selecting a seat in a bar, sound like the result of careful reasoning, sometimes leavened by well-honed survival instincts. Well, no longer. This collaboration between Lee Child and his brother is not a success. Jack Reacher has become a cardboard cutout, a big man who mechanically walks from fight scene to fight scene. The secondary characters, including the innocent he's protecting, have no personality, no depth to them. The law enforcement characters in the novel, an FBI agent and two local cops, waltz in and out of the story to provide the information to drive the story forward, but without leaving any impression on the reader. (Like a butler appearing briefly on stage, bearing the telegram that propels the next act in the play). The plot is a contrived mess of stolen data, neo-Nazis, Russians and local louts, and multiple teams of villains trying to get hold of the innocent data manager. Various details strain one's credulity. A bouquet of Edelweiss, that fragile alpine flower, in the middle of Tennessee? really? And we are supposed to believe that Jack Reacher knows the birthdays of half a dozen political figures of the first half of the 20th century by heart? Even the fight scenes are boring, mainly because it seems that the other guys (or gals) just stand there while Jack Reacher disarms, maims or kills them. There are plenty of scenes where Reacher grabs a gun, or a handy nearby tool, or even grabs hold of someone, and it seems this happens while everyone else is frozen. Not until the final scenes do any of these people seem to fight back. I think this series has officially turned the corner from "entertainment with flair" to "assembly-line hack work". Too bad. It was nice knowing you, Reacher.

I’d been a fan of Jack Reacher for a long time, having read and enjoyed Lee Child’s books for years. But then the very average Night School (#21) was followed, a few episodes later, by the truly terrible Blue Moon (#24). I left him alone after that. That is until I spotted a cheap Audible deal on this one. Perhaps I was being too harsh, every author is due a misstep or two aren’t they? And this book is the first joint undertaking with Lee’s younger brother, Andrew. Perhaps it’ll herald a return to form. Unfortunately not. This tale is dull from the start. Reacher does his normal thing: turning up in a small town, helping out a man who’s in a spot of trouble, getting into an argument with local law enforcement and then sticking around to try to fix a problem he doesn’t yet understand. Conversations are completed in short, awkward sentences and sometimes ‘Reacher said nothing’. Yes, it’s the same old same old. But less interesting than before. I gave up quite early on and I’m annoyed I wasted a couple of quid on this one. I won’t be going back.

Oh God this is awful! I am a dyed-in-the-wool Reacher fan, but this weird ‘handover’ to Child’s ‘brother’ is producing rubbish - wordy, waffly babble that loses the entire point of the Reacher novels. Sharp, whittled-down prose and plot with a motivation that is always driven by a heartbeat’s commitment to a random, un-planned course of action - that’s what Reacher is. If Lee Child is retiring, then I beg him to go with a bang, not a whimper: if his ‘brother’ has him locked in a closet somewhere and is stealing plots in exchange for food and water, then let’s send Jack a message (written in military code on the back on a menu in a diner in who-knows-where) and get Lee rescued?

Lee Child finally kills Reacher! A few years ago Lee Child was asked if he would ever consider killing off Reacher. Child replied that at some point Reacher would find something "Worth Dying For" ... and when the title of his next book was announced as Worth Dying For, a lot of fans panicked. Well, he's finally done it. Apparently that something "Worth Dying For" was the Amazon Reacher series, which led Child to hand his brother the reins to one of the best ongoing series in fiction. I don't know how much input Lee Child gave to the storyline, dialogue, etc., but his absence in front of the keyboard left Reacher unrecognizable -- and his character may as well be dead. The taut, powerful dialogue that was a Child trademark is gone. Reacher speaks in long, rambling sentences that kill any plot momentum the younger Child manages to build. It's painful, speaking as someone whose read all of the previous books multiple times. The story is the classic Reacher formula -- only clumsy, poorly executed, and no imagination. I'll go back and read the previous books time and again, but it's doubtful I'll read the next one.

Sadly, I believe this is the end of Jack Reacher as we knew him! Having read all the previous Jack reacher novels, many several times, and always with a thrill of enjoyment, this cannot be considered in the same league as any of the previous books (even #24, which was decidedly average and perhaps a sign of things to come, was far better than this). Jack Reacher is supposed to be a reluctant hero. A quiet, intelligent man that only uses force when necessary, and for the right reasons. If he is pushed to use all of his skills, he will destroy you, but that is generally reserved for only the 'most evil' of characters. In this book, Reacher is not Reacher at all. Arrogant, talkative, careless - he has somehow become incredibly slapdash in his approach, and he is not at all likeable in this book. The biggest issue I have is that many of the things he does in this book reek of ineptitude - his 'skills' have completely diminished and he is no longer razor sharp, tactical, wise. I really struggled to finish it, and was incredibly glad when I had. A strange omission was the lack of any description/background/context to his military history, which is generally helpful for new readers (who haven't read other titles) and always anchors you (the reader) to Reacher in a simple but profound way. This is where he comes from, this is his background, these are some of the things he's done. There is none of this context included and it made the book feel a little hollow. The overall the quality is much lower than in any of the other books (bar #24 which showed that Lee might be losing his magic a little). The fluid and simple writing of older books has been completely lost - most of this book is written in staccato (there are lots of very, very short sentences) and the geographical/location descriptions are far less specific than before. In summary, by far the worst Reacher written to date! If you are a new fan, start at the beginning with Book 1, and stop when you get to book 23/24 :)

Should be called dead on arrival, or the kiss of death. I knew that it was not written by Lee Child, but his brother under the pen name Andrew Child. The retirement of Lee Child as the Jack Reacher author effectively ends this incredible run of best sellers. Any book, or series that is taken over by another author has never worked. This is their way of keeping the gravy train running. If you are new to Lee Child then this book was probably passable for you and you won't know any better going forward. For us customers who have been here from the beginning, Its over.

Save yourself. This book was not worth the wait. I confess the previous books were guilty pleasures, but this one is excruciatingly dull. Christian likes turkey sandwiches for lunch. Sometimes he likes his coffee black, sometimes he likes espresso. When Mrs Jones suggests dinner will be ready in 20 minutes, he suggests half an hour. There is no discernible plot. There is nothing romantic. His job is boring and he seems to have fewer ideas than an average middle manager. He's obsessed with Ana, and he's also the most boring person alive. We don't need to spend any more time inside his head. This bloated book needed a good editor with a big red pen

I was wrong! I'm not too proud to admit it! I started this book thinking it would be incredibly demeaning and insulting towards all women, cringe to the absolute highest degree, and so poorly written that it'd be actually challenging to get through. Now don't get me wrong, it was definitely all of those things, but I was wrong when I didn't predict that it was disgusting in it's attitude towards people who struggle with addiction, survivors of sexual and physical assault, how it's unrealistic, poorly researched, and how it somehow made me a worse person by association. I really want to be mean about this. The stance taken by Ms James in this book regarding the way relationships function is concerning and appalling. Is this news? Did I think the first FIVE books in this series (not to mention The Mister which has the honourable spot as the worst book ever written ever of all time so help me) were pinnacles of literature, lovingly portraying the beauty and torture of forging a connection with another soul? No. But this...good lord. There was no point in the book where a single character communicated properly, had a sane thought, a normal conversation, or a bearable action. Literally every bit of worldbuilding, plot, character "development" (and I do use that word grudgingly), setting, prose, etc etc is stinky steaming sloppy putrid garbage. The book is long. Like...long long. And nothing happens!!!!! A third of the way through and it's just caught up to where 50 Shades Freed begins!!! WHY DO I NEED TO KNOW ABOUT BUSINESS MEETINGS?? As a rule I'm against books being banned and/or destroyed but like. Come on. Why was this written. The pacing was glacial. The prose is actually nauseating at points, with random thoughts italicized, repetition that was actually driving me to distraction, the same weird choices in words used again (My effervescent mood? I feel ten feet tall? Please???? Shut???????? Up???). This made sure that Christian could be the most horrifying character of all time, and it didn't even lean into it. I'm a normal and sane human being, I like an anti-hero, I like a morally-grey-slash-black character! I like sick and twisted psychopaths with hidden hearts of gold!!! But this book was just hundreds of pages of excruciating details regarding a run of the mill asshole with no growth, no comeuppance, and no point. Perhaps that's what got my goat the most, the fact that I just spent two weeks fighting for my LIFE reading this absolute dungheap of a "book" and now that I'm done, it's clear there is no message, no meaning, no lasting impact, no moral, no memorable moments. I am so lucky to have time on Earth, and I am blessed to be able to read for a hobby, and I spent precious moments of my short and sacred life killing off braincells and giving myself an incurable simmering rage reading this. The only thing I'm glad of is that I stole this book from the internet. You won't catch me dead supporting E.L James. Someone take her literacy away, I'm serious. This book is a crime against woman, man, and humankind. AND ANOTHER THING, YES I'm a rabid and unabashed Twilight fanatic, the disrespect........Stephenie Meyer sweetie I'm so sorry, I wish I could help. I wish I could help. I wish I could save the world from this. For me in the future: Please. Please forget this. Don't let any of this filth taint your brain baby, walk away. Be free of this. Someday...I hope you can once more sleep peacefully.

I have no one but myself to blame for reading this book.

My God! This was the longest book ever written. I don't even know how to review it. It is so, so very bad. Some people should never learn to write. I was so angry as I was reading this I actually made notes on my Kindle. Granted, the notes mostly consist of shut ups but my God how does this man appeal to anyone? First of all, Ana is constantly asking him not to get mad. W T F. He gets pissed off that she won't vow to obey him. Again, best husband ever. He won't even let her pee on her own in the H O S P I T A L. He calls Kate a control freak. The Audacity. Christian Gray is the poster child for an AITA subreddit. He's the reason the facebook "group where we just tell you to dump him" exists. MY GOD. I DON'T BELIEVE I PAID FOR THIS. WHY DID I READ ALL THREE OF THESE? WHY? This last one was not even worth hate-reading. Oh, and let me just share the most disgusting passage in the book (which describes an act that is performed twice btw): Ana obliges and I take a swig of cool, crisp wine and kiss her, pouring the wine into her mouth.. Later on in the book Ana does the same with water. EWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW Also what is it with the constant repetitions of words and phrases? yar, liaise... SHUT UP i JUST CAN'T EVEN... And I've barely skimmed the surface. RANT OVER I'm now off to watch Amanda the Jedi's review which is basically the only reason I even finished this book.

I don’t believe that I’m just saying that, but it actually got better (it went from „I’m feeling nauseous because of this“ to „ok, my eyes don’t hurt from reading this“) Anyway, I’m very, very happy I’m done with this series. I will go now and mourn the brain cells I’ve lost.

Ugh. What a waste of time. Zachary Webber’s narration was amazing, but even he couldn’t save this. I’ve never listened to a book at 2.5x just to get through it before… with this one, I did. Oye!

A book club read. Not a choice read. What is particularly sad for me is that despite not being bothered about any of the Fifty Shades books I’ve somehow been roped into reading all 6 through book clubs/so-called friends etc. I can say in all honesty that I loathe them all equally. The cringe factor is rife throughout and I cannot fathom the appeal at all. The only positive is that they should now be over and done with and I read it free online as the library don’t have a copy and no one had a copy to loan.

Chile I called myself tryna read this for some laughs but I was just bored. How it's 10 years n ur writing style hasn't improved by even the slightest margin ... if anything it got WORSE.

So much to say about this book, yet I don't want to spend my brain cells on it, not any more than I already have. Number one, this book was LONG. Like, incredibly long. I did NOT need to know each and every scene here. Mainly because, all these scenes I had read in Ana's POV, had already developed their characters for me. Reading it again in Christan's POV did not form any new character development. There was no extra information released (not any that was useful to me anyways) and I found myself skipping - first some lines, then after a couple of chapters some paragraphs, and then at one point of time entire pages of content to escape the boredom that was this book. What does it say about the book if the only time I was into it was when it hit the climax of the story @75%? That's when Hyde was blackmailing Ana for cash and Mia's life. And even that was meh. The scenes I wanted to see from Christian's POV weren't there. For example, Ted's birth. Another problem I had - Christian did not sound like Christian when he was talking to Elliot. "Dude", "Bro" - don't even get me started on the Bro - "It's a rare event, bro" "Good night, bro" "It's late, bro" There was WAY too much bro/dude here... and he used this language with no one other than Elliot. Whenever he did this, he sounded like a different person, written by a different author with a different outl0ok here. Or maybe that's just me. Needless to say, I had issues with this book. I don't know why I keep going back to this series. I've banged my head enough. "Curiosity killed the cat." Touché, Mr. Grey. Touché.

Stacie, Stacie, what have you done? I love you, love all the work you do to make my country better, and to make my country honest. But this book is a dump. Abrams has written many romance novels under a pseudonym, and she has proven she can write. However, she needed to hire a professional editor for this novel. It is long, it drags, it has extraneous information, it has too many people of which to keep track, and too many law enforcement people of which to keep track. The average person does not know the difference between the FBI, the CIA and the President's personal staff. The idea was good - have legal aide to a Supreme Court Justice step in to have his power of attorney while he is unconscious. But the whole story was just convoluted. I was bored, often considered dropping the book but I love her so much, I kept going. It was not worth it - and we had to tag on a little romance at the end. Also, there is a lot of chess knowledge here - I don't know a John Doe move from an Albert White move; neither do I know the famous games in the past so I just skipped over the pages and pages of chess stuff. It did not matter except for finding clues, of which there were too many. I will only read another Abrams novel if I know there has been a real editor. This book is a mess and not worth the time I spent with it. Love you, Stacey and I will keep sending you money when you ask. peace, janz

While justice sleeps, Stacey Abrams smothers it with a pillow.

While justice sleeps we keep counting suitcases.

DNF. I was expecting a legal thriller, this is Big Pharma mixed with political intrigue. After 100 pages I didn’t care what happened, so I relegated this to the library return bag!! I still admire Stacey, just not her subject matter or writing style. Stick to politics and leave the courts to John Grisham!

This just wasn’t the book for me. I feel like Ms. Abrams used vocabulary that isn’t typical of the average reader. While I knew the meaning of the words, I felt like I had to think about individual words and that lessened my ability to engage with the plot. At the end of the Kindle free sample, I deleted the book. I am disappointed because the premise is interesting and this is my preferred genre.

Grisham's latest offering was a huge disappointment. Even though so much of the story was unrealistic, the biggest problem was that the author wasn't true to the main character.

** spoiler alert ** Waste of time I have read every one of Grisham's books and enjoyed them all but sorry to say that this book is not worth the paper it is written on. The writing is stilted and the characters cartoonish. With the death of Sooley I hung it up. A huge waste of time.

I thought wading through the interminable basketball game play-by-plays would be worth it for the story. I was wrong. Without revealing the story, I'll just say the ending sucked.

Very disappointing! I don’t need a feel good happy ending but this ending was so bad I couldn’t finish the book. I enjoyed the first 85% of the book even with glaring flaws about the basketball games. The book could have had a different ending. I cannot recommend this book.

What was Grisham thinking? I’m bummed. I always look forward to a new John Grisham novel. I can’t believe he wrote this drivel. Sooley, the eponymous main character is as flat as a paper doll. No character development. But if your thing is endless play by play basketball drivel, you’ll be pleased with the hundred pages of it to which you’ll be subjected. Don’t waste your time or money.

The book is a fiction about a kid from South Sudan who goes on a basketball journey in the United States while at home, his family faces crisis from the violence in South Sudan. Now, if you want to read a book about an athlete from South Sudan, literally just read the memoir by Lopez Lamong, which I have previously reviewed. That one has details and is moving and is real. The present book has no heart because the main character never thinks. Also the book uses the South Sudan story as the hook, then basically leaves that story in the dust. Also does John Grisham have any business writing such a story??? Major loss of stars there. What star it does have comes from the ability to entertain me for a few days and keep the pages turning, probably because the reading level is low enough for me and it moves fast. However, the fast moving basketball story was just completely unrealistic. Whole first third of the book talking about how the guy can’t shoot to save his life, next thing we know he’s Steph Curry. (Do you all understand that reference?) Little too over the top I’d say. Serious stars are lost because of the blatant sexism in this book. Ughhhh. The way females (other than moms) are referred to throughout sucksss to read. And then the book ends with some party girl giving the basketball guy, who just got drafted into the NBA, drugs that kill him. That storyline of an NBA pick immediately ODing is also stolen from an actual real story from the 80s. You can just watch that documentary online. Morale of the story is there are better ways to learn about the issues used in this book. Also never take random pills at parties.

I’m a Huge Grisham fan. This is more of a teenage novel with that level of engagement and depth. Have read every Grisham book. Easily my least favorite. A few interesting facts about immigration and sports recruiting but nothing you can’t find in a Wikipedia search.

I’d never read any James Patterson before, so I gave this one a try. Not my thing, and I’m actually pretty sure at least some of it was written by AI; there are just some deeply strange sentences and phrases that an actual human probably would never say (at a pivotal moment, the serial killer yells the phrase, “My gun is mad!” Uh, what?) Flat characters, too many minor pointless characters I couldn’t tell apart, weird switches between 3rd person and 1st person narrative (she vs. I from chapter to chapter; very jarring), a deeply predictable plot. Multi page pointless filler such as the three page description of how Mastiff the Drone Dog works. The world’s most dull serial killer (sorry Blackout, but you are terrible). I love a good trashy book, but this was so boring. Also, the whole “Women’s Murder Club” thing was never actually explained and it’s unclear even why the book is called “the 23rd Midnight.”

“‘Impressive’ I said, impressed.” James… you can do better than that sweetie

Crime never stops, cases need cracking. I fully understand why old peeps keep returning these after purchase & being like “ooops i already read this one.” (copy paste, copy paste)

An appalling book. It had me rooting for the bad guys. Hoping Cindy would become one of the killer’s victims. Hoping Yuki would lose her court case. Patterson was good in the early days of Alex Cross. but that’s me done with him.

This shouldn’t be labeled a cross book. It’s about ohm Sanford with a guest appearance of Alex and his family. It was rough to read. I like psychological thrillers. Bring back the old Cross style books. This was a miss for me.

Not the first person writing 😖 “I get in my big black Jeep Grand Cherokee”. James Patterson trying to hit a word count or smt man just say “my car” and you don’t need to name every single gun none of them mean anything to me. This is not my type of book at all and I only read it bc it was between this and motivational books.

I would have given it a 0 but that wasn't an option. This was not a true Alex Cross book. James Patterson has never had a co-author for the Alex Cross series. Why he chose to add a co-author to this series is anybody's guess. I knew from the 1st chapter that it was not James Patterson's writing and I should have stopped reading then, but foolishly continued. What a disappointment!!!! To me this was just an excuse to write about violence. Without the horrific violence, there would not have been a plot. Alex seemed to be just a side character in the book. John Sampson was not the John Sampson we have come to know and love. They didn't even follow through on some of the ideas. Such as, the one character going to extremes to find out who was doing the voice recordings from his boss and found out it was a woman. Then it was never revealed who the woman was. The co-author of this book was Brendan DuBois who also co-authored Countdown and that book was the same, nothing but horrific violence and very short on plot. I will NEVER read another book if this guy is the co-author or God forbid, the author. The Michael Bennett series was always a series that was written solely by James Patterson. Let's hope he hasn't taken the same liberties with this series. If James Patterson is tired of writing then maybe it's time to retire from writing. STOP FOOLING YOUR LOYAL READERS INTO READING SOMETHING LEGITIMATE WHEN IT'S NOT. It's the best way I know to lose your loyal readers altogether.

Huge disappointment but it was inevitable that this great series would eventually go the way other Patterson series have gone….way south and no longer readable. If I’m correct, this is the first time Patterson has used a co-author on this series and, IMO, a huge mistake. I feel very deceived as this was not an Alex Cross novel. Alex was barely featured and also missing was his family and their involvement in past storylines. Did not find the many new characters likeable and the more I read the more this became unbelievable and ridiculous. So is this, for me, farewell to Alex Cross? It was a great series while it lasted; hoping that maybe, just maybe the next installment (Cross Out in 2024) will be minus a coauthor and we will see the old Alex back. If you haven’t read this but plan on doing so I highly recommend you check your local library; not worth the money to purchase.

I have been reading Nora Roberts for close to 40 years. But, I have reached my limit. This book was ridiculous. I skipped a lot of chapters and it was still the same stuff. As one reviewer said, the book feels like 1 book spread out over 3. So, the author has to do something until she can get to the conclusion. Basically you have someone's diary of what they did today: Get up in the morning, let the cat and dog out, fix breakfast, let the cat and dog in, eat, go to work (Sonya and Trey), say good morning to Cleo, let cat and dog out, fix lunch, let cat and dog in, Cleo says litter box is still clean, eat lunch, go back to work, guys come over, go to bed, wake up at 3:00 AM for nightly witch show, go back to bed. The next day it starts all over again. This goes on and on. Clover plays her music throughout all of this. There is a visit to Collin's supposed mother, a haircut for Sonya, painting a mural for Trey's sister, etc. etc. Sonya makes a presentation. The four pull up chairs and tables for the banquet. Then there is the planning of food and flowers for the banquet. All of the family arrives. There is the banquet. This gibberish just keeps going. It seems all they get from Hester Dobbs is noise. There is nothing to her tantrums. I hate the two nicknames for Sonya. Cleo calls her Son and Trey calls her Cutie. At first I was trying to figure out whose son was being talked about. The first book was a year ago. As I am retired, I have read close to 200 books since then. I had forgotten just about everything. I have no idea who Molly is. I am not going to go back to the first book to figure out who she is. Also, where is the romance? There is no chemistry between Trey and Sonya and Cleo and Owen. When I started this book I was surprised that Trey and Sonya were sleeping together. I can't believe I spent money on this garbage. As I said it is like reading someone's daily diary. I will read the 3rd book just to see what happens. But, I will not buy it. I will check the eBook out of the library. I know I will have to wait longer, but who cares. There is nothing to the books. I like the author's old series. Each book had different main characters and had a proper ending. There was romance and mystery in each book. The books were tied together by one big mystery. They also were published about every 6 months. Now, you have one set of main characters and a minor set. They do not have their own book. There is very little romance and the mystery is dull. The books are published every year. I say stop with the series. Even the Eve Dallas books have run their course. I am tired of know it all Eve. The author needs to just write stand alone books. They are more interesting.

Thanks to Nora Roberts, St. Martin's Press, Macmillan Audio, and NetGalley for allowing me free access to ARCs in exchange for an honest review. True Title: In Which Meals Are Had DNF 45% I'm not reading Nora Roberts anymore. I know I've bitched about her in the past, but for real this time, I'm done. The first half of this book was just a series of meals with the occasional lame haunt thrown in. The premise is intriguing, but the execution is just a ramble of unnecessary and inconsequential details. Who gives a flying rat's ass what color and material the tables and chairs are at the party they're planning? Who cares what the menu is for every goddamn meal they eat? Who cares about work projects that present no conflict and have nothing to do with the plot? The fluff is suffocating. What's that? The MC's love interest is falling in love with her? News to me, because we're not seeing it on the page. I feel no chemistry between Sonya and Trey, and none between Chloe and Owen. The haunts aren't scary, there's no tension, the stakes feel like a shrug, none of the characters are remotely interesting. Sweet jesus, Roberts's writing is in the shitter. They really will pay her to write to-do lists---because people keep reading them! It's so frustrating! It's a fricken scam! You're paying for a name and reputation, not a quality product. Either Roberts has no editor or her editor has no spine. Or skill. I'm so glad I stopped paying for Roberts's books years ago. I'm done. Done, done, done. I feel like ordering an arrangement of white lilies, because I'm grieving this loss.

This is awful. Witch makes noise. They freak out. Drink wine. Eat. Rehash what happened. Tell the witch to fuck off Drink more wine. Everything that happens is rehashed in a following scene. Everything. It’s so freaking repetitive. It’s Groundhog Day with a LOT of wine. Repeated. Repeated. Thirty or more times. Hated it.

I've been a huge Nora Roberts fan for years and actually really liked the first book in this series. This one, not so much. I gave up halfway through because nothing happens. It's literally page after page reading about these people cooking meals together and letting the dogs/cat out to go to the bathroom. That's all. I can't even bring myself to continue/finish it. This one just wasn't for me!

Oof, well, I think I'm done with this series and with this author, which makes me so sad. I credit Nora Roberts with kindling my love of reading and will always think of her with fondness, but in more recent years, her books have left me so underwhelmed and disappointed. This book is no exception. After reading Inheritance, which had me intrigued by the storyline but annoyed with the choppy dialogue and weird pacing, I was interested enough to request the ARC for this one, which is the second in her latest trilogy. The pacing wasn't weird this time, just slow. Achingly, boringly slow. The choppy dialogue remained and continued to annoy me. The perfection emulated in the relationships between Sonya and Cleo, Sonya and Trey, and Cleo and Owen felt too perfect and trite, and again, boring. There isn't even any spice to make it interesting. One scene maybe and everything else is just alluding to spice. There was no conflict there and since the plot didn't move forward much, this had me so close to DNFing this book because what's the point? Sonya and Trey could at least have had words over his use of the nickname "cutie." To quote my teenager: cringe. Speaking of the plot, it was completely redundant in- and outside of itself. If you read the first book, you've read this one too. If your mind drifted through something while reading this one, don't worry, they repeat it in a page or two. We did at least get to meet Cleo's grandmother in this book, though even that was underwhelming. The most emotional I got with this book was when Sonya's mom talked to Clover. So, this book was definitely not for me and I won't be reading the third, not even to see how it all ends. ------------- I hope you enjoyed this review! This review and many more appear on my blog, Hooks, Books, & Wanderlust, where you'll find book reviews, lists, crochet tutorials & patterns, as well as camping, hiking and travel adventures. Come hang out with me on Instagram | Facebook | YouTube | Blog | Email

I can’t believe I’m saying that I’m about to DNF a Nora Roberts book that I’ve been dying to get my hands on since finishing the first in the series. I made it five chapters in and was like.. what just happened? It’s boring. Someone else said it focuses too much on mundane activities and I think that’s exactly it. There is no excitement, no mystery, no recap of the first book. You are just dumped into them making dinner and working. Very odd.

This book was sadly very disappointing, especially for an author of Nora Roberts' caliber. I had such high hopes for the story but it fell far short of my expectations, especially since I'd expected it to be so much better than the first but it wasn't. The story dragged on too much on the mundane, everyday activities of the main characters that added very little value. The supernatural elements were so few and sprinkled throughout the story as if like an afterthought rather than the main meat of the matter. Even the romance was understated and left me in disbelief that Nora Roberts wrote this. The story had so little impact and missed the rich and deep, meaningful writing that is Nora Roberts' signature style. For example, the Cousins O'Dwyer Trilogy was so rich and I would have thought this story would be just as rich. It left me feeling very unhappy and I also felt cheated, because this story had so much potential. I might still read the third book, just to see the conclusion but at this point, I am becoming very discouraged in trying out the new Nora Roberts' releases.

I loved the first book in the series and was looking forward to this book. But dang, 152 pages in, and there is SO MUCH talking, and literally nothing is happening. And they all talk so perfectly proper and use a lot of words to not say much. It seems all they do is have dinner together, feed the dogs and cat, and talk about the ghosts, but its all the same information we had in the first book, not much is new. Not sure if I can do 300 more pages of this.

I have read NR books for two decades and I think this is the first one I've ever DNF'd. As sad as I am to say it, I haven't enjoyed NR's last few releases. Her best work was definitely her mid-career work. This trilogy has so many parallels to her Sign of Seven trilogy and while I loved that one so much this one feels like a poor imitation. What's most painful is that literally nothing is happening in this book. This series should have been a duology because there is no plot in book two.

truly hope the cheque from Coca Cola was worth it Nora because that was a hard no from me. 😭

Usually I don't give 1 star reviews as it seems mean and even when it comes down to personal preferences involved that's more of a me issue then the problem with a book. After finishing the book last night I started to check reviews and see if my complaints were valid or if I was experiencing a big dose of disappointment. Its a bit of both. My biggest issue is that practically nothing happens and when something does its a repeat of what happens in the first book. There's very little original content for what happens in this book, the author could have copy and pasted most of the first book and we'd never know the difference. I didn't mind the day to day stuff with the jobs and pet activities as its nice that they didn't just show up on page 1 and get ignored until convenient. If this book wasn't written by this author and its was a debut trilogy I'd probably be a lot more forgiving, but this authors got dozens upon dozens of books published that were great and then over the past decade or so the tone has shifted drastically and the books aren't what they used to be. Right now I have no desire to read book 3 when it gets released and while the first book was able to hook me, mostly at the last possible moment, this one was a giant waste of time that failed to engage. For those liked the book, I'm happy for them but this is probably going to be my last Nora Roberts book.

Dnf @ 43% About as entertaining as watching water boil.

Straight up this book is BORING. There’s no build up, no tension or chemistry between the characters, the steamy scenes are bland. The fuck boy & virgin storyline is so tired 🤮 go away. There’s entire paragraphs I swear are repeated in this book. Did no one edit this? I don’t get how these big books get published like this. The writing is such trash I’m truly astonished the MMC chapters got through in this year 2024 when they’re so icky at times.

Henry was like one of the best side characters in icebreaker and this book was so disappointing. It annoyed me !

eeeeeeverybody needed therapy

Just for the Summer is exactly what I imagine you'd get if you took all the worst parts of early 2010s Tumblr/Wattpad and ran them through a random tiktok buzzwords generator. The book reads like it was written in hopes that it becomes a movie, this is not a compliment. Considering how much hype this book gets, I expected to get something more than 400 pages of pointless dialogue and trauma dumping with no actual plot in sight. Abby Jimenez' style of writing prioritizes dialogue over the prose and plot development and while it's quirky and fun in the beginning, it gets increasingly frustrating and boring the more of the book you read. There's so much plot holes and inconsistencies that you begin to wonder if there's a former book about the two mcs that you should have been aware of before starting Just for the Summer. The author clearly believes that having her characters trauma dump over and over again will substitute for plot and it just doesn't work that way I fear. A vast majority of this book was just about the mcs and their issues, especially Emma and her relationship with her mom. It was exhausting to read, which admittedly might have been the point so kudos to the author, but when that's taking away from the romance in romance book?? maybe change how it's marketed to the public then!! We also did not need almost 10 chapters of Emma and Justin being sick. We should have been done with that in two chapters, three at the most. What's even worse is the conflict stretching out over half the book only for the resolution to be like 12 pages long...like are you kidding me?? It very much felt like a 'here damn' kind of ending and that made me even more mad. Adding onto that the entire book is just one giant ad. The book was released only a couple months ago, it's too much of a coincidence that every single big name brand that were mentioned, in almost every chapter by the way, just so happened to be target names that are on the bds boycott list lol. And while this might not matter to everyone, it does to me. Reading a book pandering to zionists is not my idea of fun 😊. I did not care for any of the characters, especially not Justin and Emma. They were both immature, which is insane cause they're supposed to be almost 30 year olds, and boring and seemed to only complain, complain, complain the whole book. Emma was such an infuriating character to read about. I don't think it's possible for someone THAT self absorbed and self centered to have a job in nursing, is it?? It was all about her since she's apparently the smallest person who ever lived. Justin was bearable for the first 6 or so chapters before he took a sharp turn from quirky nerd into invasive weirdo and just kept on getting worse from then on. Both of them had chemistry equivalent to reading a blank piece of paper, another thing that doesn't make sense since the author was clearly going for the 'love at first sight' shtick. Other than a few long declarations of love that were clearly put there so that booktokers would post about it with the caption "need me a man like him fr", there's nothing of weight in this giant snoozefest of a book. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ pre-read: I'm a bit late to the party but starting my first Abby Jimenez book. fingers crossed that it's good 🤞🏽✨

Absolutely brain numbing boring. Seems to be written for Netflix rather than a great novel. This isn’t my first let down with a Coben book and to be honest I might try one more then that’s it. This was so slow to the point of painful and boring. It has a very weak plot, characters that lack shade or distinctive elements. I really struggled and only finished as I felt committed to a review. They all cannot be five stars right? Did a Ghost Writer do this one? The dialogue between FBI Agents is ridiculous and get ready for word fillers galore! Want to know every burger on the menu? No worries you’ll get them all. Things get regurgitated like he was 5 years in prison, yep we got that the first time. I cannot believe so many reviewers are giving this 5 stars. According to some reviewers he pulls off a disaster now and then so I think this is one of those. Nothing had really happened by 40% even and most of the plot was just unrealistic to an extreme degree. The prison break plan, seriously? This read like a first novel from a tentative new author not a world bestselling novelist so I was shocked. I have another of his books to read and review so hopeful it’s better. This is an honest 1 star from me. Thanks to the publisher and NetGalley, all opinions are my own. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Thanks so much for taking a moment of your time to read my review! I do hope you enjoyed it, if you did I’d be delighted if you leave me a “like” and I love to read your comments, let’s talk books! If you’d like to connect with me you can follow me or please do send me a friend request. I love to see what others are reading and reviewing too! Feel free to browse my shelves for your next great read! You can also find me on Amazon U.K. where I am a Top 500 Reviewer. If you are an Author or Publisher and you’d like me to consider reading and reviewing your book(s) please just message me.

This is by far the worst novel I’ve read by Harlan Coben. My husband and I are convinced that he either has a ghost writer or is phoning it in to hit his one book per year contract obligations. The writing in this book was awful. The dialogue between the FBI agents was laughable and annoying. Soooo much filler language (looking at you, list of 40 different types of burgers listed on a menu and the exact six flavors of donuts David picked up at Dunkin’). Did you know David was in jail for 5 years? Oh, you forgot? Don’t worry he’ll remind every third page. If Coben used the word “proverbial” one more time… Not only was the writing cringe-worthy. The plot was non-existent. Everything went David’s way even when it shouldn’t have but also the FBI caught all the breaks they needed to without any effort? I rooted for absolutely no characters. They were all one note and had no redeeming qualities. Ugh, this book blows.

harlan coben’s “i will find you” is about a man who was sentenced to life in prison for the brutal murder of his toddler aged son. when his ex-wife’s sister comes to see him in prison and shows him a photo of a boy, they both make the realization that matthew, david’s son, is still alive. he races against time to prove his innocence. first and foremost, i feel that the title is misleading. david is a very selfish character who only cares about clearing his name, not actually finding his child. the point of view shifts between first and third person, but does not do so gracefully. it feels out of place to follow the actions of so many side characters when we should be focusing on david’s psyche and his emotional journey to find his son. this is really more of a thriller rather than a psychological journey. it’s not at all what i thought it would be, and i felt the twist and ending were hastily written. it would have been two stars, if not for the disgusting comment on racism in the police force that comes in the first few chapters. the author mocks those who fight against racism in a cruel way as well as people of color who have been wrongfully convicted and over-policed. this comment comes out of nowhere and is extremely off-putting — friends of color please take caution if you choose to read this novel. thank you to netgalley and the publisher for an arc in exchange for an honest review.

There are Great American Novels and then there are Great American Fairy Tales. This book falls into the second catergory - unrealistic in every way, with an outrageous plot based on a series of coincidences, scads of oversized male characters and cardboard women, and a happy ending based on the Disneyfied concept that the end justifies the means, plus lots and lots and lots of guns. Looooooots of guns. Let's give this book a 21-gun, 1-star salute!

EDIT: this kind of blew up so I just wanted to say that if you're one of those people writing essays in the comment section to try to change my mind: I don't care lol 😭 good for you for being passionate about something but I'm not here to read a think piece on why you disagree, stream red velvet tho x The following will contain major spoilers. Nobody is surprised. I knew absolutely nothing would make this book good, save SJM deciding not to write it altogether. Now, I have to make it clear upfront: I love Nesta. I really resonate with the way that she deals with her own emotions and is consequently treated by the people around her. That being said, I loathe SJM’s books. I only begrudgingly pushed through this for Nesta, and even that wasn’t worth it. Nothing could have made this worth it. I’m not here to give a criticism of the plot or politics, because I’m sure nobody cares (I don’t). I’m also not here to judge the sex aspect of this book, although I know many people have chosen to critique that. Instead, I’d like to cover the three cardinal sins this book committed: respect, rebirth, and rhysand. Respect ACOSF starts off with our heroine using drinking and sex as her coping mechanism. The third book in the ACOTAR trilogy left our main characters, especially Nesta, heavily traumatized. She witnessed her good-for-nothing father come back after he did nothing for her or her sisters as children and try to fight Hybern. She watches as he dies in front of her. She watches as thousands of Illyrian soldiers die. She watches as Cassian is nearly killed multiple times in front of her. She’s underweight, depressed, has PTSD, and gets shit all because of it. No, in fact, she’s punished for it. The straw that broke the camels back is the fact that she spent 500 gold on beer and gambling. Now, the problem isn’t that she drank or gambled. It’s that she used this money-which is HILARIOUS considering that Rhysand owns five houses and pays each Inner circle member a salary that is so grotesquely huge it’s described in previous books as being more than they’ll ever need in their lifetimes. Rhysand is even completely fine with the fact that Velaris is full of so-called “slums” but oh, no, NESTA can’t be living in one! It’s fine if poor people exist, she’s just not allowed to be one of them because it’s “embarrassing” to them. Obviously, they cut her off completely, DESTROYED the entire neighborhood she lived in (has anyone wondered what the fuck happened to the other people living there lmao? are they just homeless now?), and ship her off to a sexist, homophobic war camp with the one person she doesn’t want to be around because being depressed is just /such/ a sin. She is repeatedly berated by every member in the court. Some lovely examples: >Cassian tells her that everyone “fucking hates (her)” and later makes this out to be “oh, I just said that but I didn’t really mean it.” >During one of their sex scenes she asks him if his friends won’t be angry with him for sleeping with her because she’s so aware of the fact that they hate her. >“Perhaps you can find it in yourself to try a little harder this year.” >He jokes that she might order him to kill himself, and she asks him if he really thinks she’s capable of that. Because this entire time they’ve made her feel like she is a monster. >Mor tells her that she “never deserved the benefit of the doubt that good people like (Cassian) give her” and also says that she should be thrown into the court of nightmares. For anyone unaware, the court of nightmares is where her homophobic and abusive family is. >Amren constantly makes fun of her appearance and berates her for having sex. She tells her she looks awful at every opportunity, and always chalks it up to be because she sleeps around and drinks too much. >Rhysand gets his own section for abhorrent comments. There is no end to it. Every chapter brought a character insulting her for just existing. Her weight problems are described fucking atrociously. The first time Cassian even sees her in the book he comments on how she’s “skin and bones” but guys, he still wants to tap that. Every time her weight is mentioned is either to insult her for starving herself because, need I remind you, she’s DEPRESSED, or it’s for Cassian to point out while he talks about how hot she is. All of this. All 768 pages of insult after insult after humiliation and pointless paragraphs for Nesta to apologize to them. Because it’s /her/ fault she’s depressed. It’s /her/ fault she has PTSD. It’s /her/ fault and she needs to change for everyone else. Because everyone forced her to leave against her will because they loved her, something they make sure to remind her of every single damn chapter. Nesta is disrespected by everyone throughout the entire book and is rewarded for it by being the one who must respect them instead. Rebirth You have no idea how excited I was back when I was an ACOTAR fan and Nesta was rebirthed as a High Fae and got her powers from the cauldron. It was like watching someone so similar to me-someone who was mean, and opinionated, and bold hold all the power in the world. I wanted to see how SJM would write her journey of becoming physically and mentally strong-of mastering her powers. We see glimpses of it. How her eyes shine with fire. How she sears the stairs she walks on with a single finger. The light emanating from her. The way she is single-handedly more powerful than Rhysand, who was said to be the strongest High Lord. It was incredible. And then she gave it all up. That’s it. Journey’s over. She gave up all of the power she had, but not before using it to mutate her pelvis so that she would be able to birth an Illyrian baby without dying. Yeah. That’s all. Rhysand I have never met a character whom I loathe more than Rhysand. Perfect, feminist king Rhysand who loves giving women a choice so long as they pick the one he wants them to. He’s the most worthless, pathetic, egomaniac asshole I’ve ever read about. His name is mentioned 791 times, which is 791 times too many. It’s made very clear from the get-go that he hates Nesta. He’s aggressive toward her in a way that makes me want to strangle him every time he speaks. Every comment toward her or about her is an ill-intended remark. Nesta makes what he knows of him clear early on: “Any offering Rhysand threw her way was solely out of love for Feyre.” Wait for it, things are about to get comedic. When Nesta finds out about Feyre’s pregnancy, Rhysand looks at her threateningly, because of course he thinks she’s a danger to his kid. It says, “Rhysand was not only male, but a Fae male, and he would eliminate any threats to his mate and child.” Here comes the funny part— Absolutely hilarious to me that Rhysand wants to be the white vanilla king who loves women (and is definitely not misogynistic) and his wife SO MUCH that he hid from her the fact that her giving birth could potentially kill her. Oh yeah! Because wanting to protect your mate (gag) involves lying to her about her own body and child. He strictly forbids anyone tells her about it, so, naturally, Nesta tells her. Now, I’m not going to sit here and pretend like she had good intentions. She was just doing it to be an ass. But at least she told the god damn woman that the kid inside of her was going to KILL HER! And then, Feminist king Rhysand declared, and-I-quote, “Get Nesta out of this city. Right now. Before I fucking kill her.” Round of applause for our cracker saltine lord ruler Rhyse Hall, everybody. I have no other words. No words for how every single time Nesta dared to stand up to the awful way she was treated by him Cassian would get angry at her. As if Rhys was some infallible God who could do no wrong and must never be criticized. No matter how large his wrongdoing was, it was always her fault. Always her who was the problem. I just feel like...I don't know. I like Cassian, or I did, at least. I think that a good love interest should both support the heroine and call her out when she's being a dick, but relentlessly siding against her is just so ??? What's even the point? His entire family hates her guts, and he doesn't do much to make her think otherwise or to comfort her about it. He definitely doesn't act like he doesn't share some of their views. I don't see how a male lead placing his family over his girl could be very romantic? Concluding thoughts and my 13th reason This is the worst book Sarah J Maas has ever written, and that’s saying a lot. From her worthless white feminism to the complete and utter mind-numbing torture I had to face through this Bible-length tome, I could not have thought of a worse thing to read. It’s sad because I truly love Nesta Archeron so much, but this book made it evident that Sarah Janet hates her and wants to give her the worst story ever. Also, Feysand baby had a stupid name. Sorry EDIT: frequently asked questions so that you can stop asking them: Why would you read something you know you'll hate? It's a free country! Why did you read this entire review if you knew you would hate it? (Yes, I /am/ a miserable person. I enjoy writing hate reviews. I think it's funny) It's a fiction book, it doesn't need to be realistic. By mistreating mental illness and eating disorders in fiction you perpetuate the idea in real life. The thing is, writing about something is not an endorsement, but neither is it a condemnation. SJM could have written about these situations in a way that was respectful, but, at least in my opinion, she completely missed the mark. I'm not saying she shouldn't have written about Nesta's mental health and weight issues. I'm saying that the way she wrote about them made it seem like they were just...her fault? Do you know what I mean? Like, as someone who has received comments about my weight many times, I felt deeply uncomfortable by how people treated her. If that's what you think then what do you think about... (enter character/ship I didn't mention)? I like Gwen? I don't have any further thoughts. Do you think having mental illness excuses someone to be a bad person? Mental illness is an explanation, not an excuse. It /explains/ why Nesta wants to be left alone. It /explains/ why she has a hard time being around anyone in the Inner Circle. It /explains/ her complicated feelings toward them. Nesta was already a mean person before this book—the actual question is whether or not any of her rude behavior needs to be excused in the first place. And that's for you to think on. Personally, I don't care. What Red Velvet song? All of them!

** spoiler alert ** 1 STAR. Nesta Acheron is the only interesting character that SJM has ever managed to write and yet she was treated like complete and utter shit throughout this whole book. THIS IS NOT A REVIEW OF THE STORY BUT INSTEAD A DISCUSSION OF SJM’S HORRIBLE “FEMINISM” AND HOW SHE DID NESTA ARCHERON DIRTY. SPOILERS BELOW. I knew before even starting this book that I would dislike the journey that SJM had obviously planned for Nesta but I elected to power through because I genuinely liked Nesta’s character and she resonated with me on a personal level. I shouldn’t have. Within the first few chapters of this book, I was already infuriated beyond belief. Not even 20 pages into the damned thing and we have Cassian, who is worried about thin and unhealthy Nesta has gotten when he suddenly goes off on a mental tangent about her “magnificent breasts”. What the fuck? Unfortunately for us all, this is not even the worst thing to happen to Nesta in the first chapter. We are immediately greeted with Nesta being furiously slut-shamed by her once-friend Amren and our captain feminist Rhysand agrees. “ “Though I bet it’s hard to look good,” Amren went on, “when you’re out until the darkest hours of the night, drinking yourself stupid and fucking anything that comes your way.” … Rhys seemed inclined to agree with Amren. “ It seems Rhysand, who is famous for always LETTING women have a choice, does not agree when it comes to women he doesn’t like. Furthermore, Amren’s blatant slut-shaming is brushed off; “ - did Nesta notice the faint glimmer of worry in Amren’s smoky eyes-understand how rare it was? ” Who literally gives a shit. I don’t care if this is the first time Amren has ever been concerned for someone, you don’t say that type of shit to your supposed friend. Poor Nesta is then evicted from her home and ordered into doing what Feyre and Captain Feminist Rhysand want or she will be forced into the human world where she has no place and would be shunned. Some sister, huh? Not only this but Feyre and Rhysand take it upon themselves to tear down a whole block of APARTMENTS where PEOPLE LIVE just because they don’t like that Nesta stays there. SJM has not even tried to stop her privilege from seeping through her characters and if I didn’t already loathe Rhysand I would most definitely be leading the mob to his door at this point. And so Nesta is forced to obey Mr “You always have a choice” Rhysand and attend training with Cassian. We’ll skip a few chapters; Cassian whines and lusts and does a remarkable performance as a “Nice Guy” tm until Nesta insults his precious perfect High Lord and he tells that her everybody hates her. Everybody. Now, it’s remarkably obvious to even the characters in this god forsaken story that Nesta has been struggling after the war (after all it was the supposed reason they sent her away) and yet dear old Cassian gets upset that Nesta doesn’t like his bitch of a High Lord and tells her that everyone hates her. Everyone, you can assume, includes her sisters and himself. This gets resolved in typical SJM style with a “I didn’t mean it, I was angry” apology that is literally faker than me in my online lectures. We move on to some sort of conflict and Rhysand and Co. decide to “ask” Nesta to do something incredibly dangerous, the last time she had done it resulted in the capture of her younger sister Elain. Of course, Nesta doesn’t exactly want to do that and so our quirky inner circle quickly remind her that her aforementioned sister can do instead. The sister that Nesta would die to protect, that one? Yeah. And so, our lovely little Nesta is once more forced into doing what President Feminist wants because her only other option is to sacrifice her sister’s safety. But yeah, you always have a choice, right? Speaking of choices… time for the big one. It’s revealed to us that our darling couple Feysand are with child, cue cheers! Except, the baby has wings and giving birth to him will probably kill Feyre. Rhysand obviously goes around and makes everyone swear not to tell Feyre for… reasons? Captain Choice not telling his wife, mate whatever, that the child she’s carrying will pretty much kill her? Feminism. Now, this stays a secret for a while until Nesta finds out that the glamorous Inner Circle have been discussing her and taking votes on what is or isn’t essential for her to know about her own powers. So, Nesta’s pissed (as she very well should be) and has a confrontation that leads to her telling Feyre the truth about her little fae baby. Shock horror, Rhysand isn’t pleased. In fact, I believe his exact words were: “Get Nesta out of this city. Right now … Before I fucking kill her.” Charmer. Sure, Nesta only told Feyre the truth because she was angry and wanted to hurt her, but I hardly think Nesta is the villain in this situation. Yet she’s treated like one by everyone except Feyre (this is perhaps the only time Feyre has shown some sense). Not only that, Rhysand literally threatens to kill her. When I tell you, I had to put this book down because I was SO INFURIATED, I could barely breathe. If a man ever did that shit to me, he’d be dead in a ditch. But unsurprisingly, SJM pins the blame on Nesta. When I tell you, I could rant about SJM’s purported “feminism” for hours I am not lying. This review could go on for another 20 pages if I wanted to. However, spending that much energy on SJM would be a new low, even for me. So, a wrap-up. A Court of Silver Flames is potentially the worst book I have ever read, especially in terms of character development. We start with Nesta, traumatised and lashing out, and what do we finish with? A Nesta who had to go and beg for everyone’s forgiveness and nobody, not once, apologised to her despite everything I’ve just discussed. I think maybe Feyre apologised once and Rhysand buys her dresses at the end like … are you SHITTING me?! Throughout this story, Nesta finds her own little group of friends and this is probably the only good thing about this stupid fucking book. Nesta’s friendship with two other women was surprisingly heart-warming at times and perhaps the only thing SJM did not screw up completely. This book was a complete and utter fucking monstrosity and I sincerely hope SJM never writes another book again. Fuck you, Allana

NESTA IS GARBAGE. STOP ROMANTICIZING SHE BEING TOXIC WITH "she suffered". This book is a big NO for me. And before you come with "internalized misogyny", don't worry, I also think Tamlin sucks. However, he was just a guy that Feyre barely knew, NESTA WAS FEYRE'S FUCKING BIG SISTER. And just in case you forgot, that are some examples of Nesta being an incredible person: "I needed new boots, but Elain needed a new cloak, and Nesta was prone to crave anything someone else possessed." "[...] I glanced at Nesta’s stillshiny pair by the door. Beside hers, my too-small boots were falling apart at the seams, held together only by fraying laces." “What do you know?” Nesta breathed. “You’re just a half-wild beast with the nerve to bark orders at all hours of the day and night. Keep it up, and someday—someday, Feyre, you’ll have no one left to remember you, or to care that you ever existed.” Illiterate, ignorant, unremarkable, proud, cold—all spoken from Nesta’s mouth. She refused to help even though everyone was in danger. “Find somewhere else,” Nesta said again, straight-backed. “I don’t want them in my house. Or near Elain.” On top of that, Nesta loves to read and she never wanted to teach her younger sister how to read, but there was no problem in encouraging Feyre to hunt while Nesta herself was sitting at home. "The story is told from Feyre's point of view and she may not have interpreted it correctly." Yes, because there are really many interpretations for your older sister to leave you to die while hugging the other sister. Thank you, next.

hey besties. i literally redownloaded goodreads just to rewrite my review of this book. i’ve been working on myself these past few months and diversifying my bookshelf, reading more books by authors of colour, reading books about communities i don’t know about etc. and i’ve been thinking about this book. a lot. because when i rated it as 5 stars, i wasn’t seeing how bad it really is, for a number of reasons. this review will contain spoilers for all books in the series. guys, if you still think rhysand is the almighty saviour of feyre and completely feminist, you’re wrong. i thought that way too. but then i realised HE ABUSES HER TOO. he is just as bad as tamlin. he isn’t a feminist king. he isn’t kind or patient. he doesn’t gIvE fEyRe tHe cHoIcE. he abuses her. let me explain. in the first book, acotar, we see feyre under the mountain with rhys. she asks if he will try anything (ie, r*pe her) and he says “while there is nothing i would like more than to take you to my bed, there are more important matters at hand.” he tells her that if he didn’t have to do other things he would r*pe her. but that’s just easily glossed over because he’s a ~feminist.~ remember? oh, and don’t tell anyone, but rhys doesn’t even tell feyre that her own pregnancy will kill her! where was his feminism when her body was at risk? what happened to “it’s your choice”? nope, because it’s rhysand’s choice now. and who cares if he doesn’t give feyre autonomy OVER HER OWN BODY? he’s a ✨feminist!!✨ get a grip. sjm doesn’t care about actual feminism because if she did RHYS WOULD TELL FEYRE ABOUT WHAT WAS HAPPENING TO HER OWN BODY. what was rhys planning on doing? just letting feyre go through a lethal birth, not knowing about her own body? how selfish is that? please, please stop idolising rhysand. just stop. he’s disgusting. and can we talk about how he sexually assaults feyre under the mountain? he drugs her and forces her to give him lap dances. sure, it was to “protect” her. but if he really cared he would only have pretended to drug her so that feyre could at least be able to protect herself if something went wrong, but amarantha wouldn’t suspect anything. and what about how rhys and feyre will die if the other one dies? that would literally throw the entire night court, a very dangerous and powerful court, into chaos. not to mention how toxic that is. you don’t want your very life bound to your SO because that could lead to serious manipulation later on. ugh. rhysand makes me sick. and then there’s everyone’s treatment of nesta. slut shaming. victim blaming. she was forced to apologise to amren for being traumatised? what the actual hell? i can’t even begin to describe how disgusting that was. and when she did the right thing and told feyre the truth about HER OWN BODY rhys threatened to fucking KILL. HER. doesn’t anyone see a problem with that??? i recommend checking out @letstalkbookish on instagram for a more detailed analysis on nestas trauma and victim blaming. i cannot even finish this review. rest assured that i will not read another sjm book again, and i hate every book she’s ever written with a passion. i also hate rhys, amren and elain. fuck you guys. see you all soon i guess!

THANK THE MOTHER AND THE CAULDRON THIS MOTHERFUCKING BOOK DRAGGED FROM START TO FINISH!!!!!! SJM stans don’t fight me I loved this series until now but boy oh boy this was not the book I wanted AT ALL. Nesta? Never liked her and after this book I NEVER WILL. And you can’t convince me otherwise. TRAUMA DOES NOT EXCUSE THE SHIT BEHAVIOUR SHE EXHIBITS AND THE WAY SHE TREATS PEOPLE LESSON 101. That was red flag numero uno for me. And the redemption arc does not redeem SJM’s idea that this was a good one. Elain and Feyre? Deserve so much better. The rest of the court characters? Barely mentioned and contribute near enough nada. The plot? Boring, flat and the only bit I enjoyed was the found family and the chapters involving them. The rest I started skimming towards the end just so I could mark this book as finished. Nothing really happened and we basically have a few plot lines for multiple sequels with vague outlines, no actual ideas about characters beyond the usual night court and no reason to be invested. This series should have finished as a trilogy.

This is going to be a rant review. If you liked this book I’m happy for you, I truly am. But if you chose to read this review knowing I hated it that’s on you. Ok. I have... questions. Number one. Miss Maas, I’d just like to know, in what way was this adult fantasy? Forcing your characters to utter a swear word with a smirk or a growl every other time anyone speaks and describing everyone like a satirical r/menwritingwomen meme does not an adult novel make. This read like a hormonal teenager’s fan fic of about 14 different fantasy worlds cobbled together with their new favourite four letter words. No adult in the history of this godforsaken planet has used the word “alphahole” unironically. Or ever. Please make it end. Two. This book was WAY TOO LONG. Why was it so long??? When I’m being told to hold out past PAGE 500 to get to the good part we have a problem, Houston. I’ve read 100-page novellas with more substance than this entire tome. Also, while the ending was arguably much better than the beginning or middle, it was not nearly good enough to make up for the cringe-fest that was the first several hundred pages of slow brain-numbing torture. Three. I know I already brought this up, but the r/menwritingwomen vibes are STRONG with this one. What the actual f*ck, Maas?? I don’t need to know how perfectly formed our protagonist’s ass is every time she’s in a scene. I don’t care that Hunt’s muscles muscle muscle-y every time he does literally anything. Why am I forced to endure this. Here’s a quote as an example: “But she didn’t give a shit about his dental hygiene when he looked like THAT. Muscles upon muscles upon muscles...” Seriously. What?? I promise, humans reading this, people do, in fact, care about dental hygiene no matter how many muscles you may or may not have. Four. What does SJM have against using the word smile? If I read “their mouth curved upward” one more f*cking time I swear to the old gods and the new there’s gonna be blood. Five. What was this world? This is some of the most drawn-out info-dumpy world building I’ve read and yet we still know next to nothing about how it all functions. There are so many species to keep up with and there’s very little to distinguish them. Angels, shapeshifters, mermaids, demons, fire sprites, vampires, werewolves, fauns, weird underwater creepy murdery things... it’s just too much. Oh. They also have cell phones and “audio mail” (‘cause I guess voicemail sounded too contemporary to belong in this oh so fantastical world??). The entire story takes place in a single city with vague occasional references to one other place. And that’s it. We learn nothing about the rest of the world we’re in. Cool cool cool. Six. Why does this book hate women so much? This book is full to the brim with slut-shaming, ageism, and objectification. The slut-shaming is portrayed as unfair, but only in our MC’s case. The slut-shaming of sex workers is fine, though. Make it make sense. Seven. Is SJM capable of writing a protagonist who isn’t a Mary-Sue-Chosen-One-Hottest-Woman-Alive-Most-Powerful-of-All-Beings TM? Eight. Why did SJM kill off the only likable character? I won’t spoil it, but if you suffered through this book you already know. Love to see the only redeemable one sacrifice themselves to save our insufferable MC. ...I could go on, really I could, but I'm just so damn tired. The token representation of POCs and LGBTQIA+ characters (check out own voices reviews for more details), the awful dialogue, the atrocious pacing, the objectification of everything that breathes, the clunky incorporation of technology, the unsettling framing of the oppressors as the heroes and the oppressed as terrorists... this was a MESS. I'm not sure there's a figure you could pay me to make another foray into Maas' mind. Trigger Warnings: gore, murder, violence, slut-shaming, sexism, slavery VIDEO REVIEW: https://youtu.be/ERIVDkarlUY You can find me on... Youtube | Instagram | Twitter

God blessed me with eyes and i abused them

I’ve read every JOE PICKETT book in the series, and the stand-alones too. Even though I never thought BOX was a great writer, the stories and locations were kind of interesting and his characters were consistent. This recent book is both absurd and boring at the same time. Done ✅

Exciting story but beyond implausible This is, per the author’s acknowledgements, the 25th Joe Pickett novel. The series is available but each book can be read as a stand alone. First, the back stories. Joe Pickett is a Wyoming Game Warden. The first half dozen or so of the series depicted the life of a Game Warden. Preventing poaching, citing game law violators, coping with local politics, and dealing with an evil mother in law intent on destroying his marriage. But very well done. The descriptions of Wyoming were masterful. The characters of Joe, his librarian wife, and daughters were well drawn and quite likable. The villains were often scary. The stories were suspenseful. The plots were exciting and for me, a retired law enforcement professional, were plausible. Then, the author went off the rails. The books became angry, anti federal government polemics with villainous Park Service, Bureau of Land Management, and especially EPA officials riding rough shod over Wyoming and acting like (the currently much over used term) fascists. Then, Box, for a while returned to Wyoming wildlife protection and the books improved. Next Box introduced to Joe’s world a former Army special operator/off the grid falconer. The plots became even more incredible, although the information about falconry was fascinating. This book features an evil anarchist named Soledad. He was involved in the Antifa violence and other nefarious activity. Joe and Nate clashed with him in a series of books that were far beyond implausible. In this outing, Soledad and a group of collegiate anarchists and disaffected veterans of the forever wars plan a spectacular terrorist attack. Joe, Nate, and others try to stop them. The books is suspenseful. The action scenes are well written. I keep reading this series because over the years I’ve invested so much time and I’m train wreck like curious. But I really can’t recommend it. However, there is a two season steaming series called “Joe Pickett.” I recommend the series. Box has written another outstanding series featuring a Montana/Idaho female detective named Cassie Dewall. These books are quite good and pass the plausibility test. I highly recommend the Dewall series.

disappointed I’ve read all of your books. Will not read anymore. Too biased. Obviously slanted against the current administration. Still love Scot but no need to show your hatred of conservatives

Thor is one of my favorite authors and I’ve read all his books, yet this one was a disappointment. This felt like a book that was quickly written to make the NYT Best Seller list and collect a check. The plot was very thin, only loosely tied together in the end. There weren’t any intriguing characters like most of his other novels have. The suspense and the feeling of being taken along on an adventure ride, which Thor is known for, was absent. This is Thor’s worst book by far and I hope it’s not a sign of things to come. If you are a Scot Harvath fan (like me), it’s best to skip this one.

“If you ask me, there’s nothing more boring than a sober writer.” This text is not good. I enjoyed its predecessor, CAMINO ISLAND, for what it was. A fun white-collar caper. But CAMINO WINDS is just dumb! First off, there are so many details about so many things that have nothing to do with anything. Most of these details in no manner advance the story. Another irritation is that the book’s protagonist, bookstore owner Bruce Cable, who I found somewhat charming in the first book to feature him is an absolute dud in this one. Plus, he ALWAYS seems to have a drink in his hand. Always! Should someone tell Mr. Grisham that his protagonist has a problem? Final summation, it’s just a terrible book. Poorly plotted, poorly written, poorly executed.

If you thought "Camino Island" was as low as Grisham could get, hah, I've got news for you! As a sequel to a very poorly written novel, Grisham writes and throws you an even worse one. He was probably obliged by contract to write them, because at the same time he wrote other, remarkable books. 'Another gem from John Grisham' Observer -> The observer -> Τhe observer here, is found of non-existent observation skills, or fell into a heavy fog. 'In American icon John Grisham's new novel, Camino Winds, an odd assortment of mystery and crime authors, some of them felons themselves, discover one of their colleagues has been murdered during the fury of a massive hurricane-the perfect crime scene' Delia Owens, author of Where the Crawdads Sing -> Miss Owens was probably not only deafened by the singing crawdads but her judgement ability was critically severed (crawdad's caliper scissoring intensifies)

If Connelly wrote this, he was having a very bad day... I've read 43 books with Connelly's name on the cover, and he wrote 42 of them, either that, or buffalo killing aliens inhabited his body. This one is a shocker. I guess I'll finish it, but that's only a definite maybe. I stopped this book a few seconds before it finished, because I didn't want to finish it and thus (by my rules) have to give it a rating of 2. By not finishing it, I can give it the rating it deserves... 1, which equates to DNF. This book is garbage. If Connelly wrote it, he needs to find a new job. Two weak protagonists, the main one flat and unlikeable, and his even less likeable girlfriend. Junk, total junk and trust me, if you like Connelly, do not read this.

Seriously awful! If it had been any other author I would have put the book down! I can’t say why this book got published!

Boring book with a boring main character. It goes on ad nauseam with details of boats. I don’t think Michael Connelly wrote this tripe.

I feel like this series has gotten boring. I just want to hurry and finish so I can move on to something else.

As it goes with most series, with time they inevitably become tired, repetitive and boring, and this is the case with this 13th Bennett story. I will most certainly ignore future issues. Authors in general and Mr Patterson in particular should know when to stop a series while they are ahead and come up with something new, creative and interesting. Or are they running out of new ideas….

A really good story ruined by a stupid twist at the end that has nothing to do with the story.

So so story line. Horrible writing. Not a must read.

**SPOILERS** I hate when I have to give a Nora Roberts book a 1-star review but, this one was well deserved. Hideaway was bad and not in a good way. It was boring, anticlimactic, and predictable. I figured out Charlotte was in on the kidnapping early on and it didn’t take a genius to know Grant was playing puppet master from behind bars. The first 20 chapters of the book was about Cate’s childhood. Nora took entirely too long to get us to the present and, once we got there, the book fell flat. There were no excitable moments that stood out. I kept waiting for it to pick up but, it just didn’t happen. I thought the entire storyline was ridiculous. Who holds a 20 year grudge against a 10 year old kidnapping victim?!!! That just didn’t make sense! Even the romance was unintriguing and boring. Out of all her stand alone novels, Cate and Dillon are my least favorite couple. There was absolutely no passion between them at all. There were only two sex scenes and they were lukewarm at best. Even January LaVoy did a bad job. I usually love when she narrates but, I did not like her performance in this book. All of the characteristics that make up a great Nora Roberts book just wasn’t present in Hideaway. I don’t understand how she could go from a book as phenomenal as Under Currents to this. If I didn’t recognize her signature tell tale signs, I would think this book was written by someone else. Nora Roberts is my favorite author so, I expect better from her. Hideaway definitely missed the mark.

god has blessed me with eyes and ears. i abused them.

they weren’t werewolve-ing here enough because they ended up looking more like non union stray dogs.

dnf @ 65% — i’m literally so disappointed because this is the first ever book i’ve dnf’d by ali hazelwood but i just fear she’s lost her touch? how did we as readers make a woman who writes “jizzmuffin” four times in one page a nyt bestselling author? this just lacked what i typically enjoy in ali’s books — not to mention there was just too much cringey meme slang passed off as dialogue. you don’t need to have your characters speak like tiktokers…

1 star and that's me still being generous. Like the amount of headache this book gave me- I should want to sue this. First of all, I loved Bride with my whole heart but what in the ever loving bullshit is this!??? FULL RANT AHEAD ⚠️ (if you enjoyed this book, please save yourself 🥰) Where do I even start? Koen- His name could be replaced with cardboard because that is the kind of personality he had. A piece of cardboard who loves ordering people around and has an ego bigger than the solar system. He defends her girl by saying 'women belong in the kitchen but I don't' and two of his favorite words are 'bro' and 'buddy'. This man changed his personality faster than a chameleon changes color. You either decide whether you want to be broody and hot (not hot in this case) or go around calling people bro. You cannot do both. His personalities were so inconsistent, he should be diagnosed. And Serena...can you just stop talking...please? Just reading it hurts my ears. Serena was giving off more misery that Misery herself. You got unprocessed trauma and use humor as a coping mechanism, cool. But being this excessive? not cool. I admit, some moments had me laughing out loud but it just slowly starts to fade and then simply turns into annoyance. The jokes were not landing, please. Your unprocessed trauma gave me trauma. The relation Serena and Koen had felt more like a brother-sister duo than actual lovers. The 11 year age gap was not helping :) The only thing I was looking forward was the plot, the actual minor little one that was there and Oh My God, the way this author ruined it!!! I don't think I'll ever recover from the potential of what it could've been. More elaborate in the spoiler tag - (view spoiler) When I tell you I have never been more disappointed than what happened to this book halfway through. This was just bad. SO BAD. What do I do with my migraine now 😀? *** I'm so excited for this!!! But please, no more knotting 🙏

Hot Take: This book would never end The Women details Frances “Frankie” McGrath’s experience serving in the Vietnam War as a nurse. And her transition into civilian life. This book had no plot—it is based on one character. The problem is….Frankie isn’t likeable. She is an entitled, spoiled rich girl. She has everything handed to her, and her reason for going to war was to be on the hero’s wall and not wanting to work her way up at the hospital. Although she constantly pulls on her veteran roommates, she couldn’t be bothered to provide support to nurses that arrived after her. Apparently, she hasn’t heard of paying it forward. Hannah also never gets into what makes Frankie so unique, what makes her special, what drives her. What about her would the world miss if she was gone? My favorite author says it best: “Every sentence I write is surrounded by the ghosts of the sentences I could have written at that point but chose not to.” In The Women, I wanted to hear about the other servicewomen. After Part 1, it was time to transition to someone else. How did Major Goldstein, the chief nurse, get to her position and how did she cope with placing the nurses, determining their fates? Why didn’t we shift to Ethel and Barb and what happened before Frankie? Additionally, Hannah is far too verbose, leaving the reader to wade through needless paragraphs, inserting uninteresting details. Sorry, I just don’t care about the cheap motel especially at the end of the book. Not sorry. The foreshadowing is so heavy that the book becomes predictable, and there are far too many characters—all of them are undeveloped. The author did far too much telling instead of showing. Show us memories of Finley and Frances. Give us the backstory on Ethel and Barb. Don’t tell us. Show us. Although I greatly enjoyed learning more about the brave women who valiantly served our country, this book was a chore to read. *Thanks, NetGalley, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and unbiased opinion. How much I spent: Electronic text – Free/Nada/Zilch through NetGalley provided by publisher 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

If Meredith Grey served in Vietnam and came home…this would be her story.

I *wanted* to like this book. Honestly. A war-time historical fiction that isn’t about WWII? Sign me up! Make it about the WOMEN? I won’t even wait for it on Libby! Take my money! Except, I hated it. Frankie, a spoiled rich girl from CA, decided to be a hero because a hot guy at a party gave her permission. She went to nursing school, and then signed up for the Army to go to Vietnam and hang with her brother. This obviously ends poorly. Her parents are snobs. Her roommates are flat, cliche characters. They have amazing friendships, alledgedly, but we are only told this- never shown. Frankie has a terribly grown out pixie, but every man still falls in love with her. There’s chemistry and love, but again, we are only told, not shown. Lots of people die. The phrase “sucking chest wound” is abused. She goes home and has bad dreams. Relationships are hard. I cared about none of it.

This was… not a good book. As a Canadian born decades after the Vietnam War, I was interested in reading a novel that focused on the experiences of women, and specifically female nurses, during the conflict. Unfortunately, this book failed for me on a fundamental level as historical fiction. It provides no meaningful sense of the political situation, the reasons for the war, the reasons why people were angry about it, or any broader context that might help readers understand the characters or the situations they find themselves in. My father, who was in his seventies (though he has sadly since passed), was able to provide a more thorough education on all of these aspects over text *from memory* as a Canadian who was a teenager at the time. Beyond that, I simply do not think this was a well-written novel. It was deeply, almost comically, melodramatic. Far too much time was spent on multiple romances, with many cringe-inducing moments, and there were so many outlandish, soap-opera-style twists that made little sense. Our main character was also profoundly unlikable, turning the book into a chore. She comes from a place of extreme privilege and chooses to go to Vietnam as a nurse primarily to impress her father. She understandably struggles while working near the front lines, and then, when she returns home and her father is not particularly impressed, and many people have turned against the war, she feels she has been robbed of the glory she deserves. She spends her time languishing and refusing to deal with her trauma. To be fair, PTSD was not understood (or identified in the DSM) at the time, and she clearly suffers from it. In theory, this could have been an opportunity to explore PTSD in non-combatants who serve in wartime and still endure long-term psychological consequences even if they are not offered the same resources as soldiers. But the portrayal felt stereotypical, extreme, jarring, and devoid of any nuance whatsoever. On top of that, she continually puts other people's safety and lives at risk as she spirals. She is gifted a house to live in, she is able to avoid working for as long as she wants while she "figures herself out," and she exhibits such an extraordinary level of privilege and selfishness that I struggled to feel anything for her as a character. She is deeply unaware of other people, their needs, and their lives, and the book frames her in a way that seems to expect sympathy she never earns. The title The Women led me to expect a narrative that would delve into the experiences of multiple nurses. However, while there are other nurse characters, they seldom transcend the role of mere props. They exist to buoy the main character's spirits when she's down, to provide a sanctuary when she ruins her life yet again, or to serve as the 'one Black friend' whose presence is meant to dispel any notion of the protagonist's racism. This approach felt reductive and superficial, leaving me yearning for a more diverse and comprehensive narrative. Overall, I found this book extremely disappointing. In terms of exploring the Vietnam War, it does not meaningfully address why the war occurred, why it was controversial, or why public sentiment shifted so dramatically. Since finishing the book, I have had to do my own external research to understand the political context and the broader implications of the war, which the novel does not provide. I also do not think it effectively portrayed the experiences of nurses or PTSD after service, focusing instead on melodrama, romance, and soap-opera theatrics at the expense of the issues it seemed intended to explore. The best part of the book, by far, in terms of writing and engagement, was her two tours in Vietnam, but even those appear to be wildly inaccurate according to reviews from Vietnamese readers. Ultimately, this book had very little to offer me. It was a one-star read, deeply disappointing, and not something I would recommend. Read along with all the winners of the Goodreads choice awards: https://youtu.be/5gC5yHaWnbY Trigger/Content Warnings: war, death, blood & gore, infant murder & death, burning alive, gun violence, bombing, drunk driving, car accident, miscarriage, loss of a sibling, drug use & addiction, amputation, suicidal ideation, PTSD, grief, infidelity, misogyny You can find me on... Youtube | Instagram | TikTok You can join our book club over on Patreon... PBB Book Club

Let me start by saying I did not enjoy this book. One star because of all the reasons listed below plus CW: graphic scene involving a baby; miscarriage. As a bereaved mother, I feel those kinds of content warnings should be upfront. I loved the IDEA of the perspective of a young sheltered girl finding her way as a combat nurse in Vietnam. We don’t learn enough in school about what happened there and that was what captured my attention to read this book at all. Unfortunately, the actual combat portion was only about 20-25% of the book, to its detriment. It also didn’t go into nearly enough detail about the actual country nor did we meet a single named Vietnamese character of import. This is my first book by this author (after disliking the first 20 pages of The Nightingale so much I DNF) and this will also be my last Kristin Hannah book. The writing was generic, sloppy, and felt very “tell not show.” Many scenes cut off right when it got interesting, as if the author could only tease about a party or mass casualty but couldn’t, or didn’t want to, fully flesh out the characters and situations. It was like there was a list of trauma boxes that had to be checked, many unsuccessfully. I saw many plot twists (and wow do I use that term LOOSELY) coming, because there was no subtlety or nuance in the whole book. No meaningful internal dialogue from Frankie. Just moving from one situation to another with no emotional connection from the reader to any situation (except maybe Jamie). I didn’t even feel a connection to Frankie. She was a vehicle for all the terrible things that happened to our veterans when they came home. She was a factotum for a generation, without any emotional richness and she didn’t move us or make us root for her. Her story moved from personal loss that was barely touched on, to war, to undiagnosed PTSD, and a rapid, almost immediate, downward spiral into alcohol, drugs, and depression. There is a miscarriage, more betrayal, lies, and we see Frankie slipping beneath the waves (figuratively and literally— way to hit us over the head there) of her own trauma, grief, and loss, unable to see her way out. In addition to Frankie’s personal struggles, we have men falling in love with her every 50 pages. Why? No idea. Jamie the surgeon was my favorite and most palatable, but what the author saw fit to do with the men- Jamie, Rye, & Henry- was, frankly, bizarre. It was like a soap opera at times even when I could see things coming a mile away. And the end? I mean WTF? It felt like a great story told poorly. I think Kate Quinn would have handled the story masterfully, given the book’s vague similarity to The Rose Code. And we know she can write grief well, evidenced by Mab’s story. In The Women, Frankie’s grief felt….artificial. As if written by someone who hasn’t experienced deep and profound loss. Good premise, poor execution, and clunky writing style and plot line. I’ll be seeking out other Vietnam stories but this isn’t it for me. ETA: In the Author’s Note, she adds that she wanted to use fictional place names and hospital names but actual Vietnam vets advised against it. The fact that she even considered it seems entirely lazy from a writing/research standpoint and also disrespectful to the thousands who died in those places she wanted to essentially erase. Edited some of my text for clarity. Ideas expressed remain unchanged.

I'm about to give the hottest take known to mankind, but this book was awful. Let me preface by saying I adore Kristin Hannah. The Great Alone is one of my favorite books of all time. I thought it would be a crime to give her anything less than 4 stars. But The Women was just not it. There are two major messages to this book: Vietnam=bad and "women can be heroes too" which is a literal quote from page 6 I think. Both of these were the most lukewarm, asinine takes of all time. And not one page attempts to dive deeper. It was as if someone asked a ten year old for their opinions on feminism. There's mentions of the war crimes going on in Vietnam and the Civil Rights Movement, but it's told with all of the depth of one of those Who/What/Where books that live in classrooms for preschoolers. But of that wasn't bag enough, everything else was just bland. Not one character including the main character, had a shred of a personality. The plot had no substance behind it, no driving forces other than one person dealing with PTSD and somehow pulling every man she comes into contact with. Everything about this book seemed like an AI filled in the gaps from a formula that had less soul than a Bluey episode. This book was so bad I doubt I'll ever buy a Kristin Hannah book again. It was fun while it lasted, I suppose.

DNF @ 25%. unfortunately, I’m going to join the minority with this one. •It started off on the wrong foot and never quite recovered. the pacing and writing felt anticlimactic, bogged down by futilities and unnecessary commentary rather than focusing on what truly mattered. for example, the protagonist’s training to become a war nurse—a crucial element—was barely explored. instead, we were left with a heroine who, despite lacking even the most basic experience to exercise in her own country, somehow found herself shipped off to a war zone just three months later. •the rushed timeline stripped the story of any credibility. case in point: within seconds of the female protagonist announcing to her parents that she was joining the army, officers appeared at their door to deliver news of her brother’s death. and then; where was the mourning? he died, we got a fleeting mention of her training, and suddenly, she was already on a plane to Vietnam. the entire narrative was painfully devoid of depth, recounted in a cold, clinical manner with not a single genuine emotion in sight. •Frankie, the female lead, was a walking cliché; the privileged aristocratic daughter with a level of naïvety that bordered on stupidity. I tried to be patient, hoping for some kind of character development, but none ever arrived. the truth is, someone like her wouldn’t have made it past the tarmac, and that’s me being generous. her decision to become a war nurse wasn’t based on conviction or passion but rather on a comment from a man she had met twice: “Women can be heroes,” he said, lighting a cigarette. Frankie laughed. ma’am, were you held hostage in your mansion your entire life? no? you went to college and became a nurse? so why did it take a random man’s words for you to have this revelation? it was 1966.. •then there’s her father’s reaction to her enlistment: “The men serve,” Dad said sharply. “The men.” He paused. “ “War bachelors, Frankie. Married men who think love’s a free-for-all when bombs are falling. Don’t you go all that way and shame us.” this is coming from a self-proclaimed Kennedy supporter, and yet the rumors of JFK’s infidelity apparently never crossed his mind. nor the fact that his late son used to be a party lover with drag races addiction. sigh, the sheer irony of it all. •some of Frankie’s comments also rubbed me the wrong way: “Frankie stared at Barb. Honestly, she didn’t know many Black people.” sis, you graduated from a college in California in 1966-the same year the Black Panther Party was founded. The Black Student Movement was already rising. the idea that she had somehow never encountered or interacted with Black people before? beyond ridiculous. “Frankie had never thought about nurses in Vietnam; the newspapers never mentioned any women. Certainly no one talked about any women at war.” imagine, just imagine going to Vietnam finding Vietnamese women AND Vietnamese nurses. what an odd thing, huh? •and now, let's talk about ✨the love interest✨. the audacity of this book being titled The Women when the central romance involves (so far)... a married man with a child. his words? "If only l'd met you first," he said. sir, please. that's where I draw the line. and a few chapters later? boom-love confession. at this point, I was done. because i kept wondering where were the women in the narrative ? honestly, i wouldn’t have expected more coming from a white writer writing from the point of view of the oppressor and to add insult to injury a book praised by Bill Gates. —————— here we go..♥️ (big br with all my besties!!)

DNF, after five hours of audio. I’m so disappointed. Kristin Hannah is like two separate authors for me - I either love her books or find them so poorly developed and cringey it’s unbelievable. The let down is even worse since I keep hoping for another winner.

A collossal waste of time! Don’t waste your money on this total scam of a book. There was not a storyline, only page after page of uninteresting verbiage about mid-eastern countries that was totally unnecessary, because there was barely a decent plot. Abby had more action than Mitch. There was no resemblance to his previous books. John Grisham’s motive was obviously to merely to fill the pages. Comparing it to The Firm is a bad joke. There was no court room action, as the only plot was about getting a hostage back throughout the entire book, which they finally did, thank God! I’ve never been so glad to reach the end of a book, which I was determined to read, simply because I paid $17 for it and had been waiting for it for months! You couldn’t pay me $100 to re-read it, seriously. Grisham doesn’t have to wonder about this book ever being made into a movie! He has to be unbelievably arrogant to publish this piece of garbage. I’m furious, and rightly so. I’m sure I’m not the only one that will say the same. I wish I had waited for reviews before buying it. Save your money and your time!!

There is no way this drivel was written by the same person that wrote The Firm. Shame on you for trying to portray this as a sequel to The Firm. The characters could have been named Dick and Jane, not Abby and Mitch. That is how much they resemble themselves. It is a SHAMELESS way to get sales for an ‘author’ that has put out nothing but garbage these last several years. I’m mad at myself for falling for it 🤬 I listened as an audiobook to a subpar narrator. He had an odd cadence to his voice that was not enjoyable. I looked down after completing 40% of this book and essentially nothing had happened. The author spent most of the time retelling what happened in The Firm. The problem is we are supposed to care for the rest of this book that a woman we don’t know is kidnapped by bad guys. Oh wait, she’s beautiful. Where is the editor? Where is the publisher? Did they read this? I guess it doesn’t matter when the ‘author’ can sell a phone book if his name is on it. 😏 If you love Mitch and Abby, don’t read this book. If you are looking for a legal thriller, don’t read this book. If you are looking for suspense, don’t read this book. If you are looking for writing and storytelling above a middle school level, don’t read this book. Nonsense!

I cannot explain how bad this was. I still am shocked I managed to finish it and am annoyed I wasted 8 days of my life on it. I was determined to finish though just to see if there was anything good about it, and now I can say with confidence it is absolutely not worth reading. 0 part of this book other than Mitch and Abby makes this a sequel. There are 0 ties to the original book. There isn’t even an explanation of how they got to this place when we last left off with them, they were living “off the grid” to be safe from the mafia. Mitch’s infidelity from first book is still not addressed. But ALL of that aside the story was still SO BORRRRRINGGGG. Not a thing happened until I was 35% into the book, and still even after that, the whole story was just a tracking of pointless characters thrown in, conversations, and coming up with money. That’s it. I am shocked at how bad this is compared to The Firm which I JUST read. For the love, do not waste your life on this book like I did 😂

He’s written some questionable stuff in the past 10 years, but hands down, this has got to be the worst. Completely pointless and utterly boring.

Uninteresting and tedious, not to mention written in flat, workmanlike prose. Grisham says he had fun writing it, but there’s no sign of fun or excitement anywhere. A chore to finish.

If given the option I would I have given this book zero stars.

** spoiler alert ** This book had so much promise! But there were so many letdowns. 1. Mitch gets “food poisoning” and yet he and the other lawyer ate the same exact food. You think ok he was poisoned but no he wasn’t. How is that possible?! 2. I hoped that some remnant of the Mafia was behind the kidnapping in order to get back the money Mitch stole. Nope. 3. Who pays 85 million for a hostage and then doesn’t bother to ask when/how the hostage will be returned? 4. These terrorists have been extremely brutal throughout the book. They wanted 100 million for the hostage but agree to take the 85 million. I thought ok now when they return the hostage will they only return 85% of her? I am not trying to be horrible but maybe she would be missing an arm or a leg? Nope she was perfectly fine. Yet everyone else around her had been tortured, killed, or beheaded with a chainsaw. 5. Grisham glaringly points out that Mitch has just given terrorists 85 million dollars. They will most likely use that money to kill more people. Mitch’s response? Yeah but I had to save a life and that is what I will think about. Mitch just walks away from another law firm after throwing an 85 million dollar grenade into the world.

What a disaster! What a waste! Boring from beginning to end. CONTRIVED doesn't begin to describe the plot and so called twists and turns. The story does not develop our caring for the individuals. This book trades on our gullibility that resurrection of McDeere from The Firm would be enjoyable. It's not. This book is devoid of real suspense. The darn thing centers on the frustration of the protagonists finding $100M. The mechanics and description of that element of plot line just becomes ANNOYING to the reader. "Let's call on a 3rd level functionary who we know can't do anything but might pass us on to a 2nd level functionary who can't do anything but might pass us on to an ambassador. Oh yeah, let's describe doing this in Italy, describe it again in the UK, one more time in the USA, and as icing on the cake, let's describe trying to hornswoggle the money out of our law firm. This book is not even educational regarding how difficult it is to raise ransom money. Remember how good The Firm was? This book is It's inverse!

This book read like a behind-the-scenes view of a kidnapping/hostage thriller. I waited 350 pages for the twist, the turn, the exciting part. It never came. None of the intrigue, all of the mundanity. If you ever need an example of how to make a kidnapping/hostage situation boring, give them this book. I would not have used an existing character like Mitch McDeere to sell this book. Unless, everyone knew it was going to be bad and a decision was made to use a familiar face to sell the work when it wouldn't have sold otherwise? Hope his next one (if there is one) is much, much better than this.

Love Grisham books. This one was by far the worst. Almost DNF but kept hoping it slips get better. It didn’t. Long and tedious.

Very disappointed, debated even finishing it but kept on in the hope it would improve which was a mistake.

To be a John Grisham fan and have read this book you would never know he wrote it!! The biggest letdown ever I would never have called it a sequel cause there’s nothing of the kind. The story plot is ridiculous. It goes on and on forever when you finally get to the end, be prepared for the biggest letdown ever!! I had to force myself to knock this book out to understand when or if it was ever going to end with any kind of resolution that made sense. You will never get that reading this book. The only thing you need to know is that there was $100 million ransom for a partners daughter, who is an attorney so that she wouldn’t die at the hand of some Libyans the politics alone in this book were so insane don’t waste your time. so disappointing, especially after reading boys in Biloxi, which was quite excellent and I’ve never given John Grisham 1 star! I would’ve given it zero but it wasn’t an option

what was this Did Grisham really write this? Doubtful. I kept waiting for the multitude of unanswered questions to come together - what a letdown. Several ‘cliffhangers’ were introduced throughout this story, but none of them were resolved or even developed. The characters were flat and unrealistic, especially Mitch and Abby. Lots of gratuitous violence that goes unexplained. The climax is ridiculously implausible, and the ending so boring you are just thrilled it’s over.

Let down There is no surprise in d end, and that is the surprise.. boring and waste of time, spoils the fun of the book firm

A tremendous disappointment and let down. Dull, boring and terribly written. I can’t believe Grisham actually wrote it. Gave up on page 233 because I couldn’t take it anymore. What a waste of money. I agree with all the negative reviews. What a piece of junk. Shame on you Mr. Grisham to put your name on this piece of garbage.

disappointing Disjointed story. Not sure why these characters were resurrected for this story. Wasn’t worth the read or money. Very disappointing.

What on earth was that? Above all else I hate a book with no purpose or resolution and this had both! I really enjoyed ‘The Firm’ 15 years ago and had high hopes for the sequel. The novel starts off well enough with a death row case and Mitch McDeere taking on this inmates pro-bono defence. With a quick return to Memphis and a revisit to an ex-colleague the story was building (okay, forget that because that’s all there was to that part of the story). What follows is a crazy kidnapping story with a half-baked law suit between Libya and a construction company…yes, Gaddafi, terrorists, a bridge in a desert, a ridiculous number of minor characters and absolutely no resolution to anything but the kidnapping. And, by the time that happened I just didn’t care. Feel free to read the other glowing reviews (not sure what book they were reading), but I’m still looking for the missing ending in mine!

** spoiler alert ** Watch the movie The Firm to get a reminder. John Grisham has lost his edge. it’s an unreadable book that I had to force myself to skim to the end. Don’t bother. This is my last Grisham.

Completely unnecessary in every way. Also racist.

this is one of the WORST BOOKS I have ever read and I have read about 12 of this authors books for the most part they are very well written but this particular book sinks to even the lowest of depths it is great if you want to hear endless chatter about large corporate law firms and how well they live or dont but there is absolutely no redeeming qualities about this book the author would have been better served to let the McDeeres sleep for a few more years until he came up with a better plot DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY

** spoiler alert ** I can not believe this was a Grisham book. The start is great and then nothing happens for most of the book! I kept waiting for a twist or something interesting other than a kidnapping and ransom. Get the money and pay the ransom, that is literally all that goes on!

I’ve made a mistake. Twice. Every time I see the name John Grisham, I get this nostalgic itch — a reminder of the gripping novels from 20 years ago that actually made me care about lawyers. So I get excited. I think, “Maybe this one will take me on a journey again. Maybe the legend still has it.” That’s what I thought when I picked up The Boys of Biloxi a few years back. It was a complete letdown. But time passed, and like a fool with selective memory, I gave it another shot. This time, I was left even more disappointed. The characters? All loathsome. Not a single one worth rooting for. The story arc? Boring. The legal drama? Uninspired. At one point, a lawyer explains to another lawyer what an NDA is. I mean, seriously — what are we doing here? The writing felt like someone threw ten sentences into ChatGPT and hit publish without even trying to clean it up. And I say that as someone currently using ChatGPT. Maybe I’m being harsh. But the reality is this book wasted hours of my life I won’t get back. I kept hoping for a spark, a twist, a reason to care — but it never came. Thanks to NetGalley for the review copy. I just wish I had better things to say.

I went into this book with an open mind as I was looking forward to returning to Grisham's world of legal thrillers. Unfortunately, I HATED all the characters in this book and the further I got the more furious I became. The protagonist, Simon Latch, is a small-town lawyer, typical for Grisham's "hero" of the story. Simon is also down on his luck bringing in little income and working on a shoestring, also typical. He also appears to be a real dirtbag. He has no likeable qualities whatsoever to me. He and his wife don't get along, it appears his kids just tolerate him and he practices some sketchy law with the widowed Mrs. Barnett. Then you have Eleanor Barnett, who claims to have lots of money left to her by her previous husband (The titular Widow) but she is extremely cagey about documents and proof and whatnot. She hires Simon to create her will after she wonders if the guy across the street took her for a ride. What Simon doesn't tell her as he butters her up faster than a biscuit, is that he is couching her in the same legalese crap but is still on the up and up. I like neither of these people. I am not the slightest bit invested in either of their outcomes, though guessing by the plot summary Mrs. Barnett is murdered but I never got that far. So Simon winds up in hot water. I still don't care what happens to him enough to keep reading. I gave it about 35% of the book and I have too many books on my TBR list to waste time on characters I have no investment in. Sorry Mr. Grisham but this one was a dud. Thank you to Netgalley and Doubleday for sparing me spending money on this.

** spoiler alert ** This book is awful. I finished just to write this review and save some other poor soul from reading it. All the characters are unlikable and selfish. The Widow is actually broke. She and her husband lost all their money. Note, do not invest money in real estate property located on an island with a volcano. The Widow may have dementia and is moving from lawyer to lawyer claiming she is rich and needs a will. Later she is poisoned and killed by thallium. The culprit? Oscar the x-ray technician at the hospital (where the Widow was recovering from a car accident). Simon, the Widow’s lawyer, is a jerk, he caters to the Widow because he wants her money. When she dies someone tips off the police that she was poisoned. Simon is then arrested and tried and convicted for her murder. While awaiting sentencing Simon uses multiple people/sources to find the REAL killer. Remember Oscar the x-ray tech? He is essentially a serial killer moving from hospital to hospital like the Grim Reaper. Simon’s conviction is overturned. But he is poor, going through a divorce, and is still probably staying disbarred because he did try to swindle the Widow. The end.

Boring and too long I’ve read most of Grisham’s novels. This was so boring and full of uninteresting details, I finally skipped to the last chapter. Stop while you are ahead, Mr. Grisham.

DNF at 17%. There's been multiple instances of the main character commenting in his head about his secretary's weight and what she's eating/not eating/exercising or not and I ignored it the first couple of times but there was just a whole paragraph about it again and I'm not interested to read the rest. I guess the character is supposed to be a jerk, but I don't love reading the inner monologue of a man who looks at women that way.

After I read A Time for Mercy, I swore I would never read another Grisham novel, but apparently, I'm a sucker, and I kept hoping Grisham would come back to his roots with a fabulous book like A Time to Kill. No such luck here folks. The main character in this book is so unlikable! He doesn't have any redeemable traits. And the abrupt ending was well...abrupt! Grisham has also gotten very long winded (typical of most old men). This book seemed like it was 5,000 pages long. Skip this one and go pick up one of his classics. Or better yet, check out Allen Eskens.

please god,never send me a book by this guy. Wordy and a horrible plot line

As I told Tim, half way thru the book I was wondering what the point was. He said if the point of the book was to be pointless it succeeded. Tim was so right. I will not read anymore of the Archer series. Get back to a series like the Camel Club Baldacci! You are so much better than this.

I have loved almost every David Baldacci book (I think I’ve read them all), but this one was a disappointment. The first Archer book was ok, but I had to make myself keep reading this one. Will likely skip future ones.

Boring andBoring and Predictable. I have read every book from Baldacci, some better than others but I’ve enjoyed them all. This one is not among them. I don’t care for the Archer character; I hope Baldacci gets back to the government thrillers. Love those.

Did Baldacci really write this? Elementary writing style and way too many similes. Couldn’t wait to get it over with

Not the best read by one of my favorite authors. Plot was fair. Entirely too much description. I felt like I was reading a fashion magazine

David Baldacci is one of my favorite authors. However, Gambling Man, falls short of expectations. I got almost halfway through, thinking that it would pick up. It was very slow with not much happening and no sense of it leading up to anything. Regretfully, had to abandon it about halfway through.

I just couldn't get past the writing. I do not believe Baldacci wrote this himself. Here is one paragraph that is so bad, it actually distracts from the story: He got a recommendation on a place to stay the night from a gal behind the bus counter with blonde hair that wrapped around her neck like a naughty mink stole and mischievous blue eyes to match. She had a curvaceous figure that reminded him of the photo of a swimsuit-clad Ava Gardner he had kept in his helmet during the war. After telling her he was headed to California, she handed him a map, along with a recommendation for where to grab his dinner. She had blue eyes to match what? the mink stole? Can stoles be naughty? Can a professional author use the same word twice in a 3 sentence paragraph? I had to stop reading at the 20% mark because I couldn't concentrate on the actual story, given the ongoing terrible prose! Hopefully Baldacci either gets a new editor or goes back to writing his own books.

"We're surrounded by like-minded people. We all want the same thing, or something close to it. Isn't that an echo chamber? How does that make us different?" (pg. 38-39) Linus covered Lucy's mouth with his hand as the strangers around them snorted in laughter. "I think that's quite enough. I can't believe I'm saying this, but we might need to consider removing all Bibles from the island. Too many things in its pages children should not have access to." Lucy's eyes filled with red as he pulled his head away. "We could have a good old-fashioned book burning." (pg. 349) To the reader: there is a danger in believing that what an author writes is what they truly believe. And to the author: there is a greater danger in writing what you truly believe. "Write what you know," sure, but if what you know is the same as what a million other people have shown they also know, then maybe you should either make an effort to know more so you can say something more substantial, or write something else. Preferably the first option. Because the world really does need more good queer stories, more beacons of hope for those of us who have only ever been told we're a danger to society just for being ourselves. Unfortunately, Somewhere Beyond the Sea was not a thing of feathers for me. The heavy-handed use of terms lifted from The Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Toolbox is something I've come to expect from Klune's writing, along with over-performative dialogues about inclusivity. It was noticeable, but subtle enough to be dismissed in his other books I've read--The House in the Cerulean Sea, In the Lives of Puppets, and Under the Whispering Door. This book, however, is more performance than story. I understand very well the message Klune is trying to impart here, and it's a message I can agree with: Love is louder than hate. Live your truth, and other will follow. And I think Klune could have relayed this message perfectly well with the plot and subplots he set up. Instead, he just had to shoot himself in the foot by writing Jeanine Rowder. J. K. Rowder's existence flies in the face of the book's narrative moral of "Love is louder than hate." If Klune actually believed what he was writing, as he claims to in the Acknowledgements section, he would not have decided to base his "legacy" on being the anti of a singular, terrible person. Maybe he thinks he's being funny, since he has a very important Anti in his book, but I think Klune forgot he was writing a story, a thing that needs comprehensible plots and characters, not stream-of-consciousness diatribes that would look more at home on tumblr. I'm not saying Rowling doesn't deserve mockery. She absolutely does. But Klune's fixation on her is extremely ill-fitting in the narrative. Firstly, why Rowling? And why reskin her as a politician for the story? The real Rowling is a celebrity with a legion of manchildren to defend her idiocy on the internet, but she's not a government official. She has social influence, sure, but she's only a backer of the industries that construct and sustain oppression. There are hundreds, thousands of politicians who pass anti-human-rights legislation all the time. So, why not base his evil politician character on one of them? They do way more active harm in a single sitting than Rowling could ever do. The choice of Rowling instead of an actual anti-LGBTQ politician makes Klune's caricature look even more childish, like he's just another one of her fans betrayed by her bigotry, butthurt that they can't stream Harry Potter in good conscience anymore. Secondly, how is being an Anti . . . not being hateful? Love is louder than hate, except when the person really deserves it? Is that really what Klune wants his legacy to be? "We should try to change hearts and minds! . . . but not J. K. Rowling's! She doesn't deserve it! She's too far gone!" If we're not trying to illuminate the darkest hearts, then what are we doing? Who are we convincing if we're rebuking those we've decided aren't worth it? To put it bluntly, Klune's fixation on his irl mortal nemesis has made this book nigh unreadable. There is no nuance, no subtlety; the mood of each scene fluctuates wildly between severe anxiety, to elation, to cartoonish randomness, to saccharine brain rot, but that's okay because nothing that happens actually matters because you need to remember that Klune hates Rowling. That's his whole thing now. He even wrote a book about it: this book. This sequel to The House in the Cerulean Sea, which, shockingly, was simultaneously a fantastic story about love and acceptance while not being about Rowling at all. That being said, here are some of the grievances I had that had nothing to do with Rowder: -I don't know who this book is supposed to be for. The writing style is puerile, reminiscent of YA, while still trying to tackle themes of racism, sexism, segregation, homophobia, transphobia, and xenophobia. And while the xenophobia toward magical creatures is plainly a thinly-veiled metaphor for homo-/transphobia, it makes no sense: "Can't you see what they're doing?" one such blowhard bellowed on a radio news program. "They're going to come after your children, indoctrinate them into thinking being magical is normal. It's anything but! It's a choice." (pg. 384) . . . What? The worldbuilding clearly dictates magic as a genetic trait. That's like having your bigot character say being tall is a choice. But that leads me to my next gripe: -All of the bigots in his book are idiots. They're lazily-constructed strawmen who are so extreme in their views that they are cartoonish. They exist solely to have our protagonists shake their heads at them while pointing over their shoulders, saying to the audience, "Would you get a load of this guy?" One of the only times this book made me laugh was when the children referred to Marblemaw as a "scarecrow," but I know that wasn't intentional. And speaking of cartoonish: -Chapter 14 reads like the description of an episode of Tom and Jerry. Marblemaw deciding to body slam the door at the exact moment it swung open for her, with Arthur standing coolly above her as she face-planted into the dirt; Calliope, completely and inexplicably anthropomorphized in her behavior, attacking Marblemaw when she reaches for Sal, leading to another bizarrely-slapstick moment where Sal opens the door for them to tumble out in the flurry of their scuffle. Again: who was this book written for? -The children talk like characters from a Very Special Episode of a children's sitcom, made even stranger by the fact that they don't have internet access. This is not to say children can't have empathy, or the emotional maturity to uplift their friends, but they all talk like they learned empathy from a twitter thread on How to Heal Your Inner Child. -Somewhat iterative, but all of the good guys are obviously good while the bad guys are obviously evil and also strawmen. Hey Klune, since you're such a huge Harry Potter fan, remember this line from Order of the Phoenix? Paraphrased, since I threw the books away long ago: "The world isn't split into good people and Death Eaters." -The motivation of the characters is too vague. To change hearts and minds is all well and good, but there isn't enough actionable planning on this goal to move the plot any faster than the pace of sludge on a wheelchair ramp. Plainly speaking, it was boring. -The ending (no spoilers) opens up a ton of implications that Klune frankly does not have the world-building skills to navigate. He can't even decide which phobia he wants his story to represent. And my final gripe: MILLENNIAL WRITING. For the love of god, Klune, please talk to a human being who doesn't live their life on the internet. You want to talk about an echo chamber? There are a few hallmarks of millennial writing, some of those being: -References and meme language. "My father took a switch upside my rear when I stepped out of line, and I turned out just fine." (pg. 79) Boomers don't talk like this. Their traumatized children say they do to succinctly encompass their parents' generational trauma. Additionally, "I'm just a little guy!" (pg. 315) "The new ice cream parlor owner, the librarians, the guys, gals, and nonbinary pals from the bookstore and coffee shop." (pg. 371) Not just memetic, but again, over-performative. For fuck's sake, just say "people." You slowed the narrative to a grinding halt to draw EXTREME attention to Byron's androgynous appearance and Jason's weird, twitter-esque aggression about affirming their nonbinary identity, just to needlessly say "A few more people--two older women and a young man--sat on the couches [...]" (pg. 112) two paragraphs later. JUST SAY PEOPLE, KLUNE. -Excessively verbose. Every single person in this book says way more words than necessary at all times. It feels like padding, and also like Klune forgot he wasn't writing prose on tumblr. Here's my favorite: Unfazed, the conductor said, "How wonderful! I, too, am filled with an encroaching dread over my own mortality. I've always thought that being aware of one's impending demise makes for a more interesting life, but I have yet to prove this particular hypothesis." (pg. 129) . . . HUH? I wanted to like this book, Klune, but you are not the hero of all of us poor little queers betrayed by Rowling, no matter how badly you want to be. I would be much happier if even a fraction of the hate directed at her was poured into actionable goals toward changing real-life legislation. In your acknowledgements (pg. 403), you said, "Something you didn't like? Blame me. And then remember: it's just a book." . . . I thought words were important, TJ? Edit: Forgot to add how much I hated the ass-pull with the scroll at the end. Granted, it's a fantasy story; it can have improbable things so everything works out in the end. But if those things were not set up earlier in the story, they are an ass-pull. I don't care that it's unrealistic--the genre is fantasy! I want it to be unrealistic!--but I do care that it's written badly, with Klune's vision of his ending being more important than, again, comprehensibility.

DNF’ed after about 20%. I loved the first book so I was really excited to get a sequel but I couldn’t even make it to the quarter mark for this book. I don’t DNF books lightly, but I could just tell that this book was not going to give me the same joy and warm feelings as the first did. This book, right off the bat, felt so politicized and TJ Klune clearly had a strong agenda that he was pushing that was just too much for me. I’m really sad and disappointed that this book was such a letdown for me but after reading a few other people’s opinions at least I know I’m not alone in my thoughts (even if we are the minority with the book having such a high rating).

There are some books that just DON'T NEED a fucking sequel. I feel kinda bad for not liking this book, but it felt too much like a children's book, repeating over and over again the same topics and being extremely irritating most of the time. It kinda felt like one of those cases that the author underestimates the reader to read between the lines, so he shoves the point down your throat until you get sick of it.

Full disclosure: The House in the Cerulean Sea was a five star read for me, and I was absolutely devastated when I found out about the inspiration being the Sixties Scoop and T J Klune's awful reaction to being called out. I do not plan to buy this book, I didnt initially plan to read it at all, in fact, because of the racist "inspiration" behind the first one. When I applied for this ARC, my motivation was absolutely "hey, maybe I can get it for free". My dilemma then became if loved it as much as the first one, should I withhold a review or not? As it turns out, thats not a problem, because this book it AWFUL. The whimsy and heart of the first book is gone, and in its place is a frankly embarrassing caricature that feels like the first unedited fanfiction of an 11 year old. The characters act like one-note shadows of themselves, and most of their conversations physically made me cringe. The storyline itself feels almost spiteful in the way it attempts to hit back against the justifiable criticisms of the first book, and whats worse is the serious topics are STILL woefully fumbled. The world itself has changed into a watery reflection of the political climate of the 2020s that holds no gravitas, and indeed completely changed the established landscape in a jarring tonal shift. On a fundamental level, nothing in this story works. Somewhere Beyond The Sea already felt like an unnecessary sequel going in, but upon reading this sampler its clear that it will be nothing more than a waste of paper, brittle and thin. Update: Re-read 10/01/25 Re-read to confirm if this was really as bad as I thought it was upon my first read. It was, in fact, worse. The amount of times I cringed out of secondhand embarrassment cannot be overstated.

I find myself unsure of how to review Somewhere Beyond the Sea without being needlessly unkind to the author. However, if by doing so, I am writing something that never needed to be written, I will be in good company. Despite it being an unnecessary addendum to The House in the Cerulean Sea, I had hoped this book would hold the same tensions that made the first so enjoyable – heartwarming but not saccharine, high-stakes but not painful, fantasy without reading as entirely arbitrary, and poignant but not too on-the-nose. Instead, this book reads as a mix of fanfare and moralistic drivel until *at least* the halfway point where it suddenly, but finally begins to read as an actual story with something at stake for the characters (though you wouldn't know it from their actions). I would argue that the stakes have never been higher for Arthur and his children, and yet, his attitude reads as overconfident, at best, and laissez-faire, at worst. Especially when you learn that the resolution is nothing that the majority of the characters would have even been aware of! I have said one million times before that I am a sucker for a happy ending, but not at the expense of all logic and reason. It was very much giving, "Thank you all! Your love has broken the curse and freed my soul" a la Scary Movie 3. PLEASE T.J., be serious. And just when I thought it couldn't get any worse, the Acknowledgements were... The only word that comes to mind is bizarre. I don't understand how a team of editors and publishers read it and thought, "Yes, this is a good idea!" There were, respectfully, zero redeemable qualities for me. Even the characters I had come to love in The House in the Cerulean Sea felt as though they were being held hostage by bad writing and a plot that seemed like nothing more than an afterthought. Ok, I feel better now : ) but truly, save yourself the time and disappointment! Let The House in the Cerulean Sea remain the sweet, 5-star read that it is and we can all just pretend this never happened.

I wanted to love this as much as HITCS, but at page 114 I’m just confused on what is even going on. Why was Arthur gone all those years and where were the kids during that time? Why wasn’t he working to get them back sooner and how did he get them back once he got the island house refurbished? A lot just didn’t make sense and was hard to follow. Plus this author very much pushes his own agenda and everything is love all, gay/trans rights, etc (which I support), but this was a bit too much in my face. It would be like being constantly talking about how hetero I am. Lost the magic with this one.

LMAO WHAT IS THISSSS i have never struggled through a romance book as much as i did with this one??? nora? mid. charlie? mid. libby? mid. i’m sorry but there is not a single thing about this book that makes up for the fact that there is no substance to it. it feels like emily henry considered every trope that sells and decided to bunch them all up and incorporated them into this mess of a book. some of it was just so unappealing. i’m so disappointed:( i was so into the siblings relationship until they unironically referred to each other as “sissy” PUH-LEASE

REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS it's also very ranty Well, this was disappointing... Did I read something else? I genuinely think I read a different book to everyone else because there's a ton of 5 star reviews for this. I was like 6 chapters from the end and I DNF'd it because it was putting me into a reading slump. It's so boring and I literally couldn't care less about the characters. I was done. Book Lovers is set in this small town, Nora is forced by her sister - who I'll bitch about in a minute - to just leave work for three weeks spontaneously to go here and do things off a holiday bucket list. She bumps into her "rival" - which, I'll also bitch about in a minute - who is editing the book for an author she reps at her lit agency. So they just meet up occasionally and edit. I'm a bookseller so you know I love book talk. That's what I wanted this to be, just two people bonding over their love for books, I mean they both work in books so surely they do. They edit a fake book (fake to us lol) so there's not a lot of talk about actual real books, and they're just saying 'oh put this sentence there' and 'change this to this' so it's like I'm eavesdropping on an editing meeting at a publisher. It's uninteresting. They're also supposed to have this "tension" but I wasn't feeling it, I was just counting the pages to see how many I had left. And speaking of editing: this book was all over the place. The way some of it was written felt off and I had to re-read some sentences because they just didn't flow and made little sense. I also hated how they wrote the messages between two people because that was very confusing. Nora, at one point, has a conversation with both Libby and Charlie at the same time, one over text (I think?) and one by email and it's all written like this: hi i hope you're having a good day i am thanks are you yeah thank you yeah i'm good just relaxing where are you i'm just at the library This is not actual dialogue, quite obviously, I just wrote anything but you get the jist. Like, WHO IS TALKING?? I received a proof of this book but it was a finished copy so this is just sloppy editing. It was messy. Why couldn't they just do this: CHARLIE: editeditedit LIBBY: moanmoanmoan NORA: booksbooksbooks CHARLIE: we're not rivals LIBBY: im very annoying We can then get who is talking. Also, maybe not have two conversations going on at once. Now let's get to something else that misled me with this book: "Enemies to lovers" "Rivals" I'm sorry, where was this? When were they rivals? They work together on the book because he's an editor and she's the author's agent. How the f* are they rivals? They kiss like 50 pages in. If they're rivals, they need something more than just 'when we first met, you were mean to me then we didn't talk for 5 years but now we work together, we're civil but let's start kissing'. And I didn't get the whole 'Nora is a hardass and everyone in the industry thinks she is the devil' thing because we were told this but not shown. She was not that at all. It was all just hearsay. She seems quite nice to her clients so I don't really get where that came from? Especially considering the author wrote a character in her book to be like that but we don't even see it. IDK. Now onto Libby, Nora's sister. GIRL hold me back, she was irritating asf. So she wants to be supportive of her sister? Okay, let's have her guilt her into taking a holiday that she doesn't want to take and make her just NOT GO TO WORK FOR THREE WEEKS and leave all of her clients to deal with everything by themselves. Just because her sister is a little down in the dumps? Her client needs Nora (she gets very anxious when she's writing), she's also the biggest client in the company so they're risking their biggest moneymaker so Libby can have three weeks holiday for quality time with her sister. Psh. She's very unsupportive of Nora's lifestyle too, she moans when Nora even looks at her phone and judges her for being a career woman. And surely she can look at her phone a few times, that doesn't mean she's working. And Libby makes this dumb ass list that was not Nora's idea nor anything she wanted to do so it just made her uncomfortable. Libby was just disappearing anyway so we didn't really get much bonding time anyway, I kept forgetting she was there until she showed up and annoyed me. If I were Nora, I'd just lie and say I did all the shit she wrote down because who even cares. Libby's not even there with her most of the time anyway. Also, you can't just buy hair dye, go home and dye your hair immediately. You gotta do that patch test thing. Don't listen to Libby and do those tests because you never know! There was just a lot of time in this book where it was just.....nothing. Libby helping refurbish a book shop (but we don't get to see any of that, just her going 'TA DA what do you think'), editing, some Libby-Nora misunderstanding/lack of communication/assumptions, more editing, eating in a bar, editing, kissing but then going 'I SHOULDN'T BE DOING THIS, WE'RE RIVALS' b u t y o u ' r e n o t perhaps my expectations were too high. I loved People We Meet On Vacation and Emily Henry is such a popular author, so I was excited to get a proof of this from work. Shame it wasn't what I was expecting. I can honestly say that every book so far that I've read about books has let me down. One day I'll find one that actually interests me.

Ironically, this book will make you no longer a book lover.

➳ 1 star it’s clear now that emily henry is not my author. i just can’t connect with any of her characters and they all annoy me. i won't even write some good review, because i'm not even motivated for that lol. i really tried to love this book, but damn it, i couldn’t. the writing style was ok, but the plot…from the description of the book, i expected a rivals/enemies to lovers and it was the big mistake. it should have reached my brain since the time i read beach read that there will be no rivals. just two people who didn’t like each other(it wasn’t even hatred) and who kissed in the first 30% of the book. also, nora wanted charlie right away when they saw each other 2 years after their first meeting. i don’t get where it came from. why did they like each other, if they were supossed to hate each other because of their first meeting? in beach read, january at least knew gus well before their reunion plus, this book and all author’s other books, considering like the rom-coms. why? i don’t know, because they’re all have too much drama and no humor. classical rom-coms overall, nora annoyed me very much. her whole personality was that she's an "ice queen" (who's she's not lmao). charlie was more bearable(i think it's because there was no pov of his) BUT!! i wanted to add that he was reminding me so much of gus. charlie even said the same phrase as gus did. it was about not being a “boyfriend material” and that no one wants to date guys like him. exactly the same thing gus said in "beach read". like maybe eh need to at least write different love interests, because thiss is jut so lame and boring goddamn. libby was the worst btw. she annoyed me the most and i skimmed pages where i saw her name. i couldn’t care less about her. honestly from the 75% i skipped everything and just read the epilogue. it was boring if u wondering my final thoughts are that i will not read any more of emily henry books(it's most likely a lie tho). sorry not sorry. people say that this book is for older sisters and i'm actually the younger one. but i just can't imagine that older sisters can be jealous of their younger one sorry. in my mind it' the other way around.

It pains me to say this, but this is the first Elin Hilderbrand book that I did not like. Not even one little bit. There was not one likeable character. There were a few funny parts but they could not make up for the painfully obnoxious characters. The one star is for the dog. I feel bad that it had to spend the weekend with these people.

This is quite possibly the worst book I’ve read… Hollis is a food blogger married to a dreamy surgeon. Her life unravels when her husband dies in a car accident and her bratty teenage daughter resents her mother. After hearing about a “five star weekend” in which one organizes a trip with women from different phases of her life (teenage, 20s, 30s, etc), Hollis creates her own. It’s an entire book filled with middle aged women acting like teenagers. Many pages are filled with trivial information about stores, restaurants or designer brands. Dumb plot with shallow and unlikable characters getting together for a weekend. I literally rolled my eyes throughout this entire book. Only read if you like wasting your time or if you’re interested in learning about the streets and shops of Nantucket. 1 ⭐️ ,👎🏼

What in the knockoff real housewives was this book? It took me so long to finish it was truly a chore. I’m relieved to never have to read about the sea shell driveway lined with hydrangeas again. This book had no substance other than wine moms sprinkled with desperate attempts at pop culture and brand name references. It was cheesy, flat and incredibly boring.

The worst book I've read in a long, long time. Trite, shallow, and just downright stupid.

I wanted to love this so bad, the first 10% was promising and then… well, quite literally nothing happened. Like actually nothing. I also have more chemistry with my kitchen cabinet than these two.

The series stopped being good after the first book 😅😅

1.5 ☆ “Whenever I was drowning, she was my anchor in the storm.” I read this in one sitting because I knew I would not pick it back up if I put it down. This did not need to be over 450 pages. Pros • I enjoyed seeing and hearing about so many characters from the author's different books. Cons • I didn't expect so much family drama. I can't stand family drama, especially if at some point some of the crappy family is forgiven in a way. (SLIGHT SPOILER) Like in the epilogue, it said she was doing therapy with them. And the drama just felt unnecessary. I found myself rolling my eyes and getting so annoyed at the fmc’s family. • The characters got together way too soon considering how long the book was. I felt like there was not enough build-up. It just kind of happened. • I didn't like the mmc at all. I don't understand how a grown man, about to hit 30 years old, acts like a brat and parties and sleeps around so much. I don't find it attractive. And I get he had “character growth”, but I am so over the “I was a playboy but then I screw you” trope. I can’t even say “but then I met you” in this situation. ⇩ • They have worked together for around 3 years and the fmc has had to clean up his messes with the public and had to deal with his attitudes. I get that he has trauma and daddy issues, but I am so tired of it. It just isn't an excuse anymore in my opinion. • The fmc was labelled as “ice queen” and “cold”, but I just feel like she wasn't. I didn't get that vibe. I felt like sometimes she let certain people in her family walk all over her in a way. I get she had the last “laugh”, but there were so many situations where I wanted her to leave the situation or punch someone. I felt like we were told she was someone who didn't “feel”, but every chapter was saying how she did feel and how sad or tired she was about stuff. Considering the fmc “doesn't cry” she sure had a lot of moments where she was about to. Upcoming books in the series I do plan on reading the rest of the series. I am very excited about the next book with Vuk😚. But I am worried the quality is decreasing with this series😬.

I genuinely hope Xavier burns alive to stop All his bitching & moaning Sloan could do better

⁀➴ one star a typical rich people problem.

update i finished it and it did not get better 🥱 dnf (for now) at 56% someone let me know when vuk or asher’s book comes out thx 💖 this was so boring. they’ve been working together for 3 years and all of a sudden he wants her?? he’s been lusting after her for years so i don’t understand the sudden change. at least it was safe-ish. other than him being photographed with a woman on his lap in a club there was no ow presence. slight om drama as she broke off her situationship right before she left for greece to get xavier. he shows up not wanting things to end i also can’t grasp the sudden urge for him to do something with his life. he is truly a trust fund baby who does nothing but rely on his family’s money and party it away. i know he needs to be CEO (of something) to get his inheritance but come on….. i don’t understand how she’s attracted to someone who is only determined to be something now because money is on the line. the couple just doesn’t make sense when she’s so headstrong and career focused and he’s… not you know what else is driving me INSANE throughout this series??? the constant drop ins from the twisted series. i don’t wanna know about any of them besides Rhys and Bridget 😌 Alex tormented me enough with his singing i don’t need any more of him

For everyone that scream-cried during Gossip Girl S3E22 (see: Blaire Waldorf, Chuck Bass, Empire State Building, Jenny fucking Humphrey), this book was an attempt to heal us and actually just made me want to do a running leap off the Empire State Building. Ana Huang, I can defend you no longer. This book was such a fucking disappointment. This whole series has not recovered since Dante Russo gifted Vivian Lau that ugly red diamond. I’m tired of people writing these seven deadly sins books, with characters that don't actually embody the sin. I wanted to see a man deeply troubled. So deeply languishing in his hedonism, he actually just curls up and dies. THESE ARE THE MEN THAT I WANT TO SEE. Not men working to better themselves. LET THEM BE EVIL. Also, as someone who went to business school, there was just too much business crap in here. Quite frankly, I couldn’t give less of a FUCK about Xavier opening this random nightclub. Also, all the men from the other books assembling like the Avengers to build the thing? I nearly shriveled up and died of second hand embarrassment. This is why Josh is my favorite, you’ll never catch him in a business meeting. Also can we talk about de-cuntification of Sloane?? We lost a baddie. "Sometimes, the rom-coms got it right?" Threw up in my mouth. What, just because she's in love, she has to be a loser? GAG. Anyways, ate. Slay the house down boots Houston I'm deceased. I cannot wait for the next.

he didn’t let go of my hair as he nudged his shoe between my legs. He ground the tip against my most sensitive spot, eliciting a muffled yelp. I was so desperate for more friction I didn’t think. I simply did as he asked, and straddled his shoe. I spread my legs wider, the beautiful pressure and rub of leather against silk and tender, sensitive flesh making me ache all over. My moans built in intensity as I picked up speed, grinding shamelessly against his shoe while he fucked my mouth. I'm simply traumatized... He put his nasty dirty shoe where 🤢??? We all have our kinks but I feel like a line has to be drawn somewhere ana what were u thinking 😭?

This started off so good… then a whole book of literally nothing😭

Time to retire Lucas Davenport I am avoiding spoilers, but the plot in this book has been used a dozen times before by other writers. The books is filled with highly unlikely events, including almost instant cooperation among myriad government agencies generated by paper thin evidence. The characters are types that can be found in any second rate thriller. The Davenport series has been going downhill for a while, and it is time for Sandford to call it a day on Davenport.

One of the worst Prey books yet! The characters were boring and it didn’t even seem like Sanford wrote this. Bring back the old earlier style writing. This book was so boring I stopped reading it 3/4 in. Waste of time.

Why must we make summer, fun novels political?!! WHY?! Oh did I already ask, WHY??? I hated this book. I’m sorry, but every single character was unlikeable. The main character, Mallory, who is this beautiful smart kind amazing inspiring teacher, is someone who ultimately has no back bone and is truly a tragic character in my mind. If you are of the Conservative Republican mindset, avoid this book with all your fiber and being. It will draw comparisons to real people (Supreme Court Justices) who were found innocent in real life, to guilty as sin made up characters in the book. It will praise women liberation, and women rights, but have the main character an adulteress who never finds it within herself to have more self respect than to just be happy alone or find someone unattached. Oh, also, it throws in every single controversial political topic in ONE BOOK and discusses the issue with minimal insight, and obviously very one sided. I hope there is someone else like me who found this book a total disappointment. It was a tragic love story in my mind, that had characters full of flaws and no one truly good or honorable.

Well I did not like it , mostly because it made no sense . So Jake was the love of Mallorys life and visa versa but they made no attempts to be together . They just wanted to carry on an affair for 3 decades . Jake was pathetic cheating on his wife for 28 years , god just leave her , he really didn’t want Mallory either , Cooper was right he was just using her . And she’s also super pathetic , settling for 3 days a year ? She was a loser , hello move on .Plus she could have married him initially , and guess what ? It wouldn’t have lasted , it was an affair so it was exciting . There was truly nothing special about either main character .

Unlikable characters, no reason for Jake and Mallory not to be together, so unbelievable also, and unbearable political garbage. If you’re a conservative don’t bother with this book.

I normally look forward to Elin Hilderbrand's book. They're some of my favorite beach reads and I'm still eagerly looking forward to the next in the Winter in Paradise series this year (I hope it comes out this year). However, I hated 28 Summers. The summary of the book is that two people have an affair for twenty-eight years. Jake cheats on his girlfriend then wife for their entire relationship, Mallory gets in other relationships but always calls them off or cheats in order to be with Jake one weekend a year. Both lie to everyone in their lives and alienate people because of their affair. The characters are so unlikable and selfish that it made it really hard for me to get through the book. Thank you Netgalley for the ARC of the book.

The worst

This was one of the stupidest god damn books I’ve ever read

Unforgettable suspense novel is correct…I will forever remember the time I wasted and how truly awful this was. I think “storytelling talents of Reese Witherspoon” are reserved for when someone else writes the story and she acts it out. It’s like someone had some thoughts, typed them out, said it was perfect and turned it in for a high school creative writing class, thinking they had something great because no one had ever told them they weren’t that good. Like there were so many cringy things that editors read it and looked at each other and said just send it, we can’t fix this, it’ll sell because it’s got big names attached and we can pretend like this never happened. I wouldn’t recommend this to anyone else to read but at the same time, can someone else read it and hate it with me?

This book was either written by AI or by a college freshman who just declared a creative writing major because someone once told them they “had a way with words.” They don’t. They should be an accountant. It reads like they got feedback to “be more descriptive,” then took that as a personal challenge to make sure you actively resent every paragraph. No spoilers, but here’s a taste: “The heat starts in your lungs. The sun is relentless. Merciless. It finds you. It beats down upon you. It’s just you and the sun. You have a personal one-on-one relationship with… THE SUN. There is no middle man, no filter, no cloud cover, no escape. You get the purest hit of the sun. The sun love bombs you. It’s dry and heavy and clingy. It swarms you with an all-consuming furnace-like heat. It suffocates you from within and from without. It saps your energy first… then your spirit.” If you made it through that without rolling your eyes, congratulations. I had to make an appointment with my eye doctor for strained muscles. The “plot” (and I use that term loosely) felt like four unrelated stories got into a car wreck and no one called for help. I kept waiting for it to get better. It did not. At one point, I genuinely wondered if Reese Witherspoon had any idea what she was endorsing, but since she narrates the audiobook, I guess she’s read it at least once. Which is, frankly, one too many times. As a nurse and a woman, I found some of the writing insulting. And not subtly so. I was bludgeoned with the obviousness. At one point, a character literally says: “She hands me the , yes, the other surgeon is a woman.” Thanks. We know how pronouns work. I didn’t love this book. I didn’t even like it ironically.

huh?? biggest disappointment of the year for sure

In a time when Russia is attacking Ukraine, writing about the “grandeur” and “wealth” of Russia is not just tone-deaf — it’s morally rotten. You have to be profoundly disconnected from reality, or simply indifferent to suffering, to romanticize an aggressor state while people are dying. As for the book itself — it’s badly written. The plot is thin, the characters are flat, and the dialogue is painfully unnatural. The story drags without purpose, packed with empty descriptions instead of meaning or emotion. It’s not immersive — it’s exhausting. The idea may have had potential, but the execution is shallow, dull, and careless. A forgettable book from someone who clearly didn’t think about the world they live in — or simply didn’t care.

Terrible book. Uninteresting and banal plot, as if you are reading fan fiction. In the world of 195 independent countries, why Russia?

Well… how this book could exist? russians are killing Ukrainians. I hope that everyone (including the authors) will be held accountable for any connection with this nation of killers. It’s shameful to romanticize russians while they are killing children and civilians, burning cities to the ground. People you are really don’t care that russians are killers? How could you write and read that?

Let me start off by saying I love Reese Witherspoon, but if I had to hear her say ‘Porkchop’ one more time, my head might explode. She narrates this book so overly dramatic. The story is all over the place. I only finished it because I paid for the book, bc it was so hyped up. I never knew where it was going, but not in a good way.

Ah yes, just what the world needed — a glossy, meaningless story that paints Russian oligarchs as mysterious and fascinating. Because nothing says “thriller” like romanticizing the people propping up an authoritarian regime. Shallow, tone-deaf, and absolutely devoid of purpose

russia has been killing Ukrainians, kidnapping children, etc. for the fourth year. It's utter vileness to write a novel and idealize russia. I wish Rizz would fly there and see what is the hell she wrote a book about.

This is such a disgrace that I won’t even bother writing a proper review. Ew 😒

russians kills Ukrainian people every day, but the world still writes about how russia is good , bla bla . Could you pick a different country in Europe?

It`s not russian oligarchs war, poor little things just want live peacefully on Rublovka and buy Western writers and Oscar`s jury

To romanticize and glorify Russians in 2025 is like romanticizing and glorifying Nazis in 1944! Does the author even understand that every single day Russia murders innocent Ukrainian civilians?! Children included. Where is your conscience, Reese ?! Shame!!

how tone deaf one should be to write a book romanticizing russian oligarchs in 2025

This book.. WAS SO BAD. Honestly I am convinced it was written by AI because holy shit it was terrible. Straight out of a 7th grade creative writing class. It made me cringe at least every 2 pages. Everything from the characters to the motivation was just horrible. Written like a horrible movie. The idea itself I think could have had potential if it wasn’t full of horrible characters, conclusions that were pre curated to hold your hand so you didn’t have to think too much and lack of skill. I almost DNFd so hard, by the time I got to an hour left in the book I had to speed that shit up even higher than normal just to lawl through the rest. The main character was given this tragic backstory that I really could have cared about if she wasn’t so bland and the people around her weren’t straight out of a weird mob movie. The book also focused on weird knowledge about art and geographics that could have been cool if it had any relevance to the story. Safe to say I will not be reading another Reese Witherspoon book. I love ya girl, but dear god please don’t write another book.

If I could give it less than 1 star I would

What happened to the John Grisham who wrote The Firm and The Pelican Brief? Great writing, fully developed characters, ingeniously creative legal thrillers. I stayed with Grisham until The Street Lawyer. That’s when I figured out he had traded in his prose-writing prowess for a preachy, special interest soapbox. Grisham was “woke” before “woke” was a thing. So, I gave up on Grisham for more than 20 years until I heard that Sparring Partners contained three short stories or novellas. I decided to give him another shot. Sadly, Sparring Partners misses the mark — 0 for 3. More than 300 pages of unremarkable, unlikable, and ultimately unchanging characters doing relatively boring things with literally nothing much happening or being accomplished. The last of the three short stories or novellas probably had the most potential, but even in that one, there was no character development, there wasn’t a single “good guy” to root for, and the story was told so fast it seemed as though Grisham himself just wanted to get it over with. By comparison to his first novels, Grisham’s writing has deteriorated to such dribble that it’s hard to believe it’s the same writer behind these books.

Grisham can write but his novels lack a decent plot lately. So, he tried his luck at three absolutely pointless novellas, again with no plot and, as an added bonus, no endings. 'Nuff said!

Seriously, does John Grisham need money this badly?

Incomplete stories, disappointing! Three incomplete stories. Disappointing endings. A few good parts. Downer stories. Much preferred some of his olders stories. Would have preferred one complete story.

I admit that I didn't even bother to read the last two stories of this book because the first one was so horribly pathetic. The people who wrote the blurbs for this book and praising it must have their heads up their behinds or were handsomely paid to write what they did. What a disappointment and the last Grisham book I will bother to pick up.

I do not understand how this book is rated as highly as it is. It is poorly written, drawn out, boring and, frankly, annoying. I kept plugging along thinking it would have to get good, but it never did. Waste of time.

I'll be honest - I could not finish this book. While the premise of the book was intriguing, and there was a lot of talk and build up of the book, for me, it just didnt deliver. The constant jumping around from the 1950s to 1970s/1980s, from one twin to the other, and then one daughter ... it was too all over the place. It brought in a lot of hot button topics that are currently on people's radar, which was great ... but at the same time, I didnt feel like it focused on one or the other as in depth as it could have. This book simply glossed the surface, and did not keep me hooked and wanting to know what happened next.

What a sad mess. Confused, rambling and so dull.

a disappointment I am a fan of the first three All Souls Series and was excited to read this one. I’m sorry to say it was a disappointment. Too much magic detail, I kept getting lost in all the words. The plot was all over the place. Such a disappointment.

This is not worth the read for any fan of the original series. Save your time and your money. I don't understand what happened to the characters. Diana ended the last book as a powerful witch who came into her own and embraced her power as one of the most powerful witches alive, goddess blessed. In the Black Bird Oracle, she's basically powerless and has no concept of magic. She treats the Proctors as if they walk on water and they're teaching her everything Sarah never taught her. But much of the previous story was Sarah wanting to teach her and incorporating magic into their lives daily... Which Diana just forgot? She almost paints Sarah in a negative light in every memory. Her relationship with Matthew feels forced. Jack, her son who she loves and protects, is basically nonexistent. Same for Marcus, Phoebe, and all other amazing characters. The children are so underdeveloped and it seems like they only like Rebecca and Philip is just... There. There's barely any plot, and even less purpose. No intrigue. Just hair-tearing frustration and thoughts as to why the characters had to be ruined in such a wordy and boring way. I don't know if Harkness had one more book contracted and came up with this just to fulfill the need, but it's the only reason I can think of for this being written as it is a mediocre shadow of the original trilogy and a disservice to the characters.

Ten percent story, fifty percent description and forty percent about drinking tea. Couldn't finish it, I was so bored.

DNF at 75% Let me start with the fact that I am huge fan of DoW trilogy and re-read it regularly. It is my all time favorite paranormal series. What a disappointment was when I found out that this continuation is nothing but disregard of initial trilogy. It lacked proper engaging storyline and result was one boring read... First of all, Diana behaved like she was out of sudden undergoing middle age crisis and wanted to pursue new things. Her interactions and relationship with Matthew felt out of place. And what happened to Godess saying "there is no road with Matthew not on it"? Guess like Diana and author completely forgot about it. Matthew didn't feel like himself either. He was constantly pushed to side and felt like side character. It was him and Diana together what had made initial trilogy success. And I missed it in this novel all the time. Moreover, this novel felt completely illogical and surreal. Are we really supposed to believe that after Diana became book of life and all secrets of ancient beings were revealed to her, she did not have a clue of her forgotten Proctor family? I was not buying it and it made me feel like waste of my money and time. She became super strong after absorbing Book of Life and developing her weaver abilities, but for the sake of storyline, author made her appear weak and clueless once again. What a disappointment! And last but not least, why did author have to turn this series into grotesque Harry-Poterish, wand-using, love-potion-making, tarrot-cards-using kind of magic story? Magic system in initial books worked perfectly and stood on its own thanks to its originality. These changes and inovations did not do story any good. On contrary, it made whole story feel like some C-grade tv show. I was not impressed at all and sadly, I am done with this series.

I am so so so disappointed in this. I loved the first three in the series and liked the fourth. This felt all over the place, totally convoluted and honestly, boring. It was such a slog to get through. What a letdown!!!

DNF at 65%. What a shame after I so enjoyed the series before this. This book consists entirely of filler and .005% plot that is completely unforeshadowed, unexplained, and unrepeated. I couldn’t take any more descriptions of drinking tea and eating blueberry muffins and “we’re all one big happy family” so I gave up. All of the characters were so juvenile and flat, didn’t progress at all, and were so wildly inconsistent. Matthew’s entire personality was completely wiped out.

This book is a 1.5 ⭐️ at best. Deborah Harkness definitely ruined Diana’s character. All of the other characters, including Matthew, were barely there side characters. Diana’s attitude was insufferable throughout the entire book. She was written as a selfish, feminist, judgmental, know-it-all. This book killed my favorite series. I should have DNF’d it, but I just kept hoping that it would get better. If you love the All Souls Trilogy DO NOT READ THIS BOOK. It absolutely ruined all of the characters and their dynamics.

Such a disappointment. Mostly I hated it.

"Blindside" by James Patterson was copyrighted in February 2020, so this was before the unjustified murders of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor and the massive protests after. Now, in the story, the writers take very careful time to tell you how the main detective had a gun pointed at his face in a robbery attempt, how the only option was to shoot - although he did it twice in the book - but then gets frustrated when a community used to police brutality questions whether he shot an unarmed man and plan to protest. Now, certainly circumstances are different in the novel, but Patterson says in the Author's Note at the end he wrote the book to make sure a certain state's police department's "reputation remain positive". And then this at the end which I skipped to because I was already turned off to reading it: SPOILERS AHEAD p.348, brackets are my own - Mayor: "He's agreed to stop his protests directed at you." Cop: "How did you manage that?" Mayor: "The reverand [an allusion to Al Sharpton] and I have a good working relationship. I assured him that backing off your case will help him in the future. His living depends on getting a cut of all the settlements the city makes on cases he's involved in. It's not a great system, but it's worked in the past." I couldn't help but think that Patterson and his co-writer think that protests are somehow a political and economical move only and that as long as someone is on the take they can be squashed. This is a major author and major publication and while I certainly think the timing was wrong for its release, it doesn't stop the fact that this book is saying that there's only ever one side and that power doesn't belong to the people. But it does.

Blindside: ⭐️ A book about computer hacking, a kidnapped daughter and a police officer trying to keep a good reputation after a controversial *pewpewing* of a local who tried robbing him with a pewpew himself. The NYPD officer has 10 adopted kids and a second wife. We also have a nerdy, evil genuis in Estonia leading young adult hackers to help him in his wild, devious schemes. This read like the worst episode of Law & Order ever. James Patterson really phoned this one in or he didn’t want to hurt James O. Born’s feelings. For a book about hacking, I don’t know why they didn’t hack a better storyline.

BLM... NOT? That’s literally the message of this book. Talk about shitty timing for publishing or maybe not? Maybe the author is stating where he stands on the issues of race and oppression. Because why else would you release a book about “blue lives matters” during the biggest civil unrest in recent history. How incredibly insulting is this book. So young black cop who has never committed a crime before is shot and the serial killer that has terrorized people across continents gets arrested? Fucking insulting.

Easily one of my least favorite King books. There were some cool references to some of his older works that were enjoyable, but otherwise the ending was the only redeemable thing about this book. Cheesy dialogue, about a million political jabs, 3-4 references of COVID even though this book took place in 2019, and some weird innuendos I won’t get into for spoilers sake; this book was just a long, drawn out boring mess. Edited to add: Yes I know King is usually crass/offensive in his novels; if this book was any good I’d be able to overlook all that. As it is, the plot was boring as hell, the characters were unlikeable/bland, the action was over and done with in a matter of paragraphs, and I just feel like the payoff wasn’t really worth it. As I said, the ending was the only redeemable quality about this book, as it kind of ended on a note that made me think King might be headed back to his roots in future books. But we’ll see.

I think I'm done with Stephen King's books, which is a shame since I've pretty much read everything he has written. I am not a Trump fan nor do I really have any interest in politics or have opinions on politics but I sure don't want to have this crap in books I buy and read. King did the same thing in this book as he did in the Institute with continuously referring to Trump and Trumpism and insinuating his political opinion in this book. It's his books and it's his right, but as I said I'm tired of it and don't think I'll be spending my money on his books anymore. The characters in this book and the plot are certainly not the caliber of some of his previous books like The Stand, Dreamcatcher, or 11/22/63!

A reader picks up a Jodi Picoult novel for specific reasons. A story well told containing some mystery, with enclosed life lessons and usually a twist they didn't see coming. This novel, sadly, has none of that. I'm afraid she seems to have jumped the shark, or several sharks as the case may be. Much the same as with James Michener in later years, there doesn't seem to have been much editing going on here -- great swaths of pages that repeat needlessly. Both storylines are bloated with detail and description that stall the plot, plus two romantic entanglements with exceptional, well educated men who are over the moon for the narrator, and that plot line gets old. Fast. If I hadn't had to write a review, I wouldn't have finished it..

Worst Jodi Picoult book ever. I've read every adult book she has ever written some have been outstanding, her last few were perhaps mediocre, this book, for the most part, was unreadable. I read her books for the characters, for the interwoven stories. Sometimes it is nice when she challenges us to think, outside the box. I don't read her books to be bored to death with Egyptology or Quantum Physics. I respect the amount of research that must have gone into this book, but, to me, it was just boring. If I wanted a lecture or to learn about either of these subjects I would purchase a book on them and study it. Also, the main character came across as totally unlikeable. Her lack of concern for anyone's feelings but her own, made her appear mean and selfish. As a "death doula" she empathized and showed concern for her patients. When it came to her husband, child and most others in "her" real life, she was totally focused on herself.

You know you're in for a long haul when you despise the main character. Dawn is both selfish and immature and surely didn't deserve Brian. The ending was ridiculous. Utter waste of time. Jodi: if you cannot provide an ending after pulling YOUR reader along on YOUR own journey, don't bother publishing. Lazy lazy lazy.

** spoiler alert ** Jeez I hate to leave one star but I hated this. It was on audio and firstly the narration was terrible. The English accent was so cheesy and no differentiation between characters enough for me I hated Dawn. She was selfish - I mean what mother leaves her daughter for two weeks when said daughter has found out her dad is not her real dad by a dna test that they did just to see what illnesses may run in the family. She then does to find her daughters real dad because she loves him...seriously shit mothering but she makes out she has sacrificed so much in her life. So unlikeable The content of Egyptology is overpowering and so bloody boring! Hated it Sorry!!

Let me go ahead and tell ya'll that just because I didn't like this book doesn't mean I didn't understand the author's intention. I got her intention loud and clear; HOWEVER, this book was disgusting, harmful to others, and was a money grab that serves as nothing but a huge disappointment to those who were looking for a follow up to The Coldest Winter Every. CW: beastiality, rape, homophobia, misogyny, anti-abortion rhetoric, graphic descriptions of hell, internalized racism, deplorable descriptions of other ethnicities. Honestly I'm sure there are more. Like so many others, I was surprised to find out that Sister Souljah was coming out with a second book this year especially since The Coldest Winter Ever was published in 1999. I was intrigued and in many ways excited because Sister Souljah is well-known in the Black community for doing so much for street literature. That's not to say that The Coldest Winter Ever didn't have issues because it definitely does; however, I was hoping that we would be able to get some insight to Winter as a character. It didn't happen. This book was nothing more than a way for Sister Souljah to bash, humiliate, and condemn people whose life choices she doesn't agree with while attempting to convert them over to her religious beliefs. If she wanted to make a statement about how people weren't taking the time to listen to God in the midst of a pandemic THIS WAS NOT IT. Life After Death takes place 15 years after the events of The Coldest Winter Ever. As Winter is getting released from her time in prison she gets approached with the opportunity to star in a reality TV show. This alone does not make sense. Why would any major broadcast company want to focus on Winter's life and make it into a reality TV show? Before this is even able to occur, she is shot and killed and then begins her descent into hell and this is when this books looses any semblance of being coherent. From joyriding through hell to screwing satan's son to meeting the aborted children of the women in hell, Winter continues to live the same life that she lived while she was alive. She barely makes any changes and actually enjoys being in what seems to be a purgatory before she gets to the "official" hell. It is through this journey that Souljah shares some of her perverse views including equating anal sex to the filth of animals which leads to her homophobic ideals, her misogynistic views, and her complete and total lack of regard for people's experiences. As a reviewer, I refrain from making comments on authors; HOWEVER, in this case she inserted so many of her personal views into this book that to talk about the book is to talk about her. She intentionally assassinates any credibility that Winter would have had in this book by trying to send a message. She could have sent her message in a different way. She could have highlighted the importance of slowing down and reflecting on life while growing Winter in a positive way without tearing down others. She shames people who are queer, she shames women who have had an abortion, she shames people who enjoy anal sex, she shames people who are spiritual instead of following institutionalized religion, she shames anyone who does not believe what she believes. THIS IS NOT THE WAY TO GET PEOPLE TO SEE AND UNDERSTAND YOUR PERSPECTIVE. YOU DON'T GET TO MAKE PEOPLE FEEL LESS THAN BECAUSE YOU FEEL LIKE IT'S THE WAY TO MAKE THEM BELIEVE YOUR RELIGIOUS PERSPECTIVES. This is exactly what draws people away from God. And I hate it. I hate that people want to spread messages of fear and hatred and then expect people to want to believe in God. It's not right. This who book felt like a cash grab. It was a book that she wrote in 2020 that I believe would have never happened if not because of COVID. S&S should be ashamed. The editor who passed this book through and gave it a green light should be ashamed. If you want to draw people to God this isn't it. When it was all said and done, I still feel like Winter didn't learn a thing except not to worship or idolize anything but God. She learned not a damn thing about compassion, kindness, forgiveness or love--the things that we should be using to draw people to faith. I have never felt more disappointed or hurt by an author in a long time. This was manipulative and wrong and clearly I'm not the only reviewer who feels this way. I don't ever tell people not to read books. For this one I would say check it out from library if you can.

Yikes. Firstly, thank you to Netgalley, Simon & Schuster Canada and Sister Souljah for approving my request for an advanced readers copy of the long-awaited sequel to Coldest Winter Ever in exchange for an honest review. Like many millennial black women, Coldest Winter was a formative reading experience for me as a teen, so I was extremely excited to receive an ARC of the sequel. Where do I begin with reviewing this? I find it challenging to write bad reviews, and I always try and find something positive to say about a book (if I can), and I try to keep my negative reviews constructive. But honestly, I do not think I can be constructive about this book because there was not one single redeeming thing about my reading experience. Honestly, this is just a really bad book in almost every measurable way you can assess a book. I am shocked it's being published frankly, and I have to think it’s ONLY being published because it’s a sequel to an intensely popular book, and not because of its actual merit as a novel itself. This story mostly takes place in the grey area between life and death (per the title) of the main character we all loved (and hated) in the first book of this series, Winter Santiaga. The writing is elementary and unsophisticated, the plot is nonsensical/implausible/poorly constructed, and it made Winter Santiaga more cruel and unlikeable that she was in the first book (which says a lot, because in my recollection she was fairly judgmental and unpleasant in Coldest Winter). And honestly, when I got to the end and realized the main message of the book, it was clear to me that this is just some respectability bullshit and messy misogynist propaganda. This book was NOT worth the time I spent on it (and tbh, I skimmed the last half because it was so unbearable and frustrating to read). [General description of some problematic plot points ahead, these are not super specific spoilers though.] To illustrate my point about the absurdity of the plot, this book included the following: bizarre and underdeveloped notions about Islam/religion in general, some strange cult-y bullshit, sprinklings of body shaming/fatphobia, anti-choice propaganda (i.e. descriptions of abortion as murder), shaming of drug usage/drug addiction, some incredibly culturally insensitive descriptions of various characters of different ethnicities, homophobia, casual and internalized misogyny, a weird obsession with "silky" hair (helllllo internalized anti-blackness/colourism/texturism), AND LITERAL BESTIALITY (seriously, what the fuck, Souljah?!) And that's really just the tip of this disastrous iceberg. Because problematic content aside (Coldest Winter was not without its flaws as we all know), this book was just very poorly done. It did not accomplish what it set out to do, and it didn’t advance Winter’s overall story in the slightest. It was a wholly unnecessary sequel, and quite a jarring and uncomfortable reading experience overall. Honestly, I wish I could erase this book from my memory entirely. I wish I had never picked it up. And to keep it 100, my giving this book 1 star is quite generous. It doesn’t deserve any stars at all as far as I’m concerned. And though there is no doubt that she changed the reading game and will forever remain an icon of urban literature, this will absolutely be the last Sister Souljah book I ever pick up. Teenage Ebony is BUMMED, and I cannot in good conscience recommend that anyone spend their hard earned money on this book or support it in any way.

should've stayed dead tbh honestly no one asked for this; it was awful. This picks up 15 years after the first book. Winter is just finishing her prison sentence and is offered a reality show (why anyone would care about her, I have no idea. She wasn't a celebrity, her dad was just a drug lord in the 90s, but anyway). She says she'll do the show but only if her conditions are met (her father being released from prison [he's in jail for life for murder so wtf], a mink coat, a red carpet and Bentley for when she's released - we won't even get into how unrealistic they were and how she should be grateful she's even getting offered a reality show, but this is WiNtEr SaNtIaGa). The day she leaves prison, she's shot and killed and the reader is taken on a journey throughout her life after death (in purgatory or hell - it felt like hell to me, I was in hell reading this). This was just so stupid. There wasn't much of a point to this book. After getting to a certain point (where she gets turned into snake after doing anal [I know, no words]), I skimmed to the end to see what happened. It was stupid and lacklustre. Sister Souljah, tried to put some Islamic spin in there that if you confess to Allah, you will be forgiven, which is fine but the way she went about it was deplorable. Sister Souljah's writing also hasn't grown in the 20+ years since the first book and it's very apparent in Winter's character and the dialogue used. I get that Winter's unlikeability was, perhaps, supposed to serve as a lesson but it just made this hard to read. There was literally no point nor reason for this to be published. There's better literature by black authors (without an anti-abortion, homophobic rhetoric, I might add). Read in Colour's Review is a good echo of my thoughts. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for an ARC in exchange for an honest review!

Took me a minute to figure out what to say. I don’t like trashing anyone’s work. It’s hard writing a book! But listen, this might be the worst book I’ve ever read. I...don’t know if there’s time to cancel this publication, but if they can, they definitely should. Scrap the whole premise and start anew. I need to erase this from my memory and hold on to The Coldest Winter Ever, those sweet memories of passing a beat up copy of that book around my high school—let that be my last memory of Winter Santiaga. Because this??? I’m rambling so I’ll just say it, this book is a homophobic, sexist, bestiality-filled mess, that uses religion in a very...weird way. I guess this is magical realism? But, dog finger fucking is where I really tapped out. Maybe magical realism should be left in the hands of a more skilled writer. I’m just really upset thinking about how this was the last book I read in 2020; an awful book to close out an awful fucking year. No stars. Do NOT recommend.

I think it's funny that all of the "5 star" reviews have nothing to say about the book ... probably because there's nothing good to say (and they probably are simply leaving the stellar review because they know the author, it's the only reason why I could think they'd leave a 5-star review, especially without gushing about the book). I'm not even sure what to say about this book that others haven't already explained in their reviews here on Goodreads. Honestly, read any of the other 1-star reviews, they share my opinion in how horrible this book was, I can't believe any editor would have say yes to this, but as others have stated it is most likely due to her fame from the first novel. Wouldn't recommend this book to ANYONE!

Although The Coldest Winter Ever is one of my all time favorite fiction novels, it saddens me to say, Life After Death is my least favorite sequel. ⠀ I was super excited about the release of this book. I even reread The Coldest Winter in anticipation of it’s release. Unfortunately, I didn’t need to read TCWE again, because Life After Death is a completely different story from TCWE. ⠀ I found this book highly disappointing. As I read each chapter, I continuously contemplated putting the book down, and adding it to my DNF (Did Not Finish) pile. The story was all over the place. As I read each chapter I hoped it would somehow take a turn for the better, and start to make sense. Sadly, that never happened. ⠀ In my attempt to not give any spoilers, I’ve decided not to discuss the plot. However, I will say this...the majority of the characters in this book are new. The story is not set in New York. If you thought Winter was cold in the first book, then she is below freezing in this book. ⠀ There are many controversial topics within the story. This is a book readers will either like, or strongly dislike. I don’t anticipate a middle. This narrative is much too contentious for a middle. I’m sure the reviews will be polarizing. ⠀ I believe the concept of Life After Death is about the ideas of consequence, free will, faith, materialism, divine judgment, angels on assignment, and the unconscious mind. And while I normally find each of these concepts extremely thought provoking, I was minimally moved by the way in which they were delivered in this sequal. As a matter-of-fact, it came off a little sanctimonious. ⠀ For all the above reasons I can only give this book 1⭐️. I really hope Sister Souljah provides an explanation as to why she chose to move in this direction with the story. Maybe hearing her logic, will help me to make sense of it all. ⠀ 𝘛𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘢𝘥𝘷𝘢𝘯𝘤𝘦 𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘥𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘤𝘰𝘱𝘺 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘱𝘳𝘰𝘷𝘪𝘥𝘦𝘥 𝘣𝘺 𝘚𝘪𝘮𝘰𝘯 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘚𝘤𝘩𝘶𝘴𝘵𝘦𝘳 𝘪𝘯 𝘦𝘹𝘤𝘩𝘢𝘯𝘨𝘦 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘢𝘯 𝘩𝘰𝘯𝘦𝘴𝘵 𝘳𝘦𝘷𝘪𝘦𝘸. ⠀ ⠀ ⠀

Ughhhhhhhhhh What was this!!!!!mess of a read. I can't even explain what I read. I'm so pissed I wasted 12 dollars and 99 cent. Boring boring boring..did not go with the first book at all.WTH I'm pissed at this sequel.if I could give no stars it would be that.

One of the worst books I’ve ever read. If you loved The Coldest Winter Ever, do yourself a favor and don’t read this sequel. Not only is it incredibly boring, but it’s full of religious proselytizing and anti-abortion, patriarchal rhetoric.

One of the worst books I’ve ever read. I only finished it because I paid for it.

Straight Trash I waited over a decade for this! This was absolute garbage. Would not recommend. Please do not waste your time reading this book.

OK, so I already read the book in less than 24 hours and here's my take. JESUS IS KING ~ JESUS IS GOD ~ JESUS IS THE FATHER, THE SON, AND THE HOLY GHOST ~ THERE IS ONE GOD, NOT 3, AND HIS NAME IS JESUS‼️ Now that I got that TRUTH out of the way, this book was more like a Quran Part 2 than Part 2 of "The Coldest Winter Ever." The entire book just spewed out Islamic rhetoric that took away from the hype of wanting to see how Winter Santiaga adjusted to life after prison. It was like force-feeding or force-reading Muslim ideologies, all while blaspheming Jesus and the Bible, and bordering Anti-Semitism, because it favored Arabs; all just to see what is going on with Winter. Complete attempt at indoctrination, which was RATHER ANNOYING and OFF-PUTTING. I skimmed through the repetitive Islamic terms and just wanted to get to the point of the story: Is Winter really dead or not?? After paying almost $20 bucks for the book, I just grimmed and beared the overtly pro-Islam nonsense to see where the story was taking the reader. There's this whole life of her in purgatory with different sexcapades with demons, hints of beastiality after she becomes a dog (yes, this book is RIDICULOUSLY over the top ~ she was a python, dog, rat) ~ with aborted twins trying to extend their so-called mercies to get her from The Last Stop Before the Drop to go to wherever their god was but she had to worship him and love him only, not herself or her father, or any of the various men she was sexually involved with in her life or Midnight, who she always wanted but never had. Like I figured, she was never dead, rather in a COMA the entire time with all of this "life after death" fantasy going on and was back to being released from prison doing reality TV. Her father was released from prison and she was low-key praying now and making sure she didn't worship anyone but the god they kept talking about. That's the book. If the author is Muslim and wanted to just write a book about that belief, it didn't need to be done with this sequel and even with it, that should not even had been the bulk of the story because it really didn't change anything. So much for a conversion, right??!! Lmbo... I'm going to assume there would be a 3rd book, since, as I stated, the author tried to BEAT YOU OVER THE HEAD with all that Islam teaching and then, not really give that much insight into the character Winter, after-the-fact. This book is 34 chapters, it's like only a couple of them are the only ones with her not being in that comatose, purgatory state... and the reality TV was so cliché that it was like "okaaayyyy... and???" BLAH... this was A WACK SEQUEL! If there was to be a third book and it was to spew out all that doctrine of ERROR that this one did, I wouldn't even bother. This fanatical Muslim rhetoric was really not just FICTION but POOR WORK OF UNBELIEVABLE, UNINTERESTING, AND UNIMPORTANT storyline and characters... yeah, Brooklyn Winter, was there but it wasn't the same and I realize she was really INSECURE though ARROGANT and the fashion sense that she is known for, was overly pointed out, but nothing played out in "real life" to see her life after death, which death, readers would consider a 15 Year MANDATORY MINIMUM, prison bid. Sigh... I digress and am far from impressed!

I know that Lisa is older than she was when CWE dropped, and I know it's impossible to live up to the hype that came with the original. Frankly, I wish she hadn't even pretended to try because this is horrid! I rarely give up on books before getting past a couple is chapters, but this book...it was bizarre almost from page 1. I'm going to be honest, I read 2 chapters and skimmed up to chapter 6. I then returned the e-book to the library because I knew there wasn't a chance in this world or any other that I would finish it. Don't call it comeback because well it's not. It's a tragedy, and she should be embarrassed for inflicting this level of literary shenanigans on us.

A huge waste of my time. Glad I borrowed this from the library and didn’t waste my money on it.

This book was horrible. I tried to finish this book so many times but I just couldn’t. Wasn’t anything like to 1st book.

This is like urban science fiction mixed with religious propaganda. Sister Souljah is all over the place and for the first 3 chapters i was very confused as to what was going on. Ive been reading this book for 2 days and ive only made it to chapter 15. Its sooooo hard to read, but im determined to see what was the damn point of writing this garbage a** sequel...not to mention the fact that i paid for it, so finishing the book is a must. All in all, idk wth Sister Souljah is going through, but her writing has proven to be a ONE HIT WONDER! She dropped the ball after CWE. All of the Midnight books were trash, and so is Life After Death. If you must read it, please find a free copy online. Dont waste your money like i did.

WTH was this? I mean seriously? I've never been good at reviews. But I can say this book was not AT ALL what I expected and wanted it to be! I was sooo hoping for a new, rebuilt Winter. But this wasn't it. I mean where did this come from??? Sister Souljah! ya waited too long sis.

JUST TERRIBLE!

She could have kept this

I read the first couple of chapters and I couldn’t even get through that. It felt like Winter was just rambling. After learning there would be some bestiality in the story, I’m just deciding not to finish. Souljah pretty much destroyed her reading brand by doing what she wanted to do and not following the story. Like one girl commented on Goodreads already, there were so many directions this book could’ve went. Winter could’ve gotten out of prison and got revenge on the ones who wronged her and her father. Maybe she could’ve done something incredibly stupid through petty crimes and went back to prison. Or maybe, she could’ve made Winter a redeeming character that learned her lesson while still being on the receiving end of temptations from her previous life. Perhaps through Bullet. Instead, Souljah chose this route. She’s clearly into, interested, studying, or either a part of the Muslim faith. Nothing wrong with that. But an author should never let personal convictions affect a book being written. Souljah made such an enormous impact with her first book until she could’ve damn built a book publishing empire for upcoming authors or authors writing in the same genre. Similar to Literary Baes but on a much larger scale. Taught other authors the ins and outs of writing a high quality book and got paid for doing that. Souljah had the reading base, the platform, and the resources to do this. Hell, she could’ve been a visiting MFA professor. Souljah could’ve been a multimillionaire times three. She threw all of that away with this book and the ones she wrote after The Coldest Winter Ever. I hate it for her! Since the prequel was so powerful until it left its mark in literary history, Souljah should’ve rehired the ghost writer that she hired. It’s clear that Souljah didn’t write that book. The real author need to stand up or either provide Souljah some assistance for possibly a third book after Winter come out her coma. I honestly feel cheated as a reader & I haven’t even bother to read the Midnight books. I’m so very disappointed in her as a writer. She got the money to pay whoever to ghostwrite that book for her. It’s so obvious it’s two different writers. Look at Winter’s dialogue in the first book compared to this one. It’s just not the same. Like I said there were at least three different directions this book could’ve went for it to be a hit success. Instead, she decided to focus on personal convictions and grievances. I’m more upset at her potential. She could’ve helped ALL of us black writers out by creating a hell of a publishing company with a dynamic crew of bad ass editors. She could’ve been a voice for black women. It was just so many things she could’ve done!! Sorry for sounding redundant but I’m pissed for her and I’m pissed for us!

I have never been so confused in my life . I’ve never been so disappointed in a sequel.

I actually don’t know what I read. Coldest Winter Ever was a classic to me when I first read it. I was looking forward to this and it was a bunch of nothing. I actually have questions for the author and the publishing team as to why this book was actually released. It was not what I expected I do not recommend at all. I can’t believe I actually finished it I guess because I wanted to get better but it it it it got worse.

Quite possibly the worst book I’ve read in 10 years. Terrible waste of time and I only made it to 37% before quitting. I tried to stick around for the train wreck, but it wasn’t interesting enough to keep going.

Thank you to Netgalley and the author for giving me this ARC to read for an honest review. I wanted to love this book but I DNF'd the book which i find hard to do for an ARC but I could not get past about 30%. I was not interesting, thought provoking or anything. It was odd.

This book was such a disturbing peace of trash.

The real tragedy here? I will never get the hours and hours back that I wasted reading this. I’m a DNF Queen but I kept listening when I hated everything about it. I’ve seen the glowing reviews and knew it would SURELY get better if I just listened a little longer. Tedious, plodding, boring, and pointless. Plus, at 467 pages, it was at least 150 pages too long. I typically love slow-burn character studies as well as dysfunctional families, but not this time. When I finally waded through nearly the entire book to find out the resolution to the "riveting" mystery of what happened to Joy and who the mystery girl was, the book firmly sealed its fate as the worst book I have read this year. The ending made the book WORSE, not better. The turd on top of this steaming pile was a stupid pandemic chapter. Because I like to find at least one positive thing about a book, I will say there were flashes of humor that I enjoyed but they were too few and far between to make it worth slogging through such a long book. My time would have been better spent watching paint dry.

1.5 stars. This book. Was so boring. 464 tedious pages and very little happened. Like, it felt dull and slow the entire time, and then towards the end you find out — surprise! — even LESS happened than you were led to believe. What a twist! The characters/relationships didn’t feel believable at all to me, the timeline jumping around served no apparent purpose, the tennis stuff was tedious, the commentary on traditional marriage roles felt forced, the end was way too tidy, the last few chapters haphazardly talked about COVID because… idk, just because. And then the final chapter was wild. Over the top, but at least it was interesting. I’d advise not wasting your time on this one like I unfortunately did. But a lot of these other reviews are somehow positive, so who knows — maybe you’ll like it more than me! 🤞🏼 Thanks to Henry Holt and Co. for sending me an advance copy of this book, I really was excited about it!

Liane Moriarty has written two very good books---The Husband's Secret and Big Little Lies. Since Big Little Lies was published, she's written three mediocre/terrible books. While not quite as bad as Nine Perfect Strangers, Apples Never Fall is definitely up there as one of her worst books. For starters, there are a lot of pages wasted on discussions of migraines, anxiety, and tennis. I suffer from migraines and I love tennis, but these sections left me bored and skipping pages. How many times do you have to hear how great Stan and Joy are at playing doubles? Or how one of their daughters (whose name I've already forgotten) has to sit in a dark room when she has a migraine? In fact, none of the characters was engaging or sympathetic, least of all Joy, who we're supposed to be worried about because she's missing. Ultimately, the mystery and this book, are a big letdown.

Soooo slow ... I’m surprised by the great reviews . I was very disappointed

dnf 1/3 of the way in

DNF at 85%. I gave it its chance. I waited for the twists and the drama. This will not win me over. Literally I cannot understand why anyone would give this more than 3 stars, let alone 5 and the other rave reviews its getting. It's so BORING - the family drama is the most Rich People Problems I have ever seen, and it doesn't get dramatic at ALL besides people bitching at each other over NOTHING. It's not dramatic, its annoying that no one has any communication skills. It's also not a mystery at all. Oh the mysterious girl isn't who she says she is? And the reveal is BORING. It doesn't even do much either! Did the husband kill her? I don't care! They are annoying and its not even an interesting mystery that we're following, its just PAGES and PAGES of flashbacks about some childhood event that no one can get over! This needed a serious edit and a real plot, because all I got out of it was people bitching at each other and refusing to admit any fault

This fuckin book is DUMB What a horrible book and waste of my time. Not a single character is likable, especially Joy. I wish she and her whole tennis family went missing and were never found. Do not read this garbage!!!!

Zoltan?? seriously??..ridiculous premise

I'm usually a book finisher, but I only read about 20 pages of this book. I couldn't go any further than all the seance/talking with dead grandfather stuff. Not my kind of story.

What the hell was that? This is the worst book in the series. Hundreds of pages of searching for missing Monks who may know something important about the plot. A real clusterf*ck of a book

I cannot believe that I am admitting a Louise Penny book is DNF. Just could not get into it. I am so disappointed.

She did not have enough coffee while writing this book. Theme on glamour worked. Theme on sports worked. Theme on romance worked. Theme on music worked. Theme on love triangle worked. Theme on infidelity worked. Theme on loss worked. But this theme went right outta space. Not even once it felt like I was reading a TJR book. I thought it might get better as it usually does with good books, but my life seemed shorter and shorter as the book got longer and longer. Am not sorry for the rating and how much I got bored while reading the book (which took place in four different occasions). The dialogues are flat; the characters are flat and nothing much is going on. Everything IS FLAT and the boredom got worse. TJR, you are my favourite but this one is an easy miss.

If Joan was a spice, she'd be flour. TJR is my favourite author, but my God.... The characters? Boring. The plot? Boring. The romance? Boring. The pacing? Boring. The vibes? Boring. The plot felt so unfinished and pointless. I hated myself for not DNFing this.

Rating ⭐.5 This one just wasn't for me :(. I want to feel conflicted about rooting for a morally grey character but I just didn't feel anything for Booth. So of you do like him, then this could be a winner for you! ~ Quick Summary ~ We follow the life of Harry Booth, whose mother was diagnosed with cancer and became a thief to help make ends meet. After she passed away Booth continued his nightwork and never stayed in one location for too long, fearing that his enemy will catch up to him. ~ Pick this up if you enjoy/don’t mind the following ~ 👨 A morally grey character: A kind thief who care about his family 😯 Side of mystery and romance 🐢 Slow pace 👪 Likeable characters 🕐 Skipping forward in time and switching locations ~ What I Enjoyed ~ The theme of family and Booth’s relationships. ~ What I didn’t enjoy ~ This was incredibly slow paced, I just couldn’t get into it. I didn't feel connected or invested in Booth so his experiences and travels were boring to me. I love morally grey characters but I’d simply describe Booth as a nice guy and a good person. I felt no tension or suspense whatsoever throughout the book, not even from the heists. What really didn’t work for me was how events were glossed over and we would skip forward in time so when I feel like I’d start to immerse we'd jump somewhere else. I feel I’m being told, not shown most of the time. La Porte didn’t feel like the dangerous villain of the story that he was meant to be. Their first meeting and conflict wasn’t intense enough for me to feel like Booth needed to fear La Porte and live his life in hiding. I just didn’t feel the danger or urgency. When Booth was forced to do a job I thought there would be more time spent on the heist and having to leave his life behind but it was breezed through. At the 57% mark it got slightly better because we stayed in one location for a longer period of time, but by that time I just wanted to finish this. However, the plot took an unexpected turn, it was something I’d expect in a rom com. Thanks to Negalley and Little, Brown Book Group UK for the ARC

Very very average read and just not like a Nora Roberts at all. Infact just wondering if it has been ghost written...am that disappointed in the book.

very disappointing Derivative of an older NR plot line much better executed in Honest Illusions. This is tedious, under-developed, with plot holes you could drive a truck through. Very disappointing as I have previously enjoyed her books.

Awful. I usually love Nora’s books, the characters and her stories are almost always my total guilty pleasures. This one? Absolute drivel. The plot line was awful, the characters were terrible - even the sex scenes were bad. I have no idea what went wrong or how, but this was just bad.

Unfortunately I just didn’t find this interesting and it was too slow paced for me

* Book read in Dutch. When his mother gets ill with cancer, Harry Booth finds his calling in theft at age nine. Supporting his family with his nightwork becomes his goal, but he keeps going with it even after his mother dies. While going to college he becomes one of the best in the industry, but unfortunately it attracts the attention of one of the most violent, greedy people in the business, Carter Laporte. Being on the run from Laporte, Harry finds himself falling in love with the woman of his dreams, but when Laporte finds him he has to leave her behind and flee to Europe. But Harry can't run forever and when he runs into Miranda again, he knows that this time he will fight for her. Pro's: + This book is very consistent in it's pace and writing, making it quite easy to read and perfect for a light reading day. Nora is also as consistent as ever with her characters and even though the story spans a lot of time, she never wavers or drops something we didn't know before. Con's: - This entire book was boring AF, I don't know why I bothered even finishing it. I kept hoping for at least one action scene somewhere, but it never happened, it was just more snoozefest all around. We don't even get a real confrontation with Laporte, it just all feels so hollow and uninspired. - The characters are very uninspiring and they feel just flat all around. Harry was just not that interesting and it felt like he went through no growth at all, it is more that the people around him change and he changes with them. All characters are very forgettable and none of them makes this worth the read. Well, this might be the first Nora Roberts book ever that goes straight onto the Trash Pile, that is how much I was bored with it. NOTHING happens in this book, it is just following Harry going through his life and he does not really have an exiting life, even though he is a thief and stuff. There are no action scenes and even the bad guys isn't that impressive, but the thing that really made me pissed of was the ending in which the bad guy isn't even confronted, he just goes to jail and thats that. So just save your money and save a tree and do not purchase this, it is not worth it.

jesus this was not my cup of tea. not romantic AT ALL and the story within a story was so so boring. it had TJR vibes but again, the interview bits were dull 🥲 also if this wins the choice award this year, i will never forgive yall

DNF @55% I have such a hard time believing reviews that say this book is monumental and riveting when in the same breath i hear it’s a knockoff EVELYN HUGO. Time to find out! Hope I’m surprised! 🤸🏻‍♀️🤸🏻‍♀️🤸🏻‍♀️ Alright, I'll read it - but I'm forcing Bruna my bestie to read it with me 😅 This should be fun.

When you write a book, just so you can use The Last Great American Dynasty in the future movie trailer. It's time to put pen down, Miss Emily Henry.

This was one of my first touch-points with Danielle Steel, and honestly, I don't know how she can be so popular and publish so many books with writing like this. First of all, her writing style is juvenile at best in this, to the point where I assume she didn't even send it through a content editor - or used a non-professional ghostwriter (who also didn't use an editor). There is little dialogue at all, and the concept of "showing not telling" seems to never have even been suggested to the writer. Even more obnoxiously (and confusingly), the POV changes from one character to the next with no warning. This is lower than a rookie mistake - in one instance I counted four different character POVs in a single paragraph. Another writing style flaw: the author is SO redundant. Yes, we understand that sentence you just wrote. You do not have to repeat it 5 times only altering the words slightly. It makes readers want to tear your pages out. SPOILER: As a marketing professional, I can respect the idea of not wanting to give away a surprise or twist in your summary. But every book overview written for this novel features only characters who are ALL dead before you are 25% of the way through the book. All of them. The author has not even made the characters who remain compelling enough to want to keep reading.

Rudimentary writing, I thought it would get batter as the story progressed but unfortunately is stayed flat until 40% completion which is when I stopped reading. Lots of telling, so much repeated telling with very little showing. Got bored and returned the library book. No more Danielle Steele for me.

What a waste of time. The writing is basic and repetitive. It’s like she thinks her readers are stupid and will have forgotten plot points between one sentence and the next. Lucy did this. Annie did that. She was sad about it. Etc. The male love interest is a jerk and has zero actual personal growth but he said he loves her so he must be the one. I rarely give a 1 star to books I finish but I’m so surprised anyone actually published this.

This is possibly the worst book I have ever read. It is definitively in my top 5 worst books.

Danielle Steele has an amazing talent for repeating the same 5 sentences in every paragraph for 300+ pages. I cannot stress how poorly this was written. Not a description of anything in detail, no characters with personality, run-ons and POV switching numerous times in a single paragraph. To sum it up, girl doesn’t know she’s a princess because some lunatic country girl kidnapped her as a child, passed her off as her own kid, secret is revealed and the princess pursues her passion of wanting to be a horse jockey for the last 150 agonizing pages. That is really the plot and I can’t believe I made it to the end.

If you’ve never read Danielle Steel, don’t start now. At least not with this book. It’s dry and very “she went here, she did this”—like Hemingway, but at least Hemingway is well-written. The premise is fantastic, but the execution is poor. The summary on the jacket is maybe the first sixty pages, and then the entire story changes. Maybe I just read the description wrong. Honestly, I only finished this because I had literally nothing else to read. I was on an airplane. Nothing. tl;dr no. Just no.

I don’t know if I can ever try another DS novel. This had to be the most painfully slow, redundant and unrealistic novels I’ve read. And I have read a lot of unrealistic fiction! It felt as if there wasn’t a single page of dialogue until 3/4 way through the book. I’m amazed I finished it, if it hadn’t have been a paperback that I continually saw I would never have clicked on it again in an e-reader.

It’s not often I don’t finish a book, but I just couldn’t do it. The storyline sounded really interesting, but the amount of repetition drove me insane. It was as if she had a word count she needed to get to and kept rewriting the same thing in different ways.

I have liked all of Sandford's books until this one. The book should be renamed Woke Prey.

This is the first time in my entire life that I have rated a John Sanford book as a one. I looked forward to this book. The main character is Letty Davenport, after she finished college. He dad mentioned her name to a US Senator, and he hired her. Letty is bored with the work (this was my first clue because I was bored with this book); she works for Senator Colles and she quits. He puts her resignation in the shredder and gets her transferred over to Homeland Security. There are pages and pages of Letty getting dismissed or put down because she is female. She has to prove her value all the time. It starts with a shooting contest between Letty and her the DHS guy who is to take her for shooting practice. She beats him, of course, and she has a better gun than he has. The villains are soon introduced, and it becomes a contest between them and Letty. Guess who wins. Guess who has the better vehicles and the most assistance. I have never before read a dull Sanford book. I read it because I have read almost everything he has ever written. I read him before Letty. I read him during Letty growing up and sometimes getting in trouble. But enough is enough. Get me back to Virgil or Davenport.

This may be the WORST book I’ve read in years. It reads like a Sears manual. No surprises, no mystery, completely predictable. This book is also politically driven.. The lead character has NO PERSONALITY.. I forced myself through the book without gaining any enjoyment. The worst part of it is the Author is leaving it open for a sequel 😒 Don’t waste your time

Too political. I don’t need the occasional left-wing jabs that are sprinkled throughout this book. I’ve loved most of Sandford’s previous books, and had high hopes for this book. If the right wing extremists come back for Letty in the sequel, you can keep it. I am looking forward to the next Prey book.

Yawn Terse, stilted dialogue. Boring topic. Lucas Davenport's daughter - the perfect woman but without any redeeming interesting facets. I quit. The father? Interesting stories and character. The daughter? Perhaps John Sandford hasn't found her voice yet. Call me when he succeeds

What a terrible time. I couldn't follow & I lost interest. It seemed to be all over the place 😕

A gun-fetishizing, man-writing-stereotypical-female-protagonist hot pile of garbage. I couldn’t even get halfway through listening to the audiobook. Sorry book club.

I love Sanford's other books. I rarely quit a book, but I quit this one. Letty, as a supporting character is just fine. Letty as a lead, is awful. She's arrogant and doesn't seem to realize she has her job because of her dad. She's a spoiled, unlikable brat. It pains me to write such a terrible review.

From other reviews, it must just be me, but I thought this was one of the lesser Prey books. It was confusing and just didn't seem like the author put much effort into this one.

For the first time I was really disappointed in John Sandford book. There were too many questions unanswered by the end of the book. Would not recommend this book.

I say the same things in every Sandford review of the past decade or two; the Davenport character hasn’t been interesting since getting married and settling down with a family. Now, Lucas is just some rich, happy republican with not a care in the world until those few pages in every book when the not vaguely interesting bad guy is pointing a gun at him. Long gone are the character flaws, womanizing and depression that made Lucas compelling. Long gone are also the wonderful supporting cast that used to back him up. The coworkers, fellow cops and snitches are all gone, replaced by just that fucking Flowers… rough draft, to be continued……

this the last jack reacher i ll ever read unless andrew child is fired and lee child goes back to work. seems like he said he wanted to quit writing at age 65, so i guess he has. I know know eveidenc that lee child is actually writing any of this book and probably not the last 2. The stoies are mediocre or worse, silly and meaningless, not stream of pleasure readingthis book because you constantly encounter farciful dialogue, situations and stilted character and the real jack reacher is never there. what is so intriguing is the vast number of 5 star ratings, from people who don't read, I assume there are AI written reviews or down and out souls who will, its great for a tuppence. good by lee and escpecially andrew. incidnetly when andrew child first appeared, he had a different name and i tried one of his books. so i can see the lack of talent was always there and why doesn't lee child see or does he not care about his reputation??

Terrible, terrible book What a stinker of a book. Cardboard characters. Totally unbelievable plot. Incredibly boring. Whatever made the Reacher books readable is totally missing in this and all of the other books being written with his son. I don’t usually waste time writing reviews on books that I hate, but this is a public service. Don’t buy this book.

Last novel was bad, this even worse. Not interested in half the novel being someone else other than Reacher. Having read everything from day 1 release of first Reacher, last 2 are so not Reacher, probably won't bother with next year's novel

We've hit a new low. The first 15 odd Reachers were magnificent. Fantastic. The next 20 were also ok. You knew what you were in for. Then Lee got bored and his folks made him get his dumbarse brother in on the act. And this book is the WOAT. The worst of all time. The story is messy and unclear. The dialogue is absolutely shithouse. And the scenes are just hopeless. Fuck me dead, Lee child - you should be embarrassed.

Predictable yawn fest.

Really disappointed in this last book of the series for the following reasons: - I had a hard time understanding how Ayers first got sick from pregnancy after she had had sex with Baker only eight days beforehand - later she thinks she's six weeks pregnant, which means she conceived on the beach on his first visit - however, that incident was "interrupted" by other people arriving at the beach. - No one seems to be very upset that Rosie and Russ are dead. - When Baker comes back from leaving his life in Houston, he doesn't contact Ayers right away even though she is the reason he moves to St. John. - We don't know what happens to Marilyn Monroe - is she safe? Did Baker's friends get out okay before the hurricane? - Why don't we get reactions of the characters to MAJOR life events, like Ayers having the baby - hello, Baker's reaction? Floyd? Irene? She has Maia come in the room - what about the father??? - Long descriptions and passages for events/characters that are not important to the main story - Phil and Sunny's travels, Duncan Huntley, Margarent Quinn. - It seemed like the book suddenly wrapped up, to get to the end. I would have liked to read about the scene with Huck and Irene when she jumps on the boat, or Cash coming to ride the hurricane out with Tilda. There's more but I don't want this to be a novel in itself.

This book is awful. Books 1 and 2 in this series were bad, but this one is truly terrible. I'm about 80% through it and don't know if I can finish it. About three-quarters of the way through the book, it seems like a new author takes over. The writing changes to be more of a recap of all the story arcs. Then new characters and storylines are introduced out of the blue. Why did the author start a #MeToo storyline? And then end it in a cursory and dismissive way? Who are Teresa and Ellen and why does the reader care? This 'new' author introduces a litany of new characters and back stories for no purpose. Really, it's just a list of their names and their professions. Did Ms. Hilderbrand get bored with her own story and turn the manuscript over to a high school creative writing student to finish? I know readers will want to know how the original story ends, but beware, you will be disappointed with this story and writing style.

This series got progressively worse. Thank goodness it's over.

** spoiler alert ** I don't like to leave books or series unfinished so I usually push through even if I'm over it, as was the case with this series. Now that I've finished it, I'll give the full review...with spoilers, but honestly there wasn't a single surprising thing in these books. After a decent start, each subsequent book dissolved what was redeemable in the initial plot. By this third installment, the author seemed to be drained of ideas so she filled in the space with endless recaps, repeating conversations, and random character back stories that had no point. Besides Ayers' baby, the main point of the book could be summarized with one chapter: the helicopter crash wasn't an accident, Todd gets convicted. The end. To sum up the series: A white family finds out about the double life of their husband/father who recently died. They move to the Caribbean to learn more of his crimes, meet his secret daughter, and get to know all the other rich, white people who live on St. John. The brothers are extremely jealous, petty, and completely unable to act rationally. It's ok though because they're hot so they can do no wrong. They're amazing superstars worthy of every woman's affection. All the women are attractive and slim. They must be slim, even the pregnant lady barely gains weight. Go her! We eventually find out that Russell Steele was a really great guy, he just happens to be seduced (literally) into a bad business. Not his fault, he was trying to please his wife after all. (Seriously what it is about needing to excuse all of the bad behavior of the men in this book?) Finally it's wrapped up with a long explanation of why all the characters are matched up, even though they have reasons to be extremely angry at each other. Then there's a quick analysis of the "Me Too" movement, followed by an ending with a collosal storm meant to show the island's resilience (that could have been an exciting ending, but instead the storm is completely slipped over to its end). The island itself is somehow the narrator in the end so we know that things will be fine. Anyway....read the first book if you want. Skip the last two.

Woof, this was Not Good. I guess it was still readable, because I finished it, but yikes. * pregnancy math was wrong * all the main characters essentially lose everything but... it never matters? magical money and houses and jobs just appear? * a cat 5 hurricane has never been less consequential * "st john" as one of the narrators felt super lazy * the marilyn monroe infodump felt super lazy * so did the school wives survive or ...? * also who really cares about the school wives * but at least the school wives were pre-existing characters in this series, unlike random CBS news anchor's extended family seriously wish this had been one book instead of a trilogy.

Other than updating her pop culture references and crime, this is the same book Ms. Roberts has been writing for the last 20-25 years. I requested this title from NetGalley as an ARC. It served to remind me of why I stopped reading her books. I tried to like Morgan and just couldn't do it. Whenever she referred to her mother and grandmother as "her ladies" I pictured a 90 year old talking about her cats. It was an unnecessary affectation. The Jameson and Nash families were portrayed as so perfect it bordered on the ridiculous. There were so many em-dashes that I just stopped reading all the asides. They were annoying and usually pointless. Also, there were far too many awkwardly worded sentences. The endless em-dashes just made the awkward sentences that much worse. I do not recommend this book.

First time read of Nora Roberta and will never read another one again. The character was supercilious and totally unlikeable even though she had been through a terrible ordeal. The way she referred to her mother and grandmother as her ladies was just awful. Sorry just terrible, dull writing

(Audio) DNF 9%. I used to love Nora Roberts, but it’s been awhile since I’ve picked up one of her books. I’m not sure if her writing style has changed or if it was always this awful and I just overlooked it…but I couldn’t take another second of it! Such short, repetitive, DUMB dialogue. Just bizarre phrasing-nobody talks or thinks that way!! The plot seems good and I’m interested in seeing where it goes, but it’s not worth suffering through the bad writing.

How does this have 4.4 stars? The writing was so cheesy I couldn’t get past it and nothing happens. I also felt no connection to any of the characters or felt any of their connection to each other. I DNFd 40% of the way through. Bummed since this is my first Nora Roberts read!

Too many details we didn’t need. I don’t care about the drinks Morgan made. The characters didn’t have dimension. The love story felt rushed. Least favorite book I’ve read this year

“We’re strong, independent, intelligent Nash women” bla bla Every other page was the main character and her “ladies” reminding each other how “strong the Nash women” are. I had to skim through pages and pages which is something I never do. Too many details in the weekly family meetings and Morgan’s flower arranging skills. The main character is a bartender and everyone acts as if she’s a rocket scientist doing the most amazing work. I’m also disappointed in the jabs Nora Robert’s gave towards conservatives. There was a “redneck” character who she made a point to call “anti Vaxer, anti government, anti everything” who also happened to have a collection of “big scary guns” and pictures of Jesus on her wall as if it’s a bad thing. This book was basically about a bunch of women being large and in charge of the world. Worst book Nora Robert’s has ever written and turns me off of getting another one of her books.

I grow so weary of liberal authors weaving their elitist convictions into a novel - a novel about police and police procedures, neither of which are items that are included in very many reading lists of Democrats!! Stunning to me that Sandford disdains the very readers who made his fortune. A very sympathetic portrayal of ANTIFA for example, was awful and actually pathetic. After 20 years of faithfully reading this series, I'm finished. The increasing liberal bias in his recent additions to the Lucas Davenport franchise will lead me to try other authors who don't interweave their personal political viewpoint into a work of fiction in the thriller genre.

Outlier review - I am a huge fan of John Sandford - been reading his work for a good 20 years. I don't know if Sandford is getting lazy or I am becoming bored with his characters, but this was his worst yet (I have been disappointed with the last few novels). The plot line is intriguing - a group of mega rich folks decide to murder a bunch of wealthy scumbags. Once the murdering starts, enter Davenport and Flowers, along with assorted local police and FBI agents. A large portion of the novel consists of Davenport and Flowers traveling from destination to destination, having inane conversations over meals (of which there are many) or while on stake out. I understand much of police work is mundane - life is mundane. If I wanted mundane in my entertainment, I'd watch TV not read suspense novels. There was a great deal dull in the book, little action, and flat characters. Righteous Prey was a waste of time - I won't be anticipating Sandford's next novel.

I’m finished with this series and this author. When I read a book, I want to escape reality. Lucan Davenport breaks laws left and right yet he makes sure to mask up. What a joke. Pretty hypocritical of someone who has gotten rich off of shoot ‘em up police books now attempting to preach gun control.

Though this poem was met with much acclaim; from both the country and world over, it is sorely lacking in true quality or intellectual workmanship. Slam poetry, while being popular within certain sects since the mid-twentieth century, has never been considered a great masterpiece of the human mind. Likewise in “A Hill We Climb”, there is a lack of intellectual labor. Any moderately legibly skilled high school student could have written the same thing, if not better.

Disappointed again So DEI that it makes one gag. Live and let live. Fine. But no celebrating how great one is to embrace every outlandish, and often mentally ill, fad that comes along and berating anyone holding on to old, moralistic, idealist morale and sanity. If it is is fine to celebrate homosexuality then why isn't it fine to celebrate heterosexuality? The entire story and theme is to rejoice in the present DEI mentality. Where did Dallas, emotionally tortured cop go? Where did the enjoyable relationships with other main characters go? Other than a slight mention to keep their presence alive. Have always ordered the next book. But after the last couple and then this DEI manifesto, no thanks.

not pleased Not her best book and I have read every JD Robb books..very disappointed in this book, as they are expensive to buy.

Passions In Death review I’ve read over 50 In Death books and JD Robb (Nora Roberts) has always found a nice balance of different characters with different backgrounds, races, and orientations, and she’s done it really well. Always kind and respectful. Never preachy. However, this book reads like she not only hired woke progressive narrative consultants, but it sounds like she let them write the entire last third of the book. She doesn’t just push racist white hate, misandristic, anti-American, anti-traditional, divisive, trite, woke, talking points, but she repeats them over and over again to the point that the story and characters become vague afterthoughts to the hard, alt-left, progressive propaganda she unrelentingly shoves down your throat. The closer you get to the end the more the characters start talking and acting in odd, one dimensional, uncharacteristic ways. They become hollow shells that have no purpose other than to carry the aggressively political messaging. Unless you love hateful, western nihilistic propaganda keep your memories and attachments to this series and its characters intact and stay away from this book.

I’ve been a fan since day one. Read and reread multiple books. But this one is definitely the worst. :(

Bad I couldn't wait for this book to be over. So disappointed. Took me 3days when usually its one and done. East

not our usual Dallas I might swear in court that JD Robb did not write this book, if asked. The style is wrong, the character development lazy, the relationship between Eve and Roark does not ring true either. So I’m not sure what happened in the genesis of this book, but it just doesn’t play.

Disappointed I've read every one of J D Robb's books and until this one have enjoyed them all. Not this one, which bored me so much it was a struggle to complete it. Very disappointed.

Passions in Death Too touchy feely. Soft. Not as fast moving as prior books. Kept wanting to put the book down. Hope the next one is better .

Awful. This series has completely lost the thread of anything resembling coherence or plot points that make any damn sense. The ending just crams random plot points together as if the authors just…wanted to be done and couldn’t be bothered to actually write anything that fit within anything they wrote previously.

Well, I have read all of this series. I really enjoyed these at one time. This 25th in the series was same-o same-o. I found myself skimming ahead; hoping that Martha would be ok was my only interest. I think it seems there is nothing new left for these main characters and perhaps this series has run its course.

This is the 25th book in a series. At the beginning of the series the characters were strong. They have weakened and the story line is getting worse. The ending was too rushed and really didn’t even end the story.

stupid incoherent plot, story is absurb, characters even more so.........time to finish off this series!

Mickey Gibson is a single mom who works from home conducting investigative surveillance on alleged criminals. With two young toddlers, her job could be very challenging. And when she gets set up for a murder by a woman posing to be a co-worker, Mickey's life is turned upside down as she is led on a wild goose chase by the mysterious woman. I expected so much more from this author. Perhaps my expectations were too high. The description of the book made the novel much more than it actually was. And a glowing review from the marketing gal at Grand Central Publishing got me sold. Too bad the novel didn't live up to all of the hype. I kept wondering if I was reading the same novel as those readers praising its virtues. I just couldn't connect with the story. There were so many distractions -- Mickey gets framed for a murder by a mysterious woman who then has Mickey chasing leads down a rabbit hole, then add in the drama of her two toddlers, then add in the victim having several aliases, and you have an "everything but the kitchen sink" story. Needless to say, I didn't enjoy this novel as much as everyone else. And by 33%, I gave up reading any further. Maybe one day I'll attempt a re-read. But for now, it's a one star DNF. I received a finished copy of the novel from Grand Central Publishing. The review herein is completely my own and contains my honest thoughts and opinions.

Too many characters to keep straight. Didn't like the story line. Too complicated and adding cop Sullivan into the same awful mess was just too much b.s. Probably the only Baldacci book that I didn't like. Sorry, not sorry.

This book is awful. I cannot get into a book where the lead character is an idiot and makes constant irresponsible, illogical choices chapter after chapter....with no improvement to story.

I just don't understand why folks thought that this was a book worth reading. The plot was thin and unbelievable. The characters were one dimensional and the story was boring and created no tension whatsoever. I actually like Mr. Baldacci's writing most of the time but he just flat mailed this one in!!

steve, babes, what is this

Omg I'm finally done with this dumpster fire of a book. What a huge let down and a drag! Thankfully this was not an anticipated read for me but I can't deny how much of a pooper this was! The first 200 pages is what King fans sink their teeth into the most, believable characters with strong relationships. This section could be a novella all on its own and would easily make fans happy. As a plot-driven reader, I found the first 200 pages to be more on par for the course in what to expect. Was it a stroke of genius or anything to rave about? Not to me, it was a decent slice of life section. If that was all this was it would be a solid ⭐⭐⭐. The last 400 pages of this wannabe Fairy Tale adventure was the most painful thing I've had the displeasure of ever reading. The title says it all in regards to the type of Fantasy this brick of wasted words contained. There is not a single ounce of originality to this at all. Charlie constantly always gives you the beat by beat of what kind of book this is. It mixes and matches various dark Grimm Fairy Tales, Ray Bradbury's, Something Wicked This Way Comes and if that wasn't enough King decides to add in a Lovecraft monster to boot. The reader is constantly hit over the head with pop culture references and nods to literally everything you would expect from this type of story that leaves a ton left to be desired. All the side characters are bland throwaways that you don't get anymore than a chapter or two with them to get attached. Even when they do return to the page it's not worth caring about. As a cherry on top as a personal dislike, there's a good 100 page chunk set in a Gladiator style trope that had me pull my hair out because of how much I can't stand it on top of everything else. Overall: I suggest that you skip this one and find something else to read. There are far better books than this.

1.5/5 New half-year resolution—I need to stop taking recommendations from Booktok. I’m not gonna to lie here, if this series hadn't been raved about everywhere I looked online, I probably wouldn't have read it. I’m trying to stop reading TikTok popular books, but the rating in this book made me picked it up. Fourth Wing was my first book by Rebecca Yarros, so I didn't know what exactly to expect, but at least now I know that it will be my first and last story by this author, because it turned out not to be for me. This review probably won't cover all the things I didn't like about it, as I started skipping pages after about sixty percent of the book. But without further ado, let's finally get to the point of my review—what exactly didn't work out for me in this story. The story didn’t hooked me up from the beginning at all. The main reason for this is probably because the writing style didn't speak out to me. I actually dnfed it the day before, because of that reason, but decided to give it another chance because I thought it might not be my day for it or maybe I wasn't in the right mood after a whole week. At one point I was even glad about this decision, but my enthusiasm didn’t last long. I have to be honest and say that around forty percent of the book I was pretty invested in the story when the dragons finally showed up. Unfortunately, it turned out I was only interested when the dragons were involved. The rest was just boring for me. The second thing is that I felt no connection to the characters. Literally nothing. I must admit that Violet had some great moments, but most of the time I was just embarrassed by her actions. The example. “Glad to see our year apart hasn’t dulled your tongue, Vi.” “Oh,” I toss over my shoulder as we walk into the hallway, “I can do quite a few things with my tongue. You’d be impressed.” That line sounded like a horny frat boy. Also, if you didn’t get it that she was short and tiny, the author kept reminding you of that, because that information was indeed very important. "I’m too short." “So she’s small.” Mom scans me up and down" "Good gods, I don’t even reach his collarbone." "I’m shorter than most." “You’re pretty small for a rider, but it looks like you made it.” "I’m at a disadvantage, that I’m too small to climb its foreleg and mount," “You’re tiny.” He says it like an insult" "I’m the smallest of our squad" “I’m too short for the ramp,” I whisper to Rhi." “I’m too short to span the distance!” I hiss, uncaring that anyone could hear us." That's only from twenty-six percent of the book. I did not include the rest, because I would not have enough space for the rest of my review. Moving to Xaden—aka, your typical fantasy hero. Seriously. He was your usual tall, black haired, with strong sharp jaw, muscled body, but this time he was riding dragons. I almost forgot, he was "Flaming hot. Scorching hot. Gets-you-into-trouble-and-you-like-it level of hot." you get the picture. He was also tall. I've written about it before, but we've also been reminded of it a lot. I had to mention that sentence he said here, because I was laughing my ass off at that moment. "You have incredibly touchable skin.” Touchable skin? What does it mean buddy? Honestly, the dragons were more interesting than the main characters here. If the book was about Tairn, I'd probably be more eager to read it. This dragon had better personality than both of them. At least for me. Tairn was literally my favorite character here. That says a lot about how much I enjoyed this book. The last thing is the romance between Xaden and Violet. This series is supposed to have five books and they already done the deed, are in love—probably because I didn't make it to this part, and have a strong connection—again, probably because I didn't make it to this part. I thought that at least their first meeting, which is usually quite important, will be more spectacular. But, no. They met in the fourth percent of the book and I was like "Well, that’s it? Already?". They were supposed to be enemies to lovers, the reasoning behind it made even sense, but they delivered nothing. I felt no chemistry between them, no tension, especially the sexual one, and no hatred that they should feel towards each other as enemies. Almost every time Violet saw Xaden it went like that. "I hate him so much" "But he is so sexy and beautiful and sexy. And tall." Not even their first kiss and the cute nickname the hero usually gives the heroine saved them. The first kiss happened after Violet found out that they could feel when their dragons banged. Yes, they could feel their dragons banging. This information made me feel quite uncomfortable. Extremely even. I know they could get rid of that with some magic or whatever, but just why? The nickname "Violence" that Xaden called Violet was tacky and the book could easily have survived without it. Not to mention this line. "you’re really a violent little thing, aren’t you?” My only thought was From Blood and Ash. It sounds damn similar. Even though I only read the first book from this series. Moving forward to the things I liked. The dragons. Ending my review, all I will say is that I am pretty sad and disappointed that I didn’t end up liking this book. I wanted to start a new fantasy series that I would be obsessed with, but I guess we can't have everything we want. I’m happy for people who loved it though. Good for you guys.

** spoiler alert ** 0/5⭐️😍 OMG THIS IS THE (second) WORST BOOK IVE EVER READ IN MY ENTIRE EXISTENCE!!!🥰 I’ve posted my iron flame review!! You can go read it if you liked this one :) Violet Sorrengail. Get it? SOARING-GALE BECAUSE DRAGONS SOAR ON GALES 🧍🏻‍♀️ THATS SO CLEVER. She’s like so badass because she’s like so dainty and like so small and has insert name chronic illness which makes her so badass and a really good candidate for a WAR SCHOOL. She is totally not a self-insert of the author because unlike the author she doesn’t have blonde hair, she has ultra special brown hair that turns a really rare silver as she gets older. (Because hair pigment works like that🤭) She’s also so super really fast because she’s SOO petite and small and little and fragile. And also the love interest is SOO much bigger than her and he’s the most powerful darkness-wielding highlord—oh sorry I mean dragon rider at the academy. because Violet being the daughter of the literal leader of the school wasn’t enough, she also gets a super mega rare giant black dragon AND a never-before-seen golden useless ass feathertailed baby dragon that has the ability to manipulate time. And don’t worry, Violet can summon lightning just in case you were concerned that Mare Barrow was the most obnoxious lightning wielder. Rebecca Yarrows is such a good writer 😍 all of her world building and info dumps are so unbearable to read!! Plus her writing is entirely YA and juvenile except for the horrific car crash level sex scenes that happen 80% into the book. What a slay!! All of her characters make me want to rip my eyeballs out🥰 but especially Xaden because he’s so tortured and scary and so much bigger than our poor baby fragile pathetic paper-boned protagonist Violet soaring-gale. The enemies to lovers is also so well done!! They were literally never even enemies😍 and I didn’t once believe they felt anything other than the most surface level lust for the other🤭 Also why the fuck did Yarrows decide that when the dragons fuck that their riders also get really horny? That was information I did not ever need. The world building was so amazingly perfect!! I loved how she info dumped entire paragraphs of exposition and random facts onto us, but still never managed to outline how the actual school worked or why the fuck the gryphons couldn’t just be incinerated by the giant ass dragons with literal magic!!!!😍 Oh, I also really enjoyed how the single black character with any personality was not only bisexual but hyper sexual and slept around with everyone!!! It was really great how Rhiannon was sidelined the entire novel so that Violet could also be useless! I also love how we don’t get to know anything about any of the side characters because Violet is too concerned with fucking Xaden!! 🥵 The nickname of “Violence” for Violet, the character that literally did not kill a single person until the 75% mark also made a lot of sense!! I’m so glad she was at a war school and wasn’t required to kill a single person or even ever actually train without cheating her way through by poisoning her opponents!! She will totally not die in actual combat when she can’t sneak random ass made-up poisons into her opponents’ meals!! 😝 I think it’s also so inspiring how Violet’s tiny 90 pound frame literally could not support swinging an 11 pound sword, but the dragons did not murder her for being weak (her words not mine) because she was so strong mentally because she complained about being in pain (despite claiming to be used to pain?) and so delicate and fragile all the time!! 🤩 Also let’s just not talk about how Violet totally plays into the “toxic perseverance” trope by actively ignoring the symptoms and effects her disability has on her body and powers through everything because she’s “used to pain”!! That’s so good and such a good example to set <3 It could have been interesting if Violet actually found ways to accommodate for her weaknesses/disadvantages that made sense, but clearly Yarros doesn’t actually give a fuck so she didn’t bother. The only example we have of this is a saddle which I’m sorry is stupid as fuck because why was everyone not already using saddles?? Did Miss Rebecca ever look into how fucking uncomfortable it can be not use a saddle or padding while riding horses much less consider how painful it might be to ride a giant, roughly scaled DRAGON that is FLYING THROUGH THE SKY?? 🙈 This book was so incredible😍 I can’t believe booktok didn’t force this down everyone’s throats sooner!! It was so great to read this horrendous amalgamation of shitty world building, horrifically atrocious writing, and one dimensional characters with a nonsensical plot and a underdeveloped romance!! Legitimately the worst book I’ve ever read. I would unkindly ask Rebecca Yarros to never write another word in her life.

This is kinda harsh but my honest opinion after reading the ARC ~ ** May 2023 edit: I'm a bookseller and read a variety of genres including children's and YA. My issues are not with these genres. My issues are with books that read as clumsy, horny (and not in a fun camp way), and unpolished. Which in my Personal Opinion(tm)!!!!!!!!!! this book is. It's pretty stock standard commercial horny hetero fiction. That's fine. Can't please everyone. I'll be totally honest: if you don't care that much about quality of writing and want an easy het romance-fantasy novel à la Cassandra Clare et al. (nothing wrong with that!), you may enjoy this. It's not my thing, though, and I can't recommend it if you want a decent wholemeal fantasy novel to sink your teeth into. ** I found this disappointing and I’m frankly shocked it has such glowing early reviews. To be fair, my disappointment is partly caused by the misleading blurb and ARC marketing. The blurb implies a high stakes military fantasy set at a war college for dragon riders; this put me in mind of Temeraire, The Poppy War, or even elements of The Hunger Games. Romance is mentioned - “traitors will become allies… or lovers” - but it’s certainly not implied to be wholly a romance novel. I saw on the author’s instagram that this is being marketed as a “new adult fantasy” - if 'new adult' just means ‘lacking the sophistication of genre fiction but can’t be marketed as YA romance because of sex scenes’… then, sure, call it 'new adult'. All the characters - even supposed high-ranking military figures - speak like millennials from the year 2023. Why was the word ‘vibe’ used so many times? As in, ‘his vibe is weird’. But in other ways the setting recalls medieval Europe? Who edited this??? I would not have picked this up if the marketing more accurately reflected the content. It’s 100% a romance novel in the vein of Cassandra Claire, Sarah J. Maas, the Divergent series; any genuine stakes are basically subplot to the central romance. The oh-so-important ~tension~ could be resolved by just… talking to one another? Most other world building elements are underdeveloped & confusing, full of plot holes, and everyone’s dialogue is set up to give the protagonist & ~dark~ love interest perfect Marvel-esque quips and one-liners. I get that this is a popular thing but to me it lacks sophistication and polish of contemporary fantasy :-) Also, my certified transgender opinion (tm) is that the inclusion of a random nonbinary side character was disingenuous and definitely tokenism, lol. The reason for two stars instead of one is because I found the representation of the protagonist's disability - and how it was navigated in such physically demanding settings - genuinely interesting. All in all, this, to me, read like a semi-edited fanfic. If that’s your thing, go buckwild. Otherwise, I can’t really recommend it. The blurb is pretty misleading, imo. Expect a YA romance novel.

✖️This book is NOT FOR YOU if you do not like 1. “frail”, “small”, “short” heroine lead who’s obsessed with huge/big/broad male lead and who just can’t shut up about it 2. Characters not acting their age and bickering like kids 3. Everyone just automatically loves, protects, prioritise the female lead 4. Egoistic strong male romantic interests who are trying to act strong like they almost become the unknown side characters 5. No world building in a fantasy setting 6. No character depths 7. No chemistry between the main leads 8. Expecting dragons to be of a more significant role of the plot but you just have to keep waiting and waiting 9. Too much babying of one main character 10. Eye rolling the entire time 11. Hyped books 12. Your favourite book bloggers/booktubers read it just for the sake of the hype 13. Writing which seems like prepping you for the most craziest battle story ever told but it never happens till the end . . . And if this romance is the kind we are swooning over, I better shift our human species to another universe. You know the kind of bad taste in your mouth when you read that part in Breaking Dawn, believe me you will get the worst kind of bitter taste when you read the sx scnes. (Don’t worry about the missing Es!) The only consolation now is that I didn’t waste my precious money on the sparkling hardcover.

Did not finish. I’d like to know if I’m actually reading the same book as everyone else. This is the worst piece of literature I’ve read in a long while. I got to chapter 8. Couldn’t go any further. First off, the endless use of the F bomb is tacky and lazy if you ask me. So many great descriptive words and all this author can do is spout curse words. Curse words do not a personality make. Neither is being a horny 13 year old. Violet is supposed to be 20 years old, but it seems more like she is 12. I mean… “the scar that marks his eye brow only makes him hotter. Flaming hot. Scorching hot. Gets-you-in-trouble-and-you-like-it-level-hot…” Who talks like that? I’ll tell you. Tweens. I think I’m rooting for the other side of this conflict too. What kind of battle strategy is it to encourage the deaths of dozens of people as an entrance exam? Then to be okay with it when your cadets at killing each other. Let’s just kill off a huge percentage of our able bodied young men and woman every year. Yup. Sound strategy. The big bad school is so scary! It’s incredibly cliche, predictable, and trite in all the worst ways. Violets only personality trait is that she’s SuPeR FaSt aNd SmArT. And the reason her mother tossed her into the school in the first place is super unbelievable. It’s just a weak book with weak and convenient reasons to push the plot forward.

Some of y’all bouta be real mad at me, but this is awful. Also if this is enemies to lovers, then oh, how mighty have fallen. The amount of time I cringe was insane I’d rather stick molten hot needles in my eyes than read sequel. Side note: ratings for this book give me Sound of Freedom vibes. How does first time fantasy author get from May to August so many reviews and almost all are 5 stars. Too much sus.

xaden could spit on me and I would ask him to do it again

who had a gun to the head of everyone who rated this five stars

rebecca yarros wrote a dystopian novel about revolution and resistance against injustice, but i don't think she truly know what it means.

absolutely cancerous

reread so I could give this book the 1 star it truly deserves 😭

Video Review: https://youtu.be/p7rLcc8WrMU I wanted to be like y'all. I wanted to love this book. I drove an hour and a half from my parent's house, while visiting them, to find an edition with sprayed edges. I didn't 'hate read' this. But I did, unfortunately, hate this read. I go into it in full in my youtube video linked above. I won't go into those qualms here because I feel like I've probably hurt enough people's feelings with my video. This is nothing against the author or other readers. You have opinions on books and I have opinions on books. That's it. Let's not fight in the comments, kay?

i’ve read the book, and i think it’s so fucking shit. goodreads stop deleting my reviews challenge

~1✰~ "Be nice" "I'm finding it" "It takes you that long?" "It does, it does" "Anybody found it yet?" "I'm still searching" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bumped it down to 1 star (originally 2.5 stars) bc this book is like the plague to me and I can't seem to get rid of it. It's everywhere and for no reason at all. For even further explanations on why I loathe this book so much, apart from what I mentioned in my review and comments, Katie Colson on YouTube has a rant review on this book. Just watch that and read the comments on the video. DISCLAIMER: Trust me, if u're sensitive, do not dare read this review. Nasty and mean people are not welcome on my profile/reviews/comments bc I WILL block and report. I shouldn't be scared to give an "unpopular" opinion bc A BOOK CAN BE TAKEN IN DIFFERENTLY BY EVERYONE. Everyone has disappointments and everyone has favorites. Just bc I hated this book doesn't mean u should or just bc u loved this book doesn't mean I should. I warned y'all. ------------------------------ In my humble oh very humble and ᵗⁱⁿʸ opinion (if u get it u get it) this book made me rethink my eyes' purpose ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I also saw this review where someone said Xaden wears skinny jeans. That's all I'm sayin' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I really don’t know how to start to be honest. I could offend so many people with this one, but someone must say it. But as someone said here: Who held a gun to your head guys? Did we read the same book? As a disclaimer, I’m not a person that reads something just because it’s popular and I never blame people for recommending something they love. I just had so many high hopes for this book primarily as so many loved it. BUT, that’s not why I read it. When I saw it, it wasn’t out yet and there were like 50 people that were commenting on Goodreads about how excited they were for it (mostly fans of the author). I was intrigued because I saw “The House of Dragon” on HBO and I got oddly obsessed with dragons out of nowhere. I also heard “dark academia dystopian fantasy” WITH dragons so of course I couldn’t wait to get my hands on it. But I’m also entitled to rant about a book I hated as anyone else is. This is purely my opinion. Let’s start with the writing and the pacing: some of the people (NOT ALL OF THEM) that didn’t enjoy it say that this is for Sarah J. Maas fans (coming from SJM haters) which is FALSE. I’m a die-hard fan of Miss Maas’s books and this one did not feel like something she would write because the writing was simply, just…bad. It read to me like “Zodiac Academy” (which I gave 1 star), maybe a level higher. Yes, it could be addicting for some, as in this case for many, but it did nothing for me. It was easygoing, but the constant CRINGE. Also, the only adult thing about this book was the swearing and the begging for sex from the MC. My girl was going through it. Like please, girly-pop, stop. The worldbuilding: was not confusing but I got to more than halfway through the book and I genuinely thought there was another one before, like a prequel. This did not feel like a first book to me. Everything was just thrown at you left and right without much explanation. When the MC would panic she would just blurt out information about the world at random right before something would happen with that specific information because I think the author didn’t know how to integrate that into the flow of the story which was ok. Until you got lost after the third paragraph. The storytelling: everything was more "tell then show". Instead of showing me and explaining through emotions how a character was feeling all we had was a straight sentence about smth someone was experiencing, telling me in a blunt manner instead of actually making me feel smth through the writing: Example of what I wanted-"Cold shivers ran down my spine and my heart felt ready to burst out of my chest. I was slowly suffocating. It hurt to move, to breathe, to even think. My legs were too heavy and the world was tilting around the corners of my vision." What I was given: "I'm having a panic attack. Like, it's really bad." (not an actual quote, just an example)😪 The relationship: huh. The only “enemies” part in this book is the one where for more than 400 pages Violet (the MC) only THINKS Xaden (the MMC) hates her. There’s no real conflict between the two that would actually make me think “Oh they hate each other”. No. The only thing that would emphasize a “hate situation” between the two is something that happened between their parents. Violet had more sexual tension with the added villain who was there just for the conflict and to fill in the story where it lacked. Useless, let me tell you that. And when my girl started getting obsessed out of nowhere with doing it and just straight-up begged even though Xaden was out of it felt just icky to me. There was also a scene where they were doing it and they were called in an emergency and he just yeets her off of him like a sack of potatoes. I’m sorry but WHAT? I couldn’t help but laugh, sorry.💀 The characters: had no flavor whatsoever. Xaden was just there, I could not feel the found family and Violet was just plain annoying. She was portrayed as disabled yet the only constant thing that was being pointed out was how tiny she is. We got it the 10th time though. There were very few instances in which her bone structure was talked about and I mean VERY few. The rest was just about how pequeño she is in any given situation.🙄 This wasn’t all about her disability or condition but more about the incompetence of her height which was just infuriating. I’m 156 cm (5’1) tall at 18 but God forbid it was just too much. If it wasn’t coming from her it was coming from the people around her.🫠 I feel like most people just love to romanticize anything that has disability or neurodiversity rep these days (coming from someone with autism this happened with “The Maid” by Nita Prose) just for the sake of saying “I love diversity”. I don’t think they really care if the story is good or bad which is straight-up neglectful. Harmful for the people being wrongly represented and shameful for the people that love the stories in which others are poorly represented just for the sake of the rep.🙃 I have so much more to say but I feel like I offended enough people. God, did I want to love it. I even bought the first print edition with sprayed edges. Unfortunately, the only good things about this book were the dragons and their politics. Might read the next one just for them🥲🤷🏻‍♀️

there is a target audience for this and i am not it. but even if you're part of the target audience, i think it's ok to admit when a novel is poorly-written, no?

I should have been the perfect audience for this book, but much to my disappointment, I hated it. I should have DNF’d around 30%, and I normally would have, but I wanted to say I read the whole thing so I could review it. Even so, I skimmed the last 100-150 pages because I was dreading reading it and it was going to put me in a slump. Quick One Sentence Summary: The Fourth Wing is a contemporary romance masked as a fantasy, filled with a checklist of tropes, flat characters, a nonsensical plot, lazy and cheap world building, and cringey dialogue. Where to even begin? First of all, This does not feel like a fantasy book. It feels like a contemporary romance with dragons. I honestly think she should have just made it an urban fantasy book, and I probably would have rated it higher. But she didn’t. She chose to insist on writing a fantasy, and if you insist on doing that, it better be a good fantasy. And this one wasn’t. The whole book felt reverse engineered, and by that I mean Yarros had one goal: to write a “spicy” book about your standard dark haired hot guy and a character that could act as a self-insert for readers. I guess she accomplished that, but it felt like she lazily created a “world” and story to make that happen. She knew what tropes would sell, and hey, good for her I guess. Get your bag. She’ll make a lot of money off of this. But if you start really looking at the premise, it makes no sense. This book is about a war college where the lucky few get to become dragon riders to help protect the kingdom from attacks from a neighboring kingdom. It is repeated over and over again that the threat of all out war is increasing, so I have a huge problem with this military college allowing so many cadets to die when they are going to need everyone it can get to help fight. They could have easily made the Rider Quadrant a little safer so that those who fail can be sent to the infantry where they will still be able to fight in the war. Sure, I guess you can’t help it if a dragon incinerates someone, but culling 20% of potential riders every year by unnecessarily forcing them to walk the Parapet is pointless. It makes no sense to “weed out” weak people when the kingdom is desperate for soldiers. It’s also ridiculous that students are basically allowed to kill their fellow recruits with impunity (except when they’re sleeping). Regarding the dragons: I don’t understand why they even bother with the humans at all. They have all the power here. Maybe I missed something, but what exactly do the dragons get out of this agreement with humans? It’s in their interest to protect the realm, so it seems like that’s something they could do on their own. I also find it unbelievable that the kingdom would allow traitors’ kids into the Riders Quadrant at all. If the previous uprising was such a problem and they wanted to punish the kids of the leaders, the last thing they should do is let them bond super powerful dragons. That sounds like an incredibly risky thing to do for an unstable kingdom. They could have just sent the kids to the infantry and used them as soldiers, and there would be less risk. Now let me get into the actual writing in this book. My biggest issue is the modern dialogue that felt so out of place in a setting like this. It was jarring, to say the least, and it took me out of the story. There was also an over-abundance of curse words. The world “fuck” is used an enormous amount, but the word “Shit” is found in this book 177 times. 177!! That is an absolutely wild amount of times to use that word. The end result was a book that seemed very juvenile, like it was a 13 year old’s idea of what an adult book should be like. In trying to be cool and edgy to seem more adult, it actually had the opposite effect. The book was also so cringey to me and I rolled my eyes so many times reading it. I should have known this was going to be a bad book the first time Xaden referred to Violet as “Violence.” You can’t tell me Yarros didn’t name her that specifically so she could use that nickname. Together, the dialogue and cringey writing made it so I could never get into the story. When I read I like to forget that I’m reading, and this book did the opposite. Instead, I was extremely aware that there was an author sitting at her computer writing these words, and it didn’t allow me to get into the story at all. I like an immersive experience, and this could not deliver. Yarros also seems to believe that the reader isn’t smart enough to pick up on foreshadowing in this book because it was about as subtle as a sledgehammer. It made the book incredibly predictable. At one point, (view spoiler) Gee I wonder what’s gonna happen later in the book. It was so out of place and there might as well have been a flashing neon sign that read “FORESHADOWING HERE.” There are other instances, but that example is just the most blatant one I can think of. But perhaps my most hated thing about this book is the absolutely atrocious “worldbuilding” that Yarros did, if you can call it that. I’ve read a lot of fantasy books and this is by far the worst I’ve ever read in terms of providing the reader with information about the world. Violet, a character we are told (but never really shown?) is smart and clever, tends to recite historical and geographical facts during times of stress, so it’s all just spelled out for you. How very convenient! I know that when I’m stressed, I always recite to myself information about the geographical position of the United States and facts about the Revolutionary War. It happens the most in the beginning of the book, but this is a tool Yarros relies on throughout the entire thing. Everything we learn about this world is from either A) Violet reciting information out loud to herself, or B) In Q&A sessions during class where a professor provides details to a student. At one point Rhiannon says something about a specific treaty, and Violet literally says “Ahhh yes, the treaty that ________” and tells you exactly what that treaty is. This happened multiple times, too! It felt so incredibly lazy and cheap. It really seemed like Yarros only insisted that Violet was smart as a way to excuse this type of worldbuilding. The idea of a school for dragon riders and a kingdom on the brink of rebellion should have worked for me, and you know what? It did work for me!! Rosaria Munda already did this concept perfectly with The Aurelian Cycle. So if you, like me, hated Fourth Wing, then you should really give Fireborne a chance. And if you loved Fourth Wing, you should also give it a chance because it’s a fantasy about dragon riders! It's just that it has better writing, characters, and world building.

I honestly thought this was really bad. The writing was poor and inconsistent, there were tons of grammatical errors, and the story demanded a huge suspension of disbelief. Hannah’s husband Owen disappears amidst a scandal at his job, and he leaves behind a note that simply says “Protect her.” This note refers to his 16 year old daughter, Bailey. Hannah then spends the entire book on a fact finding mission to determine what happened, and uncovers secrets about his past. Secrets that, in my opinion, weren’t all that interesting. Along the way, she is rude and dismissive to multiple people that have the nerve to try and help her. I felt that Hannah shouldn’t have been the main character of the story. Nothing really happens TO her - actually, nothing much happens in the present day at all. The majority of the “action” is Hannah finding out about the past. It may have been more interesting to have some chapters from Owen’s perspective, or even to read the entire story from Bailey’s perspective, as she is more closely tied to the main events. Hannah as the narrator also tended to over explain everything that was going on. It was a lot of “tell, don’t show.” One random example: “His face softens. “No, it’s fine,” he says. “She’s my sister. And it’s just a little sensitive ’cause she’s not with us anymore…” His sister. He said she was his sister. And he said she isn’t with them anymore.” Umm yea... we know he said that, Hannah! We were all there. Hannah also had a tendency to say (as the narrator) “that stops me” after people say something important to her. That stops you from what? She is never actively doing anything when the phrase is used, other than listening to someone else talk. I could go on, but all in all, don’t understand the overwhelmingly positive reviews for this book. It was not for me at all.

1.5 stars Oof. I haven't read one this bad in a while. Reese Witherspoon lost my trust a long time ago, but wowza she needs to fire whoever is on her pickin' committee. I'm truly baffled by the hype for this book. Hannah, a character with about as much zip as a saltine cracker, finds a note from her husband Owen that simply says, "Protect her." (Don't worry you don't have to remember that line because the author repeats it 304930 times.) Puzzled, our vanilla bean protagonist does not understand why her husband no longer answers her calls and seems to have abandoned her and his 16-year-old daughter Bailey (Hannah's stepdaughter). Soon, Bailey finds an obscene amount of money stuffed into her locker at school and the company Owen worked for is under FBI investigation. Hannah has no clue what's happening but decides to gallivant off to Austin (off a random hunch) with Bailey in search of clues. From there, the pair stumble along into who Owen used to be and why he chose to jump ship. The pacing of this story was bad enough--slower than a man taking a dump. But there was absolutely zero pizazz, no mystery, no intrigue. We're told Hannah and Bailey--the dullest duo in fiction--are in a lot of danger, but we never are truly shown. And after all the traipsing around Austin to get to know the "real" Owen... it still doesn't make sense to me why Owen he had to leave. Essentially, this could have been communicated with an email, and I don't see how Hannah handled this all so well... but again, no personality so how could she? Also, can we all agree that titled chapters (with the exception of dates/character names) are extremely juvenile? The Last Thing I'll Tell You, skip this one.

I received this book through Book of the Month. I poured myself a glass of wine, settled into my hammock chair on the back patio and relished the idea of a good read. As soon as I cracked open The Last Thing He Told Me, a bird pooped in it. Now, as far as I know, birds can't read, but I'm not Snow White. And so, rather than heed the obvious warning from my avian brethren, I snapped a picture for social media, wrote a quippy caption, and after making sure the bird didn't poop in my wine, I read it anyway. Turns out birds can read, and never again will I doubt their taste in literature. This book is boring. If I can skip five pages, skim the sixth, and still know what's going on, that's not good. Based on the writing, I am legitimately not certain this author has ever heard anyone have a conversation before. The dialogue is like listening to a drunk uncle tell you about that trip he took to Florida in '85 where nothing happened. The author wastes no time dumping you directly into the problem, and that is exciting for approximately ten pages before it jumps backward like that same drunk uncle going, "But before I go into that, I should go back, and tell you how she met Owen." We all just wish you'd started there and hope to God this story has a point. Because the audience is never introduced to Owen and Hannah's relationship through anything but tiny flashbacks, I had no skin in the game, and therefore, did not care at all about what happened to these characters. Yes, it would be jarring to have your husband disappear one day, but since I've never met your husband, I literally could not care less about his fate. I actually cared more about her ex-fiance than her current husband. He seemed nice, and I'm not sure why she hated him so much. That is Problem One. Problem Two is that the author goes to great pains to create a conflict out of a situation with a relatively simple solution. The real problem is that the main character refuses to accept this relatively simple solution through the whole book for no reason other than burning curiosity and idiocy, which makes it increasingly frustrating to follow her around. And that leads me to Problem Three. The entire relationship in this book leans on the tired trope of evil stepmother and bratty, entitled stepdaughter and their journey to closeness. I am so very tired of every step-relationship being built on this trope. I had to endure the attitude of a thoroughly unlikeable teen while she berates, ignores, and insults her eager to please stepmother who keeps her pain inside like a true winner. The problem is that we, the audience, are inside for every agonizing moment of Hannah's self doubt. The result is that I disliked both of them very much by the end. In closing, if a bird poops in a book you are about to read, take the warning.

I enjoyed reading the 2 star and below reviews more than I enjoyed the actual book. At least I’m not alone in my reaction to this faulty plot. Hannah’s characterization made NO sense. She starts off as this flighty, artsy, successful wood maker who daintily loses her parking ticket on her first date with Owen. Then she (mind you with no progression), grows into super mom and detective of the year. She also seemed to drop her career along the way. Lots of random side plots and characters with unanswered questions. Don’t care to know the answers. Just a really bad read.

This book was straight. Up. STUPID.

Not a thriller but a slow-paced mystery with far too many words—very wordy. I found the characters bland and the plot dull. I kept reading, hoping for more to happen. Not the book for me. However, I see others enjoyed it, and that's the beauty of the written word. Characters: ★ Writing: ★ Level of Enjoyment: -- I Recommend: The Sun Down Motel

╭◦•◦❥•◦“He never understood that I wasn’t scared of someone leaving me, I was scared that the wrong person would stay.” My Rating : 1⭐ My thoughts : Here's my take on "The Last Thing He Told Me." Buckle up, because it's been quite a ride. ➤What I Liked: The beginning of this book really pulled me in. The premise was gripping, much like the first sip of your favorite coffee on a chilly morning. It was promising and invigorating, setting up what seemed to be a thrilling read. ➤What I Didn't Like: Unfortunately, the excitement didn't last. The story lost its appeal quickly, like a candle burning out in a drafty room. The ending was a jumbled mess, leaving me confused and unsatisfied. The mother-daughter relationship, which should have been a heartfelt part of the story, felt forced and artificial. It didn’t come across as genuine or convincing. ➤The Verdict: I initially gave the book two stars, but on reflection, it doesn’t even deserve that. It promised thrills but ended up being predictable and disappointing. The fact that it won an award still puzzles me. ➤Final Thoughts: This book had potential, but it missed the mark. Save yourself the disappointment and skip this one. Your time is better spent on a more worthwhile read.

What is happening. I am thinking someone must have bound the cover to the book everyone is loving to whatever nuisancework I found inside. I hate to do this, knowing the love and time that goes into a book, but this is hands down one of the worst books I've read in a long time, worsened only by the fact that there seems to be a glitch in my simulation of reality so that others are raving about it. I can't even trouble myself to delve as deeply as I'd have to to highlight all of the ways that this novel went wrong, but suffice it to say that there is absolutely zero character development or character consistency, enough repetition to be used as a kind of government torture, no writer-reader trust whatsoever, absurd levels of implausibility, and descriptions that are, for at least some entertainment value, ridiculous and farcical. Nope.

Carrion Swift is the MVP of this disjointed, overly complicated, overly long, charmless mess of a book. Brimstone has very little of the already limited appeal Quicksilver had... Did an editor even take a pass at this before it was published? There are continuity, timeline, and writing errors galore. And about 1700 mentions of 'solar plexus'. Partly due to the lack of editing, partly due to terrible writing, Brimstone is unnecessarily convoluted, sloppy, dull, and at least 15 chapters too long. The notable exception is, of course, Carrion Swift. Carrion carries Brimstone. His scenes are likeable, warm, often funny, mostly entertaining. (It's not his fault the author put him in two places at the same time). Everything in this book, is inexcusably careless: Not enough interaction between the main characters. Not enough backstory for the side characters. Not enough believable motivation for any of the characters' choices. Far too much lore-building without enough plot. Familiar characters barely having any connection to each other, barely showing any growth or development. Excessive, mediocre sex scenes that feel like audience pandering, rather than natural story progression. And any book that uses the phrase 'wet folds', immediately deserves to lose at least one star. For such a popular series, the audiobook narration is also shockingly bad. The male narrator (Anthony Palmini) regularly mispronounces words, pauses in odd places, and puts the wrong emphasis on the wrong words. It's like listening to a third-grade student struggle to read out loud. The female narrator (Stella Bloom) only seems capable of a whining monotone. Every word out of her mouth sounds flat, yet somehow also urgent and upset. No nuance, no subtlety. She reads like she's demanding to speak to someone's manager. It seems like Callie Hart fell out of love with her Quicksilver characters, and fell too in love with needlessly grandiose Brimstone story ideas. Over fifty poorly written, poorly edited chapters, very few of which do more than utterly fail to keep the reader invested. There's already a rumor spreading, that Brimstone was at least partially written by AI. It won't be at all surprising if that rumor turns out to be true.

not even with a gun to my head could i tell you what the plot of this book was. one star for carrion swift and carrion swift only.

I never want to read the word “mate” in my life ever again. Girl….this was deadass so boring. Like what in the filler fluff useless nonsense was that. There was like ten different plots going on at the same time but like also… what was even the plot?? Saeris took insufferable to a whole new level fr. I almost threw the book at the wall multiple times when she throwing fits about dresses and having to wear make up… girl be so fr with your broke dirty rationed water ass like please just enjoy the nice things. She was actually the biggest bitch at all times and like yeah the blood court hates you but come on mama play the part and fake it till you make it so you get what you want? And she was soooo nasty towards Hayden like give him a break girl. And why did Kingfisher become an absolute cringey loser? I liked him for about the first 20% of the book. Honestly not even it was probably less than that. I absolutely hated how he was towards Carrion at all times like please get over yourself. And then the switch up with Onyx and calling him “little one”? Sorry that was so weird I hated it. His entire personality was literally just Saeris - it was giving girl who stops talking to all her friends because she gets a boyfriend except it’s Kingfisher loses all personality and critical thinking skills because he gets a gf. Like we get it, you love her, she’s beautiful, she’s yours, now let’s focus on the millions of problems that are going on around you. AND ANOTHER THING…. solar plexus??? Please get out of my face add that to the list of words I never want to read in my life ever again. I’m actually so upset, I loved Quicksilver and I was so excited for Brimstone but this was just a massive let down.

⭐️1.25-1.5 Stars⭐️ Messy. Messy. Messy. This book had so many problems… and in my opinion, it should have been edited more before publishing. There are repeated words and sentences, characters explained as being in two places at once, grammatical errors, misspellings, repetitive rambling, and somehow the first 250-300 pages of the book were going everywhere and nowhere at once. I felt like the author tried to do too many things with the plot and fell incredibly short. This book was just all over the place. It was chaotic and messy. Other than the overwhelming amount of technical problems, the story was underwhelming. There are serious elements in Quicksilver that are entirely ignored in Brimstone. The descriptive world building and character development is nonexistent. I didn’t feel connected to any of these characters... I’m just so disappointed, and there are too many issues in this book for me to list all of them. I really wanted to DNF this the whole time… it was just so bad. Seriously, this is the worst book I’ve read this year. You can find this quality of writing from a free site like AO3 and WattPad. And also— why would an author be comfortable telling readers we have to go onto their website to read unreleased chapters??? If we pay $30 for a book, those chapters should be included in the book. I mean, come on. It’s giving, “Oh shit, I forgot to explain this in the book so let me just go put it on my website real quick.” UGH!!!

If this hadn’t been the book club pick, it would’ve been a DNF. The story tries to juggle every trending fantasy element: gods, vampires, feeders, fae, dragons, and countless other creatures, but none of it ever forms a cohesive world or plot. The repeated use of the word mate made me want to rip my hair off. Kingfisher and Saeris had no real romantic chemistry; their relationship was pure lust, with barely a meaningful conversation between them until around 65%. By then, the emotional connection was beyond saving. And the plot holes AND mistakes!??? Honestly. We’re expected to believe that what Tal did at the party was enough to defeat the vampires all along, and he simply chose not to act for a thousand years? It made the entire resolution feel unearned and rushed. I made an entire list of mistakes. Will edit them into this review after I’ve posted it on tt.

One of the worst filler sequels I have ever read. There are over 40 new characters introduced, even up until the very last chapter. Most of this book was our main characters moving around the whole map to random locations that didn’t seem to move the plot along. They found a loophole to be able to still see other and sleep together throughout the book. There was no real yearning that I felt from book one. Even though I loved the vampire plot line of book one, the meaningless resolution of it this book pissed me off. I hope the next book is the last one. Authors really need to stop writing just to write and fill a page count. This isn’t a school assignment.

Had to DNF. My MMC’s gotta have more personality than 1 trait and it being negative. I read QS and it was okay/good, I get the hype. He’ll I gave it 3 stars cause I seen potential. I thought book 2 would be better and only go up but after 20 chapters I had to DNF. The amount of “my mate” that’s said is a lot. And Kingfisher has 0 personality. He’s just rude. To everyone. I could listen to it anymore. An like their whole relationship is snarky remarks and sex. No foundation. And Saeris was all about caring for her brother but then spends over a year in a different realm and RIGHT after Kingfisher shows any interest, she forgot about her brother. Let him do his own thing. Badass FMC where? She did as she was told and followed orders. I did the audio and the best part was Carrions like 2 jokes in 20 chapters! I skipped to the end chapter and I did right by ending that book. I get why people like it, I just wasn’t one of them 🤷🏻‍♀️ I wanted too and figured I’m missing something that people like in this series. And nope.

I'm pretty sure this is just a compilation of all of King's stories he decided weren't good enough and had laying around. & The only dark thing about these stories is how bad they are. Goosebumps is darker.

I only enjoyed one story in this whole collection. People saying the king is back after this pile of shit baffles me. All the covid mentions and that cringey Elvis line had my eyes rolling. What a waste of time and money 🤨😤🥱

In my view, Amanda Gorman was pressured by fame to put out a collection when she was not ready. Most of the poems included in this book are about the Covid-19 pandemic and although this is a fruitful topic, Gorman is too fixated on it and its general impact on a nebulous "society" for the poems to withstand attention. She fails to ground the poems in any concrete experience of the pandemic, and is reduced to vague generalisations abut how society was fractured and came together again. There are also just far too many "pandemic poems" and she fails to say anything new, or point a torch at a different element of the pandemic experience. The poetry itself was also not specific enough, and the images conjured were pedestrian and did not resonate. The second problem Gorman creates for herself is that she includes "found poems" as a great number of her work. These found poems are extracts from other (often better) writers work - from ordinary people to Lin-Manuel Miranda. These (plus the quotes from various texts which indicate section breaks in the collection) are of a far higher quality than Gorman's original work. Even when she cuts and obscures parts of sentences of another work, the result is to show the strength of the original, not the quality of the "surgeon-poet" cutting these apart. I dwelt far longer on the found poetry than I did on Gorman's own work, and, where presented with the full text of the original, I much preferred the original. The inauguration poem is the final poem in the book. Unfortunately, she had lost all my good will by the time I reached it. Other writers have articulated the African American experience, and the experience of "America striving" generally better than she has. The inauguration poem does not make the collection worth buying. It may have been better served as a standalone pamphlet, and Gorman could have been given more time to expand her range of subjects in the rest of her catalogue.

This collection is a great reason as to why modern poetry is oftentimes a disgrace to the craft. Gorman has the vocabulary and creativity of a dung beetle(which is to say NONE). “This book is awake. This book is a wake. “ Look, I can appreciate simplistic poetry like some of Mary Oliver’s work and the Orange (among others) by Wendy cope. What the fuck is this shit though??!!! Rupi kaur and Amanda must be besties. And the saga of shitty Instagram poetry continues. No wonder poetry is such a fucking joke these days.

Garbage poetry. Props to Amanda for getting recognition and big bucks for her other work, but this book is low-hanging-fruit trash. A “roses are red” poem? Really? Don’t waste your time or money on this uninspired cash-grab.

I wish I could give this book negative stars because it is, as its title attests, dirt. It is also profoundly racist. Here is my essay about the dissent surrounding this book, dissent that is being erased, disappeared and silenced: https://tropicsofmeta.com/2019/12/12/...

Exploitative trauma-porn coming from a non-Mexican white woman. Full of harmful stereo-types and stylized violence. But of course why be critical of what you’re reading, right? Do not recommend.

Author appears to be a white woman profiting off the suffering of Brown people, telling a story that isn't hers/her people's to share.

Hard pass on this. There are so many other more authentic books written on this subject. Expanding one's circle of authors is not difficult. https://tropicsofmeta.com/tag/book-re...

Please do not read this book. The author exploits the Mexican story and made more money than any Latinx author would ever make. Read books written by actual Mexican writers. Want to do one better? Read a book written by an actual Mexican woman!

Thank you to LibroFM and Flatiron Books for an ALC for review. It's been brought to my attention that this book perpetuates negative stereotypes. It is not my place to detail those - but it is my place (as a white woman) to listen to Latinx readers, especially those who have experienced immigration. I strongly encourage you to seek out own voices immigrant narratives rather than pick this one up. (I personally plan to start with The Affairs of the Falcóns by Melissa Rivero and Everyone Knows You Go Home by Natalia Sylvester)

“It’s just fiction”, I’ve heard this phrase hurled so many times with this book. As if fiction was this bubble that doesn’t reach our lives. As if fiction hasn’t changed events, and life as we know it. As if fiction was this shapeless, lifeless thing that can be left behind after you pick it up, not noticing the effect it has left behind on your life and thinking. It’s just fiction. My thoughts come from a rage against publishers, the gatekeeping and the obvious servicing that they do towards books that appeal to the white gaze instead of helping to support own voices narratives. You may dress the book as wanting to draw attention to the faceless masses on the issue of border and immigrant crossing but it is nurturing the single story that has haunted the immigrant narrative, filled with stereotypes and incongruities. It is trauma porn, exploitation, emotional manipulation, all shrouded in literary tourism for the entertainment of the intended audience. This is what I think about this book, it sucked a lot. It wasn’t even good writing. I think my feelings about it could have been softened if I could at least see the merits of this book but there aren’t any. The first seven pages as Stephen King kindly points out are thriller reads, there are dead bodies discarded all over, you are put in an unimaginable scene that anyone with a heart would cry out to. There was no premise in which we got to know these characters; we were simply dropped into a violent point in their lives. From then on, there was no stopping the plot, you weren’t allowed to stop and think about what you were going into, yoked as you were by the words that allowed no time to wave away the adrenaline. This trend continued through all 378 pages I read. Whenever I was in the writing I was jarred by the abundance of unnecessary details (Cummins please read up on Chekov’s gun, unless those gold quilted shoes have hidden Luca’s birth certificate there was no need to mention their description so many times!) and by being told I was in Mexico. You see nothing in the landscape produced that feeling. I didn’t know I was in Mexico until I was told. In my head, the background didn’t exist until Cummins told me otherwise. I was always told where to place myself, how to feel, and how to react without anything in the writing inviting me to cultivate those feelings. Whenever a writer does this, I can’t help but wonder if they didn’t trust the reader or their words to organically get us to where they wanted us to go. The characters in this novel didn’t exist beyond the pull and tug of their author, who worked as a puppeteer to her creation, not allowing them to think or act beyond the confines of her machinations. We are introduced to so many characters throughout this story that it was hard to keep up with them. There are characters that are brought into the story for the sole purpose of helping Lydia find a way to get to el norte. We were given fragments of these characters, but she put them together and ultimately guided on how we should feel about each of them. There is simply no room for you to guide your own conclusions. These side characters always pop up to help Lydia in her journey, to make sure that Lydia and Luca make their way to the United States, with each side character enduring every imaginable terror that can be exploited in a narco thriller. Cummins has never seen a simile she didn’t love and include in her writing. I have considered myself a masochist reader before, but this reading took the cake. There was so much editing that could have been done to condense this story by 200 pages at least. Above everything else I judge the clamoring that was done in favor of this book and its writing. The similes, the trauma porn, the overabundance of details, the emotional manipulation, I truly wonder why readers could get swept away by this story. Regardless, readers were and its because the story doesn’t want to allow you as a reader to sway away from the path set before you. You might say, well isn’t this the way to do it to be able to relate to a story unimaginable to so many. My answer to that is that you’re not supposed to relate, you’re supposed to just listen. Not every story is universal, relatable and no story should be made palatable to a white audience. It calls into question the humanity of a reader that can’t imagine a life, a story where they can’t center themselves. It makes me angry that stories must be softened down to generate empathy from people and it should make you angry as well. Shouldn’t the story of people simply seeking a better life, without having to offer you their trauma, be enough for you to help? Why must there be tortured, traumatized, mangled pieces of a character for you to want to read their stories? Part of me wanting to read this story was to try to understand everyone’s fascination and why it was so easy for people to say #ownvoices aside, I loved it. I think if you suspend belief than you can get on board with this story. You can get behind the story of a mother willing to do whatever it takes to get her son to safety. If you don’t focus on the incongruities, the stereotypes, the bad use of Spanish, then this story could prove to pull at your heartstrings. However, when you designate yourself as a white savior, who had no qualms stating that she was the “wife of a former undocumented immigrant”, and has said that “migrants at the border were being portrayed as a “faceless brown mass” and she wanted to give “these people a face”, then you have failed in your execution. I don’t care what your intent was, your impact is what matters. (These quotes were pulled from the Editor’s Note) Cummins author’s note goes on to talk about all she intended but I’ve always found her note to be akin to a kid handing in a Spanish translation that has clearly been Google translated, and attached is a note telling you they studied really hard for this translation. I want to believe you kid, but the final product doesn’t match your work. She talks about not caring about “the violent, macho stories of gangsters and law enforcement” and yet she centers her main character in a romantic arc in which the poetic Spanish lover type that has frequented her bookstore turns out to be the boss of Los Jardineros, the new narcos in Acapulco. How was this necessary? It cheapens what this story is supposed to be, and it was already cheap to begin with. It’s cheap because she saw a chance to insert herself in a narrative, one she had no business doing and she had no qualms doing it. If Cummins truly had done the research, then why not write a nonfiction story the centers the story of the people she claims to be writing about. It’s because the money for a fiction story, and an audience who wished to wring their heart at an imaginary scenario instead of looking at the dozens of stories that exist in real life was there and wiling to read this. It is 2020 and it’s time to stop this exploitation and literary colonization. Listen to readers, the ones whose lives are affected by this or have family who has been affected by this. As the child of immigrants, I wouldn’t dare to tell their story because it isn’t mine to tell but I sure as hell would fight to have their story told by their voices or at least not exploited for entertainment. If there’s a discussion that’s happening now it’s owed to Latinx voices and especially own voices, they weren’t brought up because of this book.

DNF Sometimes people write books and shine a light on a group or person that the reader doesn't normally encounter. That's the power of books. But when the author isn't that person, or part of the group, the light they shine leaves too much in the shadows, creating caricatures and using stereotypes, and telling stories that fetishize others for the white gaze. This book is not #ownvoices, in the worst way. The author feels entitled to tell the stories of Mexicans and migrants, and in doing so reduces the space for authentic storytelling, while increasing the focus on a book of stereotypes. It literally opens with a drug cartel shootout at a quincinera. Seriously. I removed it from my classroom library - although if a student approached me about it, I would encouraged them to read it with a critical eye. We read a LOT of problematic texts that are canonical in the classroom, but we talk about what these issues mean. A book like this could end up being a problematic fav for many readers - because a lot of times, the ends seem to justify the means - isn't it humanizing brown migrants for white readers, and isn't that a good thing? For me, this article by Myriam Gurba says it all. - four years ago, the author called herself white and said she doesn't understand racism like racialized people, yet she chose to write this book - is now calling herself Latinx based on a Puetro Rican grandmother - openly stated her goal was to give a face to masses of brown people (saviour complex?) - the MC is supposed to be Mexican yet is surprised by all sorts of elements of Mexican life; so much so that she seems like "a pearl-clutching American tourist" - borrows so much from her research on Mexico it borders on plagiarism: "In Dirt’s acknowledgements, Cummins announces her ignorance by thanking people for “patiently teaching me things about Mexico.” She lists writers “you should read if you want to learn more about Mexico” and lists a slew of authors – Luis Alberto Urrea, Oscar Martinez, Sonia Nazario, Jennifer Clement, Aida Silva Hernandez, Rafael Alarcon, Valeria Luiselli, and Reyna Grande – contradicting her characterization of us as an illiterate horde." Read it for a skewering review of the book. https://tropicsofmeta.com/2019/12/12/... ---- I did have an ARC from the publisher; thank you for that. I also want to thank a Goodreads reviewer that I follow (M). Her thoughtful (and still positive) review referenced the article above; it prompted me to follow up on it, and in the end, I chose to put the book down. I also checked up on another book I'm reading to be sure that it was #ownvoices and in that case, I breathed a sigh of relief!

white people are a fucking trip

I feel so bad for all talented fantasy authors because how is this popular. The dialogue and writing are so derogatory millennial.

DNF 30% Another viral booktok book doesn’t live up to the hype for me. Shock. If you’re happy with fantasy on Ozempic, not getting the full picture with detail, but heavy on romance, you might like this. Providing you can get past the clunky writing and cringey dialogue. Oh and the MMC being called Kingfisher, who is not a Pokémon with that name. Politics form such a huge part of a fantasy plot and if I don’t understand the world and why it’s the way it is, I’m out. I actually prefer romance as a subplot I’m realising. It should elevate a fantasy, but in these popular romantasy books, the fantasy is sacrificed to give way for the romance, by which point idgaf about. The world. Why does the queen oppress civilians from The Third? Rather than ration their water and food if she’s afraid rebels from The Third are working with the fae, why doesn’t she just wipe them out already? How did she even become queen? She rations water but not alcohol? Why would the Queen do that 😭 how is a tavern packed if there’s a water ration? How are they making the alcohol 🤣 why would the Queen allow it?! No sense was made!! Passage between The Hub and The Third is forbidden due to The Third being infected with a plague yet our FMC is easily scaling a wall to cross the two?? She also kept saying at the start before she stole the gauntlet that she had a plan. What was it 😂 was never answered. How is the FMC murdering 2 trained queen guards and throwing down 3 of them when she’s dehydrated, doesn’t eat properly and was kicked in the ribs in the previous chapter? I’m expected to accept this and THEN it will make sense when I find out she’s got powers or she’s half whatever magical creature at 80%, I can almost guarantee it. The FMC 🤦🏽‍♀️ she didn’t know when to STFU. Utterly insufferable she needed a mute button. I couldn’t connect with her at all. She had zero internal struggle, sure she grew up in poverty and wished for a better future but because it wasn’t fleshed out enough it didn’t make her relatable or humble? Instead she yapped on and thought she knew best. I barely understood her actions, her behaviour was confusing. Like she opened that portal because ‘what’s a bit more suffering’ WHAT 🤣🤣 also super selective on when she gave af about her brother. Kingfisher didn’t talk like a fae who was thousands of years old. The banter he had with the FMC was immature and became sexual so quickly? Saying ‘he was knocked for six’ (a cricket reference), ‘super’ and ‘cliff notes’ took me right out of the story. It wasn’t appropriate given the setting of the book. There was soooo much telling over showing. I couldn’t get on with it. Not a vibe.

This is terrible. There's no way anyone with a developed prefrontal cortex can enjoy this unless you're into dumb dialogues and even dumber MCs. Don't get me wrong - the start is great. The idea and the world in which this is set is actually quite interesting. But as with many books in this genre, our independent, self sufficient and strong FMC turns into a useless, horny buffoon when she meets her eventual love interest. The MMC? You're telling me you're 1000+ years old and you talk and act like a fucking moody teenager? In his emo stage? What grown ass woman finds that attractive? Also, dear authors, respectfully, please don't gaslight the readers about the MCs being funny. It doesn't work. Just write funny scenes and dialogues to make us laugh. Don't write cringy 'jokes' and 'quips' that are not funny at all, and then have the side characters finding the MC hilarious as if that's going to make us think the joke was good. The FMC was making dreadful comebacks throughout which would have her be laughed out of a high school cafeteria, let alone in an adult setting. It makes sense that this book is 'recommended for readers 17+'. Not because of TW or violence, but because the dialogue is on a level of 15-18 year olds.

I muscled through 6 half hours of this audiobook and simply couldn't stomach a moment more. What book are y'all reading? Cause I haven't heard of her. This book, however, was trash. You want me to swoon for a man that calls it 'wet folds'? Not once, not twice, but multiple times?? I'd rather peel my skin own off and staple it back on inside-out. Thanks though 😘 Also, the typos alone are an army too big and powerful for me to conquer. Publishing has been deteriorating by-and-large as literary consumerism has began to supersede it's capitalism. This, and Fourth Wing alike, show the discredit showed toward editing. Sorry, let me shut my mouth, and allow those who feast to enjoy their harvest. To those who celebrate, be merry. To those who fester, I am in the dark crevices beside you, longing and willing to draw the deepest hate at a moment's notice. All who gather here, be ware.

➳ acotar from temu ☆ ugh. i am gonna be super mean here, so don't take ANY of this seriously. i know nothing about this author and i am very happy for everyone that enjoyed it. as always, i have to give a major shout out to my favorite bestie, vee! the only reason i didn't completely lose my mind is thanks to our shit talking. i love you! lastly, a big shout out to my girlie, adrianna. thank you so much for gifting this book to me. i love and miss you very much. i will pick this up + read this when i am out of my slump, which this book caused LMFAO. goddamn. time of death page 330. i just can't do this right now. this book is truly a hawt mess. i have no idea why romance authors turned to romantasy but it's just not working. for starters, i really tried to enjoy this book so i don’t want people thinking that i’m just being a hater about this. everything from the lack of world building and the uneventful magic system make little to no sense. surprisingly, this isn’t even the worst part of this book, because all of these issues lie with our two main characters; kingfisher & saeris. when i tell you—these are two of the worst characters i’ve ever had that displeasure of reading about…i’m not even kidding. starting with the obvious, i tried to understand the story and the objective as to what we as readers are supposed to gather from this book, but unfortunately, none of the information was found in this book. i do hate myself sometimes, but this was truly one of those books where i just couldn’t keep reading right now. i do you intend to pick this up eventually, but right now i just cannot be bothered to be doing all of that. when i tell you, this put me in one of the worst reading slumps…i am hella behind on my current reads. i’m very wary of books that copy premises from other books and like to paint it off as “inspired by”, since this usually means we’re getting a very watered down, lukewarm version of an already copied story. the audiobook is the only positive thing i can say about the story, because everything else felt either completely flat or was just nonexistent. one of the most jarring portions of this book is definitely our male main character—who is quite literally every porn stars username. kingfisher??? is the definition of rage bait incel meets frat bros from midtown atlanta. i’m so beyond baffled that this man is not only over 100 years old, but he is over 1000 years old. i know you’re fucking lying??? typically when it comes to these bizarre age gap romances in a fantasy setting, i am very used to the stereotypical plot device devices that are used. HOWEVER, i’m not quite sure what’s going on with this one, but nothing was believable or relevant enough for me to care. this in turn made the romance completely useless in my opinion, and only dragged the story negatively. speaking of the main character…saeris might be more stupid than kingfisher. apparently this absolute moron is around 24 years old, which is around my age…so color me surprised when she acts even more stupid than a two-year-old BABY. i know i’m going to get hate for this because people always tell me that i’m expecting intellectualism and classic literature when i pick these books up. not only could that not be further from the truth, but fantasy books that have a heavy romantic plot can be well written. THIS, unfortunately, is not one of those books. this all really does come down to personal prerogative—since i cannot tell someone what they can or cannot like. saeris has no competent relevant characteristics that set her apart from any of the other characters. almost every single male character and every single female character, were the exact same archetype with different names. if this were written in third person, i literally would not be able to differ initiate any of the characters. in my opinion, though, this book reads even worse than a first draft due to how many errors i found. at no point was this relationship developing with the story or was it furthering the plot. all in all, either the fantasy portion of this should’ve been strong or the romance portion of this should’ve been compelling. ultimately, neither of those things were happening, and the only real plot progression was her deciding whether or not she wanted to fuck this man after one interaction where he literally behaved like a five-year-old—trying to bully her. obviously miss girl went along with it and folded within two seconds, embarrassing herself every other second. i’m all for smut and romantic development between fantasy characters in these settings, but the sex cannot be the driving factor. they had their first kiss around the 200 page mark, and i assumed we were either in a dream or this was some premonition that our character was having moving forward. but no. this was all taking place in present time and probably the worst aspect of this is how everything is in first person perspective…which in my humble opinion, never works in fantasy and dystopian books. i try not to get influenced by other people, but in this case, most of my friends loved this book. i do feel bad for writing a negative review since most people enjoyed it, but i also don’t want to lie or feel the need to fake how i felt. if i’m going to speak about actual issues as to why this book fell completely flat for me; a lot of my issues would come down to personal preference. the insta love and obsession was downright corny and made little to no sense given the context of this plot, coupled with all of the unnecessary male drama that our female main character brought into this very “high stakes” situation—read more like a soap opera than a fantasy novel. at no point in the story did we as readers—ever understand the objective for why they were together, what they were trying to fight, and who the creator enemy was. acotar was very evidently sewn throughout the pages of this book, and even though feyre + rhys are not my favorites, i can appreciate them so much more after reading a water down walmart version of their story. i strongly believe that romance authors can write compelling stories and not everybody needs to turn everything into a magical fae plot just to have crazy smut scenes. just a fucking mess, i’m sorry. i’ll definitely do my best to pick this up before the year ends, because the second book was already pre-ordered long before this. this book was gifted to me and i do feel like i have to do some justice to my bestie for that. if you have read the second one, what do we think? how do we like it?

Made it 25%. I just can’t do it. This was…underwhelming. If you’ve read any romantasy book in the past 2 years, you’ve already read this one. There’s obviously a reason so many people are enjoying this book. Unfortunately, it didn’t work for me. I don’t normally rate books that I dnf’d, but the average rating for this is very misleading.

─ 1.5 ★'s 🎧 ˗ˏˋ rounded downˎˊ˗ ⚠︎⚠︎ WARNING: unpopular opinion ahead ⚠︎⚠︎ ──────────────────────────────────── thank gods and martyrs i'm finally free this was such a snoozefest 🥱🥱🥱 i lost count the number of times i had to rewind because i fell asleep listening to this. i will say stella and anthony both did AMAZING with the audiobook!! if it wasn't for them i don't think i would have finished this. i still believe the writing needs a LOT more editing. at times this came across as word vomit - loads of unnecessary descriptions with repetitive long chapters. world building was ok but very info dumpy especially in the beginning. this book was also full of plot holes and pacing was slow with nothing exciting happening until the last 20% romance was more insta-lust than slowburn and their relationship was mostly physical attraction. the enemies-to-lovers trope felt forced. i didn’t feel the chemistry between them at all and wanted more of a genuine emotional connection. dialogue was dreadful - it was like listening to teenagers who have discovered swear words for the first time. please don't get me started on the 'banter' and icky sexual comments. "Maybe the issue is that you asked me a question about my cock like a hungry little bitch in heat and didn't ask me something that mattered." There you go again. Hungry, needy little bitch in heat, begging to be fucked..." i didn't particularly care for any of the characters. saeris came across immature and whiny to me instead of badass. kingfisher was fine but i think this book would have benefited so much more with duel pov's so we could learn more about him. carrion a side character was more likeable than the two mains... in conclusion this is extremely overhyped sorry not sorry i don't think it brings anything new to the romantasy genre 🤷🏻‍♀️ it's full of clichés reads like a bad ACOTAR fanfic 🤐 ✄································································· ─ ⟢ attempt no.2 ・⸝⸝ audiobook 🎧ྀི the audios got me 😫 hoping this goes better than the first time 🤞🏼 ──────────── ⋆⟡⋆ ──────────── attempt no.1 dnf @ 17%

I'm gonna be a hater for a full minute. Everyone is entitled to an opinion, so this is mine if you don't agree that's fine. BUT it frustrates me when a book is mid at best and people overhype it so muchhh. And there are indie authors out there who are struggling to get their books the recognition they deserve. And their books are sooooo much better in every way! Why do people hype up already popular books?? 🙄 And this book was terrible. The writing was equally as bad and do not get me started on the characters

Trying my best to remain professional with this review, but right off the bat, the cover KILLS ME every time I see it on my feed. 😂💀 It always gives me a good chuckle lmaoo... Aside from the cover, I couldn’t even read the synopsis with a straight face. In hindsight, that should have been a sign of how bad this read would turn out for me. 💀 A few chapters in, I found the setting and environment of the wards somewhat intriguing. Unfortunately, the characters didn’t hold up. The author spent more time telling us that the female main character was strong rather than actually showing us why. As for the male lead... I couldn’t stand him. His presence was insufferable. The story was marketed as an enemies-to-lovers romance, but his constant abuse and belittling of the female lead made every interaction uncomfortable to read. I get that enemies-to-lovers involves tension, but his behavior was outright abusive. His cringe-worthy dialogue, especially when he mentioned "smelling her lust," had me rolling my eyes. The romance felt rushed, nothing but insta-lust with no proper buildup. The female lead’s personality took a nosedive, and the male lead was a total jerk! To make things worse, at 200 pages in, not much was happening. It was just endless bickering with no real plot progression or worldbuilding. The page count felt unnecessarily long, like the book was dragging itself toward a plot that never quite materialized. Honestly, reading this book was like putting myself through self-torture. It was a dumb read, and by the end, I couldn’t help but wonder, what was the point of this? Thankfully I can now delete this off my Kindle..

1.5 stars honestly, this might be one of the most overrated books i've ever read. i kept waiting for something, anything, to feel original, but it never happened the plot, the characters, the twists, the world-building… everything felt borrowed, stitched together and somehow still incredibly shallow 👀 the characters were especially disappointing. i didnt care about any of them. saeris, in particular, was painfully one-dimensional, neither her *hate* her love, nor her supposed depth made me feel anything. kingfisher was slightly better, but that's not saying much. his tragic backstory and trauma do most of the heavy lifting, and even then, it feel like the bare minimum effort to make him likable 🤷🏻‍♀️ there's nothing truly distinctive about either of them. and the romance✋ easily the weakest part. there's no real chemistry, no meaningful build-up, not even a convincing enemies to lovers arc. calling it that would be generous. it's basically insta-love with a thin layer of tension and while i usually love the fated mates trope, this felt like a lazy, watered-down copy of feysand without any of the emotional payoff. honestly, this book reads like a weaker, less cohesive version of acotar in almost every aspect anyway, if it's not obvious by now: i didn't like this book and if anything, it just reminded me why booktok hype means absolutely nothing to me. ~~~~~~~ Finally starting this book!! Let's see if it lives up to the hype 💁‍♀️

Right away, on the first page, I’m already annoyed and rolling my eyes. For one, the story starts with an exposition dump, which is just not my preferred way to start a book (to put it mildly). The other thing that immediately got on my nerves is that this is yet another bitchy, sarcastic FMC who doesn’t know when to shut up and be serious. She’s being attacked and all she does is roll her eyes and respond with quippy one-liners like some cringey Walmart Deadpool copy. That might work for a lot of people, but didn’t for me. Banter, sarcasm, dry humor are all good things I like, but being nothing but bratty and immature, and constantly delivering cringey quips at the ripe age of 24, is a whole other thing. And she just. Kept. Going. I have never hated a MC so much so quickly. There's absolutely no chance that I'm putting myself through 600 pages of this. Fastest DNF of my life. I don't think I even finished the first chapter. Also, grammar. Do people not proof-read their books anymore? Does no one give a shit about the basics of writing these days? Yikes.

Update: Okay I actually want to give this a somewhat proper review because I'm still gobsmacked that it has such a high rating because what in the ever loving fuck is going on in this book?? And the people talking about how massively problematic and gross it is are getting drowned out so here I am, adding to it 🫶🏻 I suppose it sort of makes sense that this book is so popular because from what I've seen most people are just simping over Kingfisher not much else and he is basically Rhysand and Cassian mixed together with some shadow daddy sprinkled in but personally it made me want to die or murder. Kingfisher (what even is that name, let's start there) is an actual caveman and borderline threatens to r*pe Saeris but of course he is the new best book boyfriend, why not? The ultimate book boyfriend of the year truly has a way with words🧎🏼‍♀️ "𝙄 𝙙𝙤𝙣'𝙩 𝙝𝙖𝙩𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪𝙧 𝙠𝙞𝙣𝙙. 𝙄'𝙢 𝙟𝙪𝙨𝙩 𝙙𝙞𝙨𝙖𝙥𝙥𝙤𝙞𝙣𝙩𝙚𝙙 𝙗𝙮 𝙝𝙤𝙬 𝙗𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙠𝙖𝙗𝙡𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙖𝙧𝙚. 𝙄𝙛 𝙄 𝙝𝙚𝙡𝙙 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙙𝙤𝙬𝙣 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙛𝙪𝙘𝙠𝙚𝙙 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙖𝙮 𝙄'𝙢 𝙞𝙢𝙖𝙜𝙞𝙣𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙛𝙪𝙘𝙠𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙧𝙞𝙜𝙝𝙩 𝙣𝙤𝙬, 𝙄 𝙙𝙤𝙪𝙗𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙮𝙤𝙪'𝙙 𝙨𝙪𝙧𝙫𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙞𝙩." I'm sorry? Is this supposed to be sexy or something?? It must be SO difficult that you can't hold people down and fuck them (that's called r*pe btw) because it might kill them😢 Please queue the violins🎻 Bare in mind this is only maybe their second interaction. I genuinely can't comprehend how people are calling this rubbish the best romance "𝙈𝙖𝙮𝙗𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙞𝙨𝙨𝙪𝙚 𝙞𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙖𝙨𝙠𝙚𝙙 𝙢𝙚 𝙖 𝙦𝙪𝙚𝙨𝙩𝙞𝙤𝙣 𝙖𝙗𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙢𝙮 𝙘𝙤𝙘𝙠 𝙡𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙖 𝙝𝙪𝙣𝙜𝙧𝙮 𝙡𝙞𝙩𝙩𝙡𝙚 𝙗𝙞𝙩𝙘𝙝 𝙞𝙣 𝙝𝙚𝙖𝙩 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙙𝙞𝙙𝙣'𝙩 𝙖𝙨𝙠 𝙢𝙚 𝙨𝙤𝙢𝙚𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙢𝙖𝙩𝙩𝙚𝙧𝙚𝙙. . . 𝙏𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙜𝙤 𝙖𝙜𝙖𝙞𝙣. 𝙃𝙪𝙣𝙜𝙧𝙮, 𝙣𝙚𝙚𝙙𝙮 𝙡𝙞𝙩𝙩𝙡𝙚 𝙗𝙞𝙩𝙘𝙝 𝙞𝙣 𝙝𝙚𝙖𝙩, 𝙗𝙚𝙜𝙜𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙤 𝙗𝙚 𝙛𝙪𝙘𝙠𝙚𝙙" Is it me? Because I'm not getting it. This is what we want in a love interest? Really? This is the ideal man? The one everyone is obsessed with? The one haunting my social media with his ugly face to match his god awful personality? He also, actually, for real, being deadly serious, said that he's *checks notes* not evil because he doesn't sexually assault her 💀 Man of the year everyone, who has the trophy? I DNF'd personally but while scrolling through other 1 star reviews from the heroes who actually persevered and finished this torture, I saw that he apparently surprise chokes her during a spicy scene and just no, nope. No thank you. BDSM? That's cool, that's hot, with consent and communication. Surprise choking is what we call ✨domestic and sexual abuse✨ "This author writes abusers well—he is charming, charismatic and the people around him make lots of excuses" was from another review too and it's spot on And the "banter" between them?? It is so forced it's actually gag inducing. Like kill me now and bury me so I can stop experiencing this secondhand embarrassment. It sort of reminded me of Powerless except in fairness to Kai he is not this disgusting and aggressive. It was like two teens who just learned how to swear with the sense of humour of a brick It's honestly such a bummer because I really loved Saeris, which is ironic because I've seen a lot of hate for her and not the misogynistic asshole, and the side characters and the world itself seemed pretty cool. The romance should have been between Saeris and the princess, or quite literally anyone but Kingfisher, and I would've eaten this up If I'm being honest, I don't agree with it but this book made me kind of realize why some people rate books one star just for the hell of it because someone has to keep the balance if this absolute load of shit has a 4.45 rating let's be real I guess if you want a "romance" where the love interest acts like a 14 year old boy in his emo phase who just got his gaming privileges taken away and treats the FMC like she's 2 years old but is also aggressively sexual and violent around her, manipulates her and doesn't allow her bodily autonomy, then this one's for you 🫠 And don't even get me started on the cover with a tear that literally looks like cum, that should have been my first clue OG reactions: DNF because genuinely what in the hell even is this?? An absolute load of sh*t, I do not understand the hype over this book?? 😭😭💀 I am SO over the asshole shadow daddy and weird "sexy" conversations that make me gag and just sound r*pey. And isn't this supposed to be a slow burn?? Because it absolutely isn't. I usually don't question what other people enjoy but I genuinely can't comprehend how this has such a high rating I'm sorry

A DNF for me 90 pages (or 27%) of the way through. The plot never grabbed me. Nor did the stakes. The Reacher character has become nothing more than a machine for violence. No charm. No humor. No heroism. Just a very big guy who goes from one "beat-down" to the next. I'm done with the series.

A waste of time. It's like they asked AI to write a Reacher novel with a really lame payoff. These books have been sliding in quality since Andrew Child came on board. This is a solo effort by AC, apparently, and it shows: it's by far the worst of the series. The dialogue is strained and mechanical; the timelines don't work; the twists are heavy handed and obvious; the action is plodding and derivative. I'd be mad if I'd bought this book: thankfully I got it from the library. But still, it's several hours of my life I'm not going to get back.

As a fan of the Reacher series, I always look forward to each new endeavor of the Child’s. This installment I found to be rather insipid, shallow and unrealistic. The characters, for the most part, are not likable and it strains the imagination that Reacher, with a broken wrist, could do the things he does throughout the novel. The story is mildly interesting but, as a whole, somewhat disappointing. I thank NetGalley and Random House Publishing Group for the opportunity to read and review this book prior to its publication.

I haven’t liked any of the recent Reacher books and I couldn’t be more disappointed. Reacher used to be charming, witty and very well written. He was complex and fascinating. There’s nothing of him since Andrew Child joined. It’s been one of my favorite series for years but I think it needs to stop. So sad

DNF.. I tried. I couldn’t get into the plot.

Not very much like the previous Reacher books Doesn’t hang together, pretty boring actually and no sign of the same Reacher as in all his previous Reacher books

Terrible and really disappointing. Like other reviewers I look forward to this time of year with a new Reacher but the last few have been disappointing, and this is a new low. Dreadful dialogue (and when did Reacher talk so much?) and loose plot. I didn't finish it. No reference to the fact that he is over 60 now and his lack of knowledge of basic technology is just irritating- for a clever guy you think he would have picked up some basic skills from the previous adventures. I won't be getting the next one, sadly. Its a shame that Lee's legacy of brilliant books is getting tarnished. Stop now.

** spoiler alert ** This is the very worse Lee Child book ever. I absolutely hated it from start to finish. This was a ridiculous story about security secrets. Was this guy FBI or that guy? Was the guy in the wreck FBI? Why didn't they kill the bad guys when they had the opportunity? Disgusted that I wasted my time on this one. I won't be reading any more Reacher novels. Do not recommend to anyone.

poor version of a Lee Childs book Worse Lee Childs book I’ve ever read. It reads like it was put together by AI. Unfortunately I will not be purchasing another. This does the lees Childs legacy a disservice so do no more.

There was a time when the new Reacher book came out and I would spend half the first night reading and laughing. I could not put those wonderful early books down! This book is far different. After 2 or 3 mediocre (or worse) attempts, this will very likely be the last Reacher book that I purchase. It simply was not a good book! In the past, what made a Reacher book great was the character's combination of intelligence, humor, unusual observations, witty banter, clever misconceptions, love for music, and his ability to walk into a new town and almost instantly piss-off half of the people while attempting to help a few locals with a problem. Jack (no middle name) Reacher was a cross between a white knight and an insurmountable force. He no longer exists! Reacher is dead (to me)! (Not a spoiler alert, just my opinion!) I understand that Reacher is older now, but all of his great characteristics are so sanded down that he is NONE of what he was! None of what made his character so great! None of what forced me to buy it. None of me haging on a 1 am for just a few more pages. NONE! This book could have been different! It began different than any others. I liked that. But by 25 pages in, I was already a bit bored. I was soon also bored with all of the other characters in this book. The former Phoenix detective/love interest could have made it fun. But she didn't! The big bad guy (Kane) could have added interest, but he didn't. And there were even times that Reacher might have located a little jazz club to pass the time, but he didn't even try. It would be easy to blame all of these problems on the fact Lee Child has turned over the helm to his brother. But what happened to an editor adding depth or interest to a manuscript? I blame eveyone associated with the last few Reacher books for killing a previously great character and book franchise. At they end of this book, there should have been a funeral.

Don't waste your money I got the page 27 and couldn't get any Farther Very disjointed Couldn't keep track of who or what was No real plot Save your money

if you have absolutely nothing else to read This book is like what AI would write if you asked it to write a mediocre jack reacher novel. That’s for damn sure.

dragged on It was just difficult to keep engaged. Usually Reacher books are fast paced. Not this one. Took for ever to finish.

Worst jack reacher book I have read, could hardly be bothered finishing it

Disappointed I have read every prey book and never given less than a 4 when reviewing them. This book is dull and boring. Lucas seems to be tired and no longer at the top of his sleuthing game. Virgil is more interested in writing his novel. Maybe Sandford has run out of creative ideas or is just tired of writing good prey novels. He was too tired to write an ending for this one. I don't pay good money for cliffhangers in any genre and especially not mysteries.

I have read all of the Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers stories. Uniformly 4-5 star ratings from me. And this book, which cost me $32, was of the same quality right up until the very last page. I am a reader who likes a resolution. I want to know not only whodunit, but I want, I need, to know what happens at the end. What happens to the perp? This book did not provide that. Not remotely. I want my money back and in the future I will read his books at the bookstore with a nice cup of coffee. For free. Pissed off.

Really??? I can't believe the book ends without the verdict in this trial. I absolutely hate that, because its going to be several months if not a year until the next prey book comes out where the reader will hopefully find out what happens. Makes me not want to EVER read another prey book again!

Buckle up, bitches, because I have some things to say. This is my villain origin story. P.S: if you liked this book, I'm really really really happy for you. I wish that could be me! <3 My review may contain some spoilers, you've been warned. I decided to give Emily Henry another chance after Beach Read, which I did not finish because it was bad in my opinion. So, I said "Why not? Maybe this one turns out to be pretty good!" and now that I finished it, I've realized (after a long night of overthinking and self-loathing. Yeah, I know, it wasn't my best night, lol) that maybe romance as a main genre is not for me. First of all, I've never ever been in love in my almost 25 years of miserable existence, nor someone has been in love with me, so I don't actually know how it really feels, (that's a deep and traumatic conversation for another day), but to me it's kind of unreal that people can last years and not get bored. Please, don't get me wrong, I'm not saying it's not a real thing, but I can't even start to imagine someone loving me for so long without getting bored of me. (Plot twist: deep down, I'm a hopeless romantic who yearns to love and be loved for a really long time and to be in a healthy relationship, but that's not gonna happen, so). Basically, Happy Place is about a second chance romance, between Harriet and Wyn (I swear I've never heard the name Wyndham until the day I started this book), who broke up five months ago and reunite for a trip with their best friends. They have to act like they're still together and pretend happiness and such just to not causing chaos. The jump from past to present was not for me. While I enjoy those kind of flashbacks, things were "interesting" in the present than in the past. I felt like a fucking third wheel. Or perhaps like I was in the middle of a friend group which I wasn't part of and it made me feel uncomfortable, (I've felt like that in the past, in many friend groups, and it feels awful) and if EH's point was to make me feel like I belonged with them, well, it didn't work out. They didn't even feel like best friends because there was a lot of tension and they were keeping secrets from each other (yes, I know this last thing happens a lot irl). The side characters had no personality whatsoever. They felt very flat and boring. Sabrina was controlling and kind of bitchy. Parth had zero personality. Cleo and Kimmy were okay, until I felt like they were not a lesbian couple, but a heterosexual couple where one of them is a guy with a girl's name. Don't come at me for this, I just felt it like that. I did enjoy when Sabrina was called out. I get that they were in that trip mourning their youth and trying to have a good time, but goddamn it was painful. I just could not stand them. Trust me, I'm good at mourning my wasted and non existent youth, but this was pure hell. Wyn was flat and boring. Gods, he had no personality and it was pretty clear. Even a shoe or a rock has more personality than Wyn Connor. What I hated the most is that basically Harriet was the one making the moves. Always. Man, if you really "love her" then go and fucking fight for her. MAKE SOME GODDAMN MOVES TO GET HER BACK AND LOVE HER PROPERLY. And Harriet, girly pop, please, have a little bit more of self-steem and respect for yourself. Stop being a people pleaser and stop trying to save everyone!! I hate miscommunication. I believe it's one of the worst tropes ever and it's used throughout the book. Harriet complains and whines a lot, has a lot of inner monologues but she never says shit. Ma'am, please don't expect that everyone knows what the hell do you want if you never say anything. I'm not defending Wyn either, because he did the same thing. And they were constantly lying about how they were happy and okay. Both, Harriet and Wyn made a lot of assumptions instead of actually talk to each other, which could have spared us from a 400 pages book. Things could have solved up faster if they both had spoken first. Like, are you going to tell me that after a long-ass relationship of 8 YEARS, neither of you can communicate things? They could have broken up sooner if they just talked things through. It's like both communication and understanding were missing in the entire book. Also, breaking up with her over the phone? Are you fucking kidding me? This book could have been better if we had Wyn's POV. He obviously was struggling with depression, the loss of his father and his mother being diagnosed with Parkinson. We could have understood him more like this. But otherwise, he seemed indifferent about his relationship. My last straw was... Pottery? Really? Did you just throw so many years of med school, hard work and your residency for pottery? I don't know how things work for med school in the u.s, but, girly pop, I'm pretty sure that isn't cheap, not even when you study in a good school. And holy shit, she’s a neurosurgery resident. (My dream was to become a neurosurgeon, so I was speechless and almost screaming like Regina George in Mean Girls). I'm still speachless and amazed because how are you gonna pay your +$200,000 debts from pottery? Wyn must be a fucking billionare. I also felt nothing, nor empathy, sadness, pity or whatever towards any of these characters or their problems and relationships. They were annoying, selfish and childish. The sex scene felt... Off. There was "a lot" of tension going on between Harriet and Wyn from the beginning, but when the sex scene finally came, it disappeared and felt dull. I don't think I get the hype for Emily Henry's books. Maybe, as I said at the beginning of my review, romance as a main genre isn't for me. I'm not going to include this book in my big hype big lie shelf yet because I honestly didn't have many expectations for Happy Place. Nevermind, I just added to my big hipe, big lie shelf, lmao. This is where Emily Henry and I part ways. For good. Two books were enough for me to not torture myself with her again. I guess I have more things to say, but I'll add them when I remember, lmao.

DNF at 48%. I physically can’t take this book anymore. It’s so bad i wanna delete it out of my brain chemistry. I’ve wasted my life, breath and time trying to get to the middle of this so I’m deciding to DNF it for real this time🥲 pre review: I’m giving this another try since i liked funny story sm. This is gonna be the third and last try so wish me luck🫠

I'm breaking up with you, Emily. It's not me, it's you. I'm sorry!! I just don't like her writing style that much, the story was a bit dull, and I didn't like any of the characters. Pacing was also off. Basically, this book is boring, which was also my main issue with Book Lovers. The only book I've liked from her is You and Me on Vacation and that was only a 3 star read. The others I didn't like so Happy Place was her last chance for me. It didn't go down well, obviously, so I'm officially cutting her loose. I'm sorry, EH fans! I tried, believe me. I've read everything she's written, so I gave her plenty of chances, but I've not been overly impressed with any of them. I've read so many authors who deserve more praise and acknowledgement, and it kinda makes me sad that Emily gets this hyped up when her books are average at best. I get the impression from reviews that her books are like marmite - you either love them or hate them. It's obvious what side I'm on. I'm just not a fan of books where the protagonist is OTT in-your-face ~kwerky~, the love interest has the personality of a mop, and the sides characters are basically children who do walrus impressions with gherkins (everyone's gotta be quirky). Also jumping timelines. I hate the constant timeline changes. I hate to sound harsh, I wonder if perhaps I read too much womens fiction that I'm starting to get picky. Fans of EH will surely love this, but it's not for me. Her books aren't for me.

this is easily one of the worst romances i have ever read. this review is rushed because i'm too annoyed and pissed to form a proper review, and simply saying, i don't care. i hated this book sfm that it was practically a hate read. if pwmov made me love emily henry, then this book single-handedly enrolled me to the emily henry hate club. (future me, read all 1 star reviews for soothing my hater heart) god i just need one GOOD second chance romance. is it too much to ask? books like these make me realise how white people have it so easy. they had a fight for the first time in 8 years and he dumped her. she didn't like being a neurosurgeon? she quit her job in a snap and joined pottery. it's funny how the biggest, most miserable moment in their life is having fights with their friends or their parents simply arguing. y'all wouldn't survive a single day in my household or my country. yeah, this bitch quit her residency of neurosurgery to live with her man in Montana and make pottery. POTTERY. those loans 🤡🤡🤡 this book was so fucking infuriating- i can't. i absolutely can't. the miscommunication made me rip my hair off. HARRIET DESERVES BETTER 🗣️ or does she? the entire book i was begging, downright beseeching her to stand on business BUT NO NO NO NO NO. her entire fucking personality is: I love you Wyn 🥺👉👈 Wyn: He dumps their 8 YEAR ENGAGED relationship in a 4 minute phone call with no legible explanation whatsoever right after she tells him that a guy kissed her not knowing she was committed and she immediately pushed him away. he then immediately ships all her belongings in a box back to her the next week itself with no note, no letter like a discarded trash. the next time they meet, he tells her repeatedly how much "BETTER" he is doing at life and how much happier he is. he is buying coffee table books, texting someone day and night while slanting away his phone so she couldn't peek and didn't deny when she asked him whether he was dating another chick within 5 months since he dumped her like a trash can. Harriet: *googly eyes* *i wanna kiss him so bad* *i want him in me, in my mouth, in my everywhere* *humps him at every occasion* *please wyn, i need this- kisses him* *we can't be together harriet- gets rejected again* *still googly eyes* *heat pooling in her core* *humps him again* *literally says: nothing is as important for my survival as fucking him* 🤡🤡🤡 THIS GIRL PISSED ME OFF SO MUCH IT'S NOT EVEN FUNNY. even after everything wyn did to her, she was so sweet, so nice to him. she wasn't bitter at all tsk tsk tsk, she was having cozy conversations with him as if he didn't ruin her in every way possible 😊 and then we have Wyn. Mr. blame-it-all-on-her. i dumped you because i thought that you never cared. because you never talked about anything. because you never put in any efforts. i thought that i wasn't enough for you. because i wasn't as brilliant as you. because i was dragging you with me. because i'm a weak insecure pathetic whiny bitch who would rather wallow in self pity and sabotage his 8 year relationship THAN FUCKING TALK. see ladies? get a man who can fight for your love, or else you'll have him dump you in the middle of the night because *it's not you, it's me baby* 🥺 and Harriet. ahh lovely LOVELY harriet took him back WITHOUT A SINGLE DROP OF GROVEL because it was never his fault. SHE couldn't keep him happy (he lost his dad) SHE made him miserable (he lost his dad) SHE never talked (she didn't want to dump her sadness on him because he just lost his dad) SHE delayed their marriage (his father died so she thought rushing things when he is at such a low place is not good for his mental health). SHE didn't fight for their love (she always did). SHE wasn't enough for him. (she gave her everything) but no. wyn made her feel all this AND SHE ACCEPTED AND TOOK HIM BACK AND NOW I'M PISSED. this book is completely about harriet chasing wyn. harriet putting in efforts. harriet making wyn happy. harriet blaming herself for wyn's misery. harriet quitting her job to move in with wyn and support his passion (bcz ofc all of a sudden she hates her job she has been chasing her entire life 🙄). even at last wyn never asked her to return, to stay, to choose him, wyn NEVER EVER communicated or chased her, Harriet sat alone analyzing his thoughts, self guessing and declaring to herself that he wants her. if y'all want that then go for it.

”I want you so, so bad, and I swear, once you have sex with me, you'll never hear from me again. I promise." I'm convinced anyone who gives this five stars is not sane. It contains the typical ~I don't do marriage~ love interest, but somehow, he magically wants a committed relationship and kids with our lucky lady after a few interactions. We love being the only exception. It ends with us contains a lot of dark elements such as abuse, toxic relationships, and attempted rape with no trigger warnings. I guess Colleen Hoover thinks that trigger warnings are spoilers. I understand this novel is based on the author's experience, but that doesn't mean it's good, nor am I obligated to like it. There's absolutely no justification for abuse, and why Lily continues to stay is beyond my comprehension. Her first meeting with the love interest, Ryle, has him being aggressive and kicking chairs on the rooftop at night. While any normal woman would instinctively feel fear and leave, she's too distracted by how hot he is and how his biceps are rippling through his extra-small shirt. Like, girl, get a grip. Throwing away your morals just because someone is hot has got to be the stupidest thing ever. The author added numerous poor book decisions; I'll list some of them here: 1) The main character’s full name is Lily Blossom Bloom, and she runs a florist shop. Do I even need to say more? She’s the reigning champion of cringey book character names. 2) Lily is obsessed with Ellen Degeneres to the point where Ellen becomes the 4th main character of the story. She writes to Ellen in her diary, which is a way for Hoover to dump Lily's background story on us. 3) Ryle knocked on 29 apartment doors simply to find Lily and proceeded to beg on his knees for her to fuck him. That is so embarrasing, especially since he's only met Lily two times at this point. 4) Lily's bedroom light turned on at the exact perfect moment, just as Atlas was about to commit suicide. Wow, what a coincidence. He thought she was an angel beaming in the light. He said, and I quote, "I ~felt~ something." Apparently, that was enough to stop him from wanting to end his life. That's not exactly how mental health works, but okay. Portraying it this way risks downplaying the seriousness of mental health struggles and the ongoing effort required to heal from them. 5) Ryle secretly took a picture of Lily the first time they met, then immediately framed it and hung it on his wall. Was this supposed to be attractive? 6) The classic "I'll bring my gay best friend as my date to make Ryle jealous," only for the gay best friend to never to show up again. I smell a plot device. It's funny how, in a book full of rich, white characters, the one minor character is the stereotypical gay best friend who only exists for few pages. 7) The quote “There's no such thing as bad people, just people who do bad things." Saying this can be damaging because it suggests that harmful actions, like abuse, are just mistakes rather than deliberate choices. It can make it harder to hold people accountable for their actions. It might excuse or downplay serious harm they’ve caused, ultimately protecting those who need to take responsibility for their behavior. 8) Atlas slept with Lily when he was 18. Interestingly, they slept together on the exact day Lily turned 16, which is typically considered the age of consent. I don't understand why she couldn't make them the same age. 9) Lily's daughter is named Emerson, and I don’t understand why she would choose to name her daughter to honor Ryle, her abuser. It’s also confusing that Ryle even has custody of their child after everything that happened. 10) Lily is overly obsessed with Finding Nemo, constantly referencing the "just keep swimming" quote, even naming her daughter's middle name after it. Repeating it so often comes off more as a gimmick than a meaningful message. 11) Hoover has the most unhinged sentences: ”When he was wiping that cow shit on me, it was quite possibly the most turned-on I have ever been." This is even worse than when the main character in Verity got turned on because the love interest touched her driver's license. 12) Worldwide, millions are struggling to find a job, yet Lily hires a wealthy woman to work for free instead of hiring a broke college student. Allysa even says she doesn’t need the money and wants to do it because she’s bored. Ugh, classic rich people problems! What a coincidence—she's also Ryle’s sister! And, of course, Lily’s only friend. Why is Lily’s only friend her abuser's sister? When Allysa finds out that her brother is abusing Lily, her first reaction isn't to tell Lily to leave him or try to comfort her, but to tell her some sob story about his childhood trauma. It feels like an attempt to excuse his behavior rather than address the real issue. 13) Ryle didn’t want Lily to leave until she asked how he would react if their daughter told him her husband had hit her and pushed her down the stairs. That’s when he finally starts to understand the seriousness of his actions. It’s so frustrating how some men only learn to respect women when they imagine their daughters, mothers, or sisters in the same situation. Despite the many cringe scenes in the book, I understand the valuable and worthwhile message the book tries to convey. It sheds light on how difficult it is to leave someone you love in toxic situations, which are often complex and hard to navigate. It’s so challenging that you make excuses or convince yourself that the truth isn’t what it is. That being said, I still don’t understand why Lily stayed with Ryle after the first incident of assault. I couldn’t see the emotional foundation of their relationship; it mainly seemed to be based on physical attraction, which was evident from their first meeting. Lily claimed she stayed because she loved him too much, but that never felt convincing, especially since the story only told me she loved him without showing me why. What’s even more puzzling is how Hoover introduces so many heavy topics—homelessness, guilt, infertility, abuse, suicidal thoughts, sexism, gaslighting, gun violence, death of a parent, and self-harm—without diving deeply into them. It almost feels like they were thrown in to make the book more emotional without exploring the complexities of each issue. Some readers use the excuse “mental health is different for everyone” to justify Hoover’s confusing writing choices, but that doesn’t excuse the lack of depth in these themes. The portrayal of mental health could have been much more nuanced and thoughtful rather than simply using these issues to make the plot feel more dramatic. Furthermore, I was not too fond of the plot and didn't connect with a single character. I don't understand why Ryle didn't get help, especially when he could do things similar to their daughter or another partner. That man better stay the hell away from me, or I will seal him up in a trash bag and hit him to the moon with a baseball bat. In conclusion, I will never touch another Colleen Hoover book.

I don’t believe in disliking things just because they are popular. I went into this with the intention of liking it, but ended up feeling uncomfortable by the tone of this book. Although I wholeheartedly respect the personal nature of this story, the author’s note does not exempt this work of fiction from criticism, especially when it comes to a topic as serious as domestic abuse. I empathize with the main character Lily and I appreciate the effort that was made to highlight how trauma distorts and lingers, but I don’t believe this captured the severity or nuance that a topic this heavy deserves in fictionalized work. This book is marketed as romance, and the synopsis makes it seem like a lighthearted love triangle instead of a woman’s experience with spousal abuse. In comparison to Kate Elizabeth Russell’s harrowing depiction of abuse in My Dark Vanessa, the tone of It Ends With Us feels acutely inappropriate. It reduces domestic abuse to a lovers quarrel and presents a tactless caricature of the realities of abuse. I can acknowledge this may not have been the intention, but the elaboration in the authors note does not absolve this book of its reckless and irresponsible marketing. It Ends With Us has the bones of a powerful story but reads like a low budget Hallmark movie pushed forward by ridiculous plot revelations. Hoover’s attempt to make Ryle into a three dimensional character completely flops. At first, I thought the accelerated relationship between Ryle and Lily was meant to emphasize how witnessing abuse in early age might make you less likely to spot red flags in others; however, it turns out Hoover was really trying to create a deep relationship between these two. Her use of “Naked Truth” to build their relationship was a lazy ploy to circumvent true development and simulated an unsatisfying and unearned intimacy. I also found the use of teenage diary entries in the form of letters to Ellen DeGeneres to have aged really badly, and comes off as a corny device to tell rather than show readers about Lily’s relationship with Atlas. The single redeeming quality of this book is the empathy that Lily develops for her mother towards the end, but this moment, as well as the ending, lacks sufficient nuance. I wanted more discussion, I wanted more development, and I wanted less telling and more showing. Although the message that the cycle of abuse “ends with us” is personal for Hoover, I feel like this depiction is reductive and makes it seem like walking away is a choice all women have. Hoover maintains that this book was meant to show that domestic abuse isn’t black and white, but I don’t think it achieved that at all. She made the conscious decision to pit romance and abuse against each other, packaged it with a pink cover, a synopsis free of any mention of abuse, and marketed it to impressionable young adults. However well intentioned this cathartic passion project was, its reception as a work of fiction is devout of nuance, the white knight message of It Ends With Us completely undercut by its blatant romanticism of abuse.

this book sends a really important and worthwhile message, but it's not necessarily enjoyable. IT ENDS WITH US was not what i expected it to be. i started the novel knowing next to nothing about the storyline except that it's a colleen hoover book (NA romance) and that it's good (my friends kept raving). but if i'm being honest, i was a little disappointed. i was hoping for a light read with lots of ~FEELZ~ but instead i got something much more intense – not bad, just unexpected. the main plot revolves around abusive and toxic relationships within families. it really opened my eyes to the emotions of those in these types of situations and helped me gain a lot of perspective. because of this, i think it's important to read this, but it's not enjoyable. it's definitely a really frustrating process to read. for the majority of this novel, i DIDN'T like it. i was definitely interested and curious, but i didn't care for the characters as much as i thought i would. i was frustrated and annoyed at the situations, and some of it felt artificial, rushed, and stereotypical. it all seemed so... fictional. usually the romance satisfies me, but even that didn't do it. buuuuuut it wasn't so much that i didn't NOT like it. it was simply okay when i expected it to be ~amazing~. (view spoiler) even though i didn't enjoy the process of reading this book, i'm grateful to have read it. there are some books you read for pleasure and there are some you read to gain knowledge and perspective. this is the latter.

DNF at 18% "Please have sex with me. I want you so so bad and I swear- once you have sex with me, you'll never hear from me again. I promise" F this book. Why people continue to swoon over characters who treat them like dogshit is beyond my realm of thought. Especially since she's supposed to be someone who isn't the type of person who does one night stands. Yet here we are again- a story about a guy who apparently has the magical penis to make you throw your convictions out the window just because he's hot and wearing hospital scrubs. Absolutely not.

When Lily Blossom Bloom named her daughter after Dory (the fish) I knew I could not trust Booktok ever again. Also, imagine having such power that you can literally call your character Lily Blossom Bloom and nobody fucking stops you. I want that much power.

this isn’t a romance but half of booktok are not ready for that conversation

I sincerely hope I never again have to read a book with chapter long diary entries to ellen degeneres

changed my rating because colleen hoover is a piece of shit

it ends with this book actually

What I didn’t like? Every single word, paragraph, character, and brain cell this book wasted. What I liked? The ending — because it meant I was finally free from this dumpster fire in disguise.

what in the peanut butter fuck is this

what kind of crack were yall on to enjoy this piece of shit because I would like some edit: I think you guys should know that Colleen Hoover's son sexually assaulted someone, and when the victim tried to contact Hoover, she was blocked. If you actively support CoHo, this is what you are choosing to support. The plot: It Ends With Us is about an abusive relationship. It’s not the cute romance Blake Lively and CoHo are advertising it as. It is a book about domestic violence. To act like it is anything but is incredibly harmful. The writing style: Between the horrible sarcasm, insensitivity and a mix of the two, (ex. “Please be quiet while you rape me dear”)I think its fair to say this book had the worst writing I have ever read. TW Suicide for the next paragraph I’m more focused on other people, and how they ultimately came to the decision to just end their own lives. Do they ever regret it? In the moment after letting go and the second before they make impact, there has to be a little bit of remorse in that brief free fall. Do they look at the ground as it rushes toward them and think 'Well, crap. This was a bad idea.’ Somehow, I think not. Lemony Snicket once said that the first sentence of a story can tell you a lot about that story. Now this isn't the first sentence, its the 4th sentence and beyond, but regardless. This section adds absolutely nothing to the story, and quite frankly its insensitive as shit. The characters: I hated every single one of them. I want to shove them all in a house and light the house on fire. Lily is the classic “not like other girls” mc. She has red hair, her name is Lily Bloom, she likes to garden, and she writes letters to Ellen Degenerous because writing in a diary is “cliche.” Lily was so fucking annoying and insensitive. There's a scene where someone is talking about something traumatizing that happened to them when they were younger. You know what Lily thinks? “Such a great night ruined by a simple question.” This pissed me off so fucking much. Like oh I'm sorry that my trauma, which you only heard about ruined your night. It's not like I actually lived through it and that it ruined my life!! Devin was the only gay character (apart from Ellen Degenerous of course) The way Devin was protrayed was disgusting. The first time we meet him, he is touching Lily’s chest and pulling down her bra without her permission. He’s shown as someone who has no sense of privacy and personal space, towards women. Colleen Hoover wrote this scene in such a way that I thought he was sexually harassing her. So no. This isn't 'representation' or ‘breaking stereotypes’. This is just fucking offensive. I was supposed to love Atlas but he had no personality whatsoever. He was just used as an excuse to treat the topic of homelessness insensitively. So he's a no from me. Oh and WHEN LILY AND ATLAS FIRST GET TOGETHER SHE IS 15 AND HE IS 18. THATS FUCKING ILLEGAL and it was never addressed that it was illegal. Colleen Hoover says something like “It’s only a 2.5 year difference. It’s fine.” No. It isn’t fine. Ryle was a dick. At least everyone agrees on that. I knew this as soon as he got on his fucking knees and begged to have sex with Lily. Colleen Hoover tried really hard to establish how hard it was for Lily to leave him, but doesn't give us ANY reason to not hate him. There are barely any scenes where he wasn't being an asshole, and the few scenes that did show that were poorly done and over in a few pages. This made it a lot harder to sympathize with Lily since we had no idea what "good" qualities she was seeing in Ryle. I personally think the way abuse was handled was harmful. CoHo glanced over and romanticized a lot of stuff, but if this book brings you comfort in the way that abuse was handled, I'm happy for you, I just hope you know that it could trigger a lot of people in the way it was written. Overall, I hate this book with everything I am. It was insensitive, the characters were shitty, and the plot was nonexistent. This was my first (and last) Colleen Hoover book.

A friend suggested I read this and I had to stop before I was even halfway through. The author gets five stars for everything with her name on it, but Trump also won the presidency.

Naked truth? I'm just part of the minority that didn't like It Ends With Us and I'm okay with that. You guys may have loved this, but honestly? I just didn't feel like I was reading a Colleen Hoover novel. The writing didn't read the same, there was massive disconnections with the characters and the story was a little sloppy, all over the place and slightly problematic. I felt like Colleen wrote different chapters at different times and just put them together in hopes of it working. One part of the book I did enjoy was the Letters to Ellen. In fact those were my very favourite parts of this book as they offered some detail behind the context that was Lily's life. It was a shame I just didn't like her character and personality at all, but I applaud Colleen for giving us a different take on relationships.

being silenced on this app is crazy. as a dv survivor…my entire review being deleted for this book that helped me heal in many ways, hurts. i’m very big on spreading awareness and big on talking about what is right and what is wrong…apparently goodreads doesn’t fuck with that😀 i apologize in advance if you see me reposting this review. i’m sooo upset and what i’m not gonna do is let myself be silenced🙂‍↔️ it was made very clear that i have so much love for the book. always have, always will. it just hurts me that the movie was marketed as a rom com. i’m hurt and bothered by a LOT more, but am not allowed to share why. the topic was only taken seriously by a man and was overlooked by the women. i did see the movie…justin baldoni as the director absolutely killed it. he did such an amazing job, but the movie was very triggering so it just makes me even more sad seeing a lot of women who relate to lily bloom walk into the theater thinking it’s a cute little romantic movie. i will re add my book review down below. i did rate the book itself 5 stars, but will not be marking it 5 stars on goodreads for obvious reasons. very disappointed. °❀⋆.ೃ࿔*:･ ❥ 𝒃𝒐𝒐𝒌 𝒓𝒆𝒗𝒊𝒆𝒘 5/5 ★’s ⁀➷ ❝𝒊𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒇𝒖𝒕𝒖𝒓𝒆…𝒊𝒇 𝒃𝒚 𝒔𝒐𝒎𝒆 𝒎𝒊𝒓𝒂𝒄𝒍𝒆 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒆𝒗𝒆𝒓 𝒇𝒊𝒏𝒅 𝒚𝒐𝒖𝒓𝒔𝒆𝒍𝒇 𝒊𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒑𝒐𝒔𝒊𝒕𝒊𝒐𝒏 𝒕𝒐 𝒇𝒂𝒍𝒍 𝒊𝒏 𝒍𝒐𝒗𝒆 𝒂𝒈𝒂𝒊𝒏…𝒇𝒂𝒍𝒍 𝒊𝒏 𝒍𝒐𝒗𝒆 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 𝒎𝒆.❞ this will always be a five star read for me because i know what it’s like to be in an abusive relationship and this one helped me heal<3 i’ve seen some pretty horrible things being said about the people who like this book. so this is just a gentle reminder to be respectful. it’s okay to hate a book, but please leave the people who enjoyed it alone🥺don’t be part of the reason so many people feel unsafe sharing their opinions about a book they enjoyed. i reread this and can still proudly say that i’m irrevocably in love with atlas corrigan. that man is and forever will be the standard. my first book bf🥹byeee, the nostalgia🤭 to those who feel that this book “romanticizes an abusive relationship”…that is never what this book has been about. i feel that the message of this book is so important, but often overlooked by how much hate it gets. it’s listed as a romance book simply because it IS a romance between atlas and lily, but more importantly it’s about lily falling in and out of love with a man who physically hurts her. please understand this…there are a lot of times where you don’t see any red flags in the beginning of a relationship and the first moment you do, it’s already too late. i feel that it’s hard to explain to those who haven’t experienced what it’s like to be in this position so i’ll leave you all with a couple quotes i came across. ”don’t you dare tell me how easy it is to leave an abusive relationship when you’ve never been in one.” -unknown ”sometimes we don’t recognize an abusive relationship when we’re in it.” -unknown ”and that’s why we stay longer than we should…because it hurts to watch something you love transform into something you should hate. we sit and wait for it to return to its original state, in denial as we ignore the fact that what we see was always there and what is now, will always be.” -unknown

1.25/5 ⭐ Now I will say this because I know it needs to be said: I don't blame or throw hate towards the people who enjoyed this and got carried away with the whole thing. Good etiquette says that we don't discuss tastes and colours (de gustibus, you know). Each on their own. I'm just analysing the information that I have received from this book and get to conclusions that are strictly personal. Yes, I do know everyone is crazy about this. No, I do not understand why. Yes, I did award it with a little star. No, I'm not taking it back. No take backsies here. I mean, listen. Objectively speaking, I could see exactly where everyone was balling their eyes out because the scenes were made to be emotional and heartbreaking and to devastate the hearts of those who were caught up in the story...but I wasn't caught up in it. I was in complete sanity, actually. I rarely give this kind of low rating to books. Usually, when I simply can't enjoy a novel for various reasons, I'll award it 2 stars. When I get to the point where I give a book 1 star then this is a case of personal offence. Yes, I've been offended by this book and I'll tell you why: because it is marketed as a romance and this is not the kind of romance we should be giving away freely like that. As an adult in a healthy relationship, this kind of thing might not affect me or you or anyone else that's in a good place, emotionally and romantically speaking. But because of this wrongly placed kind of advertisement, people (and especially teenagers) with not so much experience in this field or with a darker experience than it was fair of them to have, might think that this is how ravishing love should look like and, unconsciously, they wish for that in their lives (maybe, even though I hope not). They might relate to this and not have the right capacities to discern between what's good and what's toxic for them. Not everyone understands the meaning of something when it's disguised. I couldn't see how and why the MCs fell in love. It simply didn't get to me. But honestly I'm more of a slow-burn kind of romance lover at this point. They meet and make up a little excuse of a game of 'naked truths' where they say the stupidest things they were thinking or the stupidest things they have ever done in their lives. They don't see each other anymore for a long time. They meet again and fall in love so much their skulls crack and they stopped thinking logically. From there, everything in their relationship moves with a speed not even the newest model of Ferrari can keep up with. I don't buy this, sorry. On top of that, their whole relationship (yeah I know, dreamy as it is, shocking!) it's very toxic. The fact that Lily Bloom (yes, that's her name for real) grew up in an abusive household and that her mum decided to bury the abuse, treating it like nothing, is one thing. But when Lily gets to be in a similar kind of relationship with Ryle, there's a whole other story. The worst part is that she realises that Ryle's anger issues are similar to her father's, but she (like her mum did) tries to convince herself it's nothing. I know it's hard to break free, so damn hard. But how can you love an abuser so deeply after only 200 pages? Time lapses included. The relationship is toxic. Ryle is abusive and manipulative. Oh but wait. He is a walking and talking romance novel cliche lover: handsome, hot, rich, one of the youngest neurosurgeons you'd ever meet in your life, wow yeah that man is sex-on-a-stick, seriously I'm shocked I wasn't expecting all this perfection, give me a lifetime to recover. He is an abusive man, in all his hot perfection, and the fact that abuse comes on the house is terrible enough but the way this whole abuse theme of the book is treated and overlooked makes me want to believe that even though romance is supposed to be the main theme here, it has been built on abuse in a manner that should've been emotional. However, the poor execution of the theme exposure and expansion made romance the lame excuse of the actual main theme of the book: overlooked abuse. Abuse is a complex thing to write about. It's not a joke and it shouldn't be treated superficially. Yes, I know in the end the title makes sense because Lily Bloom is now as strong as a mamma bear protecting her little cubs from the Evil (trademark), but this only happens in the last few pages. This is not heartbreaking, this is just sad and a little bit infuriating that the book takes toxic relationships and makes them look like romance. And it's unfair that teenage girls believe this is what love should look like. My lovely girls, love has a force of its own that no one can explain but it doesn't bring you pain. It doesn't hurt you, it doesn't mess up with you, and it doesn't make you question yourself. Love makes your heart feel fuzzy and warm like it's too big and too alive for your chest to hold it in anymore. Makes you turn red and shy and teary-eyed because you felt touched and seen in more ways than physically. It gives you the prophetic wings to fly. It makes you want to be better, safer, warmer, happier and healthier. Love is not about the money, the riches, the fame, the handsomeness and hotness. It is about that someone or those someones that make you feel invincible. In love, we only suffer from too many warm feelings, not from abuse, toxicity and cringe. Because let me tell you, this book is all about these latter three ones, when in fact it should've been about all those others I've said before. My honest opinion here comes to a conclusion: the excuse of abuse to build love became actually an overlooked and under-talked-about leitmotif of a book that could've easily been more balanced if, instead of giving Lily Bloom even the idea of a life with Ryle, the author would've just told the story of her first love directly as it was, and not through the childish excuse of a young Lily writing diary-style letters to Ellen DeGeneres and talking about her first love. Their love story was closer to what romance should look like and (bonus!!!) it was also tragic enough (for the drama lovers out there).

Had initially rated it 5 stars when I joined GR for some reason even tho this book traumatized me to the point that all I remember is the abuse and none of the "good stuff". Thinking back on it, CoHo heavily romanticised and continues to (from what I hear) romanticise abuse and trauma- which is why I change my rating to 1 star. I haven't been able to read another book of hers cause of it and it's making me think that maybe I never liked it in the first place. Sorry.

the message was important but i don’t think colleen hoover could be any more problematic

some of y‘all need to face the truth: this book sucks it was even more disappointing than the percy jackson movies xx

[sep 2021] i hate that a certain person didnt get the fate he actually deserved ??? RTC _____ pre-read review: i saw an amazingly heartbreaking quote on booktwt and now i feel this book has the potential to get me out of my slump i need to feel again please dont fail me book😭

warning: spoilers the idea of an abuser being portrayed as redeemable sounds ludicrous. but what hoovers fans do not know is that this book accomplishes the goal of making readers sympathize with abusers. lily, the main character, is in a black and white situation. just because ryle, the love interest, had a bad childhood, that does not give him the excuse to be an abuser. i will just say it, hoover cannot write well. there's a reason why she has so many books. they're all the same premise, just different fonts. maybe i sound rash and mean, but do colleen hoovers fans realize that ryle isn't that different from hoovers other love interests? you do know that there's such a thing as verbal abuse, right? abuse isn't only limited to something physical. it ends with us is actually a tricky story for me, in a way, because i do believe that the manipulation of abuse was portrayed well, however, this doesn't make the book phenomenal. i am scared for anybody who thought it ends with us was an amazing book because it is so incredibly flawed. so, here is my analysis on the book. to start with, one of the first problems in this book is the lack of substance and basic reasoning. lily literally saw her mom get raped by her dad, but did she need therapy at all? nope she just cried for one day and recovered in two seconds. this is serious trauma that is hard to take lightly and it seems unrealistic that lily would never need to go to therapy despite seeing this. and it doesn't even matter if she never went to therapy, but she never showed any signs of trauma nor ptsd. she just recovered so quickly and it makes trauma look like a joke. this is unrealistic because abuse stays with you forever and lily seemed to get over it all so easily when abuse is so so difficult and just awful. secondly, lily still allowed ryle to see her kid after he hit her. i sympathize with lily, but i cannot understand how she comprehends that he's an abuser and then lets him be with his child. that disgusts me. i do not care. you are a terrible parent if you allow your abuser to have a relationship with your child. if that were me, i would never let my child be in contact with someone who could potentially hurt them. ryle is a rapist, and in no way should he be a co parent. it creates this sense of redemption for him. he practically gets no consequences for his actions except losing lily. this leads us, as women, to ask ourselves this question. how far does a man need to go before we begin to question if we should even be seeing them? the third main problem is hoovers marketing strategy which is very problematic and makes me sick. most of hoovers audience is teen girls/ young adults. she knows that if she marks this as a serious book with heavy topics, nobody will read it. so she then marked it as a cute romance chick flick. this is very problematic because when you market something that way, people get the wrong idea and it can be very harmful to the reader. when i first heard about this book, due to the way it was marketed, i had no idea it was even about abuse. and, surprise surprise, i thought it was a romance. i mean, the cover and the fanart doesn't really scream abusive relationship now does it. even though the book is about abuse, the reader can be very young and not realize it. leading many young girls to find lots of hoovers male characters possessive, toxic, and borderline terrifying traits to be charming. it filters their idea of romance and makes toxicity seem ideal when it's not. hoovers marketing strategy is harmful to young girls and i cannot stand for this. not to mention how hoover was a social worker previously. she saw so much of this abusive behavior happening and she still manages to romanticize so much of this behavior. ryle is a rapist. that's what many teenage girls do not want to admit. i see many girls giving ryle the benefit of the doubt. saying that ryle experienced trauma, therefore his abuse makes sense. his acts of aggression were all in the heat of the moment, right? wrong. in the scene where ryle is waiting for lily to get home so he can confront her about the magnet given to lily by her ex boyfriend, i realized only later that this was not in the moment of passion. this was a planned attack. ryle is a dangerous person and was never attractive and i don't understand the appeal when this man is no different from hoovers other male characters. i also thought i would mention a hot take that will definitely have people screaming at me. i hated atlas. sigh, what a pointless character. "he helped her grow" no he didn't. lily is still as naive and immature as she was when she was a teenager, but that's beside the point. am i the only one who found it weird that on the EXACT day lily became "legal", atlas slept with her? correct me if i'm wrong, but didn't atlas also ask about her age very early into them meeting each other? it was very weird the way he asked her, and in context of how he later slept with her, it is very unsettling. mind you, lily is a minor when she meets him and atlas is an adult (he's 18). also, a random extra thing i hated. the book was very cringeworthy. why was lily so obsessed with ellen degeneres? i mean i know hoover has absolutely no diversity in any of her series and ellen was the closest she would get but still. i feel like i'm reading about the same wattpad character in just a different font. everyone is the same in this book. they're all rich, successful, and let's not forget, white! it's unrealistic and this trope isn't impossible to execute, but hoover is just not a good writer. she is stuck inside a candy land bubble where everything is perfect and i absolutely despised this book. sorry! anyways, i will give hoover credit for how she portrayed the manipulation of abuse. i think out of all her novels this one is maybe 2 stars but god i cannot stand this woman. (edit: seeing the book go from 4.4 stars to 4.26 i believe makes me extra happy inside)

Colleen Hoover’s It Ends With Us is a book my wife absolutely loves. I watched the movie with her a while ago and didn't enjoy it. My wife insisted I read the book. Sorry to say, I liked it even less. The book explores why women who experience domestic violence find it so difficult to leave. The premise is good, and the reasons make sense. I completely understand why these women might stay with a man who hurts them, whether it's because they still love him, have hope for the relationship, or fear the unknown of leaving. But I haven't read something so physically repulsive in a long time. Lily is a complete weakling, both mentally and physically. The most powerful weapon of the weak is words, and in this novel, verbal abuse is very common. But doesn't emotional abuse count as abuse? Isn't verbal abuse also a form of abuse? Or is it overlooked because both the author and the protagonist are women? Here are a few reasons why I dislike Lily: Firstly, Ryle, physically abused Lily 3 times, and I only empathized with her on the last occasion. The first time, Ryle and Lily were drunk, Ryle went to grab a plate, only to hurt his hands. While Ryle was in pain, Lily didn't react but laughed. Then, she jokingly leaned in to look at Ryle's hand. Ryle pushed her, sending her to the ground. First of all, Ryle didn't do it on purpose. Secondly, he was in physical pain and acted impulsively. When Lily fell to the ground, she was completely dumbfounded and kept crying, asking why Ryle would push her and caused pain to her head. She didn't care at all that Ryle had a major surgery the next day and that his hands were crucial to his future career. So, Lily's attitude was basically, as long as you love me, that's all that matters. I don't care about your personal development or anything else. In the end, it was Ryle who repeatedly apologized before Lily forgave him. The second time, Ryle found Lily's ex - boyfriend's phone number hidden behind her phone and got angry. The reason was that after the first incident when Lily was injured, her ex saw her and got into a fight with Ryle, so Ryle was very jealous. He smashed Lily's phone and stormed out. Lily ran after him, but during the struggle, she was pushed down the stairs. This time, I kind of understood, but wasn’t it still unintentional? This doesn't align with my understanding of domestic violence. Shouldn't domestic violence be when someone intentionally wants to hurt you to vent their anger? Ryle didn't want to hurt her or 'punish' her by pushing her. But the harm was done. This time, Lily cried even harder, saying she was even more scared, and repeatedly compared Ryle to her abusive father. Ryle continued to apologize and coax her, but he didn't get Lily's sincere forgiveness. Lily kept accusing and suspecting that Ryle would continue to hurt her. The third time: Ryle bought Lily a house. After moving in, Ryle found Lily's diary and discovered that the fridge magnet she always carried was a gift from her ex, who even named his restaurant after her. Additionally, Lily has a tattoo on her neck that was also for him. Coincidentally, Ryle used to really like that tattoo, and that spot had become a point of intimacy for them. When Ryle waited for Lily to come home, he asked her where the fridge magnet came from. Lily lied and said she bought it a long time ago. Then Ryle, in a fit of anger, bit Lily's neck, making her bleed, and dragged her to the bed to forcefully engage in intimacy, but he eventually stopped. That night, Lily was extremely disappointed in Ryle and secretly called her ex to come pick her up and leave. In these 3 incidents, which 1 wasn't caused by Lily's lack of transparency in their relationship resulting in misunderstandings? They never had a proper conversation about their past before getting married, so after the second incident, shouldn't they have been open and talked about their histories? Honestly, I think Ryle's jealousy and anger are normal reactions. What is not acceptable is the intentional harm he caused in the last incident, which was indeed wrong. However, I really don't believe that the mishaps in the first 2 instances can be categorized as domestic violence. Secondly, Lily is just someone who can only whine and complain. In both instances, she was pushed down and got hurt. She's really quite fragile. What kind of person suffers a concussion after being pushed down? Furthermore, she is an adult, not a disabled or a child. When you are harmed, I would much rather see her fight back than get hurt and then whimper and cry about how his man treated her poorly. I want her to get up after being pushed and slap him across the face, then look him in the eyes and tell him that if he touches her again, she will fight back. I understand that women naturally have less muscle strength than men, but I want to see resistance; I want to see her speak up for herself in the moment. Explain, and justify. It's frustrating to see her getting hurt, and then later, when Ryle has regained his composure and is continuously apologizing, they exchange power and Lily uses sarcasm and emotional abuse against Ryle. It should be a balanced reaction in the heat of the moment, rather than her waiting until he has calmed down to retaliate after being harmed. Thirdly, Lily is quite adept at playing victim tactics herself. She clings to her feelings for her ex. Just ask, who can tell their spouse after getting married: ”I will always love my first love”? She dares to do it, and she does so very naturally. In a confrontation with Ryle later on, she tells him she’ll always loved her first love, Ryle can't stop her, and Ryle can't hurt her for it. Even if Ryle catch her with him in bed today, Ryle can't lay a finger on her. Wow, that’s a b*tch for saying such piercing words. I feel like Lily is not the brave female figure that Colleen Hoover tries to portray; she is nowhere near bravery. She gives me the impression of an assassin - stabbing when you least expect it. But when you confront her face-to-face, she doesn't dare to say a word. I would have admired her even more if she had slapped back once when she was harmed. Unfortunately, she didn't. It's fortunate that she lives in the U.S., as if she were here in my country, she probably wouldn’t understand our definition of "justifiable defense." Immediate retaliation is what is called justifiable defense, while going back later to strike is considered intentional harm. In short, after finishing this book, I felt utterly speechless. I thought I would see a story about equality or female empowerment, but instead, I saw a female assassin standing on a moral high ground, incessantly saying, "You can't hurt me, you can't touch me, and I can spit on you from behind. But as long as you touch me, you must be submissive to me for the rest of your life, It's not because I have power, but because I stand on moral high ground and because I am a woman, I am weak, and I am justified.” Really? Finally, I want to talk about some plot points that have nothing to do with the main storyline but really disgusted me: 1. According to the description, Ryle is a doctor, wealthy, handsome, and has no shortage of sexual partners. Yet, he falls in love with Lily after just a twenty-minute conversation on a rooftop and even kneels down to beg her for a one-night stand. Does Colleen Hoover look down on doctors or handsome guys? And initially, Ryle said he wasn't interested in a stable relationship. But after meeting Lily, he immediately starts a relationship, gets married after 6 months, and then wants a child right away. Is Lily a witch or something? 2. According to the description, Lily has no friends. She had some in college, but for some reason, she doesn't have many friends after she starts working. As a result, whenever she needs someone, she always turns to her ex. Question: If Lily is as perfect as Ryle describes, why doesn't she have a new boyfriend after so long or even a close friend? 3. Besides Ryle and Lily, all the other characters are just tools to support Lily. Ryle's sister is incredibly wealthy but loves Lily and is her best friend. When she finds out that her brother has a conflict with Lily, her first reaction is to tell Lily to leave him. No one who has lived with their siblings for over a decade would change their stance so quickly. Ryle's parents are devout Christians. Even before meeting Lily, they expressed a special fondness for her. When they met for the first time, Lily was nervous and joked to Ryle, 'Your parents won't think I'm a godless whore for living with you before we're married, will they?' And his parents overheard and casually said, 'You're not a whore; you're the best girl I've ever met.' Can you feel the disgust I felt when I read that part? I’m sorry but Colleen Hoover clearly doesn't understand the concept of cultural differences and respect. She thinks she can gloss over anything with American-style casualness and cheerfulness, huh? 4. Ryle often appears in front of Lily wearing a surgical gown. Lily finds it very sexy. I don't know which hospital would allow doctors to wear surgical gowns outside of the operating room. And at the end, Ryle goes to work wearing a surgical gown. So, surgical gowns are like uniforms now? 5. Everything comes too easily for Lily. It's just a wish - fulfillment fantasy, without any real-world relevance. She wants to open a flower shop, and poof, it's open. Her flower shop is a departure from traditional femininity, using more black to express boldness and rebellion. I don't know why her flower shop is so successful, but it just is. Ryle is rich and buys her a house whenever she wants. He has his dream job, but Lily says no, and he quits. Her high school sweetheart joins the military after graduation, opens a restaurant after his service, and it's incredibly successful. At the end, her ex’s restaurant has branches. Ryle's sister, who is also Lily's best friend, is wealthy but loves to work for Lily. When Lily is pregnant, her sister gives her a lot of unworn designer maternity clothes. When Lily is feeling down, her sister helps her manage the shop so she doesn't have to worry. Basically, everyone who likes Lily is rich, and she never lacks money. Like, are you insulting my intelligence? I am a rational person, perhaps rational people can't truly enjoy Collen Hoover’s novels. But isn't logic supposed to triumph over emotion? I’m sorry. 0.1 / 5 stars

1.5 It’s been months and I still can’t stop thinking about this book and how much its existence & popularity enrages me, so maybe I will write a review soon idk

Why Katabasis Doesn’t Work R.F. Kuang has built her reputation on sharp, ambitious novels that interrogate power, colonialism, and language in a way that felt both urgent and original. Even when polarizing, her books usually succeeded in provoking meaningful conversation. Katabasis, however, represents a startling departure, not because it risks too much, but because it risks so little. It takes a premise as rich as a descent into hell and reduces it to a derivative, unimaginative, and often offensive narrative. The significance of this failure lies not only in the book itself, but in what it suggests about Kuang’s trajectory as a writer. 1. Trigger Warnings and the Ethics of Shock Value One of the first and most glaring issues is the book’s reliance on disturbing content for impact. Katabasis introduces a long catalogue of triggers: animal cruelty, eating disorders (“She was very proud of the days that she forgot to eat…”), child murder, bestiality, gore, sexism, suicidal ideation, lesbophobia, gaslighting, sexual harassment, and more. Yet none of these are thematically developed or given narrative weight. They are presented, often graphically, then abandoned. This reliance on shock value reveals a fundamental problem: the book confuses provocation with depth. Literature can and should engage with disturbing realities, but it carries an ethical responsibility to do so with purpose and care. In Katabasis, these moments function as spectacle, not critique. Instead of illuminating power, suffering, or ideology, they leave the reader with revulsion and little else. 2. Alice and the Repetition of Misogyny Alice, the protagonist, epitomizes another failure. Her voice is abrasive not in a complex, thought-provoking way, but in a manner that forecloses engagement. She sneers at activists, despises other women, and reduces feminism to caricature. The most telling lines “She couldn’t stand those screeching activists who believed the only politically just thing was to become a lesbian.” “The best way to prove women were not inferior was just to not be inferior.” read less like the construction of a flawed but challenging character than as unexamined ventriloquism of misogynistic discourse. This is particularly troubling because it repeats a pattern across Kuang’s oeuvre. Her women often emerge as hostile to solidarity, dismissive of activism, or antagonistic toward their own sex. In Babel, such a stance was contextually coherent and ultimately challenged. In Katabasis, it is neither contextualized nor interrogated. The misogyny stands largely unopposed, raising the question: why is this the third time in four books that Kuang has turned to this trope? When repetition becomes pattern, it begins to reflect less on the characters and more on the limits of the authorial imagination. 3. The Failure of Setting and World-Building A descent into hell carries immense literary and cultural weight. From Dante to Milton, from Bosch’s paintings to modern fantasy, hell is a space where theology, morality, and imagination converge. In Katabasis, however, hell is disappointingly superficial. What should be a site of philosophical, religious, and mythological resonance is reduced to aesthetic borrowing: Dantean gestures, Mad Max wastelands, The Atlas Six-style magic. The absence of religious or cultural depth suggests not only a lack of research, but also a missed opportunity. Hell, by definition, is never neutral; it is always entangled with systems of belief, punishment, and morality. To strip it of this context is to render it generic. Compared with works like The Saint of Heartbreak, which explores hell with nuance and empathy even when it is not the central subject, Kuang’s hell appears unimaginative, less a site of meaning than a backdrop for spectacle. 4. Romance and Character Flatness The marketing of Katabasis as a romance further compounds its failure. Peter is inert, his twist neither surprising nor transformative. The relationship between him and Alice lacks chemistry, intimacy, or narrative function. What emerges is not romance but proximity dressed up as intimacy. More than that, it exposes a weakness in Kuang’s writing: she has never attempted romance seriously before, and here it becomes clear why. The novel confuses proximity with connection and marketability with emotional investment. More broadly, the novel suffers from a collapse of subtle characterization. We are told Alice seeks validation. We are told she believes herself superior. We are told how to read her. What is lost is ambiguity, space for interpretation, or the beauty of implication. Where Babel married lush prose with complexity, Katabasis settles for blunt exposition. 5. The Problem of Audience The most revealing flaw in Katabasis is its lack of a clear target audience. The novel gestures toward many readerships but satisfies none: - Too academic for a general audience, yet too shallow for readers steeped in classical or theological traditions. - Marketed as a romance, yet offering none of the emotional or narrative beats of the genre. - Potentially aimed at fans of hell-as-setting, yet doing nothing new. This tension reveals something about Kuang herself. She has often drawn heavily from her academic training, with Babel showcasing the brilliance and the pitfalls of this approach. In Katabasis, however, the academic bubble becomes a cage. The novel reads as though designed more to demonstrate cleverness than to engage readers. The result is a work that is alienating without being profound, academic without being rigorous. 6. Resolution Without Consequence If the novel spends much of its time mired in provocation, its ending swings abruptly in the opposite direction. The resolution is oddly simplistic, almost Disney-like in its moral clarity: the “good” prevail, the “bad” are punished, and the toxicity of academia is neutralized. This undercuts whatever complexity the novel might have gestured toward. For a writer known for her refusal to offer easy answers, this tidy resolution feels especially hollow. 7. The Larger Question: Why Does This Book Exist? All of this leads to the central problem: Katabasis lacks purpose. It does not advance mythology in new directions, it does not interrogate misogyny with depth, it does not develop its disturbing content into critique. It offers spectacle, but not meaning. For an author who has positioned herself as a serious voice in contemporary literature, interrogating empire in The Poppy War and language in Babel, this regression is striking. Katabasis is not ambitious, but hollow; not daring, but careless. What once distinguished Kuang was her ability to weave influences into something distinctively her own. If earlier works invited readers to wrestle with questions of power and morality, this one invites little more than frustration and disgust. What does it mean for an author like Kuang to fail in this way? Katabasis is not a failure of excess, but of imagination. It does not stumble because it reaches too far, but because it settles for the shallow, the derivative, the shock-for-shock’s-sake. As part of Kuang’s trajectory, this matters. She has established herself as a writer who interrogates systems of power, empire, language, colonialism, academia. But with Katabasis, the critique collapses. Misogyny is repeated but not interrogated. Disturbing content is invoked but not explored. Hell is evoked but not imagined. Even academia, the one theme Kuang does know intimately, is reduced at the end to a simplistic moral victory. The result is not simply a disappointing novel. It is a work that calls into question whether Kuang, at this stage in her career, has become trapped within her own academic frame of reference, mistaking spectacle for substance and provocation for profundity. If The Poppy War was her confrontation with empire, and Babel her meditation on language, then Katabasis should have been her descent into the underworld of meaning itself. Instead, it is an empty masquerade, a regression that leaves wondering whether the author who once dared to unsettle us has been replaced by someone content to imitate herself.

i’m freeeee! rtc, maybe Okay I have gathered my thoughts (I even have proper capitalization and punctuation) I think this may be rfk weakest book…. I’m just in shock that this is her 6th book. Katabasis did not feel like rfk’s writing at all, it read more like a young adult debut novel. The structure was off; we had 5 paragraphs dedicated to describing a river, lots of repetitiveness throughout the book, weird sentence structures and very unserious and corny dialogue. The writing was very juvenile. As usual rfk leans onto info dumping and not trusting the audience to come to their own conclusions. But this was on a whole other level. It was all academia drivel that took you out entirely from the story, all to show how intellectually superior she is. We get it we all know you went to an Ivy League school and prestigious universities in Europe. All the academic talk aside the story itself was very boring. For it being an intriguing premise, it was done so poorly and felt like it was written in one sitting (she worked on this for 2 years?) I also can’t help and feel like this was another self insert story. Which isn’t a bad thing, but whenever she writes about marginalization, racism, or sexism it all comes from a place of privilege and is very surface level. As for the characters, they were very one dimensional and again boring. There was absolutely no depth to this novel. The reason I said this is her weakest book was because it’s forgettable and boring. Not even bad enough to hate read, no substance to cling on to. This is not the same book people were making recommended reading list to prepare for Katabasis.

«Katabasis» is a paradox: a book so desperate to be profound that it ends up saying absolutely nothing. Every page strains under the weight of its own cleverness, as though style alone could substitute for substance. Spoiler—it can’t. The prose is mock-academic to the point of parody, endlessly circling itself in self-referential loops. Characters are less people than megaphones, shouting Kuang’s arguments until the whole thing collapses into a lecture dressed up as a novel. The narrative, meanwhile, trudges along like it knows it doesn’t matter. Reading this was like watching someone congratulate themselves in real time—dense where it should be deep, smug where it should be smart. Kuang confuses paradox for brilliance, but the only true paradox here is how something so overwritten can feel so empty. One star, because even pretension should at least be entertaining.

While reading this book, I thought about RF Kuang. Not as a person, as an entity, a presence, a space in the wider conversation about books, genre, the concept of "having things to say", and so on. That's primarily because the book was too dull to provide engaging thought on its own, but I digress. This is the second of her big releases to focus on academia, and The Poppy War had a fair emphasis on it as well. Kuang has been a student for a long time. This seems only natural that she would have things to say about it, and while Babel was far from my favorite book, it had a point of view, things to say, concepts to engage with, prose that occasionally felt poignant, some measure of intrigue and stakes. So why does Katabasis regress in every category? Both of these books -strike that, all Kuang books- are filled with rage. That is the through line of every word of prose Rebecca Kuang has ever written - rage. But there comes a point during any outburst of rage where you no longer have new thoughts about the reason you're angry, you are merely working yourself up over and over again in different ways because your nervous system is not ready to relax, not ready to let it go, your rage has not been satiated or validated yet and so you grasp onto that famous phrase of the angry - "AND ANOTHER THING....!!!". Eventually, someone hands us a cup of tea or a beer or gives us a hug and says, "yeah, that really sucks". And you no longer need to tell us about another thing. Katabasis is the literary "and another thing" that has no clue what it wants to say, no coherence or cohesion, just blindly throwing things into the narrative with no larger picture of how to integrate these concepts. Rebecca. It really sucks that academia is so toxic. It sounds hard, and unfair, and sexist, and racist, and no doubt you and many other graduate students feel a giant ball of injustice in your chest when you think about how unfair it all is. Now can we move on? Katabasis is a metaphor made literal, with no shocking twists, no interesting concepts, no rehashing of older ideas in new ways, no compelling characters, no satisfying arcs or exciting challenges or really much of anything besides "academia is hell". Literally. And it occasionally tries to grapple with interesting topics, things that for just a brief moment, I was like, "oh, this new idea will be interesting", only for it to consistently choose the least interesting route. Alice, our MC, is one of the most insufferable characters I've ever read about, yet I am never left with an impression that I am supposed to dislike her, merely scold her gently for her worst traits (like hating those sluts who had the audacity to sleep with their professor, whom she also wants to sleep with) and accept that while rough around the edges, her goal of entering hell to rescue her professor so he can write a recommendation letter is a noble one. But don't worry, folks! Alice will be humbled by nice guy Peter. Humbled, simply by being in his presence for a large portion of this book and them both talking about random bits of philosophy or history or literature just to show that Kuang has read them too. There is no tangent too tangential to be included in "and another thing", that's what another things are for. This "enemies to lovers" is only that on the strictest, more bare bones of technicalities, mostly these two are together for them to both randomly get character growth without earning it. Another review said the book has "proximity dressed up as intimacy" and I have never felt a slam dunk of a line so keenly. These two bond and change simply because the narrative demands it. The book is first person from Alice's POV and reveals backstory in almost "throwing a dart"-esque fashion. There are so many valid ways to reveal information throughout a story, but the narrator telling you a small sliver of the story and then 200 pages later going, in internal monologue, "actually here's the rest of the story" which paints everything in a new light is boring and artificial. This isn't presented in an unreliable narrator type of way, simply "we are now a third of the way through the book, so I need to reveal more information about Alice's relationship with the professor" is so evidently the driving force that I was annoyed every time. This is not how internal monologues work. If I am thinking about why I like or dislike a person, I think about the biggest reasons in either direction first. I don't think "yeah, George is kinda shitty, he left my text on read last week" and then three days later remember, "oh yeah, George also shot my brother in the face". Also this book has lembas bread. Actually. Lembas bread, from Lord of the Fucking Rings. They go to hell, and say, man I'm hungry, lets eat some lembas. What in the absolute fuck is going on here. Did Kuang write the whole book, realize they never ate something, have two days to fix this in revision, and go, "screw it, lembas bread, as made famous in Lord of the Rings by most famous fantasy author of all time, JRR Tolkien, that will be fine"? This is absurd and I'm so infuriated that nobody else is talking about this. I demand an explanation. The resolution of this book is trite and unearned, every level of hell is the most boring, easy, uninteresting route. There is a cat, though, so not everything is pure misery. You could just watch the movie Whiplash instead of reading this book. Whiplash is two hours and handles the questions, "how far does one go in pursuit of being the absolute best, what do they give up to do so? How far does one go as an educator to coax greatness out of someone, how far is too far? What should be the consequences of either of these decisions?" much better than this book does and you might even feel some stakes or sense of tension in that movie instead of being lulled into your slow death by the 80th reference to Dante or Borges or Hume or whatever. AND ANOTHER THING!! The lembas bread!! You couldn't have just renamed it!? Keep it the same but call it Kuang Bread? Rage Bread? Sabmel bread? Anything!! 2/10

I am genuinely mystified at the amount of praise this book is getting. I found the novel practically unreadable. For starters I am totally allergic to fiction written in the present tense but even apart from that it comes across as total fan wankery. Then again no wonder given it was written by Tarantino's biggest fan. Hell, he even featured references to himself as a young boy in it! Don't even know where to start so just a few small pointers why I reacted so strongly about this one. I certainly wasn't "nodding in the affirmative" (one of Tarantino's many awkward expressions in the book) when I was reading this The book forsakes plot nearly entirely and just feels like listening in to some geeky bores ramble on and on and on and on about their favourite movies. It's bad enough when this is about real movies but gets worse when we read (but obviously can't see) references to fictitious films. And worst of all, Tarantino, self nominated movie geek Numero Uno, often gets his facts wrong about the real stuff: The "info" about the German Karl May movies e.g. has glaring errors starting from apparently having been filmed in the 1950s when they didn't get made until a decade later. Every character regardless defines themselves by their love of movies and apparently Cliff even goes as far as having a Top 5 list of favourite Kurosawa films. Defining characters by their interests is always a very lazy way of characterisation but en masse such as here it is total ineptitude. (If he ever gets around to writing a Western novel as threatened I have no doubt it will mainly be an endless list of favourite Lily Langtry songs.) So he drops the film's raison d'être and (in)famous climax by making this just a tiny reference point very early on in the novel. This of course means that all the scenes with the Manson Family lose any of their meaning but hey, I am willing to forgive that if he had replaced the ending with something new and worthwhile. Instead the final pages are - no spoiler warning as there is nothing of interest to spoil - an endless reading of lines between Rick and the Girl???? Seriously??!!!??? That's it????? Events in the future (1970s) are told in the conditional or past tense; events in the present (1969) in present tense; events in the past in past tense so with both past and future in the past tense, it's a stylistic nightmare together with the awkward present tense narration. "If New York is the city that never sleeps, Los Angeles in the middle of the night and early wee hours of the morning turns back into the desert it was before it got paved over with concrete." Sorry, but this kind of stuff hurts both my eyes and ears when I read it aloud and every page if not every paragraph is choke full of dreadful narration. I could go on endlessly (as Tarantino does) but I've had it with this book. Given that Tarantino is known for films with snappy and succinct dialogue, I am utterly stunned how clumsy this is written in every aspect.

I love QT, and OUATI HOLLYWOOD was my favorite film of 2019, but this is not a novel, or even a novelization, it's an assemblage of supplemental written material undoubtedly developed over a period of some years before QT actually made the movie. Some chapters read like early-draft screenwriting, some like prose backstory for the eventual cast, and some could be QT walking around spitballing ideas into a tape recorder. All of which are admirable techniques a master storyteller might use to develop an original work, but having your staff then cobble all these loose bits into a paperback and selling it as a "novel" is disingenuous. Every scene or idea he eventually used in the movie is palpably, embarrassingly worse here. Nor will this book "enhance your experience of the movie," any more than six hours of re-cut Beatles footage enhanced LET IT BE, or that visit to the French rubber plantation enhanced APOCALYPSE NOW.

not my type of book. overly sexist, overly macho and male focused on the way of “men know better and should be listend to at all times” i do not enjoy. also i understand the book is set in the 1960s but the slurs and over the top language used on this book wasn’t for me. i liked the idea more than this book itself. i think there are a lot better books out there that share this type of plot and idea: actors and their struggles in some way. but if you love this type of movie you might love this book. i wouldn’t recommend it

i didn't technically read it or whatever but i don't like quentin tarantino so it sucked

Rating this book takes me back to 2008, when I rated the movie The Dark Knight 6/10 stars. And now I'm giving the book of the year for many people, 1 star. I admit to not understanding the story to even half completion. Lots of chapters are subtle. The epilogue is representative of that. But I can only relay what I could understand. I found many of the stories in the book to be as unsatisfying as Soulcast grain. The book, for me, was indeed, a dirty trick. But I'll be there when book 5 comes chugging. I give the 1 star rating after huge deliberation. I understood the most easy conundrums in Rhythm of War. I claim the foreshadowing of Adolin's dead sword as one of the meagre rewards. This book was incompatible to me. I am glad it pleased so many, and I'm not glad that I can't explain my stance better. But there have been great books that I've understood. There have also been mediocre books that I've worshipped. Thus is the life of this reader.

** spoiler alert ** I am a big fan of BrandoSando. I am a big fan of the Cosmere. I am a big fan of the Stormlight Archive. I hated this book. I mean really hated it. I think I probably feel so strongly about this because of how much I wanted it to be amazing; as brilliant as I've found almost all other books I've read by him. But, it just wasn't. It was awful. I really wish I could react as positively to this book as most of the reviews I've seen for it are on here. Right, strong opinion out of the way, better do some actual reviewing. Spoilers btw. We start in Groundhog Day, but no, not a funny, entertaining, charming one with Bill Murray, with the nob-King Gavilar dying AGAIN. This time the action is through Navani's eyes. She sees her husband talk with people we now know to be Heralds, weird spheres are mentioned. The main thing is Gavilar insults her and tells her she isn't a scholar, and man do we have to hear about that a lot in the 1200 pages to come. Part 1 Kaladin is depressed. We know this because it's all he talks and thinks about. I'm not saying that's not what depressed people do and I'm not saying that it isn't hard. But why am I reading about it? It's just boring. He also does a bit of flying about and there's a battle for Hearthstone. The action sequences with the use of Surges explained in horrifying detail just leave me detached and unexcited at this point. Navani has constructed some kind of flying platform which is kind of cool but it's called the Fourth Bridge which I just thought was a bit on the nose and unnecessary. They use it to evacuate the people of Hearthstone whilst the Fused version of Windrunners attack them. They find a great strategist general from Herdaz who the audiobook actor (who was terrible throughout) for some reason made into a bad approximation of South African. Someone phones up Navani and says imprisoning spren isn't cool. Kaladin meets Leshwi who he likes and the Pursuer he doesn't. He kills the Pursuer who from then on wants to (you guess it) pursue him. This starts his journey to become one of the worst and ineffectual villains of all time. Kaladin also meets Moash, who wants him to kill himself, which isn't very nice. Dalinar tells him he can't fight anymore due to massive PTSD. Shallan is unfortunately still alive and is being Shallan (or Veil, or Radiant) in the Warcamps. She's trying to infiltrate the Sons of Honor who are apparently still knocking about led by Sadeas' wife Ialai. Someone kills Ialai and it's obviously one of Shallan's personalities but that's apparently a secret that we have to wait 1o00 pages to be revealed. She continues with monologues along the lines of "no one would like the real me" and is generally annoying and pathetic. Venli is in Kholinar and is serving Leshwi. We see a bit of Fused society. It's sort of weird. Raboniel is introduced as a crazy scientist who nearly killed everyone once with a bioweapon. So, most of the humans get back to Urithuru about half way through Part 1. The bigwigs have a meeting and discuss where the war effort's gonna go. They decide on Emul. Dalinar and Jasnah are going to go. More plot is needed for the others so the concept of a lack of Radiants is introduced. Adolin and Shallan are sent to Shadesmar (joy of joys) to convince the Honorspren to form more bonds. This works for Shallan who has been told by Mraize (her Ghostblood handler) to go there take down Sons of Honor leader Restares. The world's worst fellowship is assembled, Adolin and Dalinar have some awkward dialogue, and off they go. Also Shallan thinks one of them is a spy even though we all know she killed Ialai and no one is a spy. The Fused decide to attack Urithiru at Raboniel's prompting. Kaladin talks to Zahel and a Cosmere exposition dump happens regarding Investiture. I don't know why he doesn't just update the Coppermind wiki himself and not pretend the infodump is happening due to a real organic conversation. Part 2 to 5 (I forgot to keep sectioning them off) So then it happens and just like that, with a lot of their forces half-way across Roshar, the Fused just take Urithiru, reverse the defences of the Tower and reduce most of the Radiants defending it to comatose, dribbling messes. It's almost as if, if you knew someone was a spy for the enemy you shouldn't keep him appraised of your exact battleplans! Genius from Dalinar as usual. Cue 100s of pages of Navani locked in some kind of fantasy science war with Raboniel (who I think was my favourite character, mostly by virtue of hating her the least). They strike up a mutual respect, work together, create "The Rhythm of War" (ah there it is, the title of the book) which is both a combination of the rhythms of Honor and Odium and a notebook. In this time many, many ridiculous things are said, like "the song of science itself" and it gets very pseudotechnical. There is page after page of explanation of how the tones of Roshar match the light of the respective Shards, and fabrial-science, and I think at one point a weird analogy of the real physical properties of Wave Interference and matter / antimatter annihilation. It was like Sanderson had been reading GCSE (or American equivalent) physics textbooks and just threw a few things in and wrapped it up in his worldbuilding. I have no idea why. If anyone enjoyed any of that, well, they're bigger Cosmere fans than me. Just writing that has made me recall the horror-filled minutes of my life listening to the explanation for the lateral and vertical movements of the bloody platform via fabrology that nobody asked for. If you do the thinking in the background as an author to make sure something is technically possible within the constructs of your own invented world and underlying physical principles, then fine, great due diligence; just don't subject us poor readers of your book to it! There is an underlying theme here, which is that this book was massively under-edited. There's no way it needed to be as long as it is. Authors should never stop listening to their editor and I'm not having that they were happy with 100% of the content of this absolute tome. Anyway all of this comes to an end (I can't call it conclusion, climax, or crescendo as it had the feel of none of them) when Navani bonds with the Sibling, the spren at the heart of the Tower. The Sibling is massively annoying throughout, it and Navani (who consistently STILL doesn't see anyone's point when they say the lighteyes and people like her were terrible to the underclasses when in power and is just pretty much still a bigot) deserve each other. This magically reverses everything that went wrong (oh, also she kills Raboniel by betraying the fuck out of her) with the Tower and just as quickly as it went wrong, everything is OK again in Urithuru. Terrible jeopardy, terrible action, terrible end. As all of that was going on, Kaladin was awake at the tower, just not doing a lot really. A lot of filler stuff. Towards the end he kills the Pursuer again fairly easily and saves his Dad, who had been a prick to him for most of the book. At some point prior to this his time was slowed down by Dalinar and the Stormfather and he said the fourth ideal and I dunno, got more powerful or something or at least got his powers back enough to not die when falling from the tower. He accepts that there's people he can't save. Great. I'd be good at that one. Meanwhile in Shadesmar Adolin is put on trial. I hated Adolin the least in this book, probably because I was too busy hating everyone else, and one of his trial chapters I enjoyed. His sword speaks up for him. The incredibly annoying Honorspen are put in their place a bit and they generally convince a few more spren to bond humans. Hurray. Shallan has inner turmoil and realisations about herself which are INCREDIBLY similar to ones she's already made. She is unVeiled. Ahhhh. Radiant's still there though, so god knows what we're gonna have to go through to get rid of her. Shallan leaves the ghostbloods for good having spoken with Restares, who is actually Kelek, a very indecisive herald who wants off of Roshar. Which most people, including me, seem to also want. Venli, Rlain and I think Leshwi do some things in the tower with the Fused and singer populations and convince a few of them to turn sides. To be honest my concentration was waning madly at that point and the dozens of Eshonai / Venli flashback chapters had trained my brain to totally switch off anytime a Singer / Listener was the POV. Not really sure what happened but I think Rlain got a spren and Venli ended up with the surviving listeners and her mum and I don't care. Taravangian is a jibbering idiot throughout most of the book and nothing really happens around him. Then he becomes Odium. Just like that. He arranges a situation with Szeth (who I used to like but now not so much), Nightblood and Rays (Odium's person thing) and yeah, becomes a God Shard thing. Probably the most interesting part of the whole book is the very end, where Taravangian has some thoughts as the new Odium while talking to Cultivation and also when he appears to Hoid and steals some of his memories. That actually had intrigue and it was the last bit of the whole 1200 pages. Urghhh. Jasnah isn't really in it at all, which is a shame because I like her character. She manipulates a bloke into allowing her to exile him, she talks about how she prefers thinking with people to sex which was a bit odd and tries out military leadership for absolutely no reason. She also advances theories on government which are getting closer to modern democracies. Oh yeah, Teft dies. That should have had more impact, but I didn't care by that point. It's too long and too rubbish. Overall I'd say nothing consequential occurs in this whole book, except the very end which is done in about five minutes. There is way, WAY too much discussion of mental health. I don't know if this is cynical point-scoring by the author as so many people have mental health issues and this is an easy way to get them on-side or whether he's one of those terrible genuine people who want to discuss it but I've totally had enough of it. Depression, anxiety, PTSD, split personality disorder, crabs, addiction, this book has it all. Well, maybe not crabs. And that might not be a mental health issue. But God, do we need to hear about it this much? I get that people have these issues, but I don't know about anyone else, but I read fantasy for escapism, not to hear more about how rubbish someone is feeling. I could get that by talking to my family. It is boring. Really boring. And kind of a downer. That's just my opinion. Nothing happens. Way too long. The pacing is way off. The characters are almost all completely annoying. Mental health issues everywhere. Barely any jeopardy. Absolutely no climax. I don't care. Hoid is still interesting.

At this point, Davenport is so boring and defanged, he might as well be the dad in a sitcom. With all his rough edges sanded down, this character has never been less interesting. Long gone are the days of interesting villains. Decades after reading them, I can still recall the baddies from Eyes of Prey, Winter, night and Mind Prey. Absolutely terrifying and remorseless, those guys were some of the scariest and most interesting put to page. For the life of me, I can't remember the last bad guy that made any kind of impression on me; instead, for decades, we've been given a group antagonists as boring and interchangeable as this series book titles. Back in Davenport's salad days, his coworkers and friends and fellow cops were as a whole, the second most appealing aspect of the classic Prey novels. Those friendships and relationships provided some of the highlights of this series. They were funny when they wanted to be and provided real drama when put in danger. I get that Lucas has changed jobs a few times over since the good old days and that someone doesn't work with or stay in touch with even the closest friends but no one of much noticed has ever stepped in to replace the old crew. Lately we have had Bob and Rae but Sandford doesn't seem interested in the least of filling out either character. In fact, here in Ocean Prey, we get hints that he's already growing tired of them. Plot-wise, we get one or two action scenes propping up pages and pages of the good guys not doing much of anything. And then they have meetings and admit to each other they still have nothing. Eventually, Davenport will talk to someone who knows someone who might know something and then finally, a finale. As far as actual stories go, there's just not much here. Sandford always had great skills when writing thrillers and even in dud after dud, these books are very easy reads and I keep up with them not only out of pure nostalgia and the hopes that the author may some day get his groove back and start caring again but also because even when nothing's happening, they're still so damn easy to read. Like that imaginary sitcom I can picture Lucas starring in as a befuddled, clueless dad, a Sandford Prey novel is still somehow comforting to me. Unfortunately, I couldn't recommend this one less. Gosh, do I miss Kidd and Luanne.

It’s hard to say what was the most annoying thing about this book. Perhaps that at least once every (3-5 pages long) chapter we were told that Matt Keating used to be “in the teams”? Or that everyone referred to the 19-yr-old Mel as “the President’s daughter” all the time even though her dad was only president for a partial term (as a VP who took the oath after the president died in office) that had ended over two years ago? The sheer predictability of the plot? The Gary Stu and Mary Su good guys vs the child raping evil villains? This is my first Patterson and definitely my last, and I was hoping for some authenticity in a novel about a former president co-written by an actual former president but there was nothing there that couldn’t be gleaned from any awful TV show or action movie.

Where do I even begin with this one. The only reason I read it was we moved house recently and while waiting for our internet to be installed and our belongings to be shipped this was the only book available to me. Even still it was a push to finish it. Clinton and Patterson are like two 12 year old boys who's imaginations have got the better of them and are trying to get it all down in paper in a frenzy for fear of forgetting any details. The whole book is a series of shoehorned clichés and cringiness- I mean how many times do we need to hear them say "that goddam son of a b***ch" or lament about how superior America is. It's all very huzzah for my liking. Furthermore, the authors continually reintroduce characters, spell out abbreviations and go into long detailed descriptions of weaponry and tactics, almost as if the reader is incapable of remembering what was said 5 pages previously. I read the first offering from the duo and thought it was a perfectly acceptable read, understandably they've tried to build on previous success but have failed miserably instead. Do yourself a favour and just watch the West Wing instead, far more accurate and entertaining

** spoiler alert ** The story is bad, the plot ridiculous and the ending hilariously obvious. My real surprise is how can Bill Clinton spew this kind of trash? It plays completely into Trump narrative of the lost moral fibre of today's politicians. This is Sparta against Athens, Honour vs Sleaze, Deep Root America vs The Swamp. But let's happily spoil this literature achievement. The poor rural texan boy, fascinated by the sea, works hard to become a Marine, and, harder and harder, to be a Spartan warrior, sorry, a Seal. God smiles on Sparta, sorry, US, and selected as VP becomes Prez, but he's ambushed by the cunning politicians and irked by devilish terrorists. As soon he steps out of the presidency, while living in a rural, authentic, 100% American country side, they kidnap his daughter!!! Don't want to further spoil it, but, do u think they will remain unpunished? For all the general public, anxious to step on the shoes of the Spartans, oops, Navy Seals, there is a very fulfilling meticulous description of the heroes' gear and WEAPONS. (Calibers, tech specs, street names and lots of satisfying acronyms) ("AK 47 is for losers") But the real hit comes with plenty of marvellous, unexpected characters: - The Loyal Secret Service agent that forfeits his career to follow the president in his rescue Op and (oh, what a surprising spoiler) dies in the effort by (oh, super-duper surprising spoiler) taking the bullets aimed to the Prez daughter (It doesn't say it, but I suspect he was black. Usually it's the black guy that ends up dead) - The kick ass woman, computer wiz, serious hacker, best sharp shooter of the amazing Op Team, wait, wait, employed by NSA AND sporting a red and black Anarchy t-shirt. (ah! so smart the patriots working in the NSA!) As a bonus, here we have some deep character build: we discover that during high school she was fat and constantly bullied BUT she was rescued by the super smart Prez daughter. - The first woman President that happens to be a viper, with a pedophile husband working as Chef of Staff (I couldn't see Qanon in the Acknowledgments, maybe I didn't search well enough...) - A slithery Agent of Chinese Services, notoriously sponsor of terrorists, that is at the root cause of all the shenanigans and ends up dead (as per above, considering that all others 50+ casualties are Arabs, for coherence, it makes even more sense that the Loyal SS Agent is black) It is very easy to disparage this poor piece of story, but what worries me is that I suspect that this kind of ridiculous American hero story has become mainstreamer. Again, this is not Tom Clancy, this is Bill Clinton, Rhodes scholar, twice president and supposedly champion of the progressive forces in US. Do mainstream Americans start to believe the system is terminally ill and some hero must start get the job done? Are they sick of Athens and ready to embrace Sparta? Are we doomed?

This just was not it for me. A lot of the middle could have been cut out to speed the novel along. It just felt like some parts were added to just bulk up the page count. Overall, nothing like the first novel written by the duo. The beginning was good, ending was satisfying. The middle had some “twists” but not much overall. Would almost give it two stars, but considering it couldn’t hold my interest, it’s settling on one star.

Couldn't get into it - felt very tired and predictable - even in the first few chapters. Just not enough to engage me.

God awful and it was so so so long. Just crappy story-telling.

A new circle of hell has just entered the villa. Part of your world series will live on in my heart I guess. This book was really upsetting to me for a lot of different reasons. And I am an Abby Lover, so it actually makes me so sad this was such a huge miss for me. But it missed. By a lot. So yeah if you’re excited for this/read and loved don’t read this review! I dont wanna harp too much on it but here’s a list of what I liked and didn’t like Liked: - The cover Didn’t like: - The amount of comments about cat ass. Almost every chapter from start to finish - This is a book about a vet and somehow animal death in like a sad and honestly kind of slap in the face way (from start to about maybe 50% of the way through???) was such a big theme in this?? Maybe I’m just too sensitive??? But it started off with the talk of putting animals down and then it just got worse. I hated it. - The lack of character development and also depth? I don’t know anything about these characters except for the fact that their life SUCKS. And they somehow assumed love would cure all (and IM A HOPELESS ROMANTIC ROMANCE ONLY READER. DO YOU KNOW HOW CRAZY IT IS FOR ME OF ALL PEOPLE TO BE LIKE “this doesn’t make sense love isn’t enough what are they doing”) - Trauma after trauma after trauma. The fmc couldn’t catch a mfing break and you know what? Neither did the mmc. Which brings me to my next point. - THE FMC WAS SELFISH. I’m sorry. I’m so sorry to say. Someone in her position (actively watching someone suffer from a medical condition they can’t control) should’ve taken the initiative and said to the mmc “hey!!!! I see the physical and emotional impact this relationship has on you and we both know it’s not sustainable so I’m breaking up with you!!” - The fact that these characters literally knew 3 pages of joy??? They were both literally suffering the entire book. - Lastly (for now bc I am going to watch Abbott elementary) I feel like this book really pushed the idea that to be in love is to A) believe it conquers all and B) that “love” is about/worth pushing yourself to the point of mental and physical exhaustion. That to me actually really pisses me off because you cannot be the best partner OR best version of yourself if you are consistently sacrificing and HURTING YOURSELF just because you love someone. Really let down with this one I fear. The overall content, how things were handled in this book, the lack of reasoning behind making these two people so. sad. Just overall not??? Good???? But thank you forever for the e-arc………………..sorry girl

ok so . this is obviously not going to be a great review but now that we’re closer to pub i did want to share some actual thoughts. i am glad people are loving this book! reading is so subjective and i never want to make anyone feel bad for loving a book they read! with that being said, i do have some issues with the quality and content of this book other than just not liking it. so if you loved this book and/or are really looking forward to reading it perhaps skip this review!! I was unfortunately really disappointed by this one. The writing and storytelling that I loved so much from Abby in the Part of Your World Series was just nowhere to be seen here in my opinion. While I think it is true that Abby has written phenomenal, emotional love stories with depth in the past, Say You’ll Remember Me felt like that praise was taken too far. This book was just traumatic event after traumatic event to the point where a lot of it: 1. Did not feel necessary to any sort of plot, relationship, or character development. Just trauma for the sake of trauma. And 2. There was SO! Much trauma that most of it felt super surface level, and not actual fleshed out plot points. Genuinely felt like we were just throwing darts at a dart board to pick what was going to happen in each chapter, touching on it for a few pages and then never mentioning it again. I also felt like the writing quality really took a nose dive here. It did not feel natural whatsoever and a great deal of it felt cringey to me. Almost like it was trying TOO hard to be hip and trendy and appeal to a Gen Z audience. I would’ve liked it a lot more without some of the “humor” and references in here. I also found the near constant time jumps to be overwhelming and made it really hard to connect with either character. (spoiler alert maybe idk) And on a more personal note as someone who has loved and lost someone from Dementia, I found one of the major plot points to be really disappointing. I know it’s a tricky disease that can be different for everyone that suffers from it. But having Samantha’s mother not remember her for the entire book (if I remember correctly), but still know who everyone else it… Even having her be comfortable with Xavier after meeting him once in the midst of a meltdown felt not only inaccurate but also, again, just a way to absolutely torture this character?? Really not a fan of the way the dementia was handled in this. On a related note... Kinda feels weird to have a book so hugely about Dementia be called Say You'll Remember Me but alas... There were a handful of cute moments I did enjoy sprinkled throughout this (LOVED those Old Men Retired Vets that stepped! Up!) and I did really like most of the characters in this I think it just fell really flat in the writing and story as a whole. I just wish it was edited more maybe?

FREE MY MAN RHYSAND!! he totally didn’t deserve to be brought up in this trash book 🙏

so far, this shit sucks. update: confirmed shitty, DNF @ 25%

Thanks to Forever for letting me read this early. All thoughts are my own! DNF @ 10% This is the first book by Abby Jimenez I’ve read, and unfortunately, I do not see myself reading any others from her. Within the first 8% of this book we got three references to a character from the ACOTAR series, which felt not only gross because of the harm SJM has caused and perpetuates but also felt very heavy handed in terms of pop culture references. There was also a Roblox reference which was just WILD. The FMC also uses the phrase “fucked off back to his motherland” in reference to a character named Omar, which is actually so gross, and I’m really frustrated about it. Given the political climate we are facing, an off handed comment like this may seem small, but will have impact and ultimately hurt readers. It’s extremely harmful language and perpetuates stereotypes about men of color. It’s disgusting. After seeing Jimenez do all of that promo and the events for Rebecca Yarros’ newest release, it’s clear that Jimenez’s choices are not ones I want to support any further.

1.5 stars. Unlike most of the reviewers, I found this book wanting on so many ways. The beginning was extremely confusing in that the opening bounced between three different periods. If Penny wanted to write a prequel, then she should have done that. This portion of the plot was my favorite. I also enjoyed the relationship between Armand and Jean Guy and between Armand and Amelia. There is so much violence in this book and I feel that I've read it before. If I had known there was a mass shooting referenced, I would have skipped it. Once again Armand and his family are targeted. It seemed to me that I've read this before. I think Penny had a lot of ideas for this book and she threw them all together, resulting in an unsatisfying novel. Her writing was riddled with references that did not move the plot forward. There was much unnecessary foreshadowing All in all, I found this book to be a hot mess, unworthy of publication.

The Inspector Gamache series started having major stumbles with All the Devil's are Here, when Gamache, a policeman for a Canadian province, goes to Paris. When local police go international, it's usually a sign the author is running out of ideas (the weapon of mass destruction and the plot to blow the dam were also far fetched, but charmingly so). The Madness of Crowds showed further signs of decline when the main thrust centered around a "statistical analysis" that garners the attention of the public at large. As a statistician, I can tell you that that is one of the most far-fetched fictional plot devices I've come across among any genre of fiction (more believable would be dragons flying spaceships). Additionally, the disagreement among experts seems to not be on the analysis, which is never described, but only on the implications. What was in this "statistical analysis" that is never actually described? An argument for letting the old, sick, and feeble die. That's right... a large portion of the Canadian public as been whipped into a supporting frenzy by a statistical analysis purporting to *show* it would be best to withhold care from those who need it. And now we come to A World of Curiosities, with pages that preach and scold, poor dialogue, dumb characters, recycled plot devices, and one of the most ridiculous villain reveal. I won't comment much on the social themes the book addresses (Penny did much better in the early books), but suffice it to say that most of it is tangential (or completely unrelated) to the narrative, adds nothing to the characters or plot, knowingly distorts history, and tries to have you believe that we have made no progress in social morality since at least the days of the witch hunts in the 1600s, but somehow, at the same time, the book's characters are able to look back on history and pronounce "those people" evil with the confidence of someone who *knows* they would act differently if placed in similar circumstances. I am surprised the editors let so much through and that other readers haven't noticed. ***The rest of the rant will include spoilers... you've been warned*** Inspector Gamache is just plain stupid in this book. Upon discovering that John Flemming (the serial killer from a previous book) has escaped from the Special Handling Unit, what does he do? Any normal human being and especially any wise sage of a policeman as Gamache has been portrayed up to this point would inform the head of the police and there would ensue one of the biggest manhunts in Canadian history. Instead, he decides to keep this fact to himself and only share it with a few close confidants!? (keyboards really should have interrobang keys) There is only one moment when there is any hint of a wider response when Jean Guy is coordinating with other law enforcement, but Gamache seems distinctly uninterested. Instead, when someone receives a minor head wound, for some reason Gamache drives him to the hospital rather than pawning that duty off on someone and coordinating the response himself. When Myrna is worried about Harriet, Gamache tells Myrna that they can track Harriet's phone. Are you kidding me?! She is reportedly in the B&B a stone's throw away. Go knock on the damn door! Circling back to Flemming's escape: he bribes a corrupt prison official to let him go and to put a look-a-like in his cell. This was used as a plot device in a previous book. Finding something hidden in the wall: this was a plot device in a previous book. An entire precinct of corrupt cops (this one centered around half of them being pedos): been done many times in this series. Clues found in a painting: that's from book one. When Gamache decides to send his family away for safety, it is to a lake house that is just a short drive from Three Pines. Come on now. I would've told Reine Marie to just stay at the airport, and I certainly wouldn't have gathered my entire family in one spot that was close to where the killer would be. And Gamache had seen Flemming just a few years prior and knew what he looked like. Why was there confusion over who was and was not Flemming? Flemming ends up being the village minister, though two other old men are thrown in the mix to keep you guessing. Gamache couldn't recognize that the minister was Flemming because he had worn contacts and grew a beard?! Flemming was in Three Pines for for a while serving as the minister without being recognized by anyone! The deeper explanation given for Gamache's inability to recognize Flemming: Flemming had shown love and care to his wife while she slowly died of cancer... that love covered all the evil inside Flemming... that's why Gamache didn't recognize him... [insert puking emoji]. Ruth was right, Gamache really is Clouseau. And if there were a drinking game that said take a shot when "ça va bien aller" or the nodding of Ruth's duck was mentioned, that game would send participants to the hospital with alcohol poisoning. The series had a good run, but this is last book for me.

** spoiler alert ** Let me start by saying that I have enjoyed all the Louise Penny mysteries up until now. I love Inspector Gamache and his wife, Reine-Marie. He lives in the idyllic town of Three Pines and solves murder mysteries while enjoying scrumptious sounding food and drink by the fire in Olivier’s Bistro along with all the quirky village residents. That said, I did not enjoy this one. It starts with a murder of a prostitute/ druggie in another town who has a son and a daughter who she has been pimping out to customers, including the local police chief and some officers. Yeah, all that creepy stuff was on video, too. Then we move along to the memory of a mass shooting of female engineering students in Montreal. (which did actually occur in 1989) On to an evil serial killer caught by Gamache who has been locked up in a maximum security prison for violent criminals but connives his way out with the help of a corrupt warden and guard who replace him with a lookalike?!?!?! Turns out he is the father of the prostitute’s son (also a psycho) and he has been hiding in plain sight in Three Pines disguised as the pastor of the church. So, he was playing the long game, you see, and went to divinity school after escaping prison so he could infiltrate Three Rivers to get to Gamache. Several murders later he has a knife to Reine-Marie’s throat in front of Gamache in their house and blah, blah blah. Bad guy gets killed and Gamache and Reine-Marie go to their lake house for a month where they are magically healed by the presence of their children and grandchildren. They burn some sage in their house and sing a round of Kumbaya with the locals and all is good again. Ugh! There’s more that bothered me but those are the low points. Time to find a new mystery writer.

I think this is my last visit to Three Pines. The writing style bothered me so much I couldn’t finish the book. The style made the beloved characters annoying this time.

** spoiler alert ** I used to be a fan of this author but felt her books were getting darker. Then this book came out. I am I’m so disappointed in how disturbing this book was. There should have been a warning about the nature of the story. As a therapist, I worry about people reading this, and retrigger in their own traumas, and as a former fan, I am so disenchanted with this author and her books.

** spoiler alert ** First, I want to start with a list of WTF‘s from this book. Bear in mind, I’m a person who has read Penny’s books and given them all five star ratings until “A Better Man”. Generally, I feel the books have gotten significantly worse since ABM, but with this book, Penny and Gamache finally “jumped the shark” (or Steak Frites with seasoned fries, if you don’t care for fish). We are asked to believe that Gamache and his wife have had a convicted murderer living with them for 10 years. Ten years that span throughout the previous books. This person, Fiona, was arrested by Gamache then paroled; now she’s living with them and being raised like family. And this is the first we’ve heard of it? And Myrna…Penny had managed to make her a legitimate character, but here Myrna is stripped of everything from personality to physical description. We’ve always known Myrna as being a big woman. In fact, she’s very big. The first 12 books, Myrna’s physical make up was just as comforting as her intellect and ability to love and care for others. But after ABM, Myrna loses all of that depth because Penny can’t stop mentioning Myrna’s “round, ample bottom”, and manages to turn Myrna into a caricature. For the first time in the series, Penny decides to not mention anything about Myrna’s physical presence, but instead blesses her with a niece named Harriet, with whom she’s supposedly close, Penny tries her hardest to make Harriet mysterious and suspicious. But It’s so poorly executed that readers are left feeling betrayed. How could we not know this about Gamache and Myrna? What in the world was Penny thinking? The next mind blowing antic from Penny is the character of Myrna’s boyfriend, Billy Williams. Billy has gone from some type of town caretaker whose one (very funny, in prior books) quality is that no one can understand what he saying. In fact, his general incoherency was used as a plot device in an earlier novel! Here, he speaks in full sentences and he even touches on philosophy. No explanation for this. It just happened. Next , how many times can you use a plot device that involves a look-alike who has (voluntarily! ) been incarcerated in place of the perpetrator? She used it once, many books ago, and then we’re asked to believe it happens again, this time, with a serial killer. I have no affiliation with, nor any particular affection for Canada, but if I were Canadian, I’d be a little peeved and a bit offended. Are Canadians so dense that a corrupt cop, and then a serial killer, could pull the same switcheroo? Penny seems to think (then tries to convince the reader) if you pay enough money, a maximum security prison housing the worst and most dangerous offenders IN THE ENTIRE COUNTRY, will turn a blind eye to the understudies of a corrupt cop and the nation’s worst serial killer. Not that I can totally blame Penny for thinking that enough money and connections could purchase someone to serve a life sentence for another’s crimes… Hillary Clinton is her ‘bestie’. Lastly, Penny and her preaching. Preacher Penny brought up a mass shooting that happened at an engineering college in Canada. This was an actual event in ‘89 described by wiki as an “antifeminist mass shooting”. Since this book is set over 25 years after the tragedy, and none of the characters have any connection to the incident, I couldn’t figure out why Penny devoted so much time to it at the beginning, before it disappeared. Then, I got about a quarter of the way through, and realized it was only to serve as Penny’s gun control platform. From gun control, Canada’s mistreatment of indigenous peoples, racism, etc., PP makes sure she ticks all of the “politically correct and woke” boxes, ad nauseam. The worst is Penny’s regurgitation of every feminist manifesto with lines like “They looked at each other in horror at the crimes committed against women for merely exhibiting intelligence and having a uterus”. Gak. At the end (which couldn’t come quickly enough) the plot holes became more significant than the actual book. The grammar is atrocious. I believe Penny has gone from writing her books to dictating them, verbally, for someone else to type. I began reading passages containing the worst fractures out loud, and it sounded different-much better! I now understand why the fragments are so terrible. She’s dictating the book and they are transcribing it almost verbatim. The rush to get the book out was more important, obviously, and letting a really good editor loose on it. I’ve spent a great deal of time on this review; more time than would be justified for ANY book, good or bad. It’s just rare that I’ve been so enamored, charmed and wholly consumed by a series, only to have it go so badly, so quickly. But to this day, I would encourage the reading of her first 12 books…Just stop at 12. Because I can assure you that there’s nothing worse than traveling with these characters for so many years, then having it plunge into some farcical, insulting slap in the face. It’s in this that the true crime takes place Or, to use Penny’s words, it’s… “A crime. One of betrayal. Absolute. And wholly. To be considered personal. And finding that truth. Here. And now.” Sigh.

I am so disappointed in this book. Rather than a murder mystery involving interesting characters, this is all about politics - and I don't want politics invading my pleasure reading. Because I follow Ms. Penny, I am aware of her political leanings, but the fact that she had to bring them into her books is so sad to me. It made the story much less interesting, as it was trying to get its message across (orange man bad) rather than just trying to tell a good story. I found it convoluted and often difficult to follow. I really hope, if she continues this series, that she returns to her original style and leaves the politics out of it.

I’m sorry Louise Penny. I’ve been a huge fan of yours since I first read your books in 2016. I’ve read them all, in order. I’ve met you three times, first at Manior Hovey in Quebec, soon after your husband’s death, and (i later found out) were planning a party for Hilary Clinton at that beautiful hotel. You were absolutely delightful. But I don’t like your stories anymore. I’m not interested in elaborate conspiracies, where everyone seems to change from being a bad guy to a good guy and back again. Where the story line is so ridiculously complex, and involves whole continents, and all of mankind and yet, only Armand can figure it out. Nope, I didn’t like The Grey Wolf, and I did not like this book. I won’t read your books again. I miss the early ones, with poetry, and food, and a warm fire, and a simple murder in the woods.

This is my first DNF on Goodreads. This in spite of glowing reviews from regulars comments that I respect. The only reason I started this book is that I’ve enjoyed her earlier ones. I liked CHIEF INSPECTOR ARMAND GAMACHE and the characters in village of Three Pines. They were charming and humorous with clever puzzles to solve. And the Author’s Note intrigued me. It did get me to look up some facts for 2025... they don't reflect her POV for content of her story. Since I was so very disappointed, I don't have any praise for this and would not recommend reading. I think I'll stop reading Penny as long as her novels have turned to dark political views. The world is forever changing and people are stressed with trying to keep up. Some novelists are venting through their storytelling and not helping anything. Not even giving us respite with a good story.

Seriously bad Too many ridiculous plot twists and turns. Very disappointing. Each of her novels have gotten progressively more incoherent. What started as a good premise ended up being ridiculous.

An utterly disappointing end to what was a wonderful series. Somewhere in the last several books she changed gears from cozy, wry and intellectual mysteries to over-the-top political thrillers with a heavy dose of patronizing lectures on climate change and societal behavior. She also took so many liberties with police procedure it made much of the book a joke, and don't even get me started on the multiple red herrings and twists near the end that, rather than heighten the intrigue, made the entire book confusing and plain ridiculous. I should have listened to other reviews and stopped after The Grey Wolf (or possibly before) but I've learned my lesson, if there are even more installments I will not subject myself to this punishment again.

Enough with the political drama and news headlines! As the author herself admits to the challenge of writing a different book about the same characters and setting, perhaps it is time to end the series. I love Gamache, Three Pines and it's inhabitants. I would like to read more about these characters, the challenges they face, and how they support one another through them. Since I have loved them so, I am sad to state that I will not be reading the next Louise Penny book.

I’m concerned, irritated, furious at the obvious rural Southern stereotypes in this book. I may not finish. But hears my list up to p. 80. 1. Sherriff female - ok female Southern sherrif if not a stereotype but it’s also not realistic. 2. First Witness - external appearance of the home described as “yellow clapboard, peeling paint”. - witness described as a hoarder. - “ Is it true? Was they all murdered?” How did you remember the license number? “It was like one of the puzzle books.”, 3. Local DA described as “ paunchy, wearing dark green trousers with suspenders”. (Are you kidding me! I do not know a man who wears suspenders!). “ White hair combed back in a pompadour.” Length of term? “Ten years and two more.” (Who talks like that?) DA question, “You also had a chinaman with you.” (Are you kidding me?} 4. The interviewing CID member describes the road Witness #1 lives on as, “a variety of mobile houses and rural homes . . .a lonely stretch of road”. I continued to read to see how badly the good people of Georgia continued to be pilloried. It never let up. Even the good judge in the end was drinking before court. Ugh! This is not a James Patterson novel. Not sure why he put his name on it. He should be ashamed.

Writing is ok but this is a typical left wing hit job promoting every stereotype there is in an illogical fashion. The premise is beyond believable the characters forgettable and the absolute left wing hypocrisy of Patterson comes screaming through. I ought to have my head examined for buying this POS. I know better. The premise of “The Summer House” is nonsense. The house where it happens has no relevance to the story. It could have been any run down cabin anywhere. There is nothing original in this book. It is not some summer read. Waste of time.

OMG, Horrible! I am SO disappointed in Game On. I have read and loved all of the Stephanie Plum books and looked forward to reading this one. What a HUGH disappointment. Did Janet Evanovich use a ghost writer? What happened to the characters and the story line? There is NO spark in Game On (NONE). The characters are DULL. Vinny and Lula seem to be subdued. The 'Jersey' language (4 letter swears) and yelling/ranting that made these characters and this series what it was, has totally disappeared and replaced nonsense like, "What the fork" and "What the what". Really? What is up with that? Also, there is NO romance with Stephanie and Joe or Ranger (NONE)!! Guess it's time for me to find a new author and series to read. I'll miss the 'real' pre-Game On Stephanie and all the other characters. :(

Terrible! Not funny. Not original. Waste of money. Waste of time. The Stephanie Plum series is grasping, and Evanovich keeps hacking her way through. Subpar on every level.

Game On, book #28 in the Stephanie Plum series is a huge disappointment. As a dedicated fan, I have read and listened to every book in this series and there is no way this was written by Evanovich. The lack of cursing from anyone, but especially from Lula, means the author does not in any way understand Lula’s (previously) hilarious character. There’s very little joking around and I don’t think I laughed once the entire book. Stephanie, Lula, and Connie’s conversations and ridiculously funny scenarios are what drive the books, and this was completely missing from #28. The whole thing has been “PG-ed” and in doing so, all the laughable, lively interplay between characters is gone. Stephanie’s mother stops drinking to knit and philosophize. Grandma seems normal. Joe becomes a sweet doormat. The tension between Ranger, Joe, and Stephanie is gone, replaced with lackluster Diesel (he’s really the worst). We don’t need Diesel in any of the books and I was disappointed to find he was the main man character in Game On. It would be more appropriately titled Game Off. There are no gut busting lines from Lula, no hot-headed Morelli scenes, no Grandma hijinks, and the side characters are equally boring. In the audiobook, Grandma Mazur’s name is even mispronounced and I am sure Lorelei King remembers how to pronounce it (King is awesome!). She must have been directed to say MAY-zor rather than Maah-zur. This may seem trivial but it is a whole book worth of these contradictions and departures from the series. None of the characters act like themselves in the book. Even though I suspect some of the previous 27 books have been ghost written, I have loved every book until now. I hope the series continues written by Evanovich or a ghost writer who actually understands the characters and their quirks and can showcase them. It is one of the joys in my life to read a new Plum book every year or so, but if this same person writes the next book I will stop reading/listening to this series.

