I feel like I need to offer two separate reviews of this book - because I recognize the artistry and found the concepts thought-provoking and compelling... but I found the process of reading it excruciating. I'm generally resistant to authors whose presence is too overt in their writing (Tom Robbins, Don DeLillo, etc), though there are a number of exceptions, so I immediately found myself having to fight against the style to engage with the content. I frequently failed. But when I was able to succeed, that the narrative was a lovely, philosophical reflection. Then I'd have to catch myself gritting my teeth and muttering "this affected prose is unnecessary."

Now Winner of the Booker Prize 2025 Oooohh, this is a tough one: I can see what others appreciate about the book, but if you make me plough through an intentionally non-immersive novel, I need more meat on that bone. Szalay tells the story of István, an alienated man feeling detached from his own life, starting from a point of trauma and then almost accidentally falling up the ladder of success. István is unable to effectively communicate his interior worlds, and the writing heightens the effect by also keeping the reader outside his consciousness. What István experiences though (or what is at least revealed) are physical sensations: The title-giving flesh he feels during sex and pain. How his emotions relate to the phsycical sensations remains unclear. So yes, this is a book about masculinity, and one that undermines the trope of the hero's journey: István rises in the ranks, but he doesn't evolve, he moves, but he is never moved by anything. It's a sad story about loneliness and emptiness that can't be filled with anything outside the self, and a story about unprocessed trauma. István is groomed and raped by a much older woman as a teenager, then he's sentenced to youth detention after an altercation with the husband. Afterwards, István fights in the "war on terror", then relocates to London and moves upwards through the classes to work for the wealthy. Throughout, our protagonist remains passive, his main untterance being "okay" - it's very hard to get through, because I, as a reader, am required to care more about a main character than this main character apparently cares about himself. It's a strange and admittedly very unusual literary trick that you rarely encounter to this degree and with such consequence. But, and here's my issue: To what end is this trick performed? Don't get me wrong, literature is not supposed to answer all narrative questions or teach me a lesson or agree with me - but it should do something. And I don't really see how "male alienation, there you go" is particularly worthwhile. Sure, when István suffers the sexual trauma, he is a helpless child, he can't act, and that's probably the point here: To show how over the next decades, this quiet acceptance, this learnt helplessness keeps István from happiness. Maybe that's why it must be frustrating to read, because that's how content and aesthetics merge. But it's still frustrating to read.

Is literature in such a bad decline? Or is the Booker Prize in such a bad decline? The story is shallow and one-dimensional and written poorly. The characters are robotic creatures. The main character is fifteen… And in his adolescent head there is nothing but sexual fantasies… ‘Have you ever done it?’ his friend asks him. ‘No,’ István says. ‘Me neither,’ his friend says, making the admission seem easy somehow. He has a simple and natural way of talking about sex. He tells István which girls at school he fantasises about, and what he fantasises about doing to them. Then he is seduced by an older woman… Their love affair ends tragically… No direction in life… From pillar to post… After a while he served for five years in the army… He is back home… Working in the winery… Next time we meet the hero in London… Where’d you work?’ ‘At the moment at this place in Soho,’ István says. The man smiles. ‘What’s that like?’ ‘It’s okay.’ ‘What sort of place is it?’ ‘It’s…you know.’ István is unsure how to describe it. ‘Nudie show?’ the man suggests. ‘Something like that. You know. Pole dancing. Whatever.’ ‘Sure.’ Then he finds a much better job… Adulterous affairs… Accidental meetings… It’s just a way of flesh… He has this feeling, with women, that it’s hard to have an experience that feels entirely new, that doesn’t feel like something that has already happened, and will probably happen again in some very similar way, so that it never feels like all that much is at stake. Now it seems he is successful… Now it seems he is rich… But… Stupidity finished a clueless asshole – this is a precise and complete summation of the novel. Some people are like ships in the night sailing without any ports of destination.

this book felt like if you asked chatgpt to write a bad sally rooney spoof about the male loneliness epidemic. i’m taking a break from reading the booker longlist before it makes me hate reading forever.

Grrr, I’m so conflicted about this novel, which is the first Szalay novel I read. What was the point of this? What was Szalay trying to convey through Istvan, if anything at all. Call me crazy, but when a novel takes the reader through a character’s life journey, I expect to end up knowing that character, which usually means I end up caring. Despite finishing the entire novel, I felt nothing – I felt flat, like the writing. Is Szalay’s writing good? It was accessible, anyone could get it. The repetitions were driving me crazy. I listened to the audiobook, so I couldn’t count, but I’m convinced there were hundreds of OKs throughout the novel. Not to be one of those people who diagnose everyone (truthfully, I’m becoming one), perhaps Istvan had a language processing issue, basing this on how he repeated everyone’s questions back to them? In a novel, that’s awfully tedious. The only time Szalay is more descriptive is when it comes to sex and body parts. Even those paragraphs were emotionless and, in many cases, off-putting. Without knowing the author’s intentions, what were we to conclude? Did Istvan only feel something when he had sex? Wow, a whole 5 minutes! (Sorry, I couldn’t help myself). We can’t even say he was driven by sex, because he was passive even when it came to that; he never chased or looked for it, even the sexual encounters happened when a woman wanted him. Come to think of it, I don’t even know if Istvan was handsome. I can’t remember any descriptions of him. To conclude my ramblings, this novel was accessible, but the writing was too flat, unemotional, and it kept me at a distance, and that’s not why I read.

Istvan is an aimless, lonely teenager in a grim Hungarian town when he embarks on an affair with a much older neighbour. Suddenly his life has purpose, but in a confrontation with the woman's husband, he accidentally kills him. The years that follow consist of a sentence in detention centre and a stint in the Iraq war - he emerges hardened and emotionally inhibited. Moving to London, Istvan seems destined to work a series of menial, low-paying jobs until he saves the life of a security firm owner. His luck changes and he becomes the driver for a wealthy businessman. With the contacts he makes, Istvan gradually rises through the ranks of society. But he generates some enemies along the way and we get the feeling that this good fortune won't last forever. A few days after finishing Flesh I watched the Stanley Kubrick film Barry Lyndon and realised that this novel is a retelling of that story with a modern, Hungarian slant. It's about a boy who, after a rocky start, continues to fail upwards in life until his luck eventually runs out. Flesh is told in a very clipped, unemotional style and I guess it's aim is to mirror Istvan's repressed feelings. He rarely speaks at any kind of length and it makes you wonder how anybody he encounters could really be interested in him. It also means we don't get much insight into his character - the story is just a series of events that happen to him. I was a fan of David Szalay's previous book All That Man Is and its clever structure reflecting the different stages of "man's" life. However I'm afraid Flesh left me cold - it just felt like a flat retelling of an older fable with no great perception or character development.

I’m not sure how this one got a prize. It was boring, repetitive and what exactly was it trying to convey? Maybe I’m not smart enough to understand? (or maybe it’s because I’m not a man? Maybe this would’ve enlightened me) I tried, I really tried, I had only 70 pages left but I just couldn’t finish it. (Thankfully this was a library book, so I’ll just return in.)

Orbital by Samantha Harvey is a frustrating read. The book is essentially threefold: one-third is dedicated to listing places, one-third to a romanticized portrayal of Russia and its people (while the rest of Eastern Europe remains just that—Eastern Europe, not deemed important enough), and one-third to trying too hard to sound intellectual. The constant naming of locations feels more like a geography lesson than a narrative. Meanwhile, the idealization of Russia comes across as naive and disconnected from reality. Finally, the attempts at intellectual depth feel forced and pretentious, leaving the book feeling superficial and disjointed.

No plot, just vibes. Assorted shower thoughts. Some sentences are beautiful and some turn out to be devoid of any meaning upon closer inspection.

If asked to describe this book in one word, it would be: nothingburgers. It gave me nothing. It meant nothing. It was about nothing. Actual quote from the book: “The moon, the moon. Mars, the moon.” I actually laughed, out loud, at how nonsensical this one is in places. My experience of reading this was tantamount to being invited to lunch with some acquaintances. They aren’t friends really, but they could be, because they are generally nice people, so I agree to go (not really, because I’m an introvert, but for the purpose of this comparison, I go.) They select some restaurant I’ve never heard of where they serve you poutine with cashew cheese (I’ve had this, it’s gross). And while you’re eating some hipster stands up at the small stage with the microphone in front of the windows, and proudly announces they are about to have a slam poetry reading. And then someone with the thickest, blackest eyeliner you’ve ever seen gets up and reads you their deepest poetry about #astronautlife, even though they have clearly never ever been to space. And you can tell it really means something to them. And the audience is feeling it. And the poet is feeling it. And all you can do is make an excuse to run to the bathroom so you don’t burst into a laughing fit because it’s so fucking ridiculous. So I am once again, the odd man out. This is why I have no friends by the way. Anyway. I gave it two stars because there was exactly one chapter about Chie’s mother that I found really beautiful and touching. It’s a fucking shame Harvey didn’t focus on the astronauts more because she did have something to say about the human condition, (outside of: in the majesty of space, human life is insignificant or humans are only a “few flint strikes ahead” of anything else), but it was so fleeting I can’t give it more than that. She should just write poetry if that’s what she wants to do. There are people who would appreciate it. She should not sell it in novel form. I am unlikely to read from this author again.

reading vlog: https://youtu.be/JD5wUPBGlBA great gowns.... beautiful gowns....

I'm surprised that of all the contestants this book was the one to win the Booker Prize. In her review, Kinga called it an "assorted collection of shower thoughts" and I felt that it just about sums it up - while reading I couldn't shake off the feeling of being pranked - there's just no depth to any of this. It's not just the lack of an actual story that bothers me - it's the lack of anything that would set it apart from cliche motivational posts you can often see on social media. Basically, this is "I am 14 and this is deep" in book form. There's no drama, no tension, nothing to bite your teeth into. The whole novel is comprised of a series of vignettes from different astronauts, who all come from different countries but somehow share similar sentiments when observing their home planet from space (I think you could easily switch entire sections of the book between different characters and no one would even notice). The minutiae of endlessly describing geographical destination they pass over and how it fills them with wonderment got old extremely quickly, and even though this isn't a very long book it sure feels like one. I appreciate the author's intent of trying to paint a picture of diverse humanity coming in awe when faced with the beauty of our planet and universe, I think the effort really misses the mark. Last but not least, I can't agree with many reviewers upset at the book for supposedly "romanticizing" Russia and Russian culture - I did not get that impression at all; in fact, one Russian character in the book comes off as rather arrogant and generally unsympathetic. However, I found the book to be so dull and boring that I couldn't be forced to name a single one of these characters and what each of them was thinking immediately after finishing it - if that doesn't tell you everything you need to know about the book, then I don't know what will.

sometimes poetic writing should just be poetry

There‘s something about short stories that just feels so incomplete… even though the 13 stories are interconnected, I really couldn‘t make sense of what was going on, who is who and did what to whom… the only admirable aspect was that the author matched each character with a fitting narrative voice, creating a welcomed variety.

Thank goodness it was short.

Deeply pretentious. The story was able to perfectly describe it’s moral conundrum in a few paragraphs throughout but then repeated the same point over and over to the point of absolute exhaustion.

2.5⭐️ fell asleep 3 times trying to get through this 104 page book. Extremely repetitive. Could have been 40 pages shorter

This is a novel about a man with a boring life which is, for reasons that elude me, supposed to be interesting to the reader. It’s not. Problem is, his life remains boring throughout the entire book which is well... kind of boring. You expect his life to get less boring but it doesn’t. It just keeps on being boring. I think this review has captured the pure essence of boredom by being as boring as the book

This was a perfectly serviceable novel that I'm sure Tyler could have written in her sleep, but I am left wondering why it was written and why it was longlisted for the Booker and can find no reasonable explanation.

Book 6 of my Booker Prize longlist challenge, each year I dedicate my time to reading all the books on the booker longlist/shortlist so I can attempt to predict the winner. (Key word here is attempt) This has led me to read some incredible books, pushing me out of my comfort zone & expanding my taste. I struggled to find the rhythm with The South, A queer love story set in Malaysia. Lyrical prose, but I felt like I was in a haze throughout, grasping at the thread of characters trying to find an affection for the story. Slow storytelling, just struggled to keep reading. This could be an issue of the reader, I read this on and off through lunch breaks over the course of a week. Maybe I didn't really interact deep enough with the story, this is normally the kind of story I would absolutely love. Funny how the mindset and atmosphere the reader is in can completely impact the reading experience. That could be the issue here... nevertheless; I was disappointed.

I just couldn’t get into this book; the constant change of POV made it hard to figure out who was telling the story in each precise moment, I couldn’t care less about what was happening, and the ending felt abrupt.

Uneventful, slow and frequently dull, with an insipid feel to it throughout. It felt to me like there was need either for some humour, or a dark twist.. This is supposed to be a time of seismic change for the key characters but that doesn’t come over with any vigour. It is much better on location, and the sense of embarrassment the protagonists have. But, for a Booker Longlist nominated novel, I expected a lot more.

mr. aw, you need to fire your editor. this book is so overwritten, you could have probably cut about 75 pages of useless solipsizing and actually ended up with something that actually deserves to be on the booker longlist. i am terrified at the fact that you thought you needed four books when this first one is already mostly fat. for a book that begins with a sex scene it completely fails at being sexy or even sensual, i did not buy that jay and chuan had any sort of meaningful bond with one another. there are occasional shining moments of sheer devastation and sadness, but these are few and far-between. the relationship is extremely underdeveloped, and they are not saved by the pretty boring side characters who drift in and out seemingly at random. also did not seem like tash aw actually manages the coherent depiction of the malaysian-chinese “experience” (i would not point this out if it didn’t feel like such a pointed theme), whatever that is, beyond the aforementioned few shining moments, and the triteness of what actually does get said is saved only by the fact that often it’s an annoying teenage character saying it, which is kinda funny. but i was so excited to read more malaysian authors so overall this was very personally disappointing!

Family novel set in Malaysia. Pleasant read. I found the young romance to be sweet and I was happy that it wasn't spoiled. I liked the siblings and the constant cigarettes and killing time together.

I felt this was going to be good but then it just fell flat for me and I became bored. I realise this is going to be a series but none of the characters grasped my full interest so I doubt I’ll look for more. I did feel this was just a tester for follow up books however for me it never really went anywhere. Perhaps it was because I skim read the last few pages to see if anything piqued my interest but sadly nothing jumped out. It’s a story of longing and loss and of two young men trying to fit into their chosen sexuality. I have no qualms about that and appreciated the challenges they would face. It’s about the Asian financial crisis and how it affected people. Here the plot has similarities with “The Land in Winter”. But it will be interesting to see if it makes the Shortlist! Once again I’m curious about the Booker Longlist 2025 but so far apart from “Flashlight” I’ve been rather disappointed.

I just didn’t have a good time, didn’t care. Defs need to follow up from this one with something more up my alley because this made me question if I even enjoy reading, hahaha

hated this! not a good start to Booker 2025

i really didn’t like this, but i wanted to love it!! i know it’s a novella for a reason, but i needed more context. i just felt confused the whole time 3 i did enjoy the historical fiction aspect! although that also confused me? because it takes place in the 80’s, but so many times it felt like it should be the 1800’s based on dialogue and small details.. idk

A bit disappointed. Beautiful prose, yes, but the story? Meh. Too predictable and quite sentimental, especially the ending. Plus eyeroll at the whole male savior-thing. Not my jam. Still 3* because of the language

This is the Way my Booker Ends: Not with a Bang but a Whimper ---------------------------- I'm honestly confused, flabbergasted even, by all the five star reviews. I promise I went into this with open eyes and open heart; I wanted to end on a high note after all poor reading this list has brought into my life. I feel like I read a completely different book. Or maybe this is the first dystopian some have read, or they don't know about any other book that deals with a totalitarian government, or is the news not being watched? I've seen people call this highly emotional and that it really makes you think how it could happen to "us" (a liberal democracy). You're realizing this in 2023? Maybe I was doomed as soon as I saw Eilish not believing that the government can listen to your phone calls, there are laws don't you know! I guess she never read or heard of Edward Snowden in this reality (when does this book take place? who knows. recent past, recent future, it doesn't really matter. It barely matters that it's Ireland) This might just be the American in me and in Ireland people still believe that the government would never go against their citizens. Let's just say I found her naïveté irksome. Other reviewers mention the writing being lyrical and poetic. Maybe the giant blocks of text (Melchor this is not) kept me from noticing it, but they didn't hide the constant use of dark, darkness, and darkening (this becomes comical) or the odd word choices peppered throughout. It's almost as if the author noticed the writing was flat and a bit dead and decided to jazz things up. Someone whips our their member, someone is suddened, a character sleeves their coat on or they walk into colding loom. I kept reading, hoping for the exhilarating plot I was promised only to be slapped in the face with a side character speech rehashing the central conceit of the novel. After 300 pages!! Paul, do you not trust I'll understand that it's hard to know when to leave, how to realize that it's too late? Even when you have mentioned this exact thing multiple times in the novel? The blurb asks how far a mother will go to save her family. Not very far it seems. She sticks around hoping for things to turn and makes it to the corner store for milk and cigarettes. It also asks what or who she is willing to leave behind. No one, until they're super dead. This woman doesn't get moving until the end of the book. If this novel of 'radical empathy' opens people's eyes and hearts to the migrant struggle then great. I'm honestly happy. But I'm also dejected that it's a generic novel about an Irish woman that had to do it. I just know this will make it to the short list (it's topical?!) but I honestly hope it does not win.

RATING BREAKDOWN Characters: 3⭐️ Setting: 3⭐️ Plot: 2⭐️ Themes: 1⭐️ Emotional Impact: 1⭐️ Personal Enjoyment: 1⭐️ Total Rounded Average: 2⭐️ Well, it's got an original style, I'll give it that. No paragraphs. No quotation. And every sentence is inverted. If it were a direct translation, it might have felt transportive, but it's written in English, so it's either poor mastery of the language or breaking all the rules on purpose. My question is, to what effect? For what reason? I don't feel any closer to the characters, any more immersed in the setting. It feels like style for style's sake, which ultimately came across as pretentious and indulgent. This is a deeply unsettling novel that plays out like a horror. Let's read about a loving functional family, as they slowly dissolve under oppression. The end. No exposition. No speculative questions outside of what if Dublin fell under a totalitarian regime, and all the children ended up in the morgue? Interesting. Pass the bean dip. WTF. It had emotional impact. I felt furious and disturbed, but was left with nothing to hope for or aspire to. It was just a tragedy. I little snapshot of the bleakest everyday thing someone could imagine, played out in monotonous daily grind detail. I suppose the moral of the story is even if you've found the love of your life, and created four beautiful children together, and both love your work and home, and have wonderful neighbors and appreciate your life, a government could come in and take it all from you, slowly, without explanation, without warning, without closure, without end, and you won't even know it's happening until it's all gone. Bleak as fuck. I'm convinced it won the Booker Prize for audacity. And that's not enough to make it good.

I am going to agree with the other reviewers (in the minority) who really did not like this book. I think this book is a failure, even though it has moments that are compellingly written. It begins, really, with the assumption that this level of catastrophe (a dystopian world, where a fascist government suddenly appears in Ireland) is yours to write about--that you are capable. It's like the book lacks a basic level of humility in front of a century of horrors and exchanges that humility for clichés: "ruined eyes," pain, darkness, etc, etc, bla and bla. But what if these kinds of things aren't like this. What if you meet someone (a refugee, a Holocaust survivor) and you look in their eyes, and you cannot, in fact, read the entirety of their experiences in one glance? What if this kind of thing is basically untranslatable and inexplicable? Not to mention that Ireland does have a history of horrors, recent ones even, and instead of addressing those, this book just thought-experiments its way through a generic account of totalitarianism. Sometimes I get the feeling the author just watched Youtube videos of hospitals during wars or "What's it like during a bombing raid." Or even just binged "A Handmaid's Tale" and thought it would make for a good literary homage. I also agree with the other critiques of the ending. It would not be my choice for the Booker, not even the shortlist. Update: I am immensely annoyed and disappointed in the panel of judges that rewarded this book with the Booker. Even just listening to his speech--that he read a book when he was 15 that made him cry and he's been chasing that "hit" every since--proves my point.

Well I really disliked this one, Booker winner it may be but the style was just so annoying I found myself skimming. Long rambling paragraphs with no speech marks all running into each other, and even when you concentrate odd word choices or phrasing was still throwing me off. (eg: She is suddened into the dark room,and how the light makes insubstantial the dark)Yes it adds to the panic and anxiety of the action I guess but it made it an incredibly frustrating read without adding anything new anyway.

I had high hopes for this, but unfortunately didn't feel any of the unbearable tension others were so gripped by... I am not sure why... It could very well be the criticism that some GR-friends raised: just placing a fascist regime in 21st century Western Europe doesn't all of a sudden make it worse or eye-opening. I happened to be watching the excellent BBC documentary 'Once Upon A Time in Northern Ireland' in parallel and the testimonies of the families of the disappeared were so powerful that the book just pales in comparison. But it was also much too slow for me - the start was intriguing but then very little happens in the long middle section. I guess the idea is to build up tension, but if you don't feel it then that doesn't work. The writing is good, but a little too obviously effect-driven. 2,5

The Kikuyu creation myth & epic I enjoyed learning about the Bantu creation myth of the Kikuyu people of Kenya. The majority of what I enjoyed in this story lies in the information. The creation myth of the Kikuyu has provided context to some of my sketchy knowledge of Kikuyu people. The Kikuyu clans were founded by 9 matriarchs (actually 10 but called 9 full) the 9 and this story is firmly based on the interactions of people. I also really appreciated the audible narration by Benjamin Onyango. Outside of being an interesting communication on African cultural knowledge the story failed to wow me on the merits of its storytelling. The story is straightforward and very standard, it didn't meet my expectations based on the reviews especially being short listed as a finalist for the booker prize. I expected more. An interesting first outing with Ngùgì wa Thiong'o; I need to read more by the author to get a better picture of his ability as a writer.

** spoiler alert ** Interesting to learn more about the mythology and stories of a culture I am unfamiliar with. I am aware this is a reworking of a mythological story so not the author's original idea, but that leads me to wonder what he was trying to achieve with this work. Not keen on this book being described as feminist as there are several things that don’t sit well with me - the 'nine' all have amazing talents and skills yet their beauty is highlighted as their strongest trait time and again. Their notoriety and worth is judged by how many (male) suitors they have. If you were going to pitch this as a feminist revival of the original story I would not expect their looks to be the focus. The portrayal of disability for me was problematic - "The Perfect Nine" yet there is a tenth daughter, with a physical disability who is nominally excluded from this group. A magical cure fixes her legs later and from then on she is deserving of love and happiness...? I didn't pick up on any rhythm or cadence so it did not really feel like what I am used to in a poem, the simplicity in the choice of language was a little jarring. When I think epic poem, I think majestic and elegant descriptions. I accept that I was reading a translation and I’m sure the original piece sounds completely different.

This is an interesting attempt to modernize a tale, but it was not for me. Verse is usually not my comfort zone and I had a hard time connecting with this book. It is quite short, though, so it is worth checking out if you’re interested in mythology and African folklore.

Not what I expected at all, this was a miss for me. It felt a bit pointless and yet pretentious (much like reading stories from the bible). I got the same feeling that I often get when watching Oscar nominated movies, where entertainment is often sacrificed for an artistic vibe. Thank you, next.

The novel is a verse narrative, based on folklore. I suspected that the translation to English had taken away some of the flavor of poetic side. Other than that, it was very much based on myths and sometimes [maybe naturally] abundant with simplified sequence of events, along with advices. I am bringing two pieces below: Every human is human because of other humans. But our time has come. Tomorrow we are going on a journey. We are going back to the mountain from which we came. In case we don’t return, I leave you with these words: “Don’t look for me in wicked deeds. Don’t look for me in theft and robbery. Don’t look for me in idleness. Don’ t look for me in senseless violence. Don’t look for me in hatred. Don’t look for me in meaningless wars. Don’t look for me in bloodletting strife, For my name must not be in the mouths Of those plotting wicked deeds.

Now Nominated for the underwhelming Women's Prize for Fiction 2023 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2022 Zimbabwean Animal Farm: Bulawayo depicts the history of her home country as a fable / political satire. Here, the country is called Jidada, but numerous links to historical figures and events (like the Gukurahundi and Nehanda Charwe Nyakasikana, e.g.) show that it is indeed a version of Zimbabwe, a country that was under British colonial rule - and when it finally gained independence in 1980, was ruled by Robert Mugabe. The ruler of Jidada is an Old Horse, whose health and power are in decline. His spouse is an extravagant donkey named Dr. Sweet Mother (fun fact: Mugabe's first wife Sally was known as "Amai", meaning mother; his second wife was known as "Gucci Grace" because of her extravagant lifestyle). She enters a power struggle with the VP, who is - you guessed it - a younger horse named Tuvy. With help of the dogs (= the military), Tuvy stages a coup d'état, becomes the new leader and announces that now, everything will be better - but of course, he is also a horse, just a different one. That's pretty much what happened in Zimbabwe: Mugabe wanted Grace to take over, he was ousted by the military and his VP Emmerson Mnangagwa took control. Mnangagwa is still ruling Zimbabwe. Religion and magic (the priest is a pig) as tools of power and control play a major role, as well as propaganda as the dubious art of framing political issues in ideological ("comrades") and spiritual ("hallelujah!") terms - one of the central words is, as the title suggests, "glory", which in the novel is a concept individuals strife for and that is ascribed to incarnations of the state and its society according to personal preference and advantage. By telling the story as a beast fable, Bulawayo gives it a level of meaning that goes beyond Zimbabwe and aims to say something about African postcolonial politics in general. But the genre has limitations, which is why fables or parables are usually not 400 pages long: They are usually shorter tales with a message that is delivered in a rather in-your-face way - and this obvious messaging is also present here, as the animals are not nuanced characters but blatantly represent positions and characteristics - and that goes on for 400 pages, way longer than necessary. As the book is told by a "we" that represents the people of Jidada, Bulawayo does pull off a narrative feat, but from a logical standpoint, it does the book no good: Tyrants are upheld by parts of a society, either through complicity or silence, and some scenes in the text even show that; there is no monolithic "we" in authoritarian regimes (or any society), this device mainly serves to reduce complexity in an already not very complex tale. Granted: This reviewer is not the greatest fan of Animal Farm (sue me!), but at least it's short. "Glory" is very wordy, it just keeps hammering its point home and the animal characters are rendered as ciphers, they are no three-dimensional protagonists. I would have loved to read a well-written novel with interesting characters about postcolonial Zimbabwe and the aftermath of Mugabe.

Rating: ⭐⭐ ½ Genre: Literary Fiction Glory is the story of the downfall of a longtime ruler of the functional nation of Jidada (a fictional country in Africa). This is a nation of animals in which the dictator, Old Horse, has been ruling forever. The story is about the uprising of these animals and liberating themselves and their country from such rule and turning the country into the democracy they dreamt of. However, they were unaware that they were only replacing a dictator with another dictator! Inspired by George Orwell’s modern classic novella Animal Farm, Glory also tries to tell a similar story in the same satirical way as the classic, but with a different treatment. The concept is brilliant. I think Animal Farm is one of the most enchanting stories I have read. I had very high hopes for Glory that it would be a new favorite, especially because a few of my friends loved it a lot. Unfortunately, that was not the case. More does not always translate to better. The biggest issue I had with this novel was its length. It needed editing for sure. I felt it was repetitive a lot and to convey a point, the author had to go unnecessarily back and forth to give us that point. It became tedious too fast. If you enjoy political and satirical tales, give Glory a try if you don’t mind the repetitiveness. I feel the story could have been a lot more fun if it was in a more compact form. The whole point of turning a political story into a satirical one is to provide humor and entertainment along with constructive social criticism. Glory shines in the latter but lacks in the entertainment area.

I really enjoyed the opening third of this shortlisted Booker Prize novel, the idea of telling the political history of Zimbabwe and Robet Mugabe in the style of Animal Farm seemed like a fascinating concept, but I soon found this notion to wear off pretty quickly and found the remainder a little bit of a slog. Maybe it's my lack of knowledge on the subject didn't help, but the use of animals seemed more like a gimmick in the end, it was especially jarring with references to the use of smartphones, selfies and social media. I'm still glad that I read it and it gave me a shocking insight into recent events that I'm not familiar with, though I think I would have preferred a non-fiction retelling instead.

A dictatorship in an unnamed African country reimagined with animals sounded intriguing but was repetitive and tedious.

My last Booker longlist book! I was expecting to enjoy Glory a lot more than this but unfortunately it’s near the bottom of my rankings for the whole list. This is a very political novel about a group of animals who live in their own country called Jidada. The weird thing about the animals is that they are basically humans - they have phones, they use social media, wear clothes, drink tea. However it really works to have these characters as animals as there’s a sort of echo of Animal Farm where you know just from the outset that something bad it going to befall the community. The old horse that is their current leader gets overthrown by Tuvy, another tyrannous horse, and you follow the animals of Jidada as the government changes, changes again, elections are rigged, deals are made. I liked the chapters where it was just a chorus of animals talking about their opinions on the political climate and I also liked the chapters which were made up of tweets as I found it told the story in a really interesting and accessible way. I’ve given this book two stars simply because I found the writing really dull and I couldn’t get myself immersed into this book. It was 400 pages of non-stop politics and for me it just got tedious very quickly. I felt like I was connecting really well with some of the characters but the I felt like I got so lost that it was hard for me to get fully invested in this story. I just found myself ploughing through it at the end but not in a good way. Something’s telling me that this is is a very likely winner, and whilst I would understand why this novel should win it definitely isn’t my Booker winner this year.

i’m feeling generous, 2.5 stars! full review here: so far the booker longlist is making me NERVOUS | reading the longlist ep. 1 https://youtu.be/y7rrbu54Djk

It is generally true that a minority in a society knows the majority better than the majority often knows itself. I was therefore very interested in reading what I hope would be an interesting Palestinian view of Jewish society in Israel and its relationship with the Palestinian minority. This very relationship was the subject of my own dissertation, but primarily from the point of view of the Jews, since I, unfortunately, cannot read Arabic. The premise of the book was particularly intriguing: one day, all the Palestinians within Israel and Palestine disappear. What would happen to Israel? I was looking forward to an incisive analysis of Israeli society from a Palestinian point of view. Alas, that is not what I found. What I found was a cartoonish portrayal of most of Israeli society that sacrifices any depth of character or nuance in favour of a pedantic message. Everything from the villainous prime minister (whose real-life model is cleverly hidden by the fictitious name "Titi") who opens every speech by extolling the virtues of Israel's democracy even as he goes on to abrogate the rights of Israel's Palestinian citizens, to the complete non-existence of a supreme court to challenge nonsensical laws like the one that deprives all Palestinians of their citizenship and property if they do not return within 48 hours (yes, this is a metaphor for the absent-present citizens, but the book doesn't do anything with this metaphor), to the main Jewish character of the story, Ariel, whose actions lack any reason, and even to the "radical leftist" columnist in Haaretz, whose rambling accusations get cut off half-way through. If Azem wanted to tell the important stories of 1948, there is definitely room to tell them. However, her attempt to simply transpose the events of 1948 into a metaphorical present day, make for a flat story. There is a second narrative in the book, that of the red notebook left behind by Ala'a, which is read by Ariel. This is a narrative of the cross-generational trauma caused by the Nakba. Again, an important topic and one that gets a slightly better treatment by Azem, but even this is done in what feels to me a repetitive manner. But more importantly, the two narratives neither drive nor influence one another. Whole blocks of the book are taken up by excerpts from the notebook, as they are read by Ariel. But they have no impact on his actions or feelings. It's not really clear why he keeps reading them, since they seem to make no difference to him. The order in which these chapters are placed in the book doesn't seem to have any rhyme or reason. All of which, again, makes for poor storytelling and degrades the potential impact of both of the two narratives. As an Israeli, I often had a hard time to keep my suspension of disbelief, with descriptions and dialogue that felt extremely unnatural. Case in point, the feature interview in Haaretz with a soldier who was serving with a Druze soldier. The headline speaks of "the mask that has fallen", insinuating that the Druze soldier was, indeed, always an enemy of the state, and only now, with the supposed treason of him leaving his post, the mask has fallen. That this would be the interpretation that anyone, let alone Haaretz, would take strikes me as extremely unbelievable. Certainly, there would be much rejoicing from certain quadrants of Israeli society, but even there, the descriptions miss the mark time and again. (and I'm not even mentioning the impossibility of municipal workers going around and replacing all signs with Arabic one them with Hebrew-only signs not two days after the disappearance. This gives Israeli bureaucracy far too much credit). I'm also willing to gloss over the fact that, amazingly, not a single Palestinian disappeared within sight of a Jew. Not even those (few) mixed, Jewish-Palestinian couples. They don't exist in the book, of course. Finally, there are the errors. Many of them are the result of the translation, no doubt. Maybe Azem, who I believe speaks Hebrew herself, should have taken a swipe at correcting mistakes in the translation where the transliteration of the Hebrew words in Arabic script into latin letters resulted in often comical constructions: "na'lamu ata mifen zeh na'lamuuuuu" is a sorry mess of what I can only presume means "ne'elmu, ata mevin et zeh? ne'elmuuuuu"; "Ata bu" is a hilarious distortion of "ata po" (clearly a result of Arabic having neither P nor O); "ahad ha'am" becomes "ehud ha'am"; etc. Other mistakes were make by the author herself. I can forgive her saying that Dana International is Moroccan (she's of Yemenite origin). I'm more perplexed by her conflation of the Yom Kippur War of 1973 with the Six Days War of 1967 (chapter 10, p. 59: "'It reminds me of Yom Kippur, when the Arabs attacked us from all sides' ... 'There is no need for all this, please... We defeated them in just six days and regained our strength'"). All in all, I found this book disappointing, but probably not in a way that the author would be troubled by. She clearly didn't set out to create a nuanced discussion of Israeli society, but to send a admonishing message against it. Even there, I feel, this book would fail with all but those who already habour these views of Jewish Israelis, or those who know nothing about the region anyway. Which, granted, is a large enough audience. Still, a shame.

Aanskou my: Ek is die legende Coenraad de Buys. Kom, laat ek jou besmet, my erflik belaste leser. As jy hier lees, sien jy wat ek sien. Behold me: I am the legend Coenraad de Buys. Come let me contaminate you, my reader of tainted stock. If you read this, you see what I see. 'Buys: ’n Grensroman' (≈ 'Buys: a Border Novel') by William Anker was originally published in 2014. The author explains the origin of the novel here: https://www.litnet.co.za/tien-vrae-wi... The translation from Afrikaans by Michiel Heyns (also translator of Agaat) was published as 'Red Dog' in the UK by Pushkin Press. The novel is an imaginative and powerful first-person retelling of the life of the legendary Cape colonial frontiersman Coenraad de Buys (1761-1821: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coenraa... From the writings of the German physician, explorer, botanist and zoologist Hinrich Lichtenstein (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hinrich...), we have in his "Travels in southern Africa in the Years 1803, 1804, 1805 and 1806" a contemporary account of encountering Buys at the height of his fame, or rather infamy, in the company of the Dutch Commissioner General De Mist (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jacob_A...). This is from the 1812 translation by Anne Plumptre (the novel includes both the original German and a more modern translation): The representations which rumour, too much addicted to exaggeration, had given us beforehand of this extraordinary man, were corrected from the moment of his entrance. His uncommon height, for he measured nearly seven feet; the strength, yet admirable proportion of his limbs, his excellent carriage, his firm countenance, high forehead, his whole mien, and a certain dignity in his movements, made altogether a most pleasing impression. Such one might conceive to have been the heroes of ancient times; he seemed the living figure of Hercules, the terror of his enemies, the hope and support of his friends. We found in him, and it was what according to the descriptions given we had little reason to expect, a certain retiredness in his manner and conversation, a mildness and kindness in his looks and mien, which left no room to suspect that he had lived several years amongsts savages, and which still more even contributed to the remove that his conversation the prejudice we had against him. He willingly gave information concerning the objects upon which he was questioned, but carefully avoided speaking of himself and his connection with the Caffres. This restraint, which was often accompanied with a sort of significant smile, that spoke the inward consciousness of his own powers, and which was plainly to be read that his forebearance was not the result of fear, but that he scorned to satissfy the curiosity of any one at the expense of truth, or of his own personal reputation, made him much more interesting to us, and excited our sympathy much more than it would perhaps have been excited by the relation of his story. This novel opens up that restraint, and Buys gives us his own retrospective account of his life. He refers to his narrating self as Omni-Buys, aware of what is being written about him at the time, and also how he will be perceived by historians in our time. I am omnipresent. I am Omni-Buys. You will find me in many embodiments. You will come across me as itinerant farmer and anthropologist, rebel and historian. I am a vagabond, a book-bibber, a smuggler, lover and naturalist. I manifest as hunter, bigamist, orator, pillager, patriot, stone-shagger. I am a warrior and a liar; I am a scoundrel and a teller of my own tale. I am going to blind you and bewilder you with my incarnations, with my omnipotent gaze. I am a bird of passage; I am the wind beneath your wings. Stroke the small of my back and you will know I am no angel. I know you well. I know you can’t look away. Longlisted for the International Booker the judges cited: " A work that reminds us how translation is a creative force that destabilises linguistic conventions. A novel of serpentine, swashbuckling sentences that capture the mounting cruelty of the colonial project in South Africa.” One elephant in the veldt that has to be addressed is the origin of some of those sentences. In the author's afterword, after citing his own historical sources, he tells us: As far as other quotations, references and rewritings are concerned, Omni-Buys saw it all, read every word. As he plunders mission stations and cattle kraasls, so he plunders the texts of others far and wide in order to tell his tale. Should you then stumble across the remains of other authors, notably Samuel Beckett and Cormac McCarthy, regard it as the homage of a scoundrel. The Beckett influence wasn't so clear to me but the novel definitely has echoes of McCarthy, and in a rather mean-spirited review of the book in the TLS (https://www.the-tls.co.uk/articles/mc...) the reviewer pointed out that some passages are very close adaptations of passages from Blood Meridian, and suggested (see also https://www.theguardian.com/books/boo...) that these were closer to plagiarism than homage. In a fascinating game of translation tennis, the passages concerned were first translated into Afrikaans by the author, then translated back into English by the translator without referring to the originals. The translator's own take on the controversy - which also needs translation assistance for English-speakers - is here: https://www.litnet.co.za/willem-anker... Personally, I think it is a clever device. The passages concerned don't particularly standout from the rest of the prose, so it isn't that the author is (as the TLS review rather suggests) leaning on the quality of McCarthy's prose. Although it would have been nice to have the passages highlighted in the afterword to aid the reader, and I suspect there must be similar, yet to be spotted, clever borrowings from Beckett. Controversy aside, Buys is a memorably drawn character and, as a narrator, his omni-nature enables him to set the developments in the Cape in the context of the wider world, notably the French revolution: The words liberté, égalité and fraternité are insubstantial and vague enough to fly over at speed. In Paris, the citizens storm the Bastille in the name of liberty, and on the eastern frontier there’s nothing left but liberty. Indeed, as is always the case with messages that have to travel too far, the French slogans have a totally different look when they arrive, scurvy-ridden and scuffed, in Graaf Rijnet. ... Perhaps we can also chop off a few heads. The devil take equality and fraternity. But liberty sounds like a good idea. and Buys does largely use the temporary chaos to mistreat some Hottentots without fear of intervention from the authorities. But if anything Buys's controversial nature arises from the way he treats all equally - no more a friend of the white settlers than those who have been there longer. Having largely lived with the Xhosa during the 1790s, he returns to live with the settlers in the first decade of the 1800s, but becomes estranged from them when he testifies against a woman who mistreated her slave. His one true friend is the Dutch missionary Johannes Theodorus van der Kemp (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johanne...) or Jank' hanna as he is named by the Xhosa. And much of the narration explains how we Buys trades on his own unique role as a bridge between the two cultures: The noose is tightening all the time around this mode of survival, this migration between Christian world and Caffre world. These shifting alliances are getting even more dangerous, ever more distrusted by both factions. But on this day at the end of the eighteenth century, I can still survive in the interregnum. The English title comes from a pack of wild dogs that follow Buys around for years, originally led by a one-eared red dog (Buys himself bit-off the other ear in a confrontation when he was 12 years old). My one major reservation with the novel however, concerns the more micro-level plot. The author - or perhaps Omni-Buys - has carefully researched each historic mention or documentary piece of evidence about Buys' life. But at times it feels that each document then has to be included, and the story of how it was written has to be told, so that what could have been a very effective and powerful 200 page character study, becomes a rather bloated 400+ page novel, and I must admit my attention and interest often waned for periods. 2 stars for the reading experience, although I admired the intent.

I dragged myself to the finish line with this one. And now I don’t have the energy to get into why I found the journey to be so insufferable. I need a drink. And I say that as someone who rarely drinks anymore.

48th book of 2024. Kairos starts: Will you come to my funeral? She looks down at her coffee cup in front of her and says nothing. Will you come to my funeral, he says again. Why funeral—you're alive, she says. He asks her a third time: Will you come to my funeral? Sure, she says. I'll come to your funeral. I have a "piece" of the Berlin Wall, which I bought many years ago when I was in the city. As you can imagine, there are hundreds of little chunks of "Wall" in packets to sell to tourists. They all have faded bits of paint and old graffiti on them. At the time, I thought I really was buying a piece of history for five euros. I also bought a Russian hat with a hammer and sickle badge on the front. One time, walking drunkenly through a seaside town in England, a load of Eastern Europeans shouted from their window, I love your hat! Where did you get it? I thought for a moment and then yelled back, Berlin! And they laughed, both at me and with me, I think. I struggled with this novel. Erpenbeck is clearly a skilled writer, but this book, despite being only 300 pages long, took me over a week to read. It's dense, full of allusions to opera and poetry and music, and plods along aimlessly. A woman chance meets an older, married man. An age-old novel idea. This time, it's set in 80s Germany and is against the backdrop of the East-West divide. The historical side of it was interesting, though I never quite got Erpenbeck's point. I guess the divide of the city and the divide of their love? A little contrived, though. As much as I tried, I never got fully invested in their story, either character, or the prose that sometimes gives two or three pages paragraphs. I'm not adverse to big paragraphs (I'm a modernist lover!), but with this, it was like wading through oil at times. The mini twist at the end felt cheap, too, a little tacked on. I respect the skill but think it was used for the wrong reasons.

Apparently Glenn Gould never blew his nose with his left hand while playing Beethoven’s Third Piano Concerto with his right, though it sounds plausible it’s only Erpenbeck’s whimsical apocrypha. Enjoy it because there’s very little whimsy or wit in the remainder of the text. This is largely dour, dreary, and drab, as uncompromising in its prose as an East German concrete apartment block seen through drizzle with its undistinguished architecture stained by the industrial grime: though that's not to say that asceticism, frugality and simplicity have their place, after all some might see neon advertising as a variant of industrial pollution. After the fall of the Wall she writes; 'Already the Eastern districts have started to smell different, clean and nicely scented West Berliners are inspecting streets that are named for the trade unionist Wilhelmina Peck, the Bulgarian Communist leader Dimitrov, the Socialist Minister-President Otto Grotewohl—all names that mean nothing to them. They will use the word “gray” to describe the section of the city that has no neon advertisements.’ The transition to a unified Germany is interesting, and the contrasts between the capitalist consumerism of the democratic Federal Republic and the communist privations of the state-controlled Democratic Republic (sic) is nicely drawn. Indeed the general nature of the GDR’s grittiness agreeably pervades the writing, while the virtues of its frugal society are hard to refute in the face of raging capitalism. But apart from very brief political references to the unification in the final third of the book, the impact of the West on many from the East (especially with regard to consumerism) is a small part of the story. 'Coca-Cola she’s noticed, is now on sale in the eastern half of Friedrichstrasse station, also in Pankow in the little store where she always shops, Coca-Cola same as in New York or Munich. Coca-Cola has succeeded, where Marxist philosophy has failed, at uniting the proletarians of all nations under its banner.’ Set in the 80s (during the breakup of Soviet Russia and the fall of the Berlin Wall), Kairos is predominantly about the relationship between Hans (a married writer and broadcaster in his 50s) and Katharina (an inexperienced teenage girl). Hans is self-centred, a serial adulterer, over-controlling (with a preference for light sadomasochism, though his mistreatment of Katharina is mainly psychological rather than physical), and is prone to extreme jealousy, while Katharina is over-romantic, dependent, and though initially overawed eventually finds her natural inquisitiveness forces her to seek relationships with others and eventually break the hold Hans has over her. Putting aside your reservations about the probity of such a relationship and its salaciousness the relationship is unremarkable, though enlivened by references to music, literature and the arts. It’s written as a scrapbook of feelings that allow important moments to disconnect, but also seen together clearly set-out the terrain for Hans and Katharina’s relationship that, like the Wall, is eventually torn down. That said, Neel Mukherjee's assertion that Kairos is written as, ‘An allegory of her (Erpenbeck’s) nation, a country that has ceased to exist - East Germany,' is overstated, and one would have to go looking for such a connection, though one might serendipitously see the similarities. I wouldn't say this analogy was the primary purpose of Kairos, though those with a greater understanding of GDR's political history may see that differently. At times the relationship and the political situation tangentially touch. One might also suppose that Hans represents the USSR, over-controlling and dominant, and prone to outbursts, while Katharina is the GDR, intoxicated by the air of Soviet socialism but equally entranced by the baubles of the West (in this case in love with Hans’s flawed socialism but entranced by lovers of her own age group). It’s never stated strongly or at great length, and though I would have welcomed more than the superficial resemblance that I saw, Erpenbeck never delivered a greater exploration of this analogy. To understand its deeper significance I suspected I'd have to read around the subject. I also indulged myself conjecturing over the construction of the book, seeing the first of the two sections as written some years before its conclusion; picked up at a later date the second part was added. The opening section is a conventional romance, though not of the saccharine variety—it’s too intricately nuanced to be so light-hearted, while the second part introduces salaciousness and a political intrigue as much to lift its more prosaic predecessor. There’s an intermezzo between the two, and the story ends with an epilogue that leaves a vague ending. It’s neither factual, lyrical nor quite understandable. I believe from other reviews that we finally realise that Hans was a spy for the West. I didn’t see that this was a necessary revelation, or consistent with his portrayal as a champion for communism. Despite these identifiable sections, I was occasionally lost by a fragmentation and lack of clarity in the story; unclear as whether Hans and Katharina had married (apparently it was symbolic) or whether Katharina and her friends had escaped to the West before the Wall came down (nothing more was said so I supposed they got cold feet). Neither was I attracted to her uncompromising and detached writing style. Often the density of Erpenbeck’s prose is difficult to follow, the convolutions detracting from the meaning, and some sentences where the meaning was entirely lost. The present tense also creates a tension that forms an uneasy contrast with the measured, detailed prose. Furthermore, I found the analogies were sometimes unremarkable, contrived or flat, ‘Is that all that can come of her: the twin sisters, disappointment and unhappiness? It’s almost as if those two misshapen children born out of Katharina’s deceit had formed an alliance against their formerly loving parents, and were now eating the head, body,and heart of their mother and father.’ There were also stylistic affectations, for example, a necessity to hammer home pithy maxims by repetition, ‘Mama, why are they throwing dirt in our eyes?’, ‘Continuity leads to destruction’, or 'The bumpy head looks down and nods.’ Not all of these made sense, and while these examples have speech marks, you’ll find the dialogue in Erpenbeck’s prose has none, nor is it distinguished between those speaking by the ownership of their own line of dialogue. The prose is also fluid, switching from the first person of either character, to occasionally the third person. Likewise, starting sections with a premise that becomes clear only in the following paragraph became tiresome. All these affectations drew attention to the writing rather than the story, inflicting me with literary indigestion; the prose didn’t run smoothly, filled with a gritty style it impeded the cadence of her prose. All-in-all a difficult read (that nonetheless you might enjoy), filled with interesting moments. Nonetheless I might wait a while before I pick up another of the author’s books.

I just really did not like how this book made me feel every character was truly awful, and the writing was so dense! maybe I would have liked this had I been German but it really just failed to keep my attention considering this was just under 300 pages, it really felt like it was 800 such a long tiresome experience

Oh nothing, just men ruining lives once again, and some well done paragraphs too.

A difficult book to read. Not for everyone. It feels as though it was written for therapeutic reasons, an act of revenge, a rant that should have been then edited to remove the repetitive declarations of hatred against his father. He does go on! I presume, by way of demonstration, he is subjecting his readers to what he had to endure from his father. If he didn’t like it, why would we? I can’t help wondering why, despite winning the Strega Prize, it has taken two decades to be translated into English. As much as I admire Starnone’s other novels, I must mark this one down. Difficult to read, too, because men of my generation may recognize something of the father in themselves.

2.5 ⭐️ This novel is a painstakingly detailed (autofictional) character study of an emotionally and physically abusive man, a man who by all intents and purposes we are to assume is Starnone's father, an artist responsible for the painting ( The Drinkers ) on the cover of the book. Starnone details (heavy emphasis on details) the experience of growing up as the oldest son of his narcissistic father, a man who hates and is hated by nearly everyone around him. Starnone leaves no stone unturned, if you didn't have a handle on the family dynamics and an understanding of his father's personality and ambitions the first (or second or third) time a story was told--don't worry!--you'll get it by the seventh retelling. What could be interpreted as a practice in cathartic writing for the author after his father's death was in turn a grueling and exhausting reading experience. The more in-depth reflections of how the younger versions of Mimí (Domenico) dealt with the anxiety of his father's presence and the consequences this had on his relationship with his mother didn't come until the second half, when patience had long worn thin. Additionally, anecdotes and stories of Domenico's actual experiences with friends, first loves, etc. do not get mixed in with the tales of his father until the end. These were welcome additions to the story, and I wish they had been more evenly mixed in throughout. There were a few awkward phrasings with the translation and mistakes in words selected (or probably just typos for some): 'significatively' instead of 'significantly', 'ensured' instead of 'ensued', and at least one (though I suspect several) instance 'even' being used when the original text said 'also/too', changing the meaning of a sentence entirely. I'm angry that this book is so long because it wasn't bad! Shave 150 pages of redundant storytelling off and the result would be an effective and intense portrayal of a man and the family that lived in his shadows.

An oppressive, discouraging slog. I worked hard to finish this thing but it took me forever. Frankly it ultimately just didn’t interest me… the portrait of an unattractive, debilitating, abusive blowhard of a father and man by a confused and debilitated son. I wish Mimi had knifed Fderi; it certainly would have put us all out of our misery. I did finish it but boy do I resent spending so much of my reading time with these nasty and deformed people, both father and son.

Federí, a Neapolitan railway clerk, is convinced he would be a world-famous artist if it weren’t for the family that inconveniently relies on him - this bitter disappointment festers, and years later his oldest son attempts to piece together the truth about a man he has spent his whole life trying not to resemble… This is a no-holds-barred portrait of a man who clearly believes that he has all of the skills and none of the blame for the direction his life has taken - his lack of artistic success is everyone’s fault but his, and he takes all of his resentment out on his wife. It’s incredibly comprehensive and all too believable. Unfortunately, it is also an absolute slog-fest that felt like it would never end. It was variations on the same thing over and over and whilst that did initially add richness to the story by rounding it out, ultimately it was painfully repetitive. I understand the story is based on Starnone’s own father and presumably it was cathartic to write, but as a reader it was just way too long, perhaps self-indulgently so. There’s a little insight into what the narrator has internalised about himself and his father, but it is vastly overshadowed by the repetitive stories of the father. Likewise the setting - 1960s working class Naples - could have been fascinating had it been given room to breathe, but no, all of the story’s air was taken up by Federí. An utterly slogtastic, overly-thorough portrait of a bitterly disappointed, manipulative father and husband.

Not for me :( also realllly disliked how repetitive it was, not sure if this was a stylistic choice but either way, made it frustrating to read after a while

This started out decent and I was somewhat engaged in the story, but after the second half, it kind of went off the rails. It truly annoyed me that the author used the same phrases over and over and over again, In God’s truth, it was so utterly repetitive. This was just ok. I would not recommend this or read this author again.

Shortlisted for the 2023 Republic of Consciousness Prize US & Canada Longlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize "Colours, at night, when they are exposed to artificial lights, are drowned in a world where they lose all the depth and power they naturally accommodate in the light of day." What a sentence. And it doesn’t mean anything. Or does it? Sure…? Don’t give up painting for a writing career, he’d have liked to tell her. He closed the notebook and tossed it back onto the work table carelessly. Or maybe just in a manner showing the disdain the notes inspire in him, without even saying what he thinks of them, just repeating in his head that this lady had to be pretty damn pretentious to write things about what she did, as though you could both do and watch yourself doing, say and watch yourself saying, like a traveller taking notes on the way his feet sink into the snow as he climbs the Himalayas without taking the time to look up at the mountain rising before him. But for the kind of stationary travel that is painting, in a remote old house out in the middle of nowhere, where each chair, each piece of clothing, each room reeks of dog and dust and is permeated with the smells of paints and chemicals, of turpentine, what point could there be in taking notes on what she does? Is it like a diary, a log book? Do you learn things by reading it that you’re not supposed to know about her life, or about her neighbours’ life? The Birthday Party (2023) is Daniel Levin Becker's translation of Laurent Mauvignier's Histoires de la Nuit (2020). The novel is a 500 page literary-thriller a combination of dense prose and page-turning suspense that treads a fine line between the best and the worst of literary fiction and genre thrillers and on another day (or with a shorter book) I might have loved this. But for me, unfortunately, the novel fell on the wrong side of that line, starting with the very first sentence. She watches him through the window and what she sees in the car park, despite the reflection of the sun that blinds her and prevents her from seeing him as she’d like to, leaning against that old Renault Kangoo he’s going to have to get around to trading in one of these days–as though by watching him she can guess what he’s thinking, when maybe he’s just waiting for her to come out of this police station where he’s brought her for the how many times now, two or three in two weeks, she can’t remember–what she sees, in any case, elevated slightly over the car park which seems to incline somewhat past the grove of trees, standing near the chairs in the waiting room between a scrawny plant and a concrete pillar painted yellow on which she could read appeals for witnesses if she bothered to take an interest, is, because she’s slightly above it, overlooking and thus observing a misshapen version of it, a bit more packed down than it really is, the silhouette, compact but large, solid, of this man whom, she now thinks, she’s no doubt been too long in the habit of seeing as though he were still a child–not her child, she has none and has never felt the desire to have any–but one of those kids you look after from time to time, like a godchild or one of those nephews you can enjoy selfishly, for the pleasure they bring, taking advantage of their youthfulness without having to bother with all the trouble it entails, that educating them generates like so much inevitable collateral damage. I normally love this type of labyrinthine, nested sentence, but this one didn't work for me, it felt a little too random. In terms of the pyschological thriller aspects, the novel flits between the consciousness - or more accurately the close third-person PoV - of the characters, an aspect I find a little problematic when the plot requires withheld information. I recently read a Netgalley of the forthcoming None of This is True by Lisa Jewell (my teenage daughter's favourite writer) that did the thriller aspects rather better and, while initially falling into the same narrative trap, did provide a potential explanation in a last page twist (see https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...). Here it felt the busy characters were too busy making unrealistically astute pyschological appraisals to actually think about who was who and what they planned. So 2.5 stars rounded to 2 for me but clearly a novel that's worked well for others. The publisher Published in the UK by Fitzcarraldo, which is the edition I read as a subscriber, but in the US, and for the purposes of the RofC Prize, by Transit Press. Transit Books is a nonprofit publisher of international and American literature, based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Founded in 2015, Transit Books is committed to the discovery and promotion of enduring works that carry readers across borders and communities. Transit Books publishes a carefully curated list of award-winning literary fiction, narrative nonfiction, essay, and literature for children. Transit authors have received the Nobel Prize in Literature, and been nominated for the National Book Award, the National Book Critics Circle Award, the International Booker Prize, the PEN Translation Prize, the National Translation Award, the Windham-Campbell Prize, and more.

I just lost a day of my life reading this book. It’s a mediocre thriller with a lot of big words.

2.75 🌟 As though As though As though As though As though As though As though As though As though As though If I had a shot every time I saw ‘as though’( almost in every single page, sometimes four times in a single sentence) I’d die of alcohol poisoning. Started out well then it DRAGGED! Could wait to be done with it.

DNF 300 pages in. Which is a shame. I feel cheated because of all the time I put into this book. Why did they think that a thriller in slow motion stretched over 500 pages is a good idea? I was intrigued by the novel when it began, describing the inner life of a family in excruciating detail, wondering what it would turn out to be about. And then the home invasion happened, and I knew that it was all going to be about a big bad secret harbored by someone, who in this story was obviously going to be the glassy, distant Marion. I love literary thrillers- there’s nothing I like better when it’s done well - but usually when a whole story hinges on a deep dark secret, it’s usually some act of betrayal, violence, sexual secret or a combination of these, and it’s hard not to suppress a been-there-done-that yawn given the countless novels that’s done it before and done it well. The whole “let’s analyze each and every thought that passes through the minds of these people, and let’s further drill down into why it arose in the first place” feels increasingly like a gimmick as chapter after chapter passes by with nothing happening, which is clearly the point, and it just seems obscene that the writer knows the secret but would gloatingly not reveal it. I did not enjoy being tortured like that, and I eventually lost interest in the whole charade. I contemplated giving up early on but I bravely soldiered on because of all the glowing reviews. After 250 pages I found myself skipping Christine’s chapters altogether (because what’s the point of her again, except for the writer to ruminate on artsy BS?) and I was just trying to fast forward and catch the dialogue buried under all that heavy duty psychological analysis like an earthquake victim. What is Marion hiding? (If someone knows, please comment: what did the wretched Marion do? Give me closure. Earn some karma points.) When I randomly flipped to 50 more pages and found that they were still dancing around the secret, I decided to show this book the door. I did not care anymore. This whole thing could have been accomplished admirably but they chose to be an ass about it.

The worst of thrillers are like gossip about invented people: even less interesting than gossip about real people, which is almost as dull as it gets! Now imagine that but told in really long sentences.

If I were going strictly on enjoyment of this book, my rating would be a one, but I will give the author kudos for excellent use of the second person - - a voice I happen to enjoy. But other than that, I was not a fan. I don't know much about Sri Lanka, but my impressions from this book are entirely negative - corrupt, homophobic, violent, backward, awful. Then, overlay this backdrop with a quasi mystery aka "who killed Maali Almeida?" and a B-movie plot about who possesses Maali's photograph negatives (does anyone under the age of 40 even know what negatives are anymore?). If that isn't bad enough, Maali is in some kind of purgatory, where the main facets seem to be that ghostly beings ride on the wind and only a VERY select number of beings know how to communicate with the living. It's a bit beyond me why Maali is so invested in the lives of his two friends when he is now aware there's a whole big afterlife in the event they do die. In fact, everyone's motives in this entire book seem somewhat unbelievable. This book is peppered with minor characters to the point where it's hard for the reader to keep them straight or care about any of them. There's also a repetitiveness about the text that didn't make the plot any easier or more fun to follow. I could have done with like 5 less moons to tell this story and 100 fewer pages. To be fair, I really dislike magical realism, and I never should have read this book. Bet you it wins the Booker Prize. It's almost inevitable.

The Seven Moons of Maali Almedia is haunted by the second person perspective. Although purchased at the bookshop of The British Library and lugged halfway around the world, winning the 2022 Booker Prize, this book didn’t quite live up to its hype. Set in 1990 Sri Lanka, Maali Almeida has just died and is granted seven moons (days) to get his affairs in order. His quest is to discover his murderer and guide his friends to some society-altering photographs. However, Seven Moons failed to elicit an emotional response. Between the odd second person perspective to the overwhelming number of characters and political factions, reading this book is an uphill battle from the start. There isn’t one character that really lands. Which is to be expected bouncing quickly between so many characters. “You know she is holding a can of mace, part of a carton of twelve sent by her cousin in Detroit, horrified that an unmarried girl in her twenties could talk alone on the mean streets of Colombo.” The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent): Hardcover Text – Yeah like I kept my receipts from years ago but I bought it at The British Library bookshop Audiobook – Free through Libby Connect With Me! Blog Threads BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

Booker 2022 was a disappointment. So was this book. So let's keep it in 2022. It's not like it doesn't have its qualities ( I liked the conclusion), but it's too long and the characters are unrealistic for Sri Lanka from 30 years ago. Today it is still illegal to be gay in Sri Lanka, so a character like Maali Almeida is a work of ( bad) fantasy.

I'm obviously in the minority here but I didn't enjoy this book at all. It could've been at least 200 pages shorter. It was repetitive and dragged on for longer than necessary. It had an array of characters that in my opinion didn't advance the plot in any way and I just couldn't be bothered to remember. It just felt disjointed. The impression I got of Sri Lanka was entirely negative as well.

I understand that a novel is art, and is not representative of a political view, but I do expect something more from political art than a well-written, riotous, ghost-carnivalesque, magical-realist tale that is the equivalent of a noncommittal shrug. I didn't expect this novel to provide solutions to the political situation in Sri Lanka or provide an extensive history, but for all the talk of balls this book lacked precisely that. Maali's glib nihilism as a photographer who has seen it all felt aimless. Everyone's evil, we all die. The locus of political power and why people rebel against a state to the point of taking up arms against it is erased; everyone's equally bad, power is diffuse, and the hard work of taking a side can be avoided. The animals shall inherit the earth. Peace out, baby. Bla bla bla. I can get this from your average liberal bro at the bar who's had one too many whiskey shots.

This was one of the most exhausting reads of the past few months, and not in a good way. I can definitely understand where the relentless cynicism comes from (just the burnt out-ness of living in a country that is so full of corruption, homphobia and shitty options and there doesn't seem to be any hope and all of the players are dirty as fuck - I actually relate to that, but I can't stand how this has impacted the character, since it's a thing I've seen in so many people in Romania and I've done my damnedest to escape), but reading 400 pages of that felt like it was 1. desensitizing me to all the atrocities. 2. burning me out emotionally probably during the first moon, and then it just kept doing the exact same thing and 3. not going for a specific focus and so everything but the kitchen sink was thrown in there. I get that the project of this book is an important one and it's history I wasn't aware of before, and I think I gained some understanding of it now. But it was also exhausting and there was very little grounding in character or relationships between characters that I was invested in. The murder mystery? Could not possibly give a shit who killed Maali Almeida, to be honest. Cause he was just a massive dick! Also, I think the 'afterlife is a bureaucracy' trope has run its course, can we move forward now? The second person naration also doesn't work in this one, it feels like it has the effect of emotionally removing 'you' from the story, and Maali hardly ever registers as a feeling person or someone who has some sense of interiority that isn't just thoughts and cynicism and basically kind of hating everything? And of course there's the politics of it all, which is extremely muddled. I related the most to Sena, the dead Marxist, even though the narrative positions him as a villain, a murderous communist who keeps calling Maali a 'champagne socialist', which always endeared Sena to me! And arguably the most sympathetic characters (Jaki and DD) were nice... but at the same time, they're well-connected rich kids so what are we doing here? And at some point someone points out that Maali is a privileged guy, too, but the book doesn't really reckon with that in any way. So yeah, extremely centrist politics in this book that tries to get away with: everyone is corrupt, nobody will ever do anything to change anything, and so we should all live for ourselves and loved ones. I obviously can't abide that. (view spoiler) There's also a very shitty moment involving a 'drag queen' where the author wants us to know it's actually a trans person, but the language used is fucking terrible - I get that this takes place in 1990, but you can still represent that with sensitivity, if that's important to you as a writer, which evidently it wasn't here. Would have DNFd if it weren't for book club, but to be honest, I'm not super excited to discuss it. There were interesting things here, like the weird pop culture references (the North and South miniseries with Patrick Swayze! That was a hit in Romania in the 90s and beyond!) that give you a sense of the warping effect cultural imperialism can have. There were some good sentences, too (The universe breathes through you and appears to have forgotten to brush its teeth.)! But this book feels so emotionally flat, thatI can't feel that much for it. All the most powerful forces are invisible. Love, electricity, wind. I wish I'd seen more about the power of Love in this book.

One of those "excellent art but I didn't enjoy reading it" kind of books. Maali Almeida is dead. The cause of death is unclear, but thankfully Maali gets to take on a spectral form in a colourful afterlife and observe what happens next. Over seven days, we find out more about our hero, his friends, his body, his work, and the political landscape of Sri Lanka. The book was narrated in second person which works only sometimes. It didn't work here, where Maali was both narrator and audience. I felt this made the narration even more needlessly choppy and confusing. I say even more because a lot of things were said indirectly or alluded to in passing, so important plot points could easily be read over and missed. I know some readers like that kind of enigma in their narration, but it was lost on me. And, of course, the elephant in the room: it reminded me of Shafak's 10 minutes 38 seconds. A lot. And I cannot help but compare it to that book and tell you to go pick that one up instead. 1.5 stars rounded up because some of the writing was indeed good and I can see this working for some people. More thoughts here: https://youtu.be/sS8eromz-Ko

Set amid the mayhem of the Sri Lankan civil war Maali Almeida (war photographer, gambler & closet queen) wakes up dead. His dismembered body is sinking in the Beira Lake and he has no idea who killed him. With an extremely long list of suspects, even in the afterlife time is running out for Maali. He has seven moons to contact the man and woman he loves most and lead them to the pictures taken that will rock Sri Lanka. A difficult book to follow with the many characters involved. I found it to be a challenging read.

Longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YfpRm... This book set in the ficitional town of Solace in Northern Ontario in 1972. It is a book with a strong sense of place – in a small, remote and very much enclosed community – one very different from anything I have experienced or will experience Better stop dreaming of the quiet life, 'cause it's the one we'll never know The book opens in the third person voice of a introverted seven year old girl Clare, with what seems to be increasingly autistic tendencies exacerbated by the tension she is facing making her something of an outsider at school Playground kids and creaking swings Her popular but volatile sixteen year old sister has run-way from home after one of a series of rows with their mother – and has not been heard from for several weeks And quit running for the runaway bus The sister is called Rose – and her mother regrets the harsh words she exchanged with her in a life together which now seems too brief 'cause those Rose-y days are few Her father was very much a peacemaker which only served to antagonise his wife And stop apologizing for the things you've never done Clara is looking after the neighbour’s cat – an elderly 72 years old lady (born at the turn of the century) – Elizabeth – who has gone to hospital for what she told Clare would be a short stay, but is already stretching out longer than either expected. She is our second narrator (on an almost but not quite contemporaneous timeline with the other two). In hospital she talks in her head to her beloved now-dead husband and in her head reminisces about events in their life. They were childless (she having suffered many miscarriages) which leaves her with a profound sense of isolation and emptiness And a hundred lonely housewives clutch empty milk bottles to their hearts And starts to suck the joy out of her marriage Lost laughter in the breeze But for a brief period in her life she found profound joy in the shape of a young boy – one of three (and then five) children of her neighbour – seen by his mother (whose other children were girls) as unmanageable – and for whom she became a de facto carer (the young boy even living with her for parents). For reasons darkly hinted at the two lost contact for years but then resumed it after she reached out to him after he husband’s death and the correspondence the two then had is now, together with memories of her husband, sustaining her as she approaches the end of her life. Hanging out their old love letters on the line to dry The book opens with Clara both confused and horrified when a man comes to Elizabeth’s house and makes himself at home. That man is Liam and he is our third narrator – and we quickly realise was the boy that Elizabeth was fond of and that she made him her heir and, while she is still alive, gifted her house. Liam’s own marriage – which started promisingly – has disintegrated over time Struggle after struggle, year after year His wife accusing him of being unable to truly love and attach – something he knows has been true his entire life – stemming from rejection from his mother in his childhood which has lead to him lacking an ability for emotional engagement in his heart I'm almost stone cold dead Quitting his job also he is unsure of his aim in life It's at the moment bound for nowhere Just going round and round And so has decided to move to Solace – with an aim to gather his thoughts, sell the property and move out before the harsh winter The atmosphere's a fine blend of ice Over time Clara begins to realise that the situation with Elizabeth is much worse than her parents have told her – and by extension becomes increasingly emotional as she realises that the same may be true of their reassurances about Rose and so starts to lose faith in them It's enough to make you stop believing when tears come fast and furious It’s a long book I could go on for hours and I probably will But ultimately it is a book which has at its heart many difficult but all too common life-stories (childlessness, end of life incapacity and terror, bereavement, broken relationships, divorce, missing children) 'Cause time is short and life is cruel But which, particularly perhaps in the character of Liam sets out the possibility of repentance and redemption but it's up to us to change and so ends on a very uplifting and hopeful note But I'd sooner put some joy back In this Town Called Solace Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba With thanks to Paul Weller

Longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize A Town Called Solace is Mary Lawson's fourth novel, a charming if, to my taste, rather insubstantial story. The novel is told in three alternating narrative strands from the perspective of: Clara, a seven year-old girl, whose 16 year-old sister has run away from home; Elizabeth Orchard, Clara's elderly neighbour, who is in hospital, with a terminal heart condition. Liam Kane, who as a small child, some 30 years ago, was the son of Elizabeth's then neighbours, and has now, post the break-up of his marriage, come back into contact with Elizabeth and, to his surprise, has inherited her house. The "inheritance" here is explained by a deliberate incongruity in the novel's timeline - while the Clara and Liam parts proceed in parallel, Elizabeth's narrative dates to just before the start of their accounts, as she died in the hospital. Elizabeth's chapters also differ in narrative style, told in a first-person monologue, in her mind and to her dead husband, in contrast to the close third-person perspective of the other parts. The novel's setting is the eponymous Solace, a fictitious small Northern Ontario town where everyone knows everyone's business, and the local policeman seems to also serve as a social worker. Lawson has lived in the UK since 1968, in and around Kingston-on-Thames, close to where I live, but her novels are all set in Northern Ontario, close to where she was raised. As she explained in an interview, while showing the reporter her riverside Kingston home: "I could never live now in a small Ontario town. But I know it in a much more profound level than I will ever know this." Liam, looking back towards the end of the story reflects: Driving home he was struck by the thought that, increasingly, his life prior to coming north seemed to be taking on the quality of an old movie, one in which he'd been deeply engrossed while watching it but which now seemed trivial, unconvincing and profoundly lacking in either colour or plot. Solace had colour and plot in spades, maybe too much. In every way it was coming to seem more real than Toronto, with its endless malls and traffic jams and high-powered jobs. Though maybe, if he went back to Toronto, the same would be true in reverse. Maybe when he'd been back for a couple of months he'd find that it was Solace that seemed unreal, its unremarkable streets and stores like something from a dream, its dramatic landscape fading to nothing, like a holiday photo left in the sun. The colour and plot to which he refers includes: - the burgeoning (and, I should stress, innocent) relationship between Liam and Clara, who takes a proprietorial interest in Elizabeth's house and, in particular, her cat, letting herself into what is now Liam's house each day with the key Elizabeth gave her when she went into hospital; - the search for Clara's sister, in which Liam plays an initially reluctant role when Clara confides in him something a friend confided in Clara, a story that involves the local policeman as another key characters; - Liam's own marital situation and how he, again initially reluctantly, finds himself drawn into the local community. Although an accountant by profession he (yes you guessed it) initially reluctantly. finds himself working with the town's builder, first to repair Elizabeth's house for sale (he is initially reluctant to move into the property permanently) and then more generally; - and the story behind Elizabeth's rather odd relationship with Liam when he was a child, which she gradually unspools in her own recollections, one that comes with menacing hints which aren't really justified by the slightly predictable resolution. At one point when contemplating hospital meals, Elizabeth says: Liver for lunch. I hate liver. And I don't think it's tactful serving offal to patients whose own innards might be causing them distress. But there was apple pie and ice cream for dessert, which was some consolation. Not enough apple, of course, but the cook is good at pastry and it was beautifully sweet. You know they say that the elderly develop a taste for sweet things? It turns out to be true. And I think that expresses my issue with this book. It is all, despite some dark undertones, all ultimately a little too apple pie, and my literary taste run more to liver. It's hard also not to judge the novel by the standards expected from its inclusion on the Booker longlist, from which I expect something more ambitious in literary terms. An enjoyable read but a literary disappointment. 2.5 stars

Update:It has been a while and I've decided not to write an extended review about this one. We've had a very productive discussion in the comments where I think I've expanded why I did not think particularly highly about the execution of the idea of this book. I enjoyed the first part. I found the 2nd part fascinating, but a bit chaotic. And after that, It went downhill for me. I did not enjoy the process of reading and did not believe in the thought experiment in the middle of that book projected on the national level. Also I was not particularly impressed how intertextuality is executed in this novel. Initial reaction: Maybe I’ve had sky-high expectations, impossible to meet after those great blurbs and positive feedback from good friends I trust. But that was a “meh” for me. It was moving about old age and a few lyrical fragments were memorable. But for the rest, there are so many books doing much better what he intended to do in terms of weaponising the past. And constant name dropping plus a simularcrum of “Borges and I" story “who writes whom and all of that” were a bit tiresome. It is better to read the real Borges’s story - more ideas, more multilayered and nuanced in less than 10 pages.

I don’t like to be too critical of books. Writing one is a difficult task, a large chunk of somebody’s life devoted to the pleasure of others. But I really did not like this book. That in itself was a surprise. The reviews in newspapers and on websites have been almost uniform in their praise. So I could be the problem and not the book. It is a tale of two couples set mainly in Somerset as 1962 turns into 1963. It was a horrendous winter, one of the coldest on record in the United Kingdom. Also that was just before the sixties really took off, and society’s values started to change. The Beatles’ Please Please Me album had not yet been released. So many of the manners and attitudes in the book come from a different age, or least one that is only just beginning to change – a contraceptive pill makes a brief appearance. Some of the descriptions of life in those times are quite interesting. Andrew Miller and I are of a similar age, and those passages presumably contain memories from both of our childhoods. However, the writing is pedestrian. It is full of unnecessary asides and descriptions that slows the pace right down and sends the reader off to sleep. One which particularly stuck in my mind was, “He had his soup (was there any difference between mulligatawny and tomato? There didn’t seem to be)”. There are many more examples like that, weighing the book down with their tediousness. The characters are two dimensional. That is odd. There are only four main actors in the book, and yet you don’t really get to know them that well or care what happens to them. In fact, not much does happen to them until nearly the end of the book. And then there is a burst of activity that almost sparked a bit of interest and injected some tension. But sadly by that stage I had no emotional investment in the fates of Eric, Irene, Rita and Bill. It was a blessed relief when the Kindle said, “Discover more by Andrew Miller here”. I won’t be doing that naturally!

Two married couples negotiate tricky relationships in the coldest winter of Britain’s history, and not much else. Miller pulls us into the everyday lives of these men and women, lives which are interrupted by one of the coldest periods in Britain’s history. There’s something so plain about this prose, like unseasoned food, that kept me from immersing myself fully into their lives, the setting, their circumstances, or even their inner worlds (despite Miller’s proclivity for parenthetical asides, which quickly became grating). The most interesting characters are the women, the least the men. I don’t have much else to say about this, besides that, for a novel about a deep cold, it remarkably lacks any real bite, except maybe towards the end. I get the sense that, given Miller was born and grew up around the time of the titular winter, he’d heard tale of it all his life. It just personally wasn’t interesting enough for me.

Booker Prize Longlist 2025: Rating: 2 and that’s generous Roast: literally no character development at all. The only way this book could be worse is if I read it during the actual winter. Horrendously and unnecessarily long. There’s references to concentration camps and other points of trauma that are completely undeveloped. The author picks up some plot and puts it down. Toast: I never have to read it again, and the author clearly was ambitious with his descriptions. Memorable: how long and monotonous it was. it’s enough to deter me from the English countryside forever. Shortlist - yay or nay: absolutely freaking not.

2.5 - Felt very disconnected to the plot and was hard to read

Thanks to NetGalley and Dreamscape Media for providing me with an ALC. I really wanted to enjoy this book. Something about the synopsis and setting really called to me. I didn't know it was shortlisted for the Booker prize when I requested it. It's probably a me thing but the story flowed so very slowly that it just couldn't keep my attention. I understand that good literary fiction wants the reader to slow down and think but I just couldn't do it in this case. I didn't feel a lot of variety between the characters. The one good thing was the way Rita and Irene's friendship developed. That was really nice to see, especially in such a desolate location. I read a bunch of blog posts about this book to see what I was missing. It's probably the historical context and some emotional subtleties. Paying attention to the historical context would have made this book a bit more enjoyable to me. Sadly, I just felt like the story was going nowhere. The ending was kind of nice though and made sense. This would be great for anyone who enjoys slow-paced, literary, award winning novels. The narrator, in this case the author himself unfortunately didn't work for me. Something about the way it was read kept taking me out of the book. It would have also been nice to have had multiple narrators for this book, at least two to differentiate the men and women characters.

There’s a lot going on, but none of it actually goes anywhere in 370 pages. Everything is described in such a cold and detached way, like somebody forced the writer to write the story. He wrote about 4 main characters and you end up not caring about any of them. No emotion, no flare, no connection. The book could’ve been an old newspaper article and it would’ve had the same effect. Because one interesting event happens in the beginning, I gave it a chance. I continued giving that chance and I reached the end of the book feeling empty-handed. I wouldn’t recommend it to anybody. The time I spent reading 370 pages of this book will never come back. I’m sad, but I hope I learned my lesson. A promise to myself in 2026: if after 100 pages nothing happens that makes sense, I’ll stop reading the book… I probably won’t do that but I like to think I will. (?) This actually doesn’t make any sense, kinda like this book.

A frustrating, high-concept piece of writing. It was beautifully-written and I appreciate it was clever, but it was not my cup of tea. I was unfamiliar with Kitamura’s work going into this, which was likely an error on my part. Had I known the author typically writes abstract, postmodern stories, I wouldn’t have mistook the premise for something I would enjoy. In Audition, the narrator is an actress, currently in a play of two very different Acts, struggling to figure out how to play a transitional scene that bridges the two. In true meta fashion, the book itself also consists of two very different parts with Part 1 teasing an important scene, one we never get to see and is completely unmentioned in Part 2. As noted above, the writing is quite beautiful, and the narrator provides us with with some interesting commentary on race in theatre, as well as on being a mother/childless. But this is one of those literary novels that forces you to ask many questions, yet the answers remain elusive after the final page. I was contemplating giving it three stars for being quite clever, but the last fifty pages just went completely off the rails. Up until that point, I had felt I somewhat understood the novel structurally and thematically, even if I did not necessarily enjoy it, but then the narrative dissolved into what, in parts, read like random chaos. In the end, I was left thinking that this is one of those books so abstract that I think you could say it means literally anything, "oh, this symbolises this" and "this is a metaphor for that", so very deep, but books like this exhaust and frustrate me. I don't personally think it's clever to make a mess and wait for others to see art in it. Don't get me wrong, there are certainly readers for this book. In fact, it is every Literature student’s wet dream— abstract, subjective, meta, and rooted in the heart of western literature: theatre. Hence why I wasn't a Lit student. I’ll also be glad when this trend of not using speech marks is over. I don’t know which hipster made this the “literary” thing, but it’s trite at this point. Even the other book I am currently reading is the same (Old Soul).

2.5 ⭐️ While I’ve seen Audition categorized as a psychological thriller, I couldn’t disagree more. It is a character study and a work of literary fiction that explores themes of identity, how we see ourselves and others, and how we are perceived. Is everything we do just an act? I’m honestly not quite sure what to think about this book. It is one I wish I had read with a buddy because it left me with so many questions and so few answers. While the prose is beautiful, the story felt vague, meandering, and at times frustrating. Structured in two parts, the transition between them was quite jarring. Perhaps I was not the ideal reader for this one, but I found it difficult to connect with the unnamed FMC and ultimately found her unlikable throughout. It feels like one of those books that tries too hard to be abstract and clever, a style that doesn’t particularly resonate with me.

An interesting project but this is exactly the type of solipsistic literary fiction that I’m sick to death of reading. I don’t deny that it would probably be satisfying to puzzle over this book’s structure but I’m finding I just have no desire to do that. Onto the next thing.

Audition is full of ambition held hostage by one very bad idea of how to convey it. The novel is really a diptych of two novellas. In the first, the narrator has lunch with a young man who's shown up to work on a play she's in, after some previous conflict is vaguely alluded to. The young man, Xavier, later tells her that he believes he's her son. The narrator's husband, Tomas, seems threatened and upset by seeing the two together. In the second half, Xavier is the narrator's son. She behaves as if this has always been the case and recalls memories of his childhood. Her husband is still Tomas. Xavier moves in with her and her husband. Audition asks us to be intrigued by these two arrangements of the same characters in different roles. The narrator is an actress-- are they all actors, then, a group of people who aren't related but pretend to be in two different plays? These would be interesting questions if we saw anything but cliche, superficial interactions between them. It's as if Kitamura is afraid to dig too deeply into any one dynamic or idea and, when you realize what the novel's gimmick is, you see why. One thing I did love: when the narrator is thinking about an actor's performance in a film she liked, which he was bewildered and earnest. She believes he brought his entire, authentic self to this performance after decades of phoning it in. It turns out that he was genuinely bewildered because he can't remember his lines, so the production crew wrote his lines all over the set for him to read off of. I thought this idea was going to be explored but it's just sort of hung on the novel's wall for you to look at while the colorless interactions continue rolling. Sure, okay, maybe the narrator is performing real life, then? Maybe the first novella is the play and the second novella is real (Xavier is, after all, writing a play in the second novella and the narrator is a working on a play in the first novella), or vise versa? Maybe both novellas are plays? In order to keep all these questions unanswered, Kitamura has to strip out everything that makes a novel interesting to me. We can't learn about the environment because Kitamura wants to leave us with the possibility that everything is a prop. We can't learn about the other characters' day-to-day lives because Kitamura wants to preserve the possibility that they're all actors. The only thing left is the narrator's inner dialogue, from which we don't get much more than confused impressions, leaving us with only one explanation for how sparse and disparate Audition's world is, and it's a trope as annoying as it is inauthentic, one that gives Audition freedom while removing the potential for character depth and any vivid or meaningful environment: the narrator losing her grip on reality. Even this is uninteresting, because the flavorless prose and the narrator's affectless, incomplete interactions with the characters offer no substance and no consequences for such a drastic condition. The idea has been explored in much better ways by David Lynch, John Fowles, and John Cassavetes. When the narrator thinks about how Xavier living with them "is not exactly like having our child back home again, it was like having some ideal version of him returned," you could wonder at the similarities between cohabitating with your son after a few years apart and being in a play with a young man you've worked with years ago. It doesn't matter whether the feelings associated with these situations--good, bad, confusing, complex, whatever they might be--are comparable. It doesn't matter that if you commit more than a few seconds to thinking about it, you understand the emotional and intellectual landscape of the two circumstances would be totally different. Audition's solution is to simply not include any emotional or intellectual pallet at all. Audition is content to merely suggest the comparison and hope you don't think about it too hard. Everyone seems to agree, whether they liked the novel or not, that the writing is beautiful. Personally, I find the sentences in this book homely, vapid, and clumsy. Publishers and reviewers these days all seem to praise "crisp, clear" prose and for me it usually means simple, uncomplicated sentences that carefully avoid the contemporary writer's lack of any unique or deep knowledge about the world. Sentences that hyper-focus on a single moment while somehow saying absolutely nothing interesting or insightful about it. Audition's Quotes page is full of such examples; here are a few of what I think are the worst offenders: People always talked about having children as an event, as a thing that took place, they forgot that not having children was also something that took place, that is to say it wasn’t a question of absence, a question of lack, it had its own presence in the world, it was its own event. I had given in to his story, his narrative, because it had been easier, and because of his persuasiveness—persuasion, which is only one step removed from coercion. But although Xavier was so evidently at home, he did not behave as if he were actually in his own home, he never inhabited the space as someone who had previously inhabited the space might do. I also noticed that the line spacing and margin width in my hardcover copy are abnormally large, I'm guessing to pad out the pages and make it seem longer than it is. Less a serious critique than a peeve, I guess, but one that would've been easier to ignore for a less pretentious, more thoughtful piece of work. It just puts publishing marketing in the forefront of my mind, with its attempt to sell this as something more profound and clever than it is. Kitamura's dedication to keeping all the relationships here ambiguous leaves almost no room for depth. She wants us to question what it means to be a "mother," "wife," "actress," or "woman," or so the summaries say, but there are zero insights on any of these things. Is that the point? If you're an actor who spends a significant part of your life portraying shallow, poorly written and undeveloped relationships, do you lose curiosity about the people around you and live a shallow, undeveloped life? It's not an uninteresting idea, but it's executed with cardboard. You can write about shallow people without writing a shallow book. You can write a book about the mysterious distances between people without writing around giant, arbitrary holes in your story and characters. Audition does neither.

AUDITION Katie Kitamura I bought this book with my own money!! If this book can be exactly both of the things it is, then I can have two minds about it, too. On one hand, I wondered if it relies so much on this overt intuition of the main character and flirts so much with cliche throughout while it offers only enough to create a hint at a story. Or, is it not that? Does it eventually coalesce into something I have to think is profound and maybe actually pretty freaking fresh? About performance, family, womanhood, manhood, humanhood, intuition, speech, conversation… UGH! Every time I felt like I had the book figured out (AHA!! There it is! The cheesy corny on the nose thing I knew was coming!!) it pulled itself through and steadied itself out on the water. HOW. The novel touches on a central performance, a scene that’s a black hole at the very center of a play that unites it all, and while this works on so many literary layers it starts to feel uncanny, it kind of also felt like the scene may have said “oh, honey, you wouldn’t get it if you don’t live in New York…” Is the black hole at the center a decision point the main character made—a choice about keeping a child or giving it up? Is that what this is? A swirling unfolding around the two universes that unfold from the decision to have a child or not? Is that the unifier? Oh we could go on here for days interpreting, theorizing, I’m sure, but did the book say enough to be worth all that? The end cascades back into itself and fleshes out this very hard-won, WROUGHT piece of work I imagine must have been fathomlessly difficult to get right. Part of me wanted to say: “there is hope for all of you!! If you have an unfinished manuscript, fear not! Just submit! Say the rest is up to the reader OUT LOUD! Make it about that!” But, considering the character work, the dialogue, the hiding and revealing…DAMMET was it good? Was it????? Really??? No… no. I grappled here. Update after a while. Nevermind. I hated this dang book so much.

*sighs, yawns, goes on to read Jane Austen*

Audition by Katie Kitamura is a book for those who appreciate form over substance. 2.5 stars. An unnamed actress walks into a busy NYC restaurant to meet a young man named Xavier. The conversation she’s sharing with him is cut short by her husband Tomas randomly walking in and out of the restaurant - does he think she’s cheating? What is going on? What is he doing here? That scene jumpstarts the book that follows. The unnamed actress goes about her life and the story slowly unravels how she sees and interacts with the people around her after Xavier walked into her life like a wrecking ball. The book is told in two parts that can be sort of summarized as ‘Xavier walks into MC’s mundane uninteresting life’ and ‘Xavier is part of MC’s life,’ I guess? The last 50 pages of the second part were too much. At no point did I understand what I was reading, but the ending just really had me… frustrated? A lot was happening and I didn’t get why or what was the point. There was an important conversation left out between Part 1 and Part 2 that I wish had been in the book. And, I do have to ask: (view spoiler) The writing was beautiful, but the story made me angry and frustrated. It had nonsensical and confusing stuff that bothered me. So, yep: no effing idea what the point of this was. It’s plotless with nice writing. The only thing that kept me interested was my own theory-making about why the book is titled ‘audition.’ PS. Question for those who have read Kitamura before - this is my first time reading her, are all her books plotless-y/similar? *ARC received for free, this hasn’t impacted my rating.

Could ‘Audition’ actually claim to be a work of existential philosophy? I kept asking myself this as I worked through its 197 pages - surely the author is not Katie Kitamura, but Simone de Beauvoir. Has anyone else noticed the similarities, or is it just me? That said, it’s a strong and intriguing piece of writing with just enough unreliable narration to eventually become irritating. No creative writerly fluff, just cool, detached observations that command attentiveness to a breathtaking sleight of hand. But it’s the parallels with the Beaver that I find the strongest and most fascinating.

listen, there's something about writing a negative review of a book that really icks me out these days. especially on goodreads, which is by and large a platform that does not protect authors whatsoever and, in fact, often actively disadvantages them. it's a fact that publishers take goodreads data overseriously, and a book with a lower than 4 star average can literally tank a debut author's career. it's a shame, because i do believe vehemently in the value of negative reviews. literary criticism is a dying art, and readers still deserve to be able to write and engage with negative reviews of a book without feeling like the responsibility to protect an author rests on their heads. anyway. you may have guessed that i did not like this book. another thing that makes this difficult is the fact that i really liked katie kitamura's last book, INTIMACIES. i honestly am now gaslighting myself and feel like i need to go back and reread that one to verify my opinion lol. the two thoughts that were at the forefront of my mind while i was reading this were as follows: this book was not properly edited. and katie kitamura needed to have taken one less creative writing class (i found out afterwards that she's actually a professor of creative writing at nyu, which is very amusing). i really should get in the habit of marking pages so that i can include lines as evidence, but i haven't so you'll need to take my word for it that the writing in this book was fluffy, self-congratulatory, and full of run-on sentences and redundancies. it read like KK drank a glass or two of wine every night before she sat down to work on this. cloudy brain writing fluffy things. the thing is, INTIMACIES, despite a similar (albeit tighter) writing style, managed to overcome stylistic flaws by crafting a really immersive and magnetic atmosphere. i remember feeling so riveted by the setting especially as it was so influential on the mood of the story. here, you can feel the author grasping at conventions of creative writing in an attempt to develop a sense of creepiness and uncanny in a wannabe gothic way. i haven't given a plot summary because i cannot be bothered, but for some context this book has a part 1 and part 2 and essentially the idea is that a number of the plot/character points that are laid out in p1 are reversed in p2 (obviously without any warning or explanation, for sHoCk fAcToR!! a very high brow technique, of course) ((sorry i told myself i was gonna take this seriously and not be mean or sarcastic)). i digress. my point is: the attempt to manufacture tension and suspense is desperately transparent and ultimately just becomes frustrating to read. that's perhaps a good segue to talking about the characters here, all of whom feel so vacuous, slippery, and obscure. you can tell, again, that KK is trying to give them a sort of dreamy quality, probably both to make the novel feel ambiguous and also to coax the reader into imagining that they actually are the protagonist. but her main tactic for achieving this is to subtract detail, the effect of which is, naturally, characters that feel intangible and empty. another icky thing is that it seems like the author felt that she needed to include some Serious Bad Stuff to give the plot gravity. in essence what she decides on is a good old abortion, an affair, and a miscarriage. but again, these are tossed into a mix of already emotionally distant and disconnected sentences and plotlines and they just end up feeling like cheap, tokenized plotpoints with no real in depth exploration of their emotional consequences. as a final note. why did these characters spend so much time in restaurants or getting coffee? fr honestly the volume of pastries that were consumed in this book makes me worry for their blood sugar. you may notice i have not formally star-rated this book and that i've mostly fallen out of the habit of doing this. this is in large part because i'm morally against the goodreads industrial complex. im sure you can intuit what star rating i would probably give based on this review. if anyone important reads this, i believe katie kitamura should be given the money and resources to write more books, ok!! just get girlie a better editor. *edit (30/08): i have changed my mind and decided to star rate this as part of my attempt to read through the whole Booker longlist this year. kitamura has enough industry fame/support not to suffer from it, and in this case i think it's more useful to include it.

Booker Book 9 of 13: 3/10. A tragic and complex moment in American history- the eviction of a small mixed race community from a coastal island in Maine at the beginning of the 20th century - provides the ostensible source material for this novel (although Harding scrupulously ignores the historical record, instead giving way to imagination and unfortunately, it appears , some of the bigoted fantasies that circulated about this community before more research was done). There are flashes of interest- the best episode is probably the off island section detailing the relationship between a young islander and an Irish maid, as it’s freed from the utterly fantastical way that Harding has chosen to imagine the island. But unfortunately the book is grossly overwritten, preferring flights of embellished prose about the island’s nature to trying to imbue its residents with any humanity. The residents are by turns Caliban grotesques and self-created savants - no ordinary people inhabit this island. The telling rings false and othering - a realer book would have been far more interesting. Also if I never again read anything as anachronistic and contrived as Hand to God’s “I am queer for queer folk” peroration, I will be a happy person. This is a perfect example of Harding’s wanting it both ways - the islanders are the product of incestuous rape, deformed and living like beasts in some cases (one albino girl is depicted as eating puddle slime and live snakes, children sleep in piles with dogs) but they are also imbued with 21st century lofty sensibilities. Neither seems to do justice to the source material.

I have this little dream that I will like every book on the Booker longlist but there’s always that one novel that I don’t like, sometimes two but that’s rare. This year’s stinker, for me, is This Other Eden. Plot wise it’s interesting: An island populated by first generation Africans is subjected to Biblical happenings, ranging from plagues to flood and yet it’s a safe place and cut off from the world, a garden of Eden if you will. However two things happen: A teacher/preacher arrives and starts honing the islanders talents and some doctors show up and start measuring and classifying the inhabitants has eugenics is becoming popular. The end results are inhabitants being sterilised or deported, The second part shifts to Ethan, an artistically inclined person who the preachers sends to live with a white family and he falls in love with an Irish maid. You can guess what happens and he runs away. All these actions leading to an apocalyptic ending. I am of the school where I believe that a writer can write what they want so I was not upset with a white author depicting a black race (for the record being Maltese means I am half Arabic and half Italian) I did not like the idea as the missionary as a white saviour but ok I can see what Harding is criticising. I also thought he brought out theme of racism in an ok way, I was not even bothered by some biblical and biological inaccuracies ( apples are not mentioned in The Bible and one has to graft seeds in order to get the types mentioned in the book) but despite the fact the story is based on actual events, this did not irk me. What I did not like was the writing style. I found it boring. I could not muster any love whatsoever for the style. I yawned, got distracted and had to reread sentences, Not only did this dampen my enjoyment of the book but I began to dislike it with each page turn. A failure, for me but there’s always bound to be one.

This Other Book … that I read last year? A remote Island … an isolated community ….a talented artist …. An outsider trying to help but doing more harm than good? Does it sound like 2022’s The Colony? Replace “The Troubles” with “Racism” and you got it. I’m not implying that the author copied The Colony, I’m saying for me it was a far lesser version of it. It was hard to get through, for the most part it was simply boring - and a bit self-indulgent, honestly. For me, nothing to recommend it.

DNF I was fascinated by the true story behind this novel - something I had never heard of before. But ultimately I got bored by the very long sentences and cast of characters, and at 100 pages in I just wasn't connected to any of them.

Such a great concept but ended up being a very vague and kind of boring.

You know that feeling you get when you have been waiting two hours at a concert for the headlining act to come on? There’s that anticipation in the air. You're excited, you're flustered, and you’re ready to rock! The lights go out, and your eyes start to sparkle as the band belts out the riff to your favorite song. Could this get any better? Then, as the musician makes their way to the mic for the second song, they say these eight dreaded words. “This is a song from our new album.” Heart-sink, buzz-kill, kill-joy. I went through similar emotions while reading The Memory Police by Yōko Ogawa. The only difference is if the band continued playing songs from the new album; in fact, they played most of the new record, leaving you disappointed and scratching your head. In a nutshell, this book follows the narrator as she tumbles down the rabbit hole of memory loss prevention. Her memory is not degrading because of old age; its deterioration is being systematically eradicated by the Memory Police. Dun dun duuun! Do not let my rating hamper you from adding this book in any way; it might strike a chord for you, but it was definitely not the droids (book) I was looking for. I just found it lacking in the content department. After the initial setup, it digresses into fairly ordinary character moments and weighty chapters that are filled with whimsical ideas you understand within the first few paragraphs but seem to idle on for several pages. For every neat idea like, “Your voice is trapped inside this (type-writer) machine. It’s not broken, it’s just been sealed off now that it no longer has a purpose,” it has several paragraphs reiterating the same feelings over and over again. The words sterile, unassuming, round-about, and plotting come to mind. It just does not have the connective tissue to keep the feelings engaged. Rather than using Fahrenheit 451, 1984, or even The Collector as a dystopian starting point (most of the ideas were lifted from these), this book just adds a bit of magical realism to the stew, but it never really simmers or adds anything new to the taste you already know and enjoy. Oh! And that ending. 😖😖😖 For something with a similar vibe, but with a fun edge to it, I would recommend Mona Awad’s books. Specifically, Bunny or Rouge. || "If you read a novel to the end, then it’s over. I would never want to do something as wasteful as that. I’d much rather keep it here with me, safe and sound, forever." || ** Positive note ** No lunch or dinner eating snafus during this reading experience. WIN. ** Also, sorry for another sub-par pick, Helga. 🥴** 🎵| Soundtrack |🎵 ❖ The Used – Come Undone ❖ In Flames – Meet Your Maker ❖ SoilWork – Stålfågel ❖ Fair to Midland – Amarillo Sleeps On My Pillow ⭐ | Rating | ⭐ ❖ 2 out of 5 ❖

2.5 stars I wanna say something more sophisticated than "this was boring" but...this was boring. Given the slew of positive reviews this novel has gotten, I was expecting something impressive, not milquetoast characters and a directionless plot. Also, the writing was Not Good. It was plain and simplistic in a way that completely flattened any complexity or depth the story might've had. Oh, and irritatingly repetitive—we get it your memory is a pool of water and seeing disappeared objects stirs your memory like ripples in the water please stop hitting me over the head with the same metaphor. I just...I don't get what the appeal of this book is. What was it supposed to be offering, exactly, because the extent of its commentary pretty much boils down to: police bad, controlling people bad, state surveillance bad. Uh, thanks, but I didn't really need to read an entire novel to know that...

Young girl does some boring, coming-of-age stuff on a farm. But it's written by a non-binary so we all have to pretend it's great. It isn't.

What was the point

I was somehow bored but also thoroughly disturbed by this book. Was there a meaning in there somewhere or did it just go over my head? I've never met nor do I ever expect to meet 14 year olds that philosophize to this extent using this language. The whole monologue by the bully sounded like a college bro who took one philosophy class and fancies himself enlightened. Very bizarre IMO. Loved Breasts and Eggs but Heaven was a big no. Thanks to Netgalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Heaven tells the story of 2 victims of school bullying. It describes how they are bullied, how they become friends, how they find solace in each other, how they endure the bullying, and how 1 of them continues to endure while the other begins to fight back, ultimately leading to their separation. Half of the book is about how much both of them suffer and how much pain they are in. They do not realize that they should fight back. The first half of the book gives me the impression that they are simply, week, and that they have developed a mindset of ‘OK, what else’ - die to helplessness after being bullied for a long time. They simply "think" that the bullies are wrong and that the bullies should be condemned and feel guilty, no action, nothing. The fact is that their wishful thinking does not have any impact on the bullies. The bullies do what they do because they want to. And the victims do not fight back because they do not want to. The narrator (a 14-year-old boy)’s parents are having marital problems and are on the verge of divorce. His mother is not his biological mother, and he inherited his biological mother's lazy eyes. He always thought that his disability was the reason why his classmates bullied him. He takes the initiative to change and gathers up the courage to ask the bullies why they bully him. 1 of the bullies tells him, "We bully you because we want to, not because of your lazy eyes. There is no reason." While the Kojima is the daughter of divorced parents. Her mother married her father out of sympathy, but later divorced him because he was poor. She then married a rich man. Kojima doesn't want to forget her father, so she deliberately makes herself look dirty and messy. She thinks that it is meaningful to endure, and even thinks that victims of violence are actually more powerful than the perpetrators. In many Japanese literary works and TV dramas, when Japanese women are subjected to unequal treatment, they usually choose to endure, thinking that if they can just hold on, it will be over. But violence will only get worse.. not only affecting their own personal safety, but also even implicating their families. Kojima is not clean because after her parents divorced, she feels that she has nothing left. Being dirty is a symbol, but I don't think this symbol belongs to her either. All labels are for others to see. Only her body belongs to her, and she doesn't take good care of it. School bullying is a 2-way behavior. I believe that the real initiative lies with the victims. Never think that your sacrifice can lead to the bullies' conscience. This probability is very small. A bully will always be a bully if no one attempt to fight and stop him. Acquiescence and tolerance can only lead to the bullies becoming more and more audacious. We cannot change the environment or the other person, we can only change ourselves. When we start to fight back, we not only get rid of the identity of the victim, but we can also rebuild our confidence and self-esteem, so that others have no chance to take advantage of us and draw a clear line between ourselves and the bullies, creating a clean space for ourselves. 2.5 / 5 stars

Ooft. Such a disappointment! This absolute brick of a book just went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. For two months, I stuck with it because I'm a nosy bastard, and I couldn't stand not to know what happened to Dickie and co. Turns out, Paul Murray kept the ending deliberately ambiguous. Two. Months. Paul Murray and I are no longer friends.

CAIRNS POST – 2nd December 2024 Well-known, retired Celebrity Medical Scientist, part-time nude yoga teacher, philanthropist and popular foot model, Mr Mark Porton, appeared in the Cairns District Court today to answer the rarely seen charge of “Overfamiliarity with a Librarian”. His lawyer, Mr Luigi Fettucine KC, told Judge Badweather AO, “Only 300 pages into this book, and struggling, my client was relieved to receive a notice from the librarian concerned to return The Bee Sting immediately. Upon returning the book, my client hurdled over the counter to express his gratitude at being released from the bondage of this dithering, overly complex, voluminous, YA, hot mess of a book. Not to mention the total absence of punctuation. For the record, it is also worth noting, he developed fulminant ring-worm infestations on his extremities due to the dread of having to pick up or even walk past this 600-page doorstopper". Witnesses, however, tell a different story. The delusional, and let’s not deny it, overtly stupid, Porton apparently entered the Library – screaming “At last, at last……no more pain, I LOVE YOU!!!!” and after shoving aside and screaming at a small, well behaved group of Kindergarten students (group reading Miffy Goes to the Pantomime), he jumped the counter to hug Chief Librarian Miss Briony Sensibleshoes – and he didn’t let her go for at least 20 minutes while sobbing uncontrollably. The man was happy!" Miss Sensibleshoes is in Cairns Hospital, recovering from acute and inappropriate hugging syndrome, and Porton is in the Cairns Watch-house awaiting trial. He pleaded innocent. Associated Press.

A five star book but loses three stars I loved this book, until the ending. Omg the ending ( spoiler alert so don’t read on if you don’t want to know)… The ending is the biggest disappointment ever. You don’t find out what happens to any of the characters at all- it’s the biggest cliff hanger with SO many unanswered questions. There are side/important characters that literally go nowhere, as in you don’t know what happens to them- Victor, Elaine, Lars, Maurice, Victor. The main characters all converge in a forest in the middle of a torrential downpour with one holding a gun - will he / won’t he - and it literally just ends. Imagine watching a film and it just ends like that? You’d be screaming with disappointment. And that’s how I feel having read to the end. And PJ??? Let me tell you, the most annoying kid ever. And who the bloody hell was Nev and why did he need to hang out with him?? Such a shame as if the author had been more realistic with the ending, it could have been a cracking read

I read this as Paul Murray condemning the reader for enjoying his novelistic entertainment while the Anthropocene era crashes down around us in a self-immolating death spiral. Or if that’s a mite too strong and perhaps it is, at least urging the reader to Wake Up. It’s a work of deep eco-pessimism at its core, surrounded by heaping amounts of melodrama (oh the melodrama!) that we humans love to entertain ourselves with. The core is represented explicitly in a speech that appears about 450 pages in, a speech that is given by a character who has unexpectedly popped back up in quite a remarkable coincidence (one of many in the final quarter as the melodrama reaches its impressive heights). It’s a speech given at Trinity College Dublin by an opposition politician on climate change. It’s of pretty good length. It’s not otherwise necessary to the plot. It contains some insightful remarks on human nature while operating from a presumption of looming civilizational collapse and human extinction due to climate change. Some important excerpts: We know about the billions of plants and animals that have already been killed by pollution and habitat destruction, the rising seas, the melting ice, desertification - we know all that. And yet we continue not to do anything to stop it, because the things that are causing it, the things we’re doing that are making it worse - building buildings, taking planes, driving cars, eating meat, buying stuff, having children! - these are the very things that make us us. So we seem to be faced with an impossible dilemma: if we don’t want to be killed by climate change, we have to stop being ourselves. We’re at a moment where either we make a serious change to the way we live, or we destroy ourselves. The science is not ambiguous. If we don’t face up to reality, we’re not going to make it. Once you take off your mask, it’s like all the other masks become transparent, and you can see that beneath our individual quirks and weirdnesses, we’re the same. We are the same in being different, in feeling bad about being different. Or to put it another way, we are all different expressions of the same vulnerability and need. That’s what binds us together. Division will do no good. You may gain some attention for your particular subgroup, there may even be minor accommodations made. But you are moving the deck chairs on a sinking ship, diversity deck chairs. Global apocalypse is not interested in your identity politics or who you pray to or what side of the border you live on. Cis, trans, black, white, scientist, artist, basketball player, priest - every stripe of person, every colour and creed, we are all going to be hit by this hammer. And that is another fact that unites us. We are all alive together in this sliver of time in which the human race decides whether or not it will come to an end. Murray then sticks the boot in to the reader, whether the reader is aware of it or not, at the 86% mark, according to my Kindle, through a brief snippet of a literature class lecture, the only such snippet in the book… must be important then to be included: Today, in the developed world, the great threat to political order is that people will pay attention to their surroundings. Thus, even slaves have access to entertainment. You could even say we are paid in entertainment. The novel was the first instance of what in the twenty-first century has become a vast and proliferating entertainment industry, an almost infinite machine designed to distract us and disempower us. We are presented with a virtual world powered, literally, by the incineration of the real. Why are you reading novels when we’re destroying ourselves, eh? At least that is what I’m reading this saying to us. I mean, the novel opens with the story of a man killing his family and then himself, and there’s the somewhat ambiguous ending… not a stretch to read this as an accusation of us unwittingly (or wittingly) killing ourselves while gorging on bread and circuses (or novels). The deep fundamental pessimism about humanity and its future at core here is not an outlook I share, and the amazing melodrama Murray surrounds that core with, be it for straightforward or ironic purposes, is entertaining to some degree but obviously over the top, so I can’t really get very behind this novel. I’m impressed with Murray’s talent but not as much with what he’s used his talent to produce.

This novel is about an Irish family that is facing a tough economic time. We get to see their points of views of how they handle this difficult time and other daily family doings. This is a character study book with no action. So I have to go against the grain on this one especially since this book has won awards and seems to be loved by many readers. This book did not do it for me and was a real chore to read. Don't get me wrong. It is a well written novel as each point of view has its own distinctive voice. I got a real sense of the different character whether it was an adult or a child. The problem for me was that this was a slog to get through and it really should not be. It has many layers that should have captivated me. One of the book's theme is shame and how we deal with that. Throw in other themes like how we face our problems and lack of communication in a family and this should have been a terrific book to read about the various characters. Unfortunately I was bored for the most part even though I wondered how it would all end. I wondered if it would end up in tragedy or we would get the happy ending into the sunset. Instead I imagine the ending of this book is a hot topic. For me it was a big no and I actually exclaimed "This is bulls***t" at it. Not a fan of it all considering I devoted so much time to this book. This book is not for me. I never got into it which is surprising considering the vast amount of glowing reviews. The author did an amazing job writing it as it seems so authentic. This is the reason I am giving it two stars instead of one. One would be too harsh even though my enjoyment probably reflects that more.

I can see what this author was going for, but ultimately it felt like it was reaching for some kind of philosophical meaning, but ended up feeling incredibly hollow.

Uneven in tone and quality. To begin with it subtly started to build an interesting and strange future, giving just enough to the reader to puzzle it out. Around the halfway mark, it felt like the book decided something needed to be said more explicitly about humanity and it wasn't anything surprising. The subtlety had evaporated completely by the end.

I read 157 pages before giving up. I can’t quite fathom how this made the Booker short list. The book is in the far future as Homo sapiens are at the brink of extinction, some characters are clones, some are Mothers, or Watchers, or AI thingamajigs. But why? It is not badly written but nothing about the writing arrested me. I wonder if it was written by and for people who think linear narrative is just so passé. In short, not this reader’s cup of tea.

Follows, in a number of connected stories, the dwindling out and further evolution of humanity (clones, psychics...plant people). It reminded me of Never Let Me Go in its decontextualized, low-worldbuilding style, clearly more concerned with life's big questions than the sci-fi specifics of its setting. Unlike NLMG, though, the structure means that there just wasn't much narrative or character to latch onto. It's an ideas book, but not one that held my attention, even for it's short page count.

This is the third piece of fiction I have read by Kehlmann the first being ‘Fame’ (published 2009) and the second being ‘Measuring the World’ (2008). I really did not like this novel (342 pp). 1.5 stars. 🙁 I think there should have been a disclaimer to this novel: Warning: If you have no idea of what the Thirty Years’ War was about, you may not like this book. Or may not appreciate it, to put it another way. Because I had no clue as to what this war was about (I did not know the context in which this novel was set) and had never heard of the characters who were major players in the war: Frederick V [the "Winter King”], Albrecht von Wallenstein, and Gustavus Adolphus, to name a few. These characters were in this book — I do believe I would have appreciated this book more had I been better acquainted with these characters and with this war and what were the countries that were involved and how religion played a role in it. To slog through 342 pages without this knowledge and not being helped at all by the way the book was constructed…it was not at all an enjoyable reading experience for me. I did a DNF of a book within 7 days of this book and I think I have a rule in my head to not have more than one DNF book in one week, and that is why I read the book to its conclusion. Salman Rushdie and Ian McEwan and Valeria Luiselli very much liked the book. So anyhoo, if you are going to read this book and have no idea of what The Thirty Year’s War was about and what countries were involved, etc. at least google it. 🧐 Reviews: • https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/20... • https://www.theguardian.com/books/202... (This reviewer disagrees with my assessment about needing to know about this war…he says, “it demonstrates that it’s possible to read Tyll with pleasure while knowing next to nothing about the history.” • https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/11/bo...

Now shortlisted for the 2020 Booker shortlist - much the weakest on the list in my view (as it was weakest on the longlist also). I have now read her previous short story collection "Man Vs. Nature" referred to below - and in my review (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) I examine why that, in my view, was so much more successful as a short story collection than this was as a novel: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- . walking ahead of the Community, Agnes felt proud to be leading, just another kind of creature on a mass migration … finding water the way all creatures must. It wasn’t that she didn’t always feel this way each day they’d been out here. .... But there was something about the scope of what she could see now. . ….. Looking across the vast plain and seeing all the animals moving as one, in one direction, with the same needs, she felt a part of the place in a way she hadn’t before. She’d never realized she felt apart from it. But she guessed she had in some unknowable way. It was their reliance on the water spigots. On the maps. On the fact that they checked in with Rangers. They were never fully living on their own. Not like these animals were every day. Not until now. And she was leading. ….. When they left the City, her mother hadn’t called it a trip, or an adventure, or something temporary. She had said, “This is our new home.” … She felt like that small girl again, listless and coughing, turning a handkerchief red …. But that was no longer her. She was no longer that small girl, curiously watching from a distance, from behind her mother or behind Glen. …. She was a part of it all. It all depended on her. I read this book due its longlisting for the 2020 Man Booker prize – an intriguing longlist noticeable for featuring 9 US based authors, 9 female authors and 8 debutant novelists – with this book representing one of the 4 books at the intersection of that Venn diagram. The author has previously published a collection of short stories: “Man V. Nature”. In interviews about that collection said “that's how a lot of the stories in Man v. Nature came about … Through thinking, reading, watching nature documentaries, or just observing the natural world. I'm mostly interested in how humans are still animalistic and whether we once had a wilder existence than we do now.” and also how she often went away to the woods to write where “I’d witness wild tragedies, too: predation, death, abandonment, grief. I became curious about how a person might react to the kind of hardships that exist in the wild. It became one of the preoccupations of the book. I wondered under what circumstances those more primal instincts might rear up again in us. How many of our basic behaviors are really just small or large efforts to survive.” I believe that these ideas, in a far more detailed form than can be permitted in a short story, were much of the driving force behind this novel. The Guardian (who shortlisted that collection for their 2015 First Book award) described it as featuring “high-concept dystopias that belong in the realm of SF or fairytale or parable … [which] amplify the emotional states and subconscious forces that drive everyday life, such as grief, shame, desire and need”. If I had to describe this novel (with a conscious nod to the above) I would say it is: A high-concept dystopia, which leads to a small group of individuals being made the subjects of a cross between a nature documentary and a survival reality-show, which amplifies alpha male-female rivalries and allows the exploration of mother-daughter relationships. (Note that the title story of “Man V Nature” has the stranded characters reframing their predicament as a reality TV pitch). The dystopian set up features more as an important backdrop to the novel and like many dystopias is an extrapolation of current trends (at least pre-COVID trends). Implicitly a combination of climate change, over-population and capitalistic consumption have led to a USA (albeit the country is never stated) where many regions (The Heat Belt, the Fallow Lands, the New Coast) have been long since abandoned and the majority of the population live in the City, an overcrowded and increasingly violent urban landscape where pollution levels make childhood ill-health endemic and where over-population means life is cheap. The elite are rumoured to have fled to the fabled Private Lands. The City is supported by a group of productive areas – the Manufacturing Zone, the Mines, the Refineries “The cities of greenhouses, the rolling landfills, the sea of windmills, the Woodlots, the Server Farms”. One state has effectively been re-wilded as a refuge for wildlife: “The Wilderness State”. In a controlled experiment (whose purpose is not entirely clear) a group of twenty skilled volunteers (ideally “with knowledge of flora and fauna and biology and meteorology”) is picked to enter the state, subject to a series of rules (no domestication, no settlement, strict picking up of even micro-trash, restoration of the area after they leave) written down in the Manual and more or less vigorously policed by the Rangers, whose function seems to evolve over time alongside their uniforms, reflecting the differing aims of The Administration. The two main third party point of view characters are Agnes and her daughter Bea – Agnes’s husband (not Bea’s father) Glen was a University researcher in The City and when Bea’s health deteriorated rapidly, he pressed the Wilderness project and the three of them as founder participants. Something which, when Bea went through with it, lead to a breech with her own mother. The book starts some three years later, the twenty depleted by accident and ill-health, and with an impactful scene as Bea self-delivers her second daughter who is still born, before rejoining the group with little comment (note that the loss of a daughter and the ability of a mother to move on from it seems to me to fit the “Somebody’s Baby” story from ““Man V. Nature” – the baby in that story also a Beatrice). Thereafter the dynamics both in the nuclear family and in the remaining group change and tensions emerge. When Bea impulsively flees to the City for a period (after the death of her mother) Agnes’s already burgeoning independence grows even stronger – and her sense that she is at home in the Wilderness whereas Bea is still a visitor. And as Glen’s health fails, his influence and support of a consensus making approach to decision making fades and another male – Carl (originally Glen’s research student but unlike Glen who adapts practically to the hunting/nomadic lifestyle) – takes more of a leadership position, the dynamics developing further as Bea returns and as their group is re-expanded both by the Newcomers (who join The Originalists) before then encountering the Mavericks and the Trespassers. The group dynamics (the alpha leaders, the way in which sub-groups favour their own tribe for food distribution, the way in which the sick take themselves off to die, the way in which children are forced into independence) are strongly described and reminded me very much of reading the book “Dynasties” – which accompanied the recent BBC wildlife series of the same name. Another thing that is clear from the book (and confirmed in the acknowledgments) is that the author has heavily researched nomadic lifestyles and set alongside vivid descriptions of flora, fauna, landscape, I felt that the details of the group’s travels were very convincing – particularly when we enter into Agnes’s point of view and see through her how she uses her observations of animal behaviour and landscape to lead the group’s progress. But I also had some areas that I rated less highly. After the impactful opening scene, the book seems to drift, really for 200 or so pages and perhaps for me, never fully gets back on track until towards the end of the book as Agnes fully takes over the story arc (including a first party ending). I do not want literary novels to adopt Dan Brown style cliff-hangers at the end of each chapter, but I did feel that this book took things a little too far to the opposite extreme: if it were not for my desire to read the full Booker longlist I feel I easily could have abandoned this novel at various points. Further many of the dystopian/societal details I found inconsistent (just one example - quite a bit is made of how over time the community develops a hardened attitude to death due to all the death they see around them - and which surprises outsiders they come into contact with; but we are also told that in the City, due to overpopulation, emergencies are not treated by doctors as they are seen as fate). But perhaps the real strength of the book lies less in its dystopian considerations and more in its examination of mother-daughter relationships and how these evolve as each generation takes its turn on the other side of the dynamic (both influenced by and finally appreciating the behaviour of their own mothers). Overall I found this an interesting read but one that was too slowly paced and also one where I was not sure for much of the book where it was really trying to go, an impression which I did not entirely lose when I finished it. I can see this book’s appeal but it was not for me. My thanks to Oneworld for an ARC via NetGalley. When she becomes obstinate. When she becomes different from me. What will we share if we can’t share this? Will we be nothing but strangers? I want to grab her in these moments, squeeze her too hard, growl into her hair, never let her go. But she always wriggles free, unfazed, or maybe with a small eye roll. She knows she has everything I can give her. I think of my mother in these moments. She was someone who never did what I expected her to. When she looked at me, I didn’t understand what her look meant. She looked at me sharp-eyed, her mouth twisting and pained. As though looking at me hurt her sometimes. I didn’t understand it until I had the chance to care for this little Fern and I looked at her and saw all that came before and all that would come after and all its potential awfulness and certain beauty and it was too much for me to bear. I looked away, scared, disgusted, overcome with love, on the verge of crying and laughing, and finally, finally, finally I began to know my mother.

Shortlisted for the 2020 Booker Prize According to a study of 293 of the world's leading port cities conducted by NASA, my quaint little coastal hometown is the most vulnerable of all of India's ports to the effects of climate change. The sea level is predicted to rise by 14.60 cm a century from now. What this means is that by 2100, my hometown will surely be uninhabitable and may go under water. Although it may seem like an event in the distant, unfathomable future, we are facing its precursors right now. In the past three years, the western coastal region of India has seen turbulent monsoons, increased flooding and deadly landslides. Amitav Ghosh, in his seminal book The Great Derangement: Climate Change and the Unthinkable published in 2016 made a case for a sub-genre of fiction dealing with climate change. Fiction after all is an important imaginative device, fiction is capable of constructing a bridge between the transitory, ordinary present and the inscrutable, unforeseeable future. That climate change casts a much smaller shadow within the landscape of literary fiction than it does even in the public arena is not hard to establish. To see that this is so we need only glance through the pages of a few highly regarded literary journals and book reviews, for example, the London Review of Books, the New York Review of Books, the Los Angeles Review of Books, the Literary Journal and the New York Times Review of Books. When the subject of climate change appears in these publications, it is almost always in relation to non-fiction; novels and short stories are very rarely to be glimpsed within this horizon. Indeed, it could even be said that fiction that deals with climate change is almost by definition not of the kind that is taken seriously by serious literary journals: the mere mention of the subject is often enough to relegate a novel or a short story to the genre of science fiction. It is as though in the literary imagination climate change were somehow akin to extraterrestrials or interplanetary travel. And we do need books that probe into the themes of climate change, overpopulation, post climate change living, disaster management and human solidarity. Fortunately, The New Wilderness is one such book. Unfortunately, it mostly sucks. I have always struggled with separating unlikeable characters from the story itself. In fact, I have always struggled with unlikeable characters in general. I don't know how fair it is of us to demand that the characters we read of be likeable. One of the wonderful things about fiction is that it represents all facets of humanity. And this story has hordes of unlikeable characters, the foremost of them being Carl and Bea. But while navigating a strange, unfamiliar world even within fiction, the least I expect is a reliable protagonist. The plot itself is quite boring, some ends seem frayed and the author seems to have picked up certain plot lines on a whim, only to abandon them later. But what I take an issue with is the premise itself. That human beings when left amidst wilderness will turn savage themselves and only live within a communal structure that relies on a brutal, teeth-baring alpha figure. That it's in our nature to resort to duals and animalistic fucking to settle arguments that's reminiscent of our supposed nomadic past. I think it's fair to conclude that we've come a long way from that and when trying to survive in an unknown territory as a group, would still rely on well organized structures. At the heart of this story is the supposed complication of a mother-daughter relationship. It's mostly a story of mothers doing things secretively to protect their offspring, and daughters being eternally wary and vowing to never turn out like their mothers. But alas, we cannot escape the trappings of our genetics and so eventually we do end up like the mothers we scorned and finally understand them. Seriously, writers need to stop milking this thematic cow. I’ll tell her this story and the others with all their complications and confusions because those complications and confusions are what make them true. It feels at times like the only instinct left in me. It’s the only way I know to raise a daughter. It’s how my mother raised me. Although I did not particularly enjoy this book, I will acknowledge its importance. It covers important themes that need to be discussed and normalized. Our news channels should be dedicating entire prime-time slots for many of these themes, so people can understand the threat of the disasters looming over us and the need for an immediate solution. I worry for the people of my hometown. For my parents, neighbors, friends, extended family. I suppose I could just ask them to sell their houses and move. I have been on a lookout for fiction that exclusively deals with the theme of climate change ever since I read The Great Derangement. I've had Flight Behavior that Ghosh praised in his book on my radar for a long time now. If you know of more books, please do let me know. It will be greatly appreciated.

This ecological tale is set in the near future. American cities have become overcrowded, consuming massive amounts resources, so that there only one area of untouched terrain left. Twenty volunteers choose to take part in an experiment, to see how they can survive in this "Wilderness state". They have minimal possessions and are allowed to hunt & forage, but they must leave no trace of themselves behind. They are expected to follow rules laid out in a manual, while Rangers watch their movements. Among this community are Bea and Agnes, a mother and daughter. Agnes was very sick as a child in the city, and Bea brought her on this study in the desperate hope that her health would improve. She has thrived and taken to this new life in a positive way, picking up many valuable skills. Bea on the other hand misses her old life and finds herself becoming a reluctant leader of the group. The story follows the community's struggle to survive, as they drift farther from the guidelines set out for them. I'm afraid this novel moved too slowly for me to enjoy it. Especially at the beginning, it takes such a long time to get going. It seems like there are endless descriptions of the landscape. Eventually the mother-daughter friction starts to get interesting, but I'm afraid it will have lost many readers by that point. It is a very timely tale, addressing an urgent topic like climate change in a thoughtful way. And its portrayal of maternal love is quite moving at times. I just wish the book's editor had cut about a hundred pages from it. With some tightening up, it could have been a much more effective parable.

Given the urgency of the climate crisis and the difficulties of changing our way of living to save the planet, it's no wonder that we can easily envision a time when nature has been plundered of its resources and humans are scrambling to survive. Diane Cook dramatises this conflict in “The New Wilderness” not by showing the fall of society but by presenting a group of people who've reverted to a nomadic life where survival is truly a day to day struggle. The majority of the population lives in an overpopulated and smoggy city where the air is so toxic children are often seriously ill. Because Bea's five year old daughter Agnes frequently coughed up blood and the doctors had no way of treating her, this mother and her partner Glen took the radical step to form a group of volunteers to venture out into the rural landscape which had been abandoned due to pollution. But this experiment is strictly regulated by the government and its rangers who study and regulate their existence. They're not allowed to settle in any location or leave any physical impact on the rewilding of the environment. The novel begins at a point where this group has been struggling to navigate this wilderness for some time and life has come to mean very little beyond the animal instinct to survive. The trouble I had with this story is that I found it hard to buy into the structure and workings of its society. Dystopian fiction must build a plausible scenario through which its drama can proceed. Even if this isn't explicitly laid out there have to be logical indications of how society has come to this point. The negative impact humans are having on the environment is very real and with urban populations becoming so dense I can see why the author has set her novel up this way. But I struggled to get a sense for how society was being governed, the ways in which the wilderness was being so strictly regulated and why the volunteer group adhered to their rules. Of course, one of the elements of suspense is that there is a sinister government plan occurring in the background but I just didn't believe in the overall structure of how this society had come to operate. So I found it a challenge to emotionally invest in the plot or its characters. I also felt the plodding detail of their day to day lives wasn't engaging enough to make me feel the desperation and tension of their situation. There were occasionally moving scenes between the characters and creative observations about the hidden workings of the natural world, but overall the novel felt a little overlong and was a bit of a slog to get through. Read my full review of The New Wilderness by Diane Cook on LonesomeReader

Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2020 The main idea of the book sounds amazing, but the novel suffers from three major flaws: The whole set-up makes no sense, there is not enough intellectual depth, and the character development is more or less non-existent. Cook intends to write a climate dystopia in which a group of people leaves the urban areas to live in the wilderness. The whole endeavor is described to be an experiment orchestrated by the authorities - but to what end, especially considering that the group is regularly visiting checkpoints and receiving mail and parcels, thus creating a situation that does in no way represent what it means to survive in the wilderness without interference from the civilized world? The reserach aim of this experiment is pretty dubious. Then, the author apparently wants to investigate human urges unrestrained by the rules of civilization, or, as The Guardian excitedly puts it: "One of her most compelling concerns in The New Wilderness is the corrosive force of individualism, and how pedestrian the human tendency to destroy really is – how the hardwired urge to self-preserve erodes the possibility of fellowship and forward thinking." People who have seen a school from the inside or have generally wondered why laws exist have probably heard about Thomas Hobbes vs. Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and Cook ponders this continuum on a very superficial level. There is nothing new or challenging to see here. And then there's the pacing and the characters, and both aspects are just not rendered intriguing enough. It's hard to tell some of those people apart as they are not distinctively drawn. Plus there are really bad sex scenes - granted, I've just read Kink: Stories, which was envisoned by experts in the field, but Cook just doesn't offer enough psychological depth. Above that, the whole thing could have been more concise. I wish I could have loved this more, because I am convinced the story has potential, but it wasn't thought out and developed well enough. As my GR friend Roman Clodia has rightfully stated, the novel is a cross between "The Hunger Games" and "...I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out of Here!" - but it could have been so much more.

This is such a lukewarm book, on all levels. It’s undercooked and underdeveloped, with the characters lacking motivation or depth and the environment neither dangerous nor welcoming. Actually, there are many straightaway excessive characters who neither add to the plot nor brighten up the picture. What’s more, at a certain point they just disappear, so why have bothered at the first place? I don’t know. Also, I’m very skeptical about the plot and its very loose ends, and I feel rather disappointed at having seen only a pale draft of what could have been a very gripping story. (Sighs.) On the bright side, the audiobook is not annoying and could be a good bedtime story, if you want to fall asleep quickly.

Do yourself a favor and binge-watch a season of “Survivor" before wasting your time on this dull, meandering novel about surviving in the wild with strangers. I guarantee you'll find better characters and far juicier drama than you will in this snoozer! The overall premise sounded promising: In a dystopian future where every environmentalist's worst nightmares have come true, trapping humans in overcrowded, crime-ridden, over-polluted cities where children are getting sick and dying due to the toxic environment, a small group of strangers are selected to be part of a government "study" where they must learn to survive both Nature and each other in the planet's last unpolluted "wilderness" refuge. Sounds bleak but intriguing, right? My decision to read this was motivated in large part by another GR review describing it as a "gripping, fierce, terrifying examination of what people are capable of when they want to survive in both the best and worst ways." Now THAT'S a novel I'd love to read! Sadly, this novel was far from that. I found the prose and dialogue to be awkward and stilted, the characters little more than one-dimensional sketches, and the story itself devoid of any real suspense or momentum. One area where this really shines, however, is in its intricate and occasionally eloquent descriptions of Motherhood and the often fraught relationships between mothers and daughters: the fierce instinct to defend and protect, the aching vulnerability and stubborn clashing of wills, the deep, unspoken bond (and sometimes anguished doubting of that bond) between mothers and daughters. It's in these subtle, intimate interactions between Agnes and Beatrice that the writing is at its most honest and compelling.

So underwhelming. I've been excited about this for months, long before it made it on the Booker Longlist, and it was such a let down! From the blurb this book couldn't have been more perfect for me... I love stories of people fending for themselves in the wilderness! But this was like watching an episode of bad reality tv. The opening was bloody brilliant, and there were some very moving and well written scenes that personally resonated with me with the mother/daughter relationship. But far too many characters and boring conversations. Why is there even a character called Pinecone that couldn't be more pointless to the story? It really needed an edit! A writer with promise but this isn't the book for me sadly.

DNFed I tried to get through Diane Cook's The New Wilderness as part of my Booker prize 2020 longlist read. I really did try my best to give it a chance, after all a panel of judges deemed it of longlist quality. I just don't see it. For me it is bland and uninteresting. Nothing in it held my interest and I read through to just past half way hoping something would happen, some literary quality would emerge to justify reading on and getting why it was longlisted. I've given it a good chance and I'm still waiting, looking for that quality and wondering why. This one isn't for me it seems. DNFed at p235 beginning of Part V. The idea, the conceit of the novel, is kind of fascinating and I was keen to see where the author would take it and us. A dystopian speculative work set in the future in which environmental impacts of climate change have reduced people to living what sounds like kind of desperate lives in the city: urban and associated environmental degradation, so a fairly bog standard dystopian set up. It then sets up a fascinating premise about a remaining wilderness area (the Wilderness State), which has been protected or perhaps renewed. A group of twenty are placed in this Wilderness to survive in a social / scientific reclaiming, back-to-nature, wilding experiment: "IN THE BEGINNING, there were twenty. Officially, these twenty were in the Wilderness State as part of an experiment to see how people interacted with nature, because, with all land now being used for resources - oil, gas, minerals, water, wood, food - or sotrage - trash, servers, toxic waste - such interactions had become lost to history.... These twenty had the same reasons people have alway had for turning their backs on everything they'd known and venturing to an unfamiliar place. They went to the Wilderness State because there was no place they could go. They had wanted to flee the City, where the air was poison to children, the streets were crowded, filthy, where rows of high-rises sprawled to the horizon and beyond. And because all land that hadn't been subsumed by the CITY was now being used to support the City, it seemed everyone now lived in the City. Whether they wanted to or not. So while a couple of those twenty had gone to the Wilderness for adventure, and a couple for knowledge, most fled there because they believed in some way their lives depended on it". For me a somewhat heavyhanded set up. I actually thought, hmm is this so heavyhanded it is comedic and Cook is trying here at same time to make fun of the conventions of dytopian cli-fi. Still not sure about that, but even if this is the plan still doesn't work for me. Anyway, I thought interesting enough premise let's see where it goes. For me it really goes nowhere. A good few die early. The characters are uninteresting (the focal characters are a woman Bea and her daughter Agnes, there are some almost redeeming passages covering the mother-daughter relationship theme). The narrative feels contrived and just does not convince me at all. Is it all a parody perhaps? But even then the writing is pedestrian. There are some just OK passages describing nature and landscape, but nothing special. Spoiler: I really gave up on it when a group of newcomers were introduced to the Wilderness survival scenario. You hit this passage as they are introduced to the existing group (who become known as the Originalists): "Frank looked around at his group, and with regret said, 'There were two more with us in the beginning' 'But they died.' Carl waved his hand. 'Don't worry, it happens' 'Don't blame yourselves, added Glen gently with an empathetic smile. Carl rolled his eyes. 'Should we say what happened to them?' one of the women asked. She wore a torn animal-print skirt and glittery sandals. Carl frowned. 'Nope.' The Newcomers looked both relieved and even more stricken, glad to know they wouldn't be blamed, but alone and unsure what to do with their grief. The Community eyed them warily. They had not been looking for new people with new hang-ups. New grief. They had only gone where they were told to go. Now everything was different'. I was eye rolling at this point. Really! Is she trying to poke fun at the kind of tropes you see in YA? Read on another 70 pages (wished I hadn't), to see where it would go. Realised I was taking a kind of perverse pleasure in trying to figure out what the judges saw in this that I'm missing and gave up. I adore good speculative fiction, I read a lot of it. I have no idea why judges think this one has merit as quality speculative fiction let alone contemporary literary fiction. I suspect something like Emily St. John Mandel's The Glass Hotel is far superior to this. Plan to read it next as her eariler Station Eleven is quality dytopian sf. For me The New Wilderness is banal. How did this book get listed over fine novels such as Hamnet and so many others. I get that sometimes a quality book just doesn't resonate for me and my tastes, and I can still recognise and acknowledge it as quality fiction. This one, I just don't see it, not working for me. Too many other novels to spend my time with.

I thought this was pretty good, but only pretty good. As survival literature it does its job well-enough for almost (but not quite) enough of the novel's length – some of the set-pieces are genuinely distressing although the grinding march of "The Community", escapees from The City's physical and moral pollution, in a vaguely defined social experiment in subsistance living across The Wilderness State's fragile and unforgiving ecosystem, does vicariously play out in a plodding sameness that starts to overtake the reader. The relationship that anchors the novel – that between conflicted mother Bea, and her newly wilded daughter, Agnes, is affecting. Cook has also clearly done her research about landscapes, and the experiences and approaches of nomadic societies. Yet, overall I didn't think it held together. The social context in which this story is set is just too flatly and factually drawn to really serve as an eco-fable or surreal nighmarescape. Yet the details themselves are presented too forthrightly and yet are too implausible for the novel to serve as a piece of realistic and engaging cli-fi. This unresolved clash of the vague and dreamlike with the specific and mimetic ends up being fatal.

Something just didn't do it for me with this novel. I appreciated a post-apocalyptic world where a complex mother-daughter relationship is a focus, but there was just something throughout that felt false and hollow about so much of this book. The relationships, the motivations of the characters, the world itself - it felt like pieces of the puzzle were missing (and not in an interesting satisfying way) On top of it all, the way Cook chose to portray a hunting and gathering community as one so callous about human life in relation to material objects just felt inappropriate and wrong. The author acknowledges the Indigenous peoples whose lands and cultures provided her with inspiration (which I appreciated) but her portrayal of hunting and gathering communities is reminiscent of an armchair anthropologist from the 1800s. But, all this said, I still wanted to finish the book so that's something I guess.

DNF 100 pgs because I honestly don't know what the author is talking about half the time.

Reading the Booker longlist. DNF at 60%/200 pages. My main question about this book is, "who is it for?" I'm autistic and share many of the same symptoms as Sunday. Reading this didn't make me feel "seen" or represented - it made me feel exposed, put on display for the world to gawp at. It was a very alienating experience, and also one that made it harder for me to maintain the parts of my mask that I want to maintain. Every time Sunday repeated someone's phrasing or intonation I found myself doing it too, muttering aloud to myself as I read, and I hated it. But it's not written in a way that evokes any empathy or understanding for the struggles Sunday faces, either, so if this is for neurotypical people rather than people like me then what purpose is it serving? I'm not sure what the aim is here. I wish that something - anything - had happened during the 200 pages that I read. All we got was Sunday repeating mannerisms and phrases, refusing to eat certain foods, not understanding social cues, and telling us how different she is (but also how lucky she is to have never had to get a job and to be independently wealthy). I can get that experience (minus the wealth and the ability to be functionally unemployed) just by leaving the house and talking to people for a bit. Maybe this book is just a piece of escapism for the author, the chance to slip into a world where her autism isn't actually a massive detriment to her life like it is for many of us (and presumably is for her in real life, too), in which case I do understand why she wrote it, but I personally didn't get anything out of reading it other than an increasing discomfort.

I’m ok when there’s one book I don’t like on a Booker Longlist but it’s very rare that I find two which i don’t gel with. As you can guess, I did not get along with All the Little Bird-Hearts. Once again, like This Other Eden, my problem lay with the writing style; there’s something with it that irritated me. I didn’t get bored but I felt like I was reading something badly written (yes I do know that the author has a PhD in creative writing). This is a pity because the plot is interesting. Sunday is autistic and lives by her book of etiquette and Sicilian folktales, which is part of her heritage. She was married and had a daughter from that relationship. Throughout the book we get more of Sunday’s backstory. One day a new couple move next door, Vita and Rollo and they disrupt Sunday’s life in the best possible way and break down her boundaries. As we all know good things never last and there are hidden agendas. I guess one thing I got out of the book is that it presents a different perspective. The author is autistic as well and although the spectrum is wide we are getting one type of way of thinking, looking at the world and through the backstory we also see what someone with autism feels when tragedy happens or, in the case of Vita and Rollo, new events crop up. It’s a pity I did not like the writing because this is the type of plot I do like.

Sunday is autistic and lives with her 16 year old daughter. Vita and Rollo move in next door and become very involved in their lives. Told in the first person from the perspective of Sunday, this quickly got too repetitive for me. Sunday only eats white food, works with plants and finds them relaxing, and she relies on a book of Sicilian folklore for etiquette. Too much of the book deals with these three things. I am shocked this was Booker long listed. As someone else said, I would likely have DNF’d if I wasn’t a “Booker completist” Hope the next one is better. PS the font was annoying as well. PPS Just checked the Goodreads rating…this is the second highest on the longlist. Second to The House of Doors.

This reads like a Victorian novel (derogatory) in its excessive level of detail and convoluted sentence structure. Though each individual sentence is well crafted, combined together it mostly reads as tangential nonsense. There are some gorgeous lines but it’s like sifting through sand for hours in search of a few pearls. Ultimately the story is difficult to follow, and unfortunately the effort to decipher the plot is unrewarding. So much going on and yet…. nothing, really.

Many liked this, many didn’t and many in between. For me it was interesting to begin then became a slog and I found I was wasting my time when I have so much to read. The wiring is good but the storyline felt disjointed?! Maybe it was just me but I did not take to any of the characters and kept saying “so what”. I don’t think I’d try it again which I often do when I don’t like a book … second chance …maybe not this time. I’d have been surprised if this had made the shortlist! But then I rarely pick the winner.

A sugary sweet, tedious story weighed down by Perry’s obnoxious prose and sickly motherly love of her own characters.

Marketed as "a story of love and astronomy," I would more likely describe Enlightenment as a difficult reflection on God, shame, and obsession. The protagonists are quite difficult to like and remind me above all why I refuse to live in a small town. It's sort of neat how Perry creates characters and prose that are distinctly Victorian while putting them in a modern context, but I wouldn't say I liked it.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2024 Listen, this could have been a great novel about the intergenerational effects of colonization, mainly the feeling of alienation and rootlessness that just follows wherever the characters go, but alas, it's just a thematically unfocused family saga full of rather lifeless literary personnel. The text revolves around the Cassars, a family of pieds-noirs, so of ethnically French people born in Algeria during the colonial rule. We meet them during WW II, follow them through Algerian independence that basically loses them a homeland that was never theirs to begin with, then follow the three generations chapter after chapter of moving through France, Australia, the US, Canada, and Argentina. The whole thing is mostly told chronologically, but with slight time jumps between the seven parts (see the seven ages of man in As You Like It). The problem here is that the structure with the movement between places is set up to make aforementioned point about colonialism and the lack of a home/center, while the characters are occupied with a plethora of often unrelated things - that isn't to say that they should be fully defined by their heritage, but if they struggle with unfulfilled dreams of becoming a writer or their sexuality or a strained marriage, those things shouldn't be listed, they need to be narrated in an engaging way. I felt with no one in this book, because the people remain narrative ideas, human-shaped plot points. This is all so timid and held-back, and it wanders off in all directions without really telling me why the individual parts are important to the whole, or should be interesting as a vignette. Messud, whose fraternal grandparents are Algerian, has apparently read an account of over 1,000 pages by a family member that inspired her to write this, and Chloe, the only character that speaks from her own point of view instead of being narrated by an omniscient voice, seems to be tethered to the author. The result though is a novel that comes off as an agglomeration of individual life events of people, a text that lacks stringency and depth. I really struggled to finish this. No Booker material, IMHO.

I read this with the energy of a kid who hates summer reading.

I made it to the end

Interesting history woven in but I never got invested in any of the characters

DNF 🫣 Just couldn’t get through it. Claire’s prose is beautiful and there were some enjoyable bits but I did not grab for this book in my free time.

This book is like a great actor reading the phone book; you can’t fault the style but it’s just painfully, punishingly dull. Claire Messud is a fantastic writer and I absolutely loved “The Emperor’s Children” so this was a crushing disappointment, as well as being a crashing bore.

I really had to slog through this one.

Book 3 So I loved the story of Lucy Barton, but I am annoyed with Lucy and William. It's great to be able to have a friendly relationship with your ex-husband and or ex-wife but this is just a little too much. William and his extra affairs, his lies, and just a mean person is a turn off for me. It makes Lucy seem so weak and gullible. Therefore, I have had enough of the William story. Bye Lucy your story was nice but I'm done. I don't believe in celebrating bad behavior.

Oh, Elizabeth.... What a disappointment it is to pick up a book that the whole world and "what I mean by that" is the world of literary authority.... "In other words," “I want to say” that the novel not only didn't live up to my expectations, but "my point is that” it lay flat. "So that's it." All the above phrases in quotes are examples of the repetitious, tiresome prose of Elizabeth Strout in this novel. "What I mean to say" is that she uses this quotidian language, that even in a casual interchange would have sent me for cover--or just cut the conversation short. Since I listened to the book on audio, I had no way of glancing over these repetitions and language ticks. I am certain that the author knows better, but must have thought this to be the right voice. And then there is the bigger question of contents. If this was supposed to be the "black box" that examined the demise of a long-ago marriage and to use the perspective of time to better understand the two people that made this marriage, (William had remarried and divorced twice since,) it failed miserably. The New York Times' review mentions a couple of insights, but to my astonishment, these were the only ones in the book! Everything else was shallow, including the missed opportunity to better delve into Lucy's more recent marriage and widowhood. At the end, Lucy says that perhaps no one knows anything about anyone, including about oneself. In that case I suggest that perhaps this novel wasn't worth writing.

My second book of International Booker longlist 2024. Honestly, even though it was very suggestive, tense and atmospheric I was quite bored with it. It reminded me of those kinds of novels you're assigned in school to work out themes and motifs and that everybody slogs through and don't like. Like I'm sure it's very good from a critical standpoint it wasn't very enjoyable to me.

Whilst this book was well written, the plot did not appeal and the ending was massively disappointing. Robben has left too many questions unanswered and a story that had the potential to be both inspirational and uplifting failed on both counts. Overall I regretted reading 'Summer Brother' as it was depressing and without hope.

bought a book because it was cheap and pretty again... and this time, the expression "don't judge a book by its cover" won. i've read a lot of books exploring the relationship between mother and daughter recently, and i've read a lot of literary fiction that dares to be difficult lately, and the setup of both of those comparisons was to this book's detriment. it wasn't necessarily terrible, in and of itself, but it wasn't memorable, and it didn't hold up in the lineup. bottom line: meh.

I’m definitely not going to sugar coat my opinion about this... this... pile of crap! Why would I care about this rambling mess and its even messier heartless bitch of a narrator?! Why would anyone care, by the way?! Yes, I know, I know, we’re all different and have different tastes and opinions and blah, blah, blah, blah, but I’d like to see someone reading this thing after the Booker Prize winner has been announced (even if this becomes the winner, which is completely possible if we think that this is 2020). I just can’t shake off a feeling that in a couple of months time NO ONE will ever pick up or remember this shameful waste of paper ever again. I mean, it’s not like this was the most poorly written book I ever read (that honour belongs to American Dirt) but as a storyteller this author still has a looooong way to go. Now, on a final note, I just want to remind the Booker Prize judges that literary prizes should (obviously) be about literature itself and not about authors’ nationalities and/or sexual orientation. We don’t need (more) politics and brainwashing in our lives, thank you very much.

I admired but didn’t particularly like this book. I’ve talked before about how I don’t really get on with books about motherhood, and sometimes the reverse is true too, I don’t always love books about daughterhood, especially when it’s the book’s main focus. (Something like Transcendent Kingdom is the exception, where the mother/daughter relationship is one thread among many.) I was finding something salvageable in the first half of Burnt Sugar, but the second half just lost me. While I tend to enjoy 'unlikable' protagonists, Antara was often too much for me--I found her to be deliberately belligerent toward the reader in a way that I didn't think was particularly interesting or well-executed. I think this book does have a lot going for it in terms of its chilly depiction of a strained mother/daughter relationship, but Antara herself staunchly refused to do any of the heavy lifting to earn my investment. I just didn't find her believable or her actions comprehensible; this book is written in the first person and still I struggled to discern some of Antara's motivations (this isn't helped by the book's awkward structure, flitting between the past and the present in a way that was occasionally challenging to follow and which I didn't think ultimately did it any favors). Avni Doshi's prose also failed to impress me, but, like most of my criticisms here, I feel that might just be a matter of personal taste. I do see why this book has been so critically well-received, it just really wasn't for me. Thank you to Netgalley and Abrams for the advanced copy provided in exchange for an honest review.

I'll just preface this by saying that Doshi is a good writer. She understands her craft and how to navigate through themes and topics and involve things to evoke emotions. She is good. That's that. No arguing it, no denying her skill. This book FRUSTRATED me. I wanted everyone to die and the book to end much before it did. There were moments that I liked, but it was mostly an annoyance to get through this. I was even willing to take my review up to a flattering 3 star if someone could explain to me what I missed in my reading. But as you might notice, there are still 2 shiny yellow stars here. While reading it, I kept checking off a mental checklist of award-winning/ heavily lauded Indian books in English. ((This coming from a place of having to study such books in a class setting and the horror/distaste that comes from such an experience.)) ☑ parent-child love-hate relationship ☑ semi incestuous undertones ☑ psychopathic violence/ desire for violence ☑ sexual abuse ☑ the NRI or desire to escape ☑ India is dirty and gross but that is part of the charm ☑ drugs ☑ religion (more specifically babas fakirs phonies) ☑ pretentious art clique ☑ lesbian relationship but not quite ☑ in-laws being asses ☑ what is normal even ☑ narcissism and self-loathing in the same text ☑ marriage sucks and kids are a spiritual experience ☑ hostels are abusive ☑ food as a coping mechanism ☑ body issues ☑ adolescence and the realisation that your body is suddenly "desirable" as a shock ☑ partition ☑ babri masjid ☑ emergency ☑ loss/ death I guess this would be an English teacher's wet dream come to life. There's visibly so much to talk about here. Is it done well? ummm...well. The problem with tackling as many issues as these is that none of them get truly addressed. It is like trying to make a peanut butter sandwich but trying to add salads, mayo, and sauces because they normally make a pretty decent sandwich. Judging from reviews, I haven't misunderstood the book. It is a nuanced look at the very complex relationship between mother and child. it examines memory and experience and how reality is formed. It looks at identity and tries to create an immersive experience of that specific relationship and it kinda does it? I suppose? I JUST DIDN"T CARE FOR IT. I didn't give a shit about Kali Mata or Dilip or Whoever is that person. The watchman was about as interesting as the major characters in the book. When Reza Pine was introduced to me, I didn't want to give him a second glance! He kept assaulting me with his presence, nudging with his importance to the women, but I didn't care! I wanted him gone as far as possible. The Baba was a minor point of intrigue but what of it? There was a lack of commitment from Doshi for the rest of the characters and I acquiesced by not caring. I am still willing to listen to reason (or the lack of it) and try to understand why someone liked it while it felt like a chore to me. However, I might write an academic paper on this somehow because it is packed to the brim with content.

Just whaaaat was this?! Giving it a two stars because I don't want to be too mean. But I just didn't enjoy this book at all. Tara, the main protagonist has a weird exaggerated life and is not likable at all. Her daughter Antara is not without flaws either. The basic story is about how Antara becomes mother to her own mother Tara, who had been a neglectful mother to her, because she was busy running behind a baba and didn't have time to be a mother. Get it? I felt like Avni Doshi deliberately put in themes to shock the reader and grab eyeballs. The story didn't seem organic. And the Ashram storyline, which is the most enigmatic part of the book, is not explored properly. Why do the main characters keep thinking shit? And why does the author write about literal shit? Not like I have a problem with it. It just gets gross sometimes. The complex mother-daughter relationship is sometimes relatable and sometimes just "what the FFFFFFFF". I wanted to abandon the novel 2-3 times, but managed to finish it in the end. And wasn't very happy with it.

Every single book I read where the woman becomes pregnant and has a baby further alienates me from the want to be a mom.

The Head ⭐1.5 What the fuck did I just read? This didn't make sense but more than that, this DISGUSTED ME. Why write this? For what? For WHY? The writing isn't bad but the subject matter is grotesque. The Embodiment ⭐2 I can get behind the discussion of how messed up it is that babies are considered worthless and damaged beyond repair if they don't have a father or male figure to grow up with. Also, the discussion of how men choose is they want to be a father but women have no choice if their the babies mother. In the eyes of society and the law anyway. But this left me feeling icky inside. Not something I want to read about. Cursed Bunny ⭐2 I was ready to DNF after this one. This is pointless and confusing. What a long way of saying that you shouldn't spread hate because it will consume you. The Frozen Finger ⭐3 Okay, allllllllright. This one had potential. It is eerie, atmospheric, and unsettling. Confusing though. But I actually really enjoyed it........dammnit. Snare ⭐3.5 Godammnit! I liked this one. It's about greed and how everything has a price. I was gasping at the twists in this short story. Goodbye, My Love ⭐4 I did not see a 4 star rating coming for this book but here we are. This is an episode of Black Mirror. This is the kind of scifi horror I'm looking for. Also, the tie-in with the song was so eerie and beautiful. Scars ⭐2 There is absolutely no reason this needed to be this damn long. And all this misery for what? He overcomes the evil so easily and then the story just ends and I am confused and unsatisfied. Home Sweet Home ⭐2.5 Again, too long. I needed more backstory on the child and less about the juice empire and the debts and the psycho caller. All of those things should have been footnotes. The child was relevant and interesting but she got pushed to the back burner which is a real shame. Ruler of the Winds and Sands ⭐ 2.5 This is just sad tbh. She tried so hard and was so kind. But she gets fucked over in the end obviously. Such is the male dominated world. Reunion ⭐ ? Skim read it and didn't find a single thing to care about.

This one was not my cup of tea . I had a hard time reading it and constantly flipped through some pages as it became disturbingly dark ..🥺😢

I had high hopes for this one. Leila Mottley's praises have been sung from all corners, her debut fêted by everyone from the Booker Prize longlist to the Oprah book club. In Nightcrawling, Mottley has an important story to tell about poverty, racism, police violence, sex work, and other things. Mottley was a teenager when she wrote this, which is quite impressive. In many places, though, it reads like undergraduate creative writing: overly descriptive, chock full of metaphors, distracting and detracting from the important themes Mottley explores. It's a shame because there's a certain rhythm to her writing that shows considerable talent. I look forward to Mottely continuing to develop as a literary writer and I hope one day Nightcrawling will be recognized as an early work on the road to greater things.

First of all I should say that I agree with everything this author is saying politically. This is a book about the disturbingly warped relationship between the police and the people they are supposed to protect. On the surface, it’s a stark portrait of poverty, racism, sexual violence, and the broken social system in America. Of course I agree that this is a really important topic and it’s a good thing that stories like this are being celebrated. But this book left a bad taste in my mouth. It’s based on the real-life case of Celeste Guap, who was sexually assaulted by a network of police officers in Oakland. The case was a shocking miscarriage of justice, mishandled in every possible way, even the way in which it was reported in the media, and a fictionilisation focusing on the victim is a wonderful concept for a novel. The problem is, Mottley’s “humanisation” of this neglected victim (in the book her name is Kiara) is not entirely convincing. At least, for me it wasn’t. Kiara is a perfectly virtuous, naive Mary Sue who occasionally gets angry about all the injustice being inflicted upon her. As a narrator, she seems all too generic—I never got the sense of the distinctive voice of a real person. Part of this is probably caused by the writing style. The way Kiara speaks (“Got a gig but it don’t pay much and they raising our rent”) is completely different to her internal narrative voice, which is just garden-variety creative-writing-degree prose. I was surprised to see other reviewers raving about the writing, as it struck me as pretty heavy on cliches, and sometimes very clunky. Overall, I don’t think Nightcrawling is as empathetic or as authentic as it claims to be. Though it purports to give voice to one woman’s real-life experience, in reality it seems like a sanitised, easily-digestible fantasy of what that experience might have been—a moralistic performance of empathy that erases the individual supposedly being empathised with.

I have to say that I’m very thankful for Ophra’s Book Club. Because of this club, I have read some terrific books such as A Fine Balance (my very favourite book of all times), The Pillars of the Earth, I Know This Much is True, House of Sand and Fog, Fall On Your Knees, An American Marriage, The Invention of Wings (just to name a few). There was a time that I truly believed that I couldn’t go wrong with her choices. But unfortunately some did not impress me. Some I couldn’t even finish. This one is one that I almost quit reading. I do (must) give a credit to the author, after all she was only 17 when she started writing this book. My main problem was the lack of passion (or emotion). I thought that for a story being told in first person was too dry. I didn’t feel a thing. Not even anger (where I should have). Also, I thought that the writing style, although not bad, was not very consistent (I’m not sure who to blame, the author or editor). The storyline is sad, no doubt about it. Some readers found it disturbing or depressing, but because I was not emotionally involved, I did not feel it. It does not matter to me if this is a fiction, a true story or based on a true story. I needed it to be told with the heart. I needed to feel that heartbeat. I needed to feel that there was some authenticity. To give you an idea of what I’m talking about, I once knew this singer who had a terrific voice, but unfortunately, instead of singing with his heart, he would sing with his brain, worrying about being perfect and trying to impress the public with his high notes. If I had felt at least engaged, I would have given this book a higher rating. I’m quite sure that this author will have a terrific success in her career, and I’m truly looking forward to reading her next work, just to witness her growth.

From reading the blurb, I thought I was going into a fast-paced page turner with an explosive plot line and unforgettable characters. But nope, no explosions here. Inspired by real events, this is the story of a Black teenage girl sexual assaulted by police officers. I'm so disappointed in this book. It's been a real flop for me. I've eaten pancakes with more dimensions than the characters here. Entirely flat. No personality, no development. All these pages read, and I don't know these characters. What there is of a plot is slow. Everything happens in two pages, then two hundred with nothing and repeat. The pacing is massively off. Plus, so much happens off page and is only referred to in a past tense that you can't see what's happening in real time or form any feelings on it. I do understand that the author may want to protect the reader, but this is a book about sexual assault and this level of protection resulted in me not connecting at all. This book clearly wants to tackle some big issues, but you've got to come out from behind the sofa to do that, and for me, the author didn't do that. Great idea but an emotionless execution. Two stars.

** spoiler alert ** P.S.: note how in the Oscar award candidate film “American Fiction”, the fictional book “WE’S LIVES IN DA GHETTO” about black people has a made-up cover that looks very similar to the cover of this book… same exact colors, similar effect… maybe someone thought about the link here, and not in a positive way. ——- Kiara and her brother, Marcus, live in a squalid Oakland apartment complex. Both have dropped out of high school. Marcus clings to his dream of rap stardom while being unemployed, Kiara looks for work to pay their rent (in a job hunt that is not nearly as determined as it could be, but we can discuss that) and to keep the little boy next door, abandoned by his mother, safe and fed, which is a subplot that gives her an additional 1,000 points in moral superiority. One night, Kiara sells her body "without realizing what is happening" because she is very drunk. By the way, not even "being drunk" was her fault, because an older woman gave her several cocktails, and she drank them all, because she is 17 and that's what 17-year-old kids do when you give them drinks, they go all the way and it's not their fault. Not in the least. Her world breaks open even further when her name surfaces in an investigation that exposes her as a key witness in a scandal within the Oakland Police Department. In short, the author picked up a story from the news and, based on that story, she wrote the imaginary story of a prostitute, a victim of abuse. As many readers and critics have said, the writing is really impressive for the author’s age (19). Leila Mottley writes with the lyricism of an angel, sometimes excessive, sure, but I cannot imagine how high she can take her craft if she keeps working on it in the coming decades. Mottley went to an arts school where she had the chance to write creatively for at least 3 hours each day. That opportunity (and privilege) + her amazing skills generated an incredible voice. She writes with the heart and the instinct of an accomplished poet. The final paragraphs of every chapter are such diamonds. And I LOVED the ending. However, wonderful and lyrical writing, in itself, is not enough to make a book good. As you could understand from the way I summarized the plot, I didn't like the content of this novel. Having read a few interviews with the author, and having watched her videos, this seems to me the fantasy of a smart, well-off girl based on the elements of a news story. It doesn't sound like she has enough real-life knowledge and experience to write a book like this and make it sound real. A reviewer wrote: " I worked with so many homeless, poor, drug addicted, struggling women of color in my life and I never met anyone as clueless as the character the author created. The falseness began to grate on me, and as one reviewer put it, it exploits and takes away from the truth so many women live." Another reviewer wrote: "I was also baffled that despite growing up very poor Kiara didn't know how to access food banks and other emergency services" . It's not hard to guess why the author did not include food stamps and any other social services in Kiara's life: it would have ruined her "living in poverty" fantasy. It wouldn't have allowed her line about how Kiara was "counting the crackers", and it would have made it clearer that Kiara didn't go into prostitution for "survival". There are many social services for low- or no-income families in the US, especially in California, but they wouldn’t have made the victim narrative as satisfying to the author. Kiara doesn't even have a smartphone, that she could and should use to find a job. More than 80% of Americans living below the poverty line own a smartphone, and I imagine this percentage grows to 120% in Oakland (I live in L.A. and I’m not kidding, the majority of the homeless who live around my house have a smartphone). But again, that would not sit well with the author’s SJW vision. Of course, an author CAN create stories and characters that do not reflect her own ideas. But Mottley was raised in far-left Oakland, and she attended a school where leftist propaganda was served daily, even more than in the other schools in California. So her choice to tell this story, in this way, is not a coincidence. She is also an “abolish the police” campaigner, and that clearly transpires from her pages. That should not surprise anyone. Just like, in the eyes of some, a minority of perverted priests make the entire Church a criminal and rotten organization, and every priest in the world an abuser, in this hagiography every cop is a mean, depraved, abusing bastard (“I’m scared of being saved”, complains Ki in her mind when the police catch her selling sex). The concept of "abolishing the police" might be very satisfying from the emotional standpoint, especially if you've been fed a certain narrative by your teachers, but it's also nonsense. So many African Americans are, in fact, advocating for more funding to the police, in the interest and benefit of black communities. Since when does a minority of corrupt cops - no matter how unethical they are - mean that you have to burn down the entire building? In any case, I’m not saying the protagonist is painted as a saint. I’m saying that her idealized poverty and personality give her the moral high ground every time. I found it impossible to buy this as a real-life story, because the fictional reality is too heavily massaged by the author's ideology. The problem is that, in the novel, all the “greys” of real life are noticeably missing. Which, not coincidentally, is how every political narrative works: strip reality of nuance, and you’ll have “good guys” vs. “bad guys”. A reality that is very easy to digest. So you can go straight to the feelings, the "candy", instead of doing the boring work of researching deeply and fully engaging your mind. Now, let’s get to the worst thing about this book: p.235: "Why you start fucking with the cops, especially after...[...]?" "I don't know, I didn't really have no choice. I just kind of ended up in it and then there wasn't no way out, you know?" No choice? This is the answer given by the protagonist to her mother. Everything suggests that the author likes this answer: Ki is the main character of her first big novel. You really want to tell me that Ki has “a life of her own”, and that the police-hating author is this objective, detached scientist about it? Consciously or unconsciously, she is not. This approach is the same that led the director / maker of the movie "Fruitvale" (a film based on another Oakland-based episode, very similar in tone to this book because it sanctifies a petty criminal, in order to elicit a strong emotional response) to make his protagonist save a dog, only to see it run over shortly thereafter, as a plot device intended to manipulate the emotions of the audience. When confronted about it, the director admitted that he made that episode up. If we didn’t live in a time when virtue-signaling has been elevated to the level of an Olympic discipline, I wouldn’t feel as strongly about this way to look at reality, but that's the world we live in today — and Ki, the prostitute, wins the gold medal. It’s a worldview that, moving from an injustice, can easily bring to another injustice: a heightened hostility towards an entire category of people (example: police) including the good and very good ones, who do not deserve that hostility. Someone who works with the LAPD told me that the “defund the police” campaigns have been deleterious to the LAPD, not because the politicians decided to defund the LAPD (they didn't do anything), but because the morale of the good cops is at a historic low, with a big chunk of the public drinking the media narrative that all cops are racist and abusive. For a certain modern ideology (that's largely coming out of California) the finger of blame is always pointed OUT. Never towards yourself, where it should be, for any human being to experience any real growth, including yourself, including myself. Change must start from myself. This is ancient wisdom, but it’s almost been lost. "Dear sir, I am!", wrote G.K. Chesterton to a newspaper, in answer to the question: "What's wrong with the world?”. How many would have that same wisdom and courage, today? It’s so crucial and urgent to bring the role of black women to the forefront, after the endless history of abuse and injustice (and of neglect) that they have suffered. I feel like we shouldn't even say this, as obvious of a statement this is. But this book has little to do with that, and a lot to do with the far-left woke ideology that is ruining our kids. (I’m not even considering the possibility that Mottley might have written this just to ride the current zeitgeist, because that would make her one of the most dishonest people alive). If you think these comments are excessive, ask yourself this: do you think that, when it comes to voting, the people with these fantasies in their heads are able to differentiate between lazy fantasy and complex reality? Do you think they start to reason and discern, all of a sudden? Right. That’s why she wants to abolish the police. The end is, again, beautifully written, but it leaves things open. The $1 million payout that the real-life Ki received as a result of the investigation is, obviously, not mentioned.

A Riveting novel so disheartening because it is Reality for too many People in this World. Nightcrawling is an extremely candid read written in a lyrically poetic style. Finally, I did understand what Leila Mottley was aspiring to accomplish in regards to the Author's note at the end of this novel.

Being an imaginative adolescent poet does not unfortunately give an author enough lived experience and control over language to leap into being a novelist. This book is overly ambitious and presents a fantasy in the guise of real life.it inadvertently exploits the actual people involved. And it's full of caricatures, not characters. And it fails the credibility test when Kia remarks that her lawyer's office design is "straight from Pinterest. " Really. This is an impoverished girl with no smart phone or device and she's talking about a middle class hobby site? And her lawyer is just like " most white women default to thinking they own every room they walk into." Really? And then later, this pro bono lawyer who is helping her is "Just another white woman who's never gonna understand d what I been through, who can't find anyone besides Harriet Tubman or Gloria Steinem to compare me to." So, Kia is a ghetto girl who knows who Gloria Steinem is, but doesn't know how to get food from any food banks, and takes up sex work without once mentioning birth control or a fear of sexually transmitted diseases. Did the author ( a college student now at the noted private school Smith) talk to any sex workers or genuinely poor people, because after 40 years of working with street people,I can tell you they have the survival skills to find food banks, soup kitchens, to get on medical assistance and get birth control. She makes her heroine both savant and stupid at the same time. I gave this 2 stars only because some of the prose was lyrical, as befits a poet, but this is a threadbare Booker choice nominee. In another 10 years out in the world, perhaps Mottley will acquire the depth to write of the serious issues she cares about.

Clearly I'm the minority here but I thought this was a bit crap. It's derivative, sappy, naive and soapy. Some of the writing, particularly the first half, is nice and the set up is good. But the second half is an utter shambles. A mix of utterly mundane and completely bizarre, all tied up in a tight bow. If this wins the Booker, we're all doomed.

Not sure whether to give this 2 stars or 3, but Goodreads says 2 stars means "it was okay". And it was, I guess. Seascraper starts off strong, with gorgeous and vivid depictions of the sea and the main character Thomas Flett's daily life, though a bit confusing at times, especially since Benjamin Wood doesn't seem to be sure of the time period his novel takes place (it often doesn't feel like the 60s at all, or maybe the 1860s...) nor of how old Thomas Flett and his mother are (they're only 20 and 36, but often described as both old.) Thomas's life feels unconvincing, there's something contrived and phony about him. He doesn't make for a credible young adult in the 1960s in England, with an archaic job but also a passion for music and brains too smart for his upbringing. His mother wallows in self-pity, and I also don't like how the author makes light of her rape by a much older teacher (she was 15!). But he was kind and smart and the poor thing lost his job because of it... As I kept reading, it got worse and worse. Without spoiling anything, there's a dream sequence in the middle that's so obvious it was annoying to read - I dislike reading about dreams in novels, it's a cheap way for authors to force mystery and confusion upon the reader and propel a character's development forward without anything actually happening. In Seascraper it feels especially forced. The ending was predictable, at least some of it, and still disappointing, because I hoped for some kind of confrontation, and it's sappy to boot. End sum: first half gets 4 stars, last half only 1. No clue at all why Seascraper made it to the Booker prize long list.... Maybe because the author made a song alongside it.

I liked the sound of this one so got it from the library. Also the author is from Merseyside and I do like supporting my home crew. I was a bit disappointed if I'm honest (sorry Mr Wood). The story just didn't catch fire for me at all. The description of Tom's daily life at the beginning of the book felt so long and protracted, I found it incredibly depressing! For a short (ish) tale, things take a while to get going story wise and even then the pace seems terribly slow. ********************************Spoiler alert ahead ********************** Then the ending comes and it's no great twist, just oh yeah the guy who promised you work and fortune is a bit delusional and tells terrible porky pies (says his mother)! Annnnnd we're done. Yeah, not my cup of tea and pretty underwhelming. Never mind. Back t'library for this one.

DNF at page 195 - It is liberating to DNF a book so early in my Booker 2024 journey. It means that there isn't a pressure to read the entire longlist anymore. It was surprising that this was the book that did this, considering the hype. Beautiful language, very weak story. After the promising beginning, which made me think that maybe this would be a male version of My Brilliant Friend, the story was lifeless. I think even a non-fiction book about Libya or about the immigrant experience could be more passionate than this was. I simply didn't care about the protagonist or his friends, except the first one, which dissapeared after the start. I cant continue this hoping that all will be all right when he returns.

My favourite part was when Khaled was passive. I’ve seen mushrooms have more agency than this character

Now Unsurprisingly Nominated for the Women's Prize for Fiction 2024 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2023 It's always a dangerous game when the Booker dismisses all strong contenders and instead presents a list composed of left-field entries, especially when they add young, promising authors who are not quite at the Booker level yet, but will then inadvertently be judged by Booker standards - to their own detriment. "Western Lane" is a decent book, but Booker material this is not (unlike The New Life, Chain-Gang All-Stars, Biography of X and all the other literary hits that went without a nod). Maroo tells the story of 11-year-old Gopi, whose mother has recently died. Now her father is alone, trying to take care of his three daugthers and pondering whether Gopi, the youngest, should go live with his childless brother and his wife instead. Apart from the topic of grief, which is subtly rendered in Gopi's precise and often seemingly mundane observations, we learn about the bond between father and daughter through sport, in this case squash, which he wants the kids to take up in order to keep them occupied: While her sisters are not particularly dedicated or interested, Gopi and her dad do not only communicate through squash, spending time together on the court, their movement and alertness during the game is also connected to present physicality as opposed to the ephemeral process of grieving. As Gopi develops a crush on Ged, the talented 13-year-old son of an employee at the title-giving sports establishment Western Lane just outside London, the element of race enters the narrative, because Gopi is British-Indian and her relationship to the white boy is seemingly deemed problematic by some, just like the the friendship her father strikes with Ged's mother. The migration background also plays a role when Gopi ponders the language barrier between her late mother and the siblings, as English was not her first language, but Gujarati. Silence is a major theme throughout the book, as are cultural differences and how Gopi's generation can deal with them. So all in all, this quiet, shortish text offers many good ideas and is an interesting investigation into the nature of grief, but it is oh-so-slow and the set-up is very transparent and thus not particularly elegant, and sometimes even formulaic. I'm afraid this story is overall a little forgettable, but I feel like Maroo is very talented and could soon come up with a banger - this ain't it though, and the judges didn't do her any favors by nominating her now. Also, I hate squash. On to the next. EDIT: Of course this got nominated for the Women's Prize, a prize that generally celebrates highly accessible literature that is not big on ambivalence on the plot level or experimental designs on the aesthetic level.

This debut novel is set in late 1980s England. Gopi is 11 years old, the youngest of three daughters. They are all reeling from the recent loss of their mother. To focus their minds, their father sets them up an intense squash training schedule. Gopi shows the most talent for the game and she revels in it, finding a freedom from the struggles of life on the courts. She befriends another player named Ged, the son of an employee at the local sports centre. They are both suggested to take part in an upcoming tournament and turn their training efforts up a notch in preparation. But while Gopi enjoys her new identity as an athlete, the rest of the family are finding grief a heavy burden to bear, and cracks begin to show. I probably wouldn't have heard of this quiet, understated story if hadn't made the Booker shortlist. To be honest I found it hard to connect with. Apart from Gopi, the other characters aren't particularly memorable. And even though it's a short novel, there isn't a whole lot of momentum to the story - it all felt a bit aimless. I did appreciate the perceptive way in which bereavement was examined - each family member seemed to deal with it in their own particular way. However, I was underwhelmed on the whole by Western Lane - it may be sensitively written, but for me there is something lacking that I can't quite put my finger on.

Dealing with grief through squash. Squash is a fast, breathless game, unlike this novel. The sterility of the hall, on the other hand, is reflected in the style, which means that the book leaves you cold for long stretches. Many things simply don't fit together, little is said, but in too many words. Only once do you lose your footing while reading the middle section, when the protagonist hits her father in the face with the ball during a game. But as quickly as it swells, the incident is forgotten. Another thing in common with the book. At the end, there are echoes of the "Karate Kid" moment. The stereotypical catharsis of a coming-of-age novel.

The writing style of this book is usually the type of writing that's right up my alley. There's lots of room for reader interpretation and there's this foreboding sense that things are being left unsaid. There's a need to read between the lines. Unfortunately, whatever I was supposed to be getting out of the story - - well, I didn't get it. Maybe I was too bored to pay close enough attention to actually understand. The book is a story of three sisters who have lost their mother. Their father is clearly mourning the loss. The whole family is. He takes the daughters to play squash at Western Lane, a club for squash, and one of the daughters, the narrator, is clearly talented. The set-up seemed fine, but then the plot just loses me. I have a LOT of questions (view spoiler). The "internet" seems to either dislike this book intensely or love it. I really want to know what those who loved it, actually loved about it. I feel like I totally missed the point. At the end of the day, I was bored with the storyline and whatever emotional feeling I was supposed to be getting - - well it didn't happen. There was some suspense in the language itself - - it seemed so elusive and as if it was implying big, important things . . .but those things must have mostly been in the author's mind, and I never really discovered what they were.

102nd book of 2023. According to the Booker website, the judges this year read 163 titles before selecting their "Booker Dozen" of 13. I didn't hate this book but I am amazed it somehow beat 150 other books to get on the list. The first half of the book was mostly about squash, a sport I've never played, but used to see every now and then when I had tennis lessons as a boy. I was just waiting for something to happen, to feel something. Granted, in the last fifty or so pages, Maroo captures loneliness and grief better than in the empty first half, but generally this whole thing felt lacking in any punch whatsoever. Squash became, as ever, just another metaphor for grief. Other books have done the same thing better. If you're looking for racket sports and depression, just read Infinite Jest.

I didn’t enjoy this. Some of the booktubers I follow assured me this was “not a squash book.” But it is a squash book. And it is boorrrriiiiing. The entirety of chapter two is the family watching a video of a squash star on repeat. And yes there is an underlying theme of grief. But overwhelmingly this is about squash. Which I could have gotten behind, if there’d been any stakes in the book. I’m going to compare it to Carrie Soto is Back because that’s the only other sports book I’ve read that comes to mind. But in CSIB we know right from the get go that Carrie is a retired player, and she is helplessly watching a younger player take her title for most Grand Slam Wins. When she decides to return to tennis to reclaim the title, we have stakes. Either she’s the Women’s World Champion Grand Slam holder or she’s past her prime. There is something inspiring and empowering about it. Here…. There’s really nothing. 120 pages are just about training and watching videos and then we get a tournament at the end but we never get a sense of what the tournament means to her or how it’s helping her through her grief and there are no stakes. Very meh. Glad it’s over.

Side-eyeing the Booker judges. Very formulaic. Every chapter opened with a poetic description of squash that was really a reflection of dealing with grief. Totally standard "prodigy has to overcome personal and family struggles to get to the big match" sports plot. Short story stretched to less than 150 page (and those pages are SMALL) novella length.

a very, very, very dull recitation of a very, very, very dull game played by a very, very, very dysfunctional family

I really did not like this collection of stories. The title story was horrible. The rest, well, if they were trying to be allegories for something I don't get it. They just seemed needlessly bizarre and pointless. I'm lieu of a review, here are some of the notes I took before I gave up. Enjoy! What the fresh hell is going on?? Is the protagonist a rat? Some kind of weird animal. Why are they obsessed with stoves? Also why is this story so disgusting? This story is about magpies. A story about cicadas. Wtf did he just die and regrow a new body? A man is exploring a swamp for some reason. Or he wants to go to the swamp but can't find it? There is a box that no one has opened. It gets thrown away without being opened. What was the point of this? A story about a tree planted in barren soil. Somehow it's growing even though no one waters it. TW for mention of suicide.

1.5 stars I thought this story would be more cohesive and have a little more to it, especially since it’s about 3 generations of security guards and their experience as immigrants in France. At multiple points I thought the author would dive a little deeper into characters (especially the background characters in this book) and their life stories/experiences only for the narrative to move onto something else, so it felt like a lot of things were glazed over in my opinion. The jumping around in this book also made it difficult for me to follow, especially during the first half, and idk if it was the translator or what but I found some parts very difficult to read. Hated the way the narrators spoke about women in the chapters that were snippets of Sephora security guard life. After reading a few reviews people say those parts were supposed to be satirical but I didn’t really pick up on it :/ Ultimately I wish the rest of the book was more like the last chapter, like it felt like the end is where it finally started to pick up and where I actually started to find this book really interesting. I’ve only ever heard of how the events of 9/11 affected America so I liked how this introduced me to a new perspective of those events. Namely, how it impacted France in terms of security and the treatment of immigrants. When I tell you the last chapter is the only reason I put this as 2 stars instead of 1 x_x Overall, the book offered a really unique, niche perspective and one that I’ve heard almost nothing about so I was kind of disappointed because I feel like the premise has so much potential (especially since the subject of this book is rooted in the authors own experience), but unfortunately I felt like there was a level of depth missing from the plot a majority of the time.

International Booker book 3. This is more of a 2.5 to be honest but I’m just not sure how I feel about this novel. It’s about three generations of men who become security guards but it’s told with alternating prose sections and then these weird choppy poem-like bits. I found the fragmentary parts a lot more interesting than the prose bits as these just seemed to drag on and on. Ultimately this book is about French political culture, especially Black and Muslim people living in France. I really liked the section on the end where the security guard watches 9/11 happen and muses on how his position of power in his career will change. There were also some really fun bits of satire on consumerism in this as well which I enjoyed. This is a book which I think does and symbolises more when discussed and reflected upon rather than when reading it. I wouldn’t say I enjoyed it but there is so much to talk about how it used structure and satire.

Shortlisted for 2024 International Booker Prize - Mediocre at best. Maybe it was fate to read this after Rachel Cusk. I hate when people are so generous with their comparisons. Yes, Ia Genberg is trying to do what Rachel Cusk does easily... making a novel out of some random stories, but there is no nuance, no sign of something special. Even the title is so ugly. At least if it were 'The Detail' - it would have meant something. It would have shown that there may be a story there. But no - this is at best a collection of promising characters in search of 4 short stories. I also had a bad fever last year. No, you can't think so organized during a bad fever. Take Rachel Cusk again. She is alert and 100% present in every scene of her novels. That's why her characters can notice... the details.

⭐️⭐️.5 This sounded like my PERFECT book however unfortunately, I did not love this. Following a protagonist in the height of a fever she begins reminiscing on her past and those that shaped it. As the title suggests this book is heavily focused on details: the minute acts that make up our lives and the mundanity between them. This was beautiful in many places and there were absolutely some quotes that I adored but I ultimately I just felt bored. With only 150 pages I shouldn't have felt this being as slow as I did (do slightly think I picked this up at the wrong time but!)

This felt really long and for a bunch of short stories, that’s not a great sign. No story really jumped off the page for me, and they all felt kinda samey. Something just felt a bit off reading it, maybe would work better as an audiobook.

A short story collection that definitely reads like an anthology. Some had very faint or dry humor, some ended up being a bit absurd, but the constant theme of patriarchy, violence, and religion become one note while the flat writing didn’t lift it for me. Weirdly feels like something that is 2-3 times longer.

2.5⭐️ I fear Bob has one writing style, it’s very lighthearted but not much more.

Book club book#10. Not for me. Tries too hard to be both funny and have an interesting plot but as a result achieves neither of these things.

Very meh. Some parts were funny, but the story was just weird. Listened on audible and would rather have spent my credit on something else.

They're all the same Bob, they are all the same. This is my cease and desist to reading his fiction; at least until his next book comes out.

This was like if I tried to write The Satsuma Complex from memory

A strained simile every other sentence, ring the bell I want this fight to end.

Shortly after it's release, this debut novel has tons of 4 & 5 star reviews, so take this with a grain of salt. Headshot was just..... Not for me. I found the blurb really compelling, but I truthfully ended up skimming after the initial round of the tournament. The blurb felt misleading, as it alluded to a more cohesive narrative and plot. Instead, this felt incredibly disjointed and jumpy, and the omniscient narrator gave it kind of a weird vibe. It was really hard for me to stay focused on the main idea of the story (Girls Boxing Tourney, potential societal commentary relating therein) when the time, location, and described boxer jumped almost every paragraph. Lots of people loved this, it just was not for me & I was glad of it's brevity. P.S. the repeated comparison of a child's leg to a corn dog gave me the weirdest ick.

I knew I was not going vibe with this when early on I noticed the author’s stylistic choice to spam and repeat characters’ names throughout the whole novel. I’ll take a swing (ha, boxing) at recreating it: “Jane Jet took a swing, but what Jane Jet didn’t know was that Jane Jet’s elbow was about to give out, making it so that Jane Jet would fully miss the face of Jet Jane, the opponent, the second competitor to be precise, whose name is Jet Jane, not to be confused with Jane Jet.” I didn’t think that something as energetic as boxing could come off as boring, but that’s what happened because of the execution of things here for me. There are shifting perspectives and timeframes during the fights in each chapter that are trying desperately to flesh out these eight characters. The results feel like a try-hard first draft that desperately needs editing and reframing. Glad that this book found some love out there because it’s definitely not coming from me.

I’m sorry, but what did I just read?

Rating: ⭐⭐ Genre: Literary Fiction + Fantasy What was that? I honestly did not understand this novella. I don’t know what is the purpose of its story at all. It started as a charming fantasy, but then it kept going on and on with no goal or particular direction. It ended up going nowhere. This was supposed to be based on English folklore, but I couldn’t compare it with any I know. All I got from the story is that Treacle Walker is a man who meets a young man called Joe. The two make a trade. Joe ends up with a donkey stone, and then he uses this stone and more nonsense happens. The best thing about this book is that it was short, so it did not require much time invested in it. I don’t think I would have finished it if it was an entire novel. Not only the story, but I also don’t even understand the cover! What is that supposed to be on the cover? A pig? A chicken?

This slender fable-like novel was a bit of a head scratcher. Having seen the baffled responses from a number of readers I was prepared for a cryptic tale going into this book and I think it's fair to be warned that it's not a standard narrative. At its centre is a boy with a lazy eye named Joseph Coppock who lives on his own reading comics, collecting odd bits from nature and playing with marbles. One day the eponymous Treacle Walker, a rag-and-bone man (someone who travels around a certain area collecting unwanted household items and clothing) approaches his house. Joseph barters with this pungent man exchanging a literal rag (old pyjamas) and bone for some mysterious items that provoke magical occurrences. The boy enters into a journey through time, the imagination and possibly beyond the boundaries of life. Along the way he interacts with some odd figures from a time guardian who dwells in a bog to characters from his Knockout comic to a summoned cuckoo to a double of himself. Though the primary drive for this story is Joseph's shift in seeing and a quest to prevent magical elements from entering into his dimension, the overall meaning of this fantastical story remains open to interpretation. In a way I admire how Garner excavates elements from English folklore to entirely refashion them in a tale that seems to literally exist out of time. The novel is unapologetically strewn with antiquated terms, references to items specific to Cheshire, elements from Garner's previous books and entirely invented words. However, those not familiar with any of these things will be quite disorientated throughout much of the novel. Fiction shouldn't necessarily define its terminology and it can be a pleasure using stories as a springboard to learn more about a particular culture and locale. Looking up colloquialisms and vernacular language such as a donkey stone and terms like “shufti” yields a bit more understanding, but I doubt this book will be comprehensible to anyone who doesn't originate from this area of England and hasn't grown up reading Garner's children books. So it's no wonder that some readers have been impatient with it. Read my full review of Treacle Walker by Alan Garner at LonesomeReader

Although the language was beautiful and poetic, I feel like I've missed the plot completely, if there is one.

I'm unsure on this one. Part of me thinks it was a beautiful short piece of fiction. Another part of me thinks its borderline inaccessible for people who haven't grown up in Britain and been surrounded by British Folk Lore.

*2023 Longlist International Booker* It's easy to draw comparisons with this and Trainspotting and Catcher in the Rye and Clockwork Orange... I guess I don't know why we need another book from a teenage boy misogynistic perspective on porn, sex and women (including littering the first 50 pages with enough descriptions of 13 year old girls tits to satisfy a paedo or immature boy)... there was the odd interesting moment but this book is almost 600 pages and lacks a soul. I found it dull and pointless. It was a long meandering tail about shitting boys growing into shitty men enjoying (mostly) behaving shittily to those around them. It's difficult to empathise or sympathise or just care. Ugh. What was the point of this? Maybe it's interesting if you're into the books I've compared it to or if you were also born around the mid-70s... I just didn't find this compelling or interesting.

Long listed for the Booker International Prize, it's well written and brilliantly translated. However, it just didn't do it for me but in fairness, most Booker Prize nominations don't, so that maybe something to do with me. It's set in Leipzig, East Germany around the time of the fall of the Berlin Wall and reunification. The author was born in 1977 so the book maybe semi-autobiographical? It tells the story of a gang of lads and what the get up to, smoking, drinking, fighting, women, sex and (if you're into it) drugs. In my opinion, this story could be about any gang of lads, in any city, in any country and it certainly brought back memories of my teenage years living and growing up in the wild west of south Bristol. If you're looking to study or understand the social impact on a particular section of German society at this time, then, I'm guessing, this will be a good read.

tl;dr this most anticipated literary return is an unwieldy mess of ideas, characters, and family; every word feels spontaneously wrought, and perhaps to Desai, too precious to edit “I’m lonely and miserable,” says Sonia’s abusive partner for the first half of The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny. The book is not just about “loneliness”, nor is it solely centered around “Sonia” nor “Sunny”; it’s about a lot of things, mainly the weight of time on family, on individuals, on relationships. It’s a family saga, it’s a romance, a comedy, a “magical realist fable”, it’s… too much. Much of the book’s marketing made much hullabaloo over the return of Kiran Desai. Loneliness is her first book in nearly 20 years since winning the Booker Prize for The Inheritance of Loss, a novel that I just happened to pick up right before Loneliness was shortlisted. All this to say: I don’t have that context for Kiran Desai going for me, seeing that I was most likely reading Where the Red Fern Grows or something at the time she won the Booker. In fact, Loneliness is my introduction to Desai; given its length, the wealth of blurbs on the back and jacket flaps, and overall hype for this release, please understand that my expectations were quite high. We don’t meet Sonia or Sunny for quite some time, but we do meet their family. Desai dispenses information on a careless whim: we learn a lot about Mina Foi, we learn a lot about some missing jewels, we learn about a contentious kebab recipe. There was something distinct about Desai’s prose that I was picking up on. It didn’t quite have the reckless loquaciousness of Rushdie, rather it seemed to occupy some sort of uncanny space between Rushdie and just enough. Reading Desai gave me the impression that the prose was spontaneously generated, like a ‘great idea’ had at 2am, and not proofread afterwards. What I’m saying is: it’s quite awkward to read. It’s the kind of prose that asks questions as it narrates, interrupts itself, chops up its own rhythm. The narration also embraces lists, lists, lists: lists of people, of foods and arts and artists, cultural thises and thats, and all kinds of things. I distinctly remember reviewers criticizing last year’s Booker Prize winner for Too Many Lists, but for me, that novel’s use of lists felt expansive, expanding, cascading, cosmic. Plus, it was a short work. Here, Desai’s lists, lists, lists give the impression of Padding The Word Count. And that’s just the syntax. I got to this phrase and had to tell everyone I knew about it: The unhatched sun remained distant in its cloaca of smog… (183) Uhhh, unhatched, as in like an egg, like bird? Birds, which have cloacas? Perhaps this is a play on cloak/cloaca? I guess birds were mentioned (at the end of a list, of course) as being part of this setting, but… Loneliness is a hot mess. For many, many, many pages we’re treated to an oddly paced progression through time and geography. I hate saying that something is too long, but the many POVs that we’re offered in a book titled after two (2) characters diluted the story rather than bolstering it. The march of time in this novel feels like watching a slow sludge. The most interesting character, oddly enough, is literally anyone other than Sonia or Sunny. Sunny’s friend Satya, Sonia’s “gay and Filipino!” dorm-mate Armando, Mina Foi… I would have loved stories about them. Sonia and Sunny are quite frustrating to watch on their own, let alone interact, and their journey together didn’t feel like it was growing or changing in a meaningful way, certainly not to sustain nearly 700 pages. The reality of reading something in a prize context is that disparate works of fiction unfortunately are somewhat coerced into “Being In Conversation”. In my opinion, the 2025 Booker longlist contains works that tackle what Desai attempts to with Loneliness, but in a much more effective (not to mention concise) manner. Namely, Flashlight: the idea of “global loneliness” and how it affects family is so much more cogent and affecting in that novel. As for musings on the power of writing, I found Endling and (unpopularly) One Boat more compelling. I even found the central relationship of The South more absorbing to read about than that of Sonia and Sunny, and that’s just the first in a series. The blurb on Goodreads describes this novel as "spellbinding". The spell was entangle and I spent all 700 pages wanting out of it. I wish I could say it hurts to be disappointed by a novel like this, but I was so unaffected by Desai’s try-hard prose, the bloated focus, the sludgy progression, and boring characters that I can’t even say I felt much of anything. Not loneliness, but emptiness.

Unfortunately I felt that this book was just too long and unfocused to enjoy. There were some sentiments about gender and nationalism that I vibed with, but there was just so much going on that I couldn’t connect with the characters and none of the ideas really stuck with me. Discursive prose, too much plot to follow, and at 688 pages I was glad when I was done with this one. I also was a bit confused because some of the characters/passages seem to critique orientalism but then some of the ways the characters were presented… I wouldn’t say they were orientalist but I just was not clear on what Kiran Desai wanted to accomplish here. Onto the next book and hoping it’s better.

Reading this book felt a bit like arguing with an orthodox, narrow-minded grandparent — you try to stay respectful and sensitive, hoping they’ll change their ways, but eventually you just give up. I began with a generous dose of benefit-of-doubt: a 90s Indian household, its biases, its orthodoxies, its aspirational love for the US — all familiar terrain. But somewhere along the way, the relentless put-downs and the characters’ never-ending cycles of self-pity wore me out. By the final stretch, I simply wanted it to end. If this book had been published in the early 2000s, we might have celebrated it for giving voice to a generation on the cusp of irreversible change. But today, it lands squarely in stereotype territory. Every character — Sonia, Sunny, their parents, their assorted relatives — is grappling with some version of loneliness, but the word quickly gets muddled with depression, grief, self-harm, and masochism. I did relate to one aspect: the casual dismissal of “loneliness” as something you can just "get over" — a very Indian attitude, especially from that era. But the book soon veers into the melodramatic plotlines of a 90s mega serial — characters crossing paths, drifting apart, and being dragged through long, meandering arcs that add little. Had the author stayed focused on the core theme, this could have been a much tighter book. The India portions, unfortunately, read like a compilation of scandalous stories clipped from tabloid magazines. For a country still working hard to shift certain external perceptions, these sections feel like a few steps backward. And then comes the Bollywood-style climax, which finally tipped me over into the “I wish I hadn’t spent my time on this” zone. Not for me.

DNF at 30% Honestly, this is an extremely boring and long drawn book. Could have been edited better.

did the author know what story she was trying to tell or did she just keep writing whatever came into her head? it's so so long and nothing is relevant to the plot booker longlist: 1. love forms 2. the south 3. seascraper 4. flesh 5. misinterpretation 6. the rest of our lives 7. flashlight 8. the land in winter 9. endling 10. audition 11. one boat 12. the loneliness of sonia and sunny 13. universality

DNF at 200 pages. Terminally dull.

Is Reading Political 100% Is being Political Crime No But strangely being Nationalist is Kiran Desai once said "Books without politics are as light as air & the writers get to focus on their characters for sure but one has to look at both, it should not be art for the sake of politics but politics for the sake" How lovely these lines are but she chose a side when she wrote this book & by not falling for the gimmick I have chosen mine Authors, like Teachers are bound by the liability of how responsibly they write. But when they shrug it off & write to play for the western audience, awards, sales, I would stop calling it Art Not to imply that authors shouldn't create characters portraying objectionable things as that would be limiting the scope of literature. Hence this one posed ideological problems to me than narrative issues For me S&S is a provocative book that feels like a betrayal. Yes it's about loneliness, immigrant experience, cultural displacement & the whole paraphernalia but then it also employs elements of lazy writing - writing about stereotypes, with a pinch of sad humor While I am still learning to separate author from the voices they create, here I can't. From past reading experiences of Desai and hearing her interviews, its her voice that I hear I will always look at her as someone with a privileged background, who has never really been in the midst of the chaos. Hence being from that strata it will always be easy to comment & compare Leaving you with this quote from the book "Gandhi had managed to eject the British from India, but had failed in his exhortations to get Indians to clean their own toilets and thereby fathom the basic meaning of human rights. Following the repercussions of this lack of understanding of human rights in a logical manner, Sunny thought, explained why Indians would never make good readers of novels: a reader of novels comprehends the notion of individual rights by the simple act of identifying with a person’s — any person’s — trials and joys. When you considered another person’s feelings, another person’s dignity, you actually wished to clean your own toilet" I think it's time for Desai's India visit 😊

I have a naïve belief that a foreign novel must pretty hot stuff if it winds up being translated into English because far too few of them are – only three out of Christian Kracht’s eight novels have been so far and in Germany this guy is a big name. But alas my theory didn’t pan out and I’m scratching my head about what makes people like this. It’s very mildly funny. A full CT scan would show that 65% of Eurotrash is indeed comedy. The rest of it would be 16% namedropping high toned authors, ritzy destinations and designer fashion labels, 7% descriptions of meals and hotel rooms and the final 12% is rambling chat between this guy and his batty 80 year old alco-mom. So this is a road trip story about a 50-something year old author called Christian Kracht visiting his wreck of a mother and taking her out for one last Big Adventure which, being Swiss, turns out to be rolling around Switzerland in a taxi. Not too much happens. The author ruminates for pages about his obnoxiously rich parents, his Nazi grandparent and his youthful obsession with David Bowie, particularly the Ziggy Stardust album (which by the way has not aged well, gawky songs and thin sound, one of Bowie’s worst. But I digress, as Christian himself very often does.) Occasionally the mother-son dialogues flare into something approaching poignancy but mainly it’s two cartoony characters flouncing and preening and moaning on about the past, the past, you’re a terrible person, you’re worse, hand me the vodka. One good thing though, you can read it in a day.

This novel was not my cup of tea (and landing on the long list for the German Book Prize obviously didn’t change that). I wasn’t able to see anything worthwhile under the surface of this self-referential, roadtrip-esque journey. A good passage here an there, a short laugh now an then, but nothing that tied it together. Oh, and I couldn’t warm up to the blabbering writing style, too. 🤷‍♂️ 2/5

Was baffled by this, really hard to get through tbh, I found it really boring. Sad ending (was predictable) just came out of this confused, was this his story or made-up?? This might be where never judge a book by its cover wins, because I feel cheated. Ironically, this was trash.

I appreciated the representation of a queer Korean man living in Seoul, as well as the sensitive rendering of his STI. Beyond that though, I struggled to feel invested in Love in the Big City. Mainly, our protagonist has several romantic relationships with men where I struggled to understand what drew him to these men in the first place. Our main character possesses a distinctly brash voice yet not much else about him – hobbies, particular vulnerabilities aside from general attachment issues, early life experiences – stood out to me, so I couldn’t figure out why he and his romantic partners felt drawn to one another. These romantic relationships also all came across as pretty unhealthy or filled with unresolved miscommunication. While these types of relationships do exist, I didn’t detect any trend toward growth in any of the main character’s relationships nor any growth from the main character himself. I liked the more rigorous development of the main character’s relationship with his best friend Jaehee as well as his difficult relationship with his mother, though neither of these relationships felt explored to a satisfying level either. The character does a lot of things though his internal exploration felt lacking. In my opinion, a disappointing novel aside from its value in promoting queer representation.

Not sure what the point was…

I’m so very sorry to say I just could not read any more of this book as I just found it a load of shite! Apologies to the author but I do not know how this got to be in the Booker Longlist. What did I miss?!? It reads like a YA book. I did try but could not waste anymore time when I have so many decent books to read. After I got to the old man giving Doll money to put on a dog in the 8:15 and the garbage conversation relating to that … I was done. I did flick through the sections to see if anything worthwhile caught my eye and read other parts but I guess I must have missed what everyone else is raving about! If it makes the short list I’m not reading anymore Booker lists as last year was a washout for me too.

2 1/2 ⭐️ I snored my way through this. At least I learned some Irish slang. All of which I’ve already forgotten haha.

It’s probably a 2.5 stars but I rounded down because. The main characters are uninteresting. One works in a restaurant (lucky us we observe two of her shifts! Yay! 😒) and the other, he does… nothing. He exists. He’s mourning the loss of his mother and the absence of his father and living off his inheritance. His nemesis is his mother’s dog and maybe a goat. Sometimes he makes breakfast for his kidnapping cousins. The writing is plain and lacking in any sort of emotion. The story itself, just boring. In case it’s not clear, this book is painfully, excruciatingly, obnoxiously, agonizingly, boring. Every time I put it down I dreaded picking it back up. I really shouldn’t have bothered finishing but I am always holding out hope that it’s going to get better. That it must be nominated for a reason. Baffling. Anyway. I think that’s probably where I’ll end my attempt to read the Longlist. There are a few others I will be checking out: Creation Lake which actually sounds interesting and unique, so long as it isn’t a fucking astronaut poem I think I’ll be okay. James which has been gathering buzz all year and I’m excited to read. Playground with a concept I love. The Safekeep which I was interested in independently of the prize. Possibly Wandering Stars, someday after I read There There. Maaayyybbeeee…. Enlightenment and This Strange Eventful History… but I’m not in a rush.

Gritty and bleak, the characters elicited my interest at first but held little sympathy or compassion. Lots of Irish slang that apparently lower class or drug trade folks use. It’s not a long book and the story moves quickly. Lots of adjectives and descriptions of common things made it feel like more elevated writing. The female character is the smart gal among the not as smart hoods. Since many descriptions tout the novel as humorous - I found there to be almost none - with the possible exception of the dog who behaved like a little dog.

** spoiler alert ** Not the greatest written book. I felt it went all over the place like having ADD. It was very hard to read. There was a few interesting parts but I felt like there was a lot of things in it that didn’t need to be, and I felt it was put in as fluff to make the book longer. Should have been made a shorter story.

I wanted to like this one a lot. It won a prize. The cover is beautiful. The premise had me. What went wrong? Not that this is exactly that, but I have issues with short stories. And while we follow several women along the courses of their lives, it's not really in a linear fashion. The hopping back and forth between POVs gets confusing. 🎧 Thank you to NetGalley and HighBridge Audio

I loved the overarching concept of this book, but really didn't enjoy the experience of reading it. After Sappho shares the lives of a number of women who were feminist, lesbian, and living in Europe over a span covering the late 1800's until just after WWI. Most of the women were also involved in the arts (writing, theater, painting, etc.). The book is broken into paragraphs, each with a heading, and each paragraph tells a snippet (not even a vignette) about one of the characters before moving on to the next snippet. The idea of focusing on the intertwining lives of women striving for visibility and recognition in a man's world is such a good idea. But, When We Cease to Understand the World did something similar, except with scientific discovery, and it was so much more engaging. I wanted to like this book, or at least appreciate it, but it was pretentious and overwritten and really didn't bring these women to life in any way. Plus it was nearly impossible to discern the biographical from the fictional, and I didn't really care enough to even try. I can so see this book being taught in an English lit class somewhere, and there were some gorgeous turns of phrase . . .but at the end of the day, I want a novel to move me emotionally and engage me with some semblance of a story, and this book just didn't do that for me at all. There was one paragraph that really encapsulated this book for me. . . .we might open a seemingly ordinary biography, its chapters neatly partitioned, and find that it was webbed throughout with the most extraordinary filaments of a life. A life after all did not happen by itself, in discrete units. Thus this biography would be bound together with all of our lives, twined through from preface to index: curling, animate, verdant. I think this is what the author was trying to do, intertwine the biographies of these women, and I love the concept of that! But the reality just didn't live up to the promise.

An intertwined biography of fact and myth which highlights the legacy of liberation, defiance, and creativity left by Sappho, one of history’s most beloved and speculative queer icons. This is a chorus of several artists, writers, and feminists of 19th and 20th century Europe, pushing back against oppression, conventional gender roles, and the male gaze of the arts. After Sappho is an academic thesis of feminine expression and freedom, using bulletins of early western feminism to support the spirit of Sappho as she continues to inspire and defend creative minds.

16th book of 2023. Artist for this review is Catalan painter Miguel Carbonell Selva (1854-1896). 2.5. I didn't quite manage the whole of the Booker and International Booker longlists last year because I can't afford to buy books new and the reservation queues on books, when they are first announced on the list, are far too long for my impatient self. The other day though, after a job interview in a nearby city, I wandered opposite to their circular 1967 build library and found some of those longlist books that I couldn't get a hold of last year. This being one of them, of course. 'Readers according to Colette were like lovers. The best were attentive, intelligent, exigent, and promiscuous. She urged us to read widely and well, to seek out precisely the novels prohibited to us and lie down for hours in bed with them.' Death of Sappho, 1881 I think it's great that this made the longlist. It's original, it's different. Sometimes it barely feels like a novel and I'm fine with that. The novel, to me, is uncategorisable. I can also see why other reviewers on this website say it reads like Wikipedia entries. It's a smorgasbord of stuff: women, feminism, gender, names, identity. I preferred the latter half of the book which began to focus on Virginia Woolf and her novels. That felt focussed to me. In the beginning there was too much going on and too many characters. Interestingly it's a blend of fact and fiction, which is usually my favourite sort of thing to read. It is funny in parts, well-written, too. Some of the historical women who are explored are Sarah Bernhardt, Colette, Eleanora Duse, Josephine Baker, Djuna Barnes, Isadora Duncan... The latter of whom I end up reading about all the time, completely by accident. So I like it for its boldness and its experimentation, even if I don't think it landed it. 'But life itself was in constant variance, Virginia Woolf protested, a novel ought to run alongside it the way the shadow of a railway carriage travels over the landscape. Now rising fleetingly along a low wall, now falling away into a riverbed, passing its silhouette unevenly over grass and gravel: that was a novel, that was the spirit of a life moving on a page. Is it not the task of the novelist, Virginia Woolf demanded, to convey this varying, this unknown and uncircumscribed spirit, whatever aberration or complexity it may display?' And also credited to Woolf: 'Half of writing a novel is looking out of the window in gentle despair and idleness.' And marital advice for later: 'The best sorts of marriage were companionable and involved a shared taste in novels and furniture.'

Very disappointed by this. Especially because I LOVE a story about women with an emphasis on women telling their own stories. Maybe I would have enjoyed it more if I had read anything from Sappho, the Iliad or Virginia Wolff. It read like an overwritten (to the point of being distracting) history book. I thought the idea of every person living multiple lives was cool but I couldn’t tell if the point was that all these women were living the same life and that life was Sappho’s or if were all becoming Sappho. There was no main character or narrative so I felt like I got a taste of many different stories when what I really wanted was to devour and savor just one. Overall I thought it was boring even though the idea behind it was really intriguing.

“Aurel hoped that women writers would disobey the laws that bound men’s books. It was time for women to take language for themselves, Aurel said, even one word at a time, to take their own names and become. To become even one word.” The most honest review I could write about this book is that I finished it. I could wax eloquently about the writing style, the poetic nature of words deployed and the reimagination of lives lived - but it does not explain the helplessness I felt in placing real people whom I did not know about, whose lives the author seemed to infiltrate. The women, mostly artists and authors, had to break the societal expectation of women in favor of choice in their personal lives brandishing their love for Sappho and lesbian love. The voice is a collective "we" that bucket characters across time. They have to resort to convention to express themselves in art forms - a male character who is actually a woman in the author's mind. The problem for me is the writing style which did not account for readers who may lack context. Who may need to know the writing is a lot more than poetic brilliance. Quoting Sappho from time to time throws you off and the social commentary, though intriguing in parts becomes nothing more than an instant emotion that has no bearing on the rest of the story. Not for me.

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize, 2021. I suppose I would have liked this better had it not been shortlisted for the International Booker. The writing is beautiful and the message fairly clear, although I found it difficult to understand the book as a whole because of unexplained gaps in the parts. But as it stands, I don't understand the circumstances or the reasoning behind the decision by the judging panel to include this in the shortlist, or even the longlist for that matter. Booker nominated books share certain qualities, and I found none of them here. The obvious complaint is that this is not even a story, it's a passionate account of the life of Thomas Muntzer - the German reformer who famously opposed the Roman Catholic Church and the feudal authorities. Given my interest in revolutions (especially those involving anti-authority peasant uprisings), I also suspect I would have liked this better had I been more familiar with the historical setting, which, if you're going to learn solely from this book, is difficult to extract from the metaphors and the flowery prose.

Thomas Muntzer was a 16th century German rabble-rouser who hated the Church and led an uprising against the upper classes, citing Jesus’ teachings for why the rich shouldn’t be, and so on. He knew what was up. What a scam organised religion really is. But it didn’t take and several centuries later Eric Vuillard wrote up the episode in this dinky book, The War of the Poor. It’s certainly worth remembering the lesser-known struggles of our ancestors and I guess it’s sorta relevant today, although inequality and hypocrisy have never really gone out of vogue in humanity, either before or after. It’s also too brief and fairly indistinct given the sparsity of the facts to leave much of an impression and, despite a few compelling passages, fizzles out into vague fighting and a predictable finale. The book is nonfiction but what makes it stand out, and more accessible too, is Vuillard’s very casual retelling of the facts. I suppose it might be to add a little flavour to what would otherwise be a dry and bare retelling - the story of peasant uprisings goes back even further to 14th century England (and of course much further back in history still but this is as far back as Vuillard goes here) when a chap called John Ball attempted to overthrow the wealthy religious, and record-keeping back then wasn’t too great. The effect is a bit like listening to a slightly sloshed history professor monologuing at large. It’s interesting to hear about the likes of Wycliffe and Muntzer translating the Bible from its Latin - which few could understand, let alone read - into the “common” languages of English and German, and the uproar such “heresy” caused (the Church knew that by controlling knowledge, they could control the poor). But there’s also very little to the stories. Muntzer goes a wee bit mental towards the end, using Biblical language to describe his rebellion, though ultimately technology puts the frighteners on the peasants and that’s that. Things go very quickly from crazy to calm in this narrative, and, as a result, it’s a tad forgettable. Might be worth a look if you’re slightly intrigued by Middle Ages history but don’t expect to have your socks knocked off by The War of the Poor. “Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize” - HAHAHHAHA! Well, ‘twas 2021, the panel were probably all demented from the pandy…

Very very skilful writing. That’s pretty much it.

It wasn't fiction, it was clearly an essay and not even about something I care. I don't know how these booker judges shortlist books anymore. Just close their eyes and pick one? Probably

Painfully boring non stop prose. Maybe I found it so dull because it was essentially just pages and pages of what I hear in my head most of the time. It’s just a depressing adhd mind splurge. I expected so much more from this book. A times you get lost in the absolutely nonsensical unpunctuated waffle but for most of it I was wanting the whole thing to end, or amount to something. It did not achieve the latter. I won’t read the second book. Most of the good reviews seem to be romanticising this widows patterns of the mind, maybe I think it’s dead boring because I think similarly to him. This isn’t a spectacle for me it’s real life and it’s endlessly dull and trite.

Book Club Best book club quote: “I didn’t think I’d get it from the library (since it won awards/has popularity) but I did.” “That’s because everyone hated it and returned it immediately!” Yet another literary fiction piece describing how AI will ruin the world, this time in a marine environment setting. You know, some of the best sci-fi books/movies were so good because they created fear of the future. The best ones were where the fear was completely new or unexpected. Others were good where there was a real threat, but still distant. I seem to notice a new wave of books on this topic. Is it really that creative/new/speculative/exploratory? It’s already here. It doesn’t take much imagination to think of what computers can do. It was interesting when The Terminator came out, but now…I see AI novels as following a trend now, and I am already bored with it. Rant over. Here's what the others thought: The pace: “a slog,” “felt like a long book.” The characters: none grabbed us. “Not a character I liked,” “The ruined friendship seemed unjustified.” The plot: about as heavy as taking a guided tour in an underground aquarium. Lots of talking about animals, not much else. Oh, and AI is coming, we’re doomed I tells ya. Doomed! The themes/messages: “preachy”, “research, copy, paste,” “so you read a magazine, novel, poetry, can you please stop.” Any feminism: yes, women choosing career over family. Comparisons: an offer to make an illustrated book on coral reefs. “Crawdads anyone?” “And like Bruny by Heather Rose, but heavy-handed and not explorative.” Overarching feelings: “lost interest,” “hated it,” “the descriptions of the ocean were beautiful,” “liked the playful cuttlefish.” Ratings: 2, 2, 2, 1 and my 1. Average = 1.6. Higher than what the discussion suggested.

I didn't like Overstory and I didn't like this. Once again, it feels like an extended exercise in virtue signaling, a white-centric world and women existing only under male gaze. I'm sure Powers' boyfriends* appreciated it (and apparently his fans did too,) but for me, from the moment an island child finds plastic inside a fish ('bad food') and stares adoringly at pictures in a book written by a beautiful redhead it was difficult to give it the benefit of the doubt. Did Powers' get criticism for being too white or something previously? It seems like Rafi is a reaction to that because he's a series of clichés that drew attention to Powers' inability to write anyone other than a white man convincingly. Better to write nothing than such an awkward caricature. If the whole thing was written in first person it could have been excused as a flaw in the narrator but instead it was consistent throughout the mixed first and third person descriptions. Towards the end there was an interesting segment with Rafi reaching out to Todd to put a price on his contribution to Playground but that was the only part of the plot that didn't feel overworked and inauthentic. Why is this two stars not one? I don't know. I guess because I think Powers could have done a waaaaaayyyy worse job. *Is gendering 'friends' annoying and confusing and reading as slightly homophobic? Good. It felt exactly like that when female friends were constantly referred to as 'girlfriends'. Also not helped when you have the cliche beautiful, loyal wife who is (shallowly) grappling with whether or not she's straight (does she have a girlfriend all of a sudden? Oh, no, it's just Powers letting us know we need a gendered qualifier when a woman is doing anything that doesn't directly involve her beauty or gendered anatomy).

Have you ever met a person that told you exactly what they would be like, you go along with them anyway, and then are disappointed because they’re exactly how they said they would be? That’s what this book did to me. It told me it would be detached and about boredom and tedium and yet I still got annoyed with all the boredom and tedium. This novel is in two parts told through vignettes. The first takes place in Beijing at the beginning of the Cultural Revolution. We mostly see kids doing weird kids things while creating their own Red Guard unit, spying on neighbors, and almost growing bored with the dead bodies around them. A lot of the time it was hard to pin down if it was the same narrator throughout the first part and how much time had passed between stories. The Cultural Revolution is mostly in the periphery, Mao nor any other official is named, but there are some scenes that are extreme and directly impact the narrator. The writing is simple fitting the child narrator, but once in a while a poetic line would leak through that created a bit of whiplash. There is some humor, but it’s so dry or black that it might go over your head. There are even what seem like editor or translator notes left behind which weirdly never happen again. The second part begins as the narrator is sent to the ‘great northern waste’. He spends eight years (until he’s 25) toiling the fields, enduring the freezing cold, and going hungry with other ‘reeducated youths’. They mostly gamble, find ways to sneak back home, and try to get a medical diagnosis that will send them home. Here we get more fourth wall breaking with comments from the narrator looking back decades later. We’re still surrounded by death, but here it’s looked at straight on, leaving its mark on the narrator. This is a simple recounting of one person’s experience. There is never any questioning or critical thought to what happened. It just was. While I appreciate the intent, the two parts never came together for me; creating a disjointed and tedious reading experience for me.

I've heard that this series is brilliant, but right now nothing is making me want to read six more volumes of this story. This one was a mere 176 pages and it felt twice as long because we are stuck in the head of a boring person as she repeats a boring day over and over again. It's repetitive, obviously. And nothing happens. I don’t think that’s a spoiler; I doubt it’s even surprising given that this is the first of seven volumes, but I needed a bit more of a hook to ignite my interest in reading on. The praise seems to centre on the meditative nature of the novel and the philosophical discussions it fosters, but passages like this did nothing for me: I flow in and out of the house. I flow through the day. I am fluid. I let myself flow with the sounds, like a liquid, and liquids flow in to fill any available space.

So far there are five volumes of Solvej Balle’s dilemma-ridden story, longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2025. I read the first one and questioned how she could squeeze another four volumes from this rather prosaic start. I mean, OK, the premise is fascinating. That is the repeating day syndrome, but it would be hard to beat in a literary sense the success that Groundhog Day had in its most populist cinematic form. In Balle's story, Tara Selter wakes every day to repeat the day that has gone before. She is at liberty to do what she wants, but the next day never arrives. In truth, I found Balle took any sense of wonder from a magical idea. Her protagonist rambles through a rather tedious daily routine ad infinitum and has a passable go at sifting through the mechanics of the time anomaly. However, any consideration of why Chronos might be treating her this way is not addressed. Maybe one of the succeeding four novels examines this. Unfortunately, I was so bogged down in ennui that I don’t think I can be bothered. It’s not that I dislike slow self-reflection, quite the contrary, but Balle repeats a lot of what she’s already written, and when she doesn’t, what she writes is simply a nuance of what she’s already written. Nothing is especially interesting; there’s no drama, observation outside her experience, or expectation of a future. I’m assuming that Balle’s will eventually force the protagonist to experience, through her ordeal, a catharsis, just as Bill Murray has to do in Groundhog Day, but of course that’s just speculation. This first volume only establishes her predicament and her initial attempts to exit it, and to be honest, they’re not that adventurous. She finds many ways to test and analyze her predicament, unfortunately, all of them quite predictable. Surely, there must have been other, more interesting ways to break out of her imprisonment and deliver something that has depth and a little more profundity. OK, I may be prejudging the complete set of volumes, but it’s inexcusable that this first volume can’t stand on its own. I’ll agree that it was brave of her to take this on, since I imagine expectations would be high with a concept that’s been successfully delivered in the past, but I found On the Calculation of Volume I came up far too short. I found the writing similar to last year’s Booker long-listed ’Study for Obedience’, by Sarah Bernstein, and also Amina Cain’s ‘Indelicacy’. In all three, the female protagonist is trapped in an emotional straightjacket. That said, it doesn’t have the psychological self-flagellating intensity of the former or the curious off-putting directness of the latter. It is quite flat and written with unexceptional prose. It's beyond me to read more of this saga, but I'll take note of what others say, with interest.

Annoying tbh. Such a drag for such a short book. I can’t believe this is supposed to be a SEVEN part series. Will not be finding out how it ends

2.5/5 I 100% get that this is the entire point of this book but damn, I can't quite believe how boring and repetitive this was. the concept is intriguing, the writing and the translation is very good and I can see this going in interesting places in future installments in the series. however, I cannot for the life of me bring myself to care about what happens in the next few books. actually, I mostly only finished this because it was the only book I had with me during a 1.5 hour wait in a doctor's waiting room and 2 hours on public transport. if you like existential musings on the passing of time and don't mind a very repetitive plot, you might like this. sadly, it wasn't for me.

On the Calculation of Volume I is like staring at the same painting every day, hoping it will change. Beautiful at first. Hypnotic in the middle. Frustrating by the end. A novel that dares to freeze time—and forgets the reader might want to move on. What starts as intriguing quickly turns into inertia. The plot doesn’t evolve so much as revolve. By day 122, you’re not reading—you’re enduring. You keep waiting for something—anything—to happen. A shift, a twist, a break in time. But nope. Tara wakes up. Tara counts the day. Tara watches the blackbird. Rinse, repeat. The language is good. The prose is lyrical and philosophical, like a diary kept by someone stuck on the same sentence of life. The translation by Barbara J. Haveland is seamless—it carries the tone and stillness of the original without losing clarity.

A little embarrassed by my rating and I feel like I’m missing something with all the hype around this. I’m gonna continue with the series (pre dansk) but yea I did not love it.

possibly more enjoyable in spanish. got into it more in the second half but it was a struggle

Evidently this author has written some good books - this isn't one of them. An uninspiring, unsympathetic protagonist (the author?) who seems to live entirely inside his own head, ruminating about his lack of talent as a writer (irony!) as he muses about rewriting the short stories of a frenemy who lives in town (meta!). He mentions all the right writers, but like an unskilled rapper name-dropping MC's with actual talent, it's almost insulting that he does so. Also, it really seems like there's an overabundance of Spanish-language novelists who feel it's novel to write novels about writing novels. But after a few dozen such endeavors, it feels neither clever nor readable. If anyone found something worth holding onto in this book, I'm open to hearing what it was...

Nope. Just couldn't get into this at all. By p50 I was flagging, by p100 I was skipping whole pages just to get through. I'm sure I'm missing something, given its longlisting for the International Booker, but it was too self-congratulatory, too self-referentially smug, and while the whole idea of repetition was central to the book, how many times can you read the word 'repetition' without wanting to throw the damn book against the wall....? For those who found this a great read, I salute you. Just not for me.

Wow. This took forever to finish. I get it — super learned, a zillion allusions from Diderot to David Foster Wallace to Faulkner to Robert Louis Stevenson and who bloody knows what else. By the end, I wasn’t sure if it was Mac descending into madness, or me. At least I was paranoia free. Not a book for me, even if I understood full well what it was trying to tell me about repetition and the transcendence of words and themes over any one story as ‘claimant’...

Far too long and boring While out walking with her father, Louisa, aged 10, finds herself alone on the beach, and her father is missing. His body is never found. What happened to him? Flashlight does have some interesting themes such as being an immigrant outside of the United States. Additionally, this book is a unique mixture of mystery and historical fiction. In regard to the mystery, what happened to Louisa’s father, the book did a poor job sign posting—for most of the book it felt like we are no closer to discovering answers. This caused the pages to drag; it was such a chore to read this book. The editor of this book should have suggested cutting anything that doesn’t move the plot forward. For example, there was a completely irrelevant passage about an orange cat. Not that I am against cats. I am against reading a 460+ page book that should have been half its length. Also, there were some paragraphs and sentences just far too long. *Thanks, NetGalley, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and unbiased opinion. The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent): Electronic Text – Free/Nada/Zilch through publisher Connect With Me! Blog Threads BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

I struggled A LOT to finish this book. It took me almost 2 weeks to read (and if you know me, it's very uncharacteristic that it took me so long) - I almost DNF it several times. But I didn't give up! I persevered! When all is said and done, this book was not for me. It was highly character driven, which I usually love, but it didn't work this time. The details were SO boring about each of these characters. And I honestly didn't LIKE any of the 3 protagonists. Normally I'm ok with not liking some of the characters, but these all rubbed me the wrong way. I viewed them all as despicable people who just let things happen to them and didn't take any action to rectify their situations. My favorite character ended up being Tobias (Anne's older son from prev. situation) and he wasn't in the story that much. The author is obviously a very talented writer, but some tighter editing could have maybe improved this book some. Thank you to Net Galley, the publisher and author for an ebook ARC in exchange for my honest review!

A well written tale, but just wayyyyy too long and slow. It’s tragic, and explores so many themes that intrigue me: complex grief, trauma responses, identity exploration/loss, etc. If you have the time and willpower, pick this one up!

if this was the first Ken follett book I read, I wouldn't read any more of his books. the characters were never built. very disappointed

Never thought i would stop reading a Ken Follett book after 50 pages..???..Unbelievably poor book from Ken Follett . Written in an extremely childish prose presumably trying to pretend it is the language of time. Wooden characters. Not sure what I expected but have given up after almost 50 pages. The prose and Narrative was far too simplistic and juvenile it was annoying and very boring I couldn't continue..

Awful I literally had to make myself finish this book. I can not fathom that this was written by the author of Pillars. No words.

I’m a great fan of Ken Follet’s work. But every once in a while, he’ll produce a novel that I just can’t get into. Unfortunately, “Circle of Days” is one of those. I’ve read about 75 pages. None of the characters have grabbed me. Indeed, they all strike me as cartoonishly innocent and simplistic. There’s lots of interaction between children and teens, which I don’t find interesting. I’m not getting a great sense of the period (about 2,500 years before Christ) or the setting. The writing seems stilted and not well-crafted. There are instances in which characters employ modern vernacular, damaging the story's credibility. All in all, there’s nothing to give me confidence that what Mr. Follett depicts is actually the way people spoke and acted in that time and at that place, or that this novel is not based entirely on his conjecture. Other people have raved about “Circle of Days,” so maybe I’m missing something. I’m just not willing to spend any more time on it.

While I usually LOVE(?) a book that examines a complexly fraught mother-daughter relationship -and this book certainly started off well, with some wryly written insights and relatable observations (sorry mum), it quickly (or more like slowly) progressed into a tedious and far too repetitive reading experience. Ultimately suffering from too much introspection, but somehow without anything gripping -or grounding in its reflections and resolutions. 2.5 stars PS - thanks again to the publishers for sending me a copy!

I’ve clearly not learned my lesson that Hjorth’s writing really isn’t for me. This is the third of her books I have read, and I have been disappointed by all three. Previews here are inaccurate. This isn’t a plot driven novel, rather one that examines a fraught and estranged mother-daughter relationship. Johanna, a widowed painter of nearly 60 years old, with an adult son with a child of his own, has not seen or heard from her mother and sister for almost thirty years, finds herself in Oslo with work, with her mother living very close to her rented apartment. Johanna’s intelligence and emotion are evident. Here, Hjorth excels, but there are large parts of meandering witter where the novel goes nowhere. At half the page count, this would have a much better chance of gripping far more readers. I am not its target audience, but to ensnare people like me and carry me along is something a good author strives for.

I'm not altogether sure that this book has any lasting relevance or appeal beyond to citizens of Lviv in 2011. Written as a result of an invitation from the mayor of the city, aside from being very much of its place this translation by Reuben Woolley starts off okay but increasingly becomes annoying to read. It's magic realism for the masses - while it's quirky, none of the symbols really come to mean anything by the end. We start with the premise of hippies gathering by a grave in Lviv supposedly containing Jimi Hendrix's hand, they're met by a KGB agent who claims that he was asked to keep surveillance over them during Soviet years but in doing so became a Hendrix fan himself and arranged for the hand to be delivered to Lviv. Instead of really developing the Hendrix theme, Kurkov decides to string us along on several disparate threads, and bearing in mind I only finished this book yesterday I already can't really remember which character is involved in which. We've got a character who, to earn a living, removes kidney stones from clients by driving them over Lviv's cobbles, falls in love with a woman allergic to money and cures her with some of these stones; we've got another who's a lighting technician and works with the KGB agent to try and figure out why 'anomalies' involving the smell of the sea and seagulls attacking citizens are occurring in Lviv; we've got a side story involving a real-life organisation helping the city's homeless. Is it bizarre? Yes. Is it interesting? No. The principal mystery - that of a fictional sailor escaped from a book who is causing the 'anomalies' - made absolutely no sense to me. I suppose this novel would be a nice tribute to Lviv for those who live there, but I can't see why it had to be translated for a wider audience. On that point, I alluded to Woolley's translation above. As has already been pointed out by The Guardian, he displays an annoying tendency to use the past progressive incorrectly - an item "was sat" on the table, "he was stood". I'd add to this an irritating number of overtranslations, not least when translating dialogue when Woolley seems to have had recourse to a primary school thesaurus to find as many synonyms for 'said' as he could. Overall, as many others have pointed out, this seems to have been longlisted for the International Booker Prize for political reasons (and perhaps because one of the jury is also a translator from Ukrainian).

I was attracted to this book by the word "system" in the title. I am a big fan if so-called "systems novels". It is hard to define what are those, but here is one attempt of definition: "For several decades now, what’s sometimes called the “systems novel” has been a persistent but influential part of the literary avant-garde. They’re ­trying to get away from psychological individualism and to get at the way that complex systems – astrophysics, economics, climate, digital technology or what have you – interact to create the spaces in which individual lives (AKA the stuff of the old-fashioned novel) are lived. Where a traditional novel would typically major on a character’s memories, feelings and human relationships, a systems novel might be more interested in the character’s ­moment-by-moment perceptions of the sense-world around them and the way larger forces act on that world."* I would not necessary agree that all of these novels lack a psychological depth, but we have to start somewhere with the definition. We talk here about the writers like Gaddis, Pynchon, Bolano, DFW, Helen deWitt. And I am always on a look out for a woman to add to this list. Last year, Tomb of Sand: WINNER OF THE INTERNATION BOOKER PRIZE 2022's got pretty close to this intersection of the novels (but in its very special gentle and exuberant way). So when I've seen this book nominated for the IB this year, I've decided I'll read it. It has also attracted my attention that it was about triplets. Twins, orphans and doppelgängers are well represented in fiction. While triplets used to be a rare fish. But I've recently listened with my family to the audio version of The Latecomer, a novel about upper-middle class Jewish family dynamics and in general a social commentary on modern America. We as a family enjoyed it greatly. The triplets were at the core of that story and it was psychologically astute and very moving at the end. So maybe subconsciously I was looking for some continuation of that story. After I've spent three paragraphs explaining my choice, I have to move on to a sort of anti-climax. I've read this book. It was an easy read. But it is not what I was looking for. Instead, it is a type of global commercial novel pushing a set of necessary buttons: -Take Big Themes: climate change, neuroscience, mental illness and trauma here; -Add Characters: neurotic, educated mid-twenties; -Add Settings (preferably more than one): a global city (London here) and an "exotic" location (Easter Island here but it practically does not mention any locals -only the colony of eco-tourists of a sort); -Add a bit of confusion, a possible conspiracy theory or a secret. That would make people turn the pages; -Pepper with a few culturally significant names, occasionally with a tragic fate but not necessary for a mix; -Add occasionally mysterious but more often simply convoluted dialogue with a lot of foreshadowing. And you might have something appealing to the "broad global audience". You might even get a streaming company to buy the rights eventually to produce a show. Who knows. Though I think as a show it might work marginally better. I am sure some people call this novel "playful" and "quirky". It is a well meaning and kind story even if not very plausible (who cares if it is "playful"). I've had an impression the book aspired to some philosophical depth. But it comes across on the level that everything is connected to everything which is hardly a profound new thought, especially if it helped by the plot's numerous coincidences. I would probably enjoy it more if I were on a beach holiday. However, it is not the time for a beach yet in our hemisphere. * The definition of "systems novels" is taken from this article: https://www.gq-magazine.co.uk/culture...

This book tried a lot of things, but most of it didn’t work for me. Despite it’s length, it’s a “quick” read, but I can’t say I got a whole lot out of it. Dare I say it lacked substance? I’ll have to think more about that. A huge miss. I don’t have the energy to get into it right now, but I’ll probably add more at a later time ‘cause I have so many thoughts.

Undecided on how to rate this. I really enjoyed it but at parts I felt like it was trying too hard to be quirky. Great start, somewhat disappointing and clunky ending. Few random inconsistencies with the plot that at first I thought were deliberate but now uncertain. Still a super fun read though, so? 2.5? 3?

I neither love nor hate this. It’s a satirical novel exploring modern sociopolitical issues. The problem is, I felt like a duck in a foie gras factory being force-fed an endless stream of social commentary. While the message is clear and occasionally funny, its relentless delivery is pretty exhausting.

I really didn’t enjoy this one sadly, which came as such a surprise to me after adoring Assembly by the same author a few years ago. There was just something about this that didn’t feel like a cohesive novel at all. We started with a journalist investigating an assault and theft, and then meandered into the most random and uninteresting avenues. What started out with a lot of promise soon dwindled away. It ended up being all over the place and extremely messy and unfocused, almost like it couldn't really decide what it wanted to do. From the tone, it felt like an opinion piece essay rather than a story, or like a sort of documentary transcript. There was something off about the storytelling. It was detached and weird, and the length really hindered it. It almost felt like it was never supposed to be its one novel, but ended up having to be padded out to fit some sort of word count and qualify. It probably could’ve worked better as a short story. We also have so many characters and ideas and small sideplots going on in such a small space, that none of it was given sufficient development. Changing character and perspectives every few pages was so disorientating, and they were all so similar in my head they meshed into a single bland entity. The commentary and the themes it tried to address are really interesting, but it felt like a waste. Nothing that is said in the book is a new or exciting idea, and anything it did say is never built upon. It just felt half soaked and lazy, we start and end in what feels like the same place. It felt like the approach to everything was too blase and casual for the intended effect, so it never landed. The only positive really is that the pacing was pretty decent so I ended up being able to read it in a day. Such a shame because Brown is such an exciting and intelligent writer, but she missed the mark massively.

I’ve never been so excited in my life to give a book back to the library. You wouldn’t think a book about squatter hippies bludgeoning each other with a gold bar could be so excruciatingly boring, but I guess there really is a first time for everything.

Booker Book 7/13: 3 out of 10. I feel like I didn’t read the same book that so many other people are praising. I read a very tired collection of characters speechifying about various hobby horses of contemporary discourse (wokeness, diversity, the disappearing middle class, the rapacity of “late capitalism”, the perfidious ways that media and the internet have cynically ruined us etc etc). If I wanted this type of thing, I’d listen to more podcasts or read more Substacks. Although there’s a bit of playfulness in the structure (switching viewpoints and briefly, form), there are no characters (other than cliched mouthpieces), literally zero plot (but a bunch of odd loose ends), and not much craft. The “discourse” this book offers already seems dated and very boring. Well the first bad apple in what’s otherwise been a stellar Booker crop. It was bound to happen.

2.5/5 Universality is the second book I’ve read by Natasha Brown, after Assembly, which I enjoyed when it came out. I was glad to see her return with something new, and it makes sense to me that this novel was longlisted for the Booker Prize. Brown is deeply interested in how people perform their politics, especially online and in print. Though I don’t consider myself especially political, I recognized so many of the arguments and talking points that dominate our social media and news feeds today. The voices in this book sound exactly like what we’ve been hearing and living with over the past few years. It’s the noise of the times, captured very accurately on the page. That said, I didn’t love this book. There is too much emphasis on political commentary and not enough on character or story. The people in the novel often feel like mouthpieces rather than complex, fully realized humans. Maybe that’s intentional. Maybe Brown is trying to show how people lose themselves inside of ideological echo chambers. But whatever the intention, the book felt flat. The ideas didn’t feel fresh, and because I already live with this reality every day, I ultimately found myself bored. I admire Brown’s precise ear and polished prose, as well as her clear-eyed perception of the sociopolitical zeitgeist. But as a novel, it didn’t work for me. I felt it was too short to allow the characters to really come to life, and too wrapped up in our present moment to offer any new perspectives. Brown perfectly captures the spirit of our times, but I couldn’t help feeling like I’d read all this before while simply scrolling online.

i don't think i'm british enough for this

Gabriel Krauze's Who They Was opens with the first person narrator, also called Gabriel Krauze, together with his friend Gotti, violently assaulting a woman, on her doorstep, in front of her son, to steal her Rolex and diamond ring. And we’re still tryna tear the watch off and suddenly Gotti turns round and bangs the woman’s son in the face onetime and the boy drops and Gotti slams the door shut and we’re alone with her again. And I clock she’s got a big diamond ring on her wedding finger and I try to pull it off but it’s not moving, the skin all bunches up and it hurts her and I can’t twist it off because she has a wedding band on the same finger in front of the diamond ring, basically blocking it. So I snap her finger back, it folds straight over so the tip touches her wrist in one go and it’s strange because I always thought that if you break someone’s finger you’ll actually feel the bones break, hear it even, but I don’t feel anything at all, it’s like folding paper, as if the finger was naturally supposed to bend back like that and she’s screaming to me take it just take it. The narrator then tells us: And this is the thing, there’s no remorse, I don’t feel any remorse, Gotti doesn’t feel any remorse, and it’s not because we’re evil or any basic moral bullshit like that. The thing is I don’t actually feel anything about it at all. She defo doesn’t spend a second thinking about individuals like me, about what it’s like to be me. She doesn’t care about me and I don’t care about her. The novel puts us in the mind of an amoral (although I actually think evil would be justified) protagonist, perhaps an estate version of American Psycho, which makes for an interesting character study but a very unpleasant read and a not terribly literary one. The narrator comes from a white Polish background, and a seemingly relatively respectable family, but has consciously opted into a life of drugs, crime and gang violence on the Soutk Kilburn estate, although one that he lives in parallel with studying English at university. The bulk of rest of the book consists of repetitive chapters which each run along following lines. - open with literary quote (Nietzche a favourite); - go to university lectures on literature, mainly to eye up the female students, but intervening to make a remark that shows how much cleverer he is than the other students; - sleep with one of the female student, who is amazed at how well endowed he is; - go back to the estate and stab someone; - take some drugs; - sleep with another girl, who is also extremely impressed by his virility; - violently assault a law-abiding woman in the street to steal her watch/ring, ideally breaking some bones; - justify above by reference to Nietzche/Machivelli etc - rinse and repeat, almost to the point of self-satire. I’m getting ready to bill a zoot and I clock that Gotti must have been bunning bare cro since there’s only about six zeds left of the nine that we got when we done the move on that shotter in Willesden Green. I ain’t even had time to smoke that much since I’ve had bare essays to do for uni. My p’s are starting to run low as well coz I’m always getting takeaways and buying fresh pairs of creps. I’m gonna have to shot that cro soon and since Gotti’s bunned most of it, he better not try gwan like we’re splitting it fifty-fifty. I bill a zoot and try not to think. One of the book's key themes seems to be how little this world is understood by most of those who live in London, and that (somehow) this justifies violently intruding on their lives: It’s mad how you can live in a city and never see any of this. Or you just see faint smudges of it every now and again around the edges of your existence but even then you don’t fully believe in it, because even though we live in the same city, where I’m from and where you’re from could be two totally separate worlds. Like say you hear about a shooting on a street you walk down every day on your way to work; it’s a shocking one-off occasion, a rarity, something to talk about, and every single violent incident that you hear of or read about becomes a one-off, or at least a surprise or a shock. But to others these incidents are just the punctuation of their reality. As a fictional character study this could be, as mentioned, be perhaps an interesting, if very unpleasant read. But this actually seems closer to memoir than fiction, the author telling us in the afterword "everything in this book, in this story, was experienced in one way or another - otherwise I wouldn’t be able to tell it", and the biography on the Booker website explaining the author "was – personally - heavily involved in gangs, drugs, guns, stabbing and robbery - all while completing an English degree at Queen Mary’s University". Which leaves me with both an unpleasant feeling reading his work, but also exacerbates one of the book's biggest weaknesses, in that it makes no real attempt to explain why the protagonist made the bad choices that he did - in the afterword the author can only explain this is the life I chose. Maybe I was looking for a sense of family and identity that I couldn’t find at home. I can see that it was cathartic for the author to write it, but I am less clear what I gained from reading it. Overall, I must admit to suffering a complete empathy failure with this one - for more generous reviews read those by my brother Gumble's Yard (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) and my GR friend Neil (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) - but for me a book I found extremely unpleasant, one that even made my angry, and not a book I feel the Booker judges should have recognised. 1.5 stars rounded up to 2 as clearly others have seen something else in this book. Thanks to the publisher via Netgalley for the ARC.

10 pages in I was wondering if this was Sacha Baron-Cohen as Ali G having me on. What Who They Was is in a nutshell is this chav Krauze going on and on in white boy patois about ripping, running, robbing, and smoking, while also going to college and telling us he was like, the smartest one in, like, the whole school. I think maybe Krauze felt like he was writing fictional non-fiction, or taking a stab at an Anthony Burgess-style Clockwork Orange kind of book, but what Who They Was ends up delivering is page after page of an nihilistic self-celebration of bad behavior without a lesson, a hope, or a shot at redemption anywhere in sight. I thought I was going to love this book and I found it to be beyond tedious, though admittedly well-written. It should be half the length it is.

This book so consciously tried to sound authentic it just didn’t . It just felt clunky . By the 100th page I’d had enough descriptions of piss in elevators and shit on stairwells to do me. The language is so repetitive it wore me down . I think it was going for that Trainspotting vibe. Never got there. Must we empathize with every scum bag that gets a publishing deal? Directionless . The second star is because I didn’t finish and I deserve it for making a smart decision.

One of the fascinating questions raised by Damon Galgut’s Booker-winning ‘The Promise’ is how to write a deeply political novel without it coming across as polemical. Galgut achieves this by viewing historic events through the lens of a ‘typical’ white South African family, the Swarts. And in case we suspect the author is hiding behind the prejudices and peccadilloes of his deeply-flawed characters, we also have an omniscient narrator who (and this is a stroke of cheeky genius on Galgut’s part), passes judgement on the reader him- or herself. The other way to sidestep the thorny nettle of politics in contemporary South African fiction is to go the allegorical route. This is a tried-and-trusted African literary tradition actually that has produced such classics as ‘Things Fall Apart’ by Chinua Achebe. Karen Jennings, however, seems to stretch her allegory to the point where it blurs into the kind of omniscient multiverse speculative fiction so superbly rendered by Christopher Priest in his ‘Dream Archipelago’ series. Eckard Smuts (there is a certain irony to the reviewer’s name, with Jan Smuts serving as Prime Minister of the Union of South Africa from 1919-1924 and 1939-1948, and who played a key role in establishing and defining the League of Nations, United Nations and Commonwealth of Nations) writes in his 17 October 2021 review in The Daily Maverick: Other reviewers have noted that the unnamed nation in which the story is set doesn’t seem to correspond to any particular African country. Events that carry a whiff of contemporary South African history — xenophobia, the toppling of statues — crop up against a backdrop of colonial brutality, dictatorship and present-day disillusionment and decay that might locate Samuel’s country on any corner of the African continent (or, for that matter, on another continent). Nor does the geography of the barren island betray proximity to any particular stretch of African coastline, leaving readers to sift for clues in ambiguous physical details like the fact that the cliffs along the northern shore are “worn smooth by wind and rain”. This kind of defines the problem that I experienced with this novel, in that it is too simplistic (and moralistic) for an allegory, and not nearly nuanced enough to be a proper character study. The larger, much more necessary, question for me is how this particular novel fits into, and takes forward, the South African literary tradition. Does it say anything more on the subject of postcolonialism than, say, a twice-Booker winner like J.M. Coetzee hasn’t already said in classics like ‘Waiting for the Barbarians’ and ‘Foe’? The answer has to be no. ‘An Island’ is not only familiar territory for many South African readers, but also seems to be a strangely regressive little hiccup in our literary tradition. What possible purpose does such a novel serve in our current historic moment? Yes, we know that today’s struggle or independence movement is invariably tomorrow’s dictatorship. This is partially the evolutionary journey that South African politics is going through right now, especially as we move towards a more pluralistic democracy after the ruling party lost its majority in our most recent local government elections, opening the way for multi-party coalitions to rule on behalf of the citizenry. Well, trying to. There is a lot of squabbling and peacocking going on at the moment, almost like Samuel’s fractious brood of chickens. But if you read ‘An Island’, this trajectory is simplified as Freedom Movement, Struggle, Independence, Dictator, Revolution, etc. all looping together into a Möbius strip of political consciousness, repression and repercussion. What makes Galgut’s book so profound to read at our current moment is precisely due to his fortuitous reminder that history is fluid and not fixed; Jennings, on the other hand, seems to suggest that history takes place largely in the wings in the form of dark satanic mills whipping up dialectical forces that no human being can hope to oppose. Jennings has been living in São Paolo for six years. Unable to speak Portuguese, and afraid to wander around on her own in an alien and dangerous city, she describes being holed up in her apartment and pouring her experience and frustration into writing about Samuel on his island. Imagine if she had included herself as a character in her book, and how much more depth this would have added to it. After all, writers like S.J. Naude tackle similar themes of alienation and the expat diaspora from a European perspective, but still keeping their books firmly rooted in the bloody and hard-trodden soil of Africa. Virtually unknown in South Africa until her Booker longlisting, which was only due to the generosity of some niche publishers financing an initial 500-book print run, Jennings’ own story is far more fascinating to me than Samuel himself, even though he may be Mandela, Mugabe and God all rolled into a single allegorical package, looking after his chickens and vegetables on his bleak little homestead on a tiny speck of a godforsaken island, and also tending the hand-built stone wall meant to not only keep out the rest of the world, but ward off the forces of history itself.

I felt like nothing quite connected in this story. There was one main point from flashbacks that connected back to the present, but otherwise the feelings of the main character were so back and forth constantly that I felt like it lacked any real meaning.

Longlisted for 2023 Booker Prize This book starts with two perspectives: a poor boy who is transforming into a man and a rich woman who feels the pressure of becoming a wife and not just a successful doctor. Surprisingly, on top of this structure, Ayobami Adebayo also tries to write a generational novel, so the perspectives move to different family members. Their stories intertwine only in the end. While there are some shining moments here and there, this ambitious work doesn't deliver. It feels like Ayobami Adebayo was more interested in the "themes" and not the narrative or her characters, which is sacrilegious in a generational novel. Don't get me wrong. All the themes are promising. Take the class tensions. It is such an important subject these days, but the novel simply forgets about it in the second half, and in the first half, it doesn't show us more than the obvious: poverty is awful. Again with the political corruption. Nothing that happens in this novel around this subject feels new. The tone is serious, but the parts about domestic violence aren't actually more nuanced than what Colleen Hoover did on this topic. (Sorry about this comparison.) And I can go on and on about all of them. I'm not surprised that this has been Booker longlisted, as it is a prize bait novel. Unfortunately, behind all the important and serious themes (think of them as all the makeup some actors use to try to win their awards), everything is kept unidimensional. I regret starting my Booker 2023 journey with this one.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2023 Listen, two stars is maybe a little harsh, but this is the type of tame literature that doesn't hurt no one: It unfolds exactly as to be expected, the characters are well-known clichés, and readers can nod their heads and feel like they are on the right side of things as they bemoan the social ills depicted here without any nuance and without elements that counter-act or disturb basic convictions. It's convenient literature, intellectually lazy, drawn out, aesthetically conservative. God knows why this gets a Booker nod. The plot follows two families: Wúràolá is a doctor, but thanks to patriarchy, she is also expected to be an obedient wife and mother - she marries an old family friend who abuses her. In the second narrative strand, 16-year-old Eniolá has to beg in the streets in order to pay his school fees after his father loses his job, which in the long run makes him vulnerable to become complicit in the very structures that work to his detriment, because he has to survive. Of course, the ways if these two characters cross. So we have two people striving for an education, a man and a woman, one wealthy, one poor, and these societal and familial positions are juxtaposed plus the connections are shown, especially in the political realm: Wúràolá's father-in-law runs for governorship, and Eniolá also gets caught up in politics. The novel clearly tells us what to think about the situations presented, which is pretty annoying, as the moral is so obvious in the plot itself. Actually, it would be more fun if this was crafted as outrage literature, but for that, it would have to be more angry, more, well, outrageous, unruly, powerful. All that it is not. This is a novel that sticks to the well known rules of conventional storytelling while criticizing the unjust rules of Nigerian society. I wish the book would take more risks and go for a harder impact to bring its (very worthwile!) points across.

I the spirit of honest reviews, I found it quite difficult to invest in, or connect to this novel, and it took me a long time to find any rhythm in reading it. It’s a competent piece of modern African fiction, and does many of the things we’d expect from this kind of writing, and even does some of them well. For this reader though, the inconsistent pacing made it difficult for me to really ‘get into the story’. In a story littered with misfortune, struggle, and trauma, only one of the central characters really sparked my empathy. Ultimately I felt this was a story that was doing many things I’d read before, but perhaps not quite as well? It as was saved (ish) by the blockbuster vibes of the final section, but even this felt a little to convenient as a ‘bringing things together’ for me.

Finally another Adebayo!! I still think about her debut Stay with Me even though I read it years and years ago upon its release. —————— Just read it. Sadly, I found it a trudge to get through and hard to connect with :’( I’m sorry Adebayo I’m still a huge fan and Stay with Me is a masterpiece.

I was honestly SO excited to not only read -but to have actually been sent(!) Adebayo’s upcoming novell. Mainly as I was so utterly blown away by her debut “Stay With Me” (almost two years ago now!) Unfortunately -and maybe this is due to my setting very high expectations, this book sadly fell short, of that same masterfully written magic. “A Spell of Good Things” tenuously ties together the opposing lives of two characters -Eniloa and Wuraola, whiles also tackling (or at least trying to) much wider issues of; poverty, class, politics and culture within Nigeria. The stories of our two main protagonist -whom I’m sorry to say felt weakly undeveloped, were supposed to be “woven together”, yet it couldn’t have come across more opposite -or at least not until the last 1/3 of the book was there some semblance of “connection”. Personally I found that I was much more drawn to the secondary characters -Busola, Motara -heck even Eniola’s father! Especially as he was clearly suffering with mental health issues, which is so under acknowledged/spoken about within the black community. Honestly, reading this felt disappointingly chunky, disjointed and emotional void of all that I had previously loved -and admired, of Adebayo’s writings. 2.5 stars PS -regardless of my review, thank you again to Canongate for sending me a copy to review!

I wish Goodreads had a DNF function so it wouldn’t be added into the ratings. I really tried with this book and I’m not sure why I couldn’t get thru it. I’m disappointed in myself bc I really wanted to read it and was excited to read about Nigeria. But after 90 pages I gave up. I guess I just literally didn’t care about any character in the book and honestly it got confusing between names and who was who. Maybe I just needed to devote more quiet time to reading it. Who knows? I will at some point try this authors first book bc that one sounds so good.

I adored Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀'s previous book so I was excited to read her new novel. I have to say I was really disappointed with this book. I really struggled to get into it. I found the writing to be very intricate and I just couldn't get my head around it. There were lots of characters too that lost me. I wish I could say I enjoyed this book but I really disliked it. I couldn't get into it at all, it didn't keep my interest and I couldn't keep up with it. I may try the audio book to see if that helps as I am genuinely disappointed that I haven't loved this book as much as her first book.

What is presented as "a Claire Keegan short story expanded by Elizabeth Strout" is actually a powerful short story about giving birth as a teenager transformed into a mediocre novel where everything is overanalyzed and overexplained. I can understand that u can be obsessed about an event in your life, especially as traumatic as it is for our protagonist to give birth to a baby and abandoned it, but her journey to try to reconnect to her lost daughter gets to be just an excuse for other uninteresting themes and stories.

Clocking in at just 200 pages on my tiny phone screen, this book rejects the fast pace that characterizes works of a similar length. It meanders through the life of Dawn Bishop, unhurried and uneventful. We follow her journey through teen pregnancy, conflicting national identities, and complex relationships. Normally such rich topics for exploration, they are utilized here in a way that feels neither personal nor profound. We learn so much about her, yet I depart wondering who Dawn is and what she really wants. Her voice throughout retains a distanced and matter-of-fact quality that resists interactivity. This inner conflict is somewhat represented in the text as she searches for her missing piece, and I wished to see these themes consume more of the word count. We take a considerable time to describe the political, social, and relational conditions that would've developed in a longer novel, but weren't optimized for this story. Love Forms is a love letter to Trinidad with little obligation to be anything else. Thank you to Random House for the e-ARC.

I'm sorry but this was boring. The premise is a good one: teen heiress, daughter of white Trinidadian fruit moguls, is smuggled to a Venezualan nunnery in the night to give birth to her bastard child. The child safely adopted, she returns to the island, grows up, and raises a family in the UK. Now in her 50's, she's trying to reunite with her long-lost daughter. But you already got all of this from the blurb. The problem is: that's the entire book. Nothing really happens and the telling of the nothing feels like going through the motions. The book starts with a rehashing of the event. Because I went into this one not having read the blurb I was initially pulled in by the suspense of the trip and its mysterious purpose: a voluntary kidnapping? But this was by far the most exciting part of the book. Everything after that is either day-to-day dreariness in Dawn's pokey, dark, cold London townhouse or memories of her life in Trinidad and Tobago. Adam does something a bit odd with this character. It's clear she wanted to examine a very specific social class in Trinidad and explore minutae within it. She gets this out of the way early, where Dawn declares her social and race privileges and then never mentions them again. What is left is a small drama played out on a bland stage. It gives the story a surreal quality: a Caribbean paradise with no flair, color, or spice. And Dawn is also strangely bland. The stage is set but the actress upon it has no real soul. We spend ~300 pages getting to know her in a variety of ages and settings, yet at the end of it all I feel I know her no better than I did at the beginning of the book. And the things I do know only serve to distance me from the character. She seems to barely exist outside of her construct of motherhood. Either her motherhood is expressed through concern for her overworked junior doctor son, or her concern about the boys (men in their 30's!) missing their childhood home, or her trying to find her lost daughter. A note on this daughter since she is the entirety of the plot. I thought this part of the book was actually handled really beautifully. The grief that Dawn grows into, the emptiness over the years, her confrontations with her parents about this shameful secret: those were the parts of the book that felt real to me. That made me keep going and care about the character. Everything else just felt like filler! If you told me that all of the other details were actually just Adam's notes around Dawn that she never intended to put into the story that would have made sense to me. They add heft to the character, these details, they could motivate various choices, but they don't really matter to the story. I wish this book was 200 pages shorter than it is. It's not a long book but it has less to say than the length its been afforded. I hope someone who has lost a child or a mother finds some hope in this. And maybe someone from Trinidad (or Tobago!) enjoys this depiction but for everyone else I really think you can do better. I've heard this work mentioned in the same breath as Elizabeth Strout and while I think she also suffers from writing vanilla, middle-aged mothers of a wealthy social class the writing is much better than you'll find here. ===== Booker Prize Longlist 2025 ====== It's been 9 years since I last read a booker longlist and decided I'd jump back in and see if it felt like a prize worth following again. Here's the reviews in the order I read them: 1) Love Forms by Claire Adam 2) The South by Tash Aw 3) Universality by Natasha Brown 4) Flashlight by Elizabeth Choi 5) One Boat by Jonathan Buckley 6) Audition by Katie Kitamura 7) The Rest of Our Lives by Ben Markovits

This would have been much more enjoyable as a short story in The New Yorker. This read like a lonely old lady chatting you up in a grocery store - what are you on about !)? who asked ??? I’ve got places to be !! good luck with your day!! but of course one would be polite and entertain this conversation bc who knows how many ppl this lonely old lady actually talks to pity

I mean this book was fine, but it just didn’t really elicit any emotion in me.

BOOKER LONGLIST - A young woman from Trinidad and Tobago is persuaded in 1980 to give away her illegitimate daughter, regrets it, and looks for her. That's it. She tells you about it, and doesn't show you. We hear about her bins six times, the colour of her plant pots, meet her neighbours, the people at her work, none of it is relevant; Chekhov would be buying a gun and shooting the narrator, mark my words. The story uses tropes of detective fiction but only offers us one proper "suspect" from the women she meets on Facebook, then immediately undercuts a delayed DNA test with some extraneous information we and she could have heard much earlier from characters whose motivations seem to change as the story requires. There's even a last minute drive in the rain like an 80s romcom. It passed the time, but was definitely the weakest entry on a Booker list for years.

The biggest thing I have against this book is that it commits the greatest cardinal sin, and that's being boring. I was looking forward to Love Forms by Claire Adam, but this was an overall disappointing read. It's not bad, it can even be touching for a lot of people out there, but I had such high expectations. When I saw the Booker Prize longlist for 2025, this was one of the books that stood out to me the most. Beautiful cover and fantastic premise, but the execution fell flat with an average starting point before eventually going downhill.

Another 2-star Booker Prize long listed book for me and honestly I think this one hit home a little bit too much. First, the rampant colorism really pissed me off. I think the beginning of the book where she states that she was white and the woman whose house she stayed in was black was about all she needed to describe of race relations because the way she kept on going about how white she was and how very white she was and how very very white she was but Oh still Trini was just so fkn annoying. It just reminds me of how my Jamaican grandmother would caution me that I had to marry "light" so I wouldn't have dark babies. And the same insipid racism was an undercurrent in this book but was never put in a critical light for the amount of times the author chose to draw attention to it. This is the same line of thinking that allows light-skinned individuals to claim a Caribbean culture while at the same time reject being associated with the African diaspora which is continually framed as a shameful spectrum to be grouped into if you weren't at the very lightest end. Then, and maybe this is where it gets personal again, I have had enough judgmental Caribbean life advice to last me for, well, my life. And I completely understand that there really are some people who are so warped by cultural trauma that they feel like it's ok to have family members who will "tell it to you straight" and be excessively judgmental to the point of cruelty instead of being empathetic and supportive. Much like my own Caribbean family, this family was built on a patriarchal foundation rampant with dysfunctional interactions lacking any real connection. BUT, unlike these characters, my family is the product of post-colonial trauma, which breeds the mentality that you need to toughen your children and teach them to be hard-nosed in the face of all the challenges that life sets out. But that approach, though callously aggressive and ignorant of the lasting damage it can cause, is still done out of love and out of a desire to make sure your family is protected. There was no familial love here; the lack of empathy at Dawn's life was proof of that. And I question whether it's ok for a white family without the history of being colonized and without the pervasive anxiety of whether or not their children will be able to survive in the world, is allowed to adopt the cultural attitudes that were born of that trauma simply because they have appropriated the culture through a multigenerational presence. And that is especially so considering that the only reason their family established itself in Trinidad was to make money of the natural resources. It made my blood boil to hear her rationalize how her parents behaved towards her and the heartless things they said to her and allowed the other family members to say to her, considering that there was no need for them to be that way. That said, I appreciate her telling the story of the largely under-discussed Asilos Magdalenas of Venezuela but I think Claire Keegan did it better in Small Things Like These. I found the character too disoriented and noncommittal to really connect with her. I kept wanting to scream at her for perpetuating the well-rehearsed behavior of not saying everything that should be said. To say that she was lost was an understatement though I see now that this might have been the point. I did spend a lot of time eye-rolling at her errant thoughts and I skipped a ton of her memories of Tobago because they were ironically much too dull considering the images of lush beaches and the vibrant island life that it was supposed to be conjuring up for us. Ultimately, I think I wasn't really that moved by the writing style, to be honest. And I was very frustrated by the fact that she gives up a baby when she is a teenager so that she can "have a life" but then she gives up her life when she has kids later on but she waits until they are school-aged to do it. So, she worked through infancy and toddlerhood, then quit work once they hit school? And then expected her family to understand that she couldn't work? It made no sense. And her husband was just a non-factor for me. All in all, not my favorite for all the reasons listed above. The ending was precious but too little too late. And I wish I had it in me to be more heartbroken for her than I was. Oh well. 2 ⭐️

Meandering thoughts of a 50 something woman looking for a daughter she gave up when she was 16. I just cannot get over the Booker Prize long list nomination. There is just so much description of places and people who have absolutely nothing to do with the story, we had to sit through all that with no pay off in the end. It was all so underwhelming, I don't even know how to rate it. This needed to be edited into a short story, sometimes I really don't understand of publishing industry.

Longlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize The sun was blazing overhead when Saroja and Kumaresan stepped off the bus. Beyond the tamarind trees that lined the road, all they could see were vast expanses of arid land. There were no houses anywhere in sight. With each searing gust of wind, the white summer heat spread over everything as if white saris had been flung across the sky. There was not a soul on the road. Even the birds were silent. Just an ashen dryness, singed by the heat, hung in the air. Saroja hesitated to venture into that inhospitable space. ‘Step down with your right foot first,’ Kumaresan had said to her. She was now unsure whether he had said this in jest or if he had meant it. By habit, anyway, she had descended from the bus with her right foot first, but she was not sure he had noticed that. The courage she had gathered until then suddenly vanished, leaving her feeling uneasy. When her feet touched the ground, she had prayed within her heart, ‘May everything go well.’ She could not think of a specific god. She only knew the name of Kumaresan’s family deity, Goddess Kali, but she would not have been able to confidently recognize the goddess’s idol in the temple. The only Kali she knew was a goddess with widened eyes, terrifying teeth and her tongue sticking out. She could not pray to that Kali, who only inspired fear. Kumaresan had already walked quite some distance. Saroja quickly found her bearings and trotted ahead to join him. Shifting the heavy bag to his other hand, he looked at her. Nothing here appeared new to him. He was used to navigating this place even in the dark. He always walked with a spring in his step when he was here, and he felt the same way now. Pyre is Aniruddhan Vasudevan's translation of Perumal Murugan's 2013 Tamil original பூக்குழி. The English translation was originally published in India in 2016, but was published in the UK in 2022 by Pushkin Press (and in the US by Grove Press). This is an interesting story of love across caste boundaries and family opposition which extends to potential violence. But it is rather simple and disappointing in literary terms, and the translator's own afterword, as well as comments from some who've read the original, suggest some aspects have been lost in translation. Perhaps the most effective aspect of the novel is how Murugan keeps the castes unnamed and the story even ambiguous as to whether Saroja, from whose perspective the novel is primarily told, is of a higher or lower caste than her husband Kumaresan. Different readers seems to have drawn different conclusions, and Muragan I think has done this deliberately and has not provided more information even in interview, although the translator in 2016 did draw his own conclusion in an interview: Q: Is Saroja a Dalit? A: Again, it is never explicitly mentioned, but the story itself and how she is perceived and treated point us in that direction. A propulsive read but rather lacking in literary depth. 2.5 stars.

The concept of this story, of two people who are in love but cannot be accepted by the man’s family due to being from different castes, sounded like it would make for a brilliant book, but my god this was dull. It was incredibly repetitive. 3/4 of the book was the husband’s mother uttering words of disscontempt with her son’s choice of wife repeatedly. This could have made for such a deep and thought provoking read yet 200 pages felt like they lasted forever.

There were a couple of stories that grabbed my attention but for the most part, the collection was rather boring. The author has a lot of good concepts and sentiments, but sadly for me, they were not executed well enough to feel powerful or entertaining.

Not for me, babes. Had no clue what I was reading half of the time.

Disclaimer: I usually have a hard time vibing with short stories and this also the case here. In this collection, the shorter the story, the more I liked it. The really simple stuff with heavy elements of magical realism or a similar subversive angle captivated me the most and didn't linger more than it needed to. The best stories in here are the ones that are less than or barely 10 pages long. For the rest, the more character-centric, emotional stories, I felt like the stories didn't reach quite the level of depth needed for me to really get invested in what happens to the characters. And unfortunately, those were the stories that took the longest time to read. Maybe my overall opinion of this collection would be better if I'd just skipped more stories that didn't immediatly grab me.

what the fuck. what a brutal read

Because of the way it's written, reading this is really taxing. Long sentences exist without even breaking up paragraphs. It seems as though the author wrote a 130-page monologue without even giving the narrator a break. It absolutely disrupts the atmosphere and makes it more difficult for me to follow the plot. DNF@80

This is like a nasty run on sentence of a teenage boys brain and i could for sure have done without it

as brandon taylor wrote in his review: “i couldn’t decide if the book was a smart person’s idea of a stupid book or a stupid person’s idea of a smart book.” i will write a proper review soon, but this just didn’t work for me. i can appreciate some nihilistic, philosophical pondering, but i was just so bored and when i reached the end, i wasn’t sure if kushner had conveyed the message she wanted to, or if there was even one at all.

While reading this, the only real feeling I had about it, is that the literary intellectual community, is a circle jerk of MFAs that like to congratulate themselves on beautifully writing books that are devoid of both meaning and feeling. I thought the astronaut book was bad, but this. This is 200 pages longer. And I think has even less meaning. Its purpose wasn’t to tell a good story because the story was hot garbage. Barely coherent. It was like going to grandpa’s house, and grandpa’s lost a few of his marbles. So he goes off on random tangents that really don’t have any bearing on anything, like Neanderthals and Cave Paintings and Sailing via Star Navigation, but your mom promised you $10 and an ice cream sundae if you sit there and listen to him ramble, so you do, because you’re broke and you like ice cream but by the end of it you want to gouge your own eyes out from sheer boredom and you realize you should have asked for more than $10 and an ice cream sundae. The narrator, Sadie Smith, wants her money and her ice cream AND thinks that Grandpa’s rambling has some hidden meaning and that her life will magically get better if only she can find it. Meanwhile she’s infiltrating this hippie commune that’s like totally progressive, so progressive it quite resembles something out of the 50s, where the men drink and smoke and bullshit all day and the women barely pay attention to their drooling mostly naked babies and smoke cigarettes and gossip (this is France after all). Don’t worry, this is the natural order of things as evidenced by the progressive commune. The protagonist or author, I’m unsure which, has a weird fascination with the “sex lives” of children. Which was disgusting by the way, I really should have put the book down there. (view spoiler) It did on occasion make me laugh, but I had to skim read the last 30 pages because I really just could not any more.

This was just okay. Very smart and written well, though not particularly enjoyable.

Maybe I was too dumb for this book but I really didn’t like how it was written or the plot or really had any clue what was going on because of how things were being told. Are you supposed to be deducing things as you read along? It just felt so flat and confusing.

There were definitely some interesting aspects of this book, but overall, it didn’t quite work for me. I was hoping for a deeper dive into Sadie’s mission and how she ended up in this line of work, because she’s such an intriguing character. However, much of the novel was dominated by one character’s emails, which were filled with philosophical and anthropological musings. While those discussions on humanity, biological origins, and evolution were interesting at times, I felt like they pulled too much focus from the main storyline. I would have preferred a tighter narrative that kept the spotlight on Sadie, with fewer anthropological asides. Also, this is definitely not a thriller or a mystery. It’s a literary fiction novel and there wasn’t much suspense. The premise of infiltrating an eco-terrorism organization had the potential for excitement, but that excitement never materialized for me. Unfortunately, by the halfway point I found myself getting increasingly bored. Overall, this just wasn’t the right fit for me. I tend to prefer more plot-driven stories, which is why I struggled to stay engaged with this one.

tl;dr this joyless slog is smug, pretentious, and for all its apparent braininess, completely devoid of emotion When I hear a novel is about “what it means to be human” I expect, if not a complete overflow of emotion, at least a drop. According to the Booker Jury of 2024, Kushner’s lauded third novel Creation Lake is one such novel. I guess you could say technically that Creation Lake is about humanity in the sense that we get endless tangents about Homo Sapiens’ ancestor forms, as well as other folks and events throughout history. Yes, I get that Kushner has written a narrator that is far from likable. I do enjoy an unreliable (Lolita, Nabokov), self-effacing (My Year of Rest & Relaxation, Moshfegh), possibly even unredeemable (Disgrace, Coetzee) narrator on occasion. The thing is, you gotta get the human aspect right. I need to understand, and also more importantly feel why they’re like this. “Sadie” (in quote because Of course that’s not her real name), the narrator of Creation Lake, is so bent on ensuring that we don’t get a proper read on her, not even once, to the point that I just threw my hands up or heavily sighed, thinking, like Brandon Taylor did, why the fuck am I reading this then? It’s true that I stuck with it for awards-season purposes. The fact is that I’m not gonna jive with every single book that someone out there says is good. The beauty of reading! This was not a beauteous experience. Kushner cuts, sloppily, unevenly, between Sadie reading emails and Sadie doing a laughably bad spy job. And not laugh-out-loud laughable, more eye-rolling and irritating. All the eco-activist stuff reminded me of Birnam Wood, a book that I felt similarly cool towards for the first 2/3rds, until its final section absolutely ramps up the tension and action. No such payoff exists for Creation Lake – Kushner is so devoted to the subversiveness of it all that, yes, the ending met my expectations by failing to meet any sort of satisfying resolution. Because, after 416 pages of insisting that what you’re doing is the cool thing (no emotion, some mildly funny jokes), why would you? What was all the more frustrating was Kushner’s obvious, clever, and often effective sense of comedic timing, but with all the joy of it sapped out. It’s bone dry, it’s like knocking on stale bread. It’s humor without the fun – just how is that possible??? Kushner made it happen somehow. If you want an actually fun, actually enjoyable, and actually page-turning spin on the spy novel that also interrogates brainy stuff without baseball-batting you over the head trying to convince you of how clever, smart, and witty it is, another shortlistee from this year has written a far superior work.

Soft DNF of the audiobook version. I still think I might like this one if I pick up a physical copy sometime down the road.

this book started off strong for me and gradually fizzled out until it eventually became a slog to finish. while the writing is enjoyable, the plot and genre of the book are difficult to define. maybe i misinterpreted this book as being a philosophical thriller, but it was heavy on theory, philosophy, and setting up the main action without any breadcrumbs of suspense to keep you sustained along the way.

2.5-⭐️: Auto-fiction? I’m struggling to draw a connection between family heritage research & Wiener’s sex life: “I’ve cried so much over my father that I’m wet and ready to get rammed by an entire battalion.” Okay.

The International Booker Prize's long- and shortlists have been a lovely resource for me to find fantastic reads. Books including Elena Knows by Claudia Piñeiro, Still Born by Guadalupe Nettel, and The Dangers of Smoking in Bed by Mariana Enríquez have become some of my favourite, and I originally found them thanks to their being among the honoured works. With that precedent, I had very high hopes for Simpatía. And boy was I disappointed. In Spanish we have a lovely idiom that would fit this book like a glove: "el que mucho abarca, poco aprieta". Google tells me that the closest translation would be: "Jack of all trades, master of none". Fittingly, this book tries to be everything: historical fiction, magical realism, mystery novel, political critique, and it ends up being nothing. I felt the story was chock-full of loose ends and plot holes. Little details that seem important yet are otherwise forgotten in the rest of the story (what was the point of Nevado's blood-stained collar?), entire chapters that seem pointless (why do I want to know about bicycles in Amsterdam?), and missed opportunities to actually explore the characters and TELL A FULL STORY. To top it all up, one of the main selling points of the book (from the blurb and summaries found on the internet) is the implied presence of dogs as leading characters. As a dog lover, I was very excited about this. But upon reading the book, dogs are more of an afterthought, a vehicle to get us from point A to B of an otherwise low-stakes story. This was not for me, and I struggle to imagine who it might be for.

A family drama that unfolds in many directions. Ulises is left a large piece of property after the death of his father in law and the land is to be turned into a dog sanctuary (that’s what piqued my interest). As the book goes on much is uncovered about his father in law and the other characters. Also the story takes place in Venezuela among government corruption and economic turmoil. I found the story a little bit too scattered for my taste. 2.5

Sometimes has a good plot, but there's so many side tangents about things that are only somewhat relevant. I just kept wanting them to get back to actually doing the dog shelter. I was hoping it would be more about animals than people, too. Also, more sex than I was expecting when I chose to read a book about dogs.

*2.8 This book had so much promise from the first 2 pages and my thinking it’d be about dogs in Venezuela. Really I have no clue what this book was meant to be about or what it was really saying. It was quirky so kept me reading it quickly. But I think I was also just trying to get to the end, thinking it’d tie together the non-fiction & fictional stories. Alas noo.

boring! couldnt finish

Maybe this book was lost in translation, but I really did not enjoy the writing style. Things are repeated over and over again (I don't know how many times I need to know that the commander wiped his body down with a wet towel, for instance). The events around the crux of the novel are unclear - there's supposedly a gang rape but its glossed over in the span of a few paragraphs with no explanation of why or how they decided to do what they did afterwards. The sections in the second part of the book about the main character driving through what was Palestine and how things have changed was interesting but it all left me longing for more. There are bits and pieces that tie the two stories together, like the mirages, the gasoline, the dog...it gave it a mythical touch. And the ending is supposed to be unexpected, but the way that the characters actions are so not in tune with what her personality is laid out to be in the beginning kind of makes you expect something like that to happen. A beautiful plot concept, and I hope that there are more books that come out about this part of the world.

I think I understood the premise. The book is supposed to be about the minor things that happen that lead to a “minor detail” rape and murder by soldiers during the occupation by Israel in the late 1940s. However, the writing just doesn’t capture it for me. I think this book is getting a free pass review because people are hungry for books that paint Palestinians as the victims. This book does that but it just isn’t that good. Part 1 should’ve been labeled “a somehow boring rape and murder scene of a girl while the aggressor is given an excuse of a weird infection that isn’t fully explained” Part 2 : “a mildly autistic Palestinian girl blunders into a military encampment”. There are tie ins but they are literary only and so blindingly obvious as to be silly. Dogs bark and howl when bad things are about to happen? Not stellar writing. I did learn a bit about a “day in the life” for a Palestinian in Israel but even that felt forced and one dimensional. Sorry. I just didn’t love it.

13th and last (by some margin) in my 2022 Booker Prize longlist rankings - my Bookstagram rating, ranking, summary review and Book themed Golden Retriever photo is here: https://www.instagram.com/p/ChiL--FMu... The latest novel from the already Booker shortlisted author of “We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves” and one in which she continues to demonstrate both her considerable versatility and her more limited ability to hit literary excellence. The author’s early writing was in the Fantasy and Science Fiction area; her breakthrough novel “The Jane Austen Book Club” was more of a romantic drama with a shameless play for Janeite readers; her Booker shortlisted novel a really odd and for me unsatisfying mix of earily-spoiled witheld revelation, interesting metaphor and then not-interesting non-metaphor …………… and this novel is a move into fairly conventional historical fiction. Now as a non-American I have enough interest in US history to for example have enjoyed what I learnt of the life of Abraham Lincoln through the stunningly original “Lincoln in the Bardo”. In turn a book about Lincoln’s assassin – John Wilkes Booth – and the forces that drove him to his actions, could I think be of interest, particularly if accompanied by some excellent writing. But a book only partly about Booth’s family – and particularly one written in a very conventional prose (see below) is not one really likely to grab me, although having said that I did find the book an entertaining and informative diversion on a lengthy car journey (clarification: I was not driving). The book tells the story of Booth’s family and particularly his larger than life, famous Shakespearean acting, bigamist English father Junius through the viewpoints of: his oldest sister Rosalie – the one character that the author has had to largely imagine and for which she draws up a convincing portrayal of someone frustratingly but seemingly powerlessly drawn into a life as the unmarried and elder sister including as default carer for her mother as well as for any children of her siblings, as well as mentally and physically growing into a physical deformity; Edwin – who over time becomes the family provider and patriarch after the death and disgrace of their father as Edwin is himself a very famous and celebrated Shakespearean actor at a time when such actors were like the sports stars of today (including rivalries between different camps of supporters) but who like his father suffers with the demons of alcoholism – and whose relationship with the younger John is conducted in a series of Shakespearean quote duels (all of the family naturally interpret their lives through the Bard’s dialogue) and then later fierce arguments over the course of American politics; Asia – the younger sister (later famous as her family’s biographer) who seems to go through life on a series of disputes – maturing (if that is the correct word) from childhood tantrums, to teenage resentments to young adult family feuds. The story is interwoven with extracts from the life of Lincoln – which parallel what is happening in the family’s story and in the wider society as it rapidly descends towards civil war. Fowler interestingly makes it clear that for all her sympathies lie with the North and that Lincoln’s quotes on the dangers of a populist President inspired her writing, that Lincoln is no believer in or practitioner of racial equality (either of the white and black races, or of the settlers and the Native Americans). I felt that the book did not really succeed on the author’s stated aims – of examining how the family of someone who commits an atrocity deal with “their culpability, all the if-onlys” as the aftermath of the events had too little coverage. The writing as I have implied is fairly conventional – two words that I had mentally noted were “plodding” and “pedestrian” and when I decided party way through to pick a piece of descriptive writing to illustrate this, the first example I found had both a plodding horse and a pedestrian character! She stands for a long time looking out the parlor window, where Father's death has not changed the view. The clouds are low and unbroken, a gray lid set over the city. A strong wind is ripping the few remaining leaves from the trees, tossing them into the air, trapping them against the fences and the snowdrifts. A man passes on a plodding bay horse. Another, on foot, keeps his hat on his head with his hand. There was no reason for Mother not to have taken her along. Father would have been pleased to see her face. She turns back to the room. Overall I found the most interesting parts of the book the references to various historical incidents and the portrayal both of the world of superstar actors (and their passionate supporters) as well as of the descent to civil war – and I did end up concluding that I would have preferred this book as a non-fictional account as the fictional writing did not really add much in terms of language or style while still having the disadvantages of the extraneous detail of biography.

I heard that Karen Joy Fowler had written a novel called Booth and thought to myself: "Great! I'd like to learn more about this John Wilkes Booth fella." But that's not what this book is about at all. It's more concerned with the wider Booth family and their circumstances in the lead-up to the murder of Abraham Lincoln. We learn far more about the siblings of the infamous assassin than we do about the man himself. Rosalia is the eldest daughter, affected by scoliosis, single all her life. Edwin intends to become an actor, just like his father Junius, and he has plenty of ability, though the family addiction to alcohol has been passed to him. Younger sister Asia is beautiful but prickly. All of the Booths become anxious about the schemings of John. He's also an actor, a person who constantly strives for attention. And his opinions on the topic of slavery alarm his brothers and sisters. He makes bold claims and his sympathies with the South go against the liberal leanings of his family. But none of them ever truly believe that he is willing to act upon them. This is a long, slow-moving tale, bogged down in lots of unnecessary information. John is a peripheral figure in the book, and we never really get underneath his wild exterior to see what makes him tick. Of course his unstable home life must have had a profound effect on him, not helped by the malign influence of his troubled father. But as for what his going through his mind in the lead up to the assassination, it is not explored by this story in a satisfactory way. I didn't find his siblings all that interesting, apart from Edwin, who led quite a colourful life. And the crime itself happens so late in the book - we only get a glimpse of the shock and dismay that it thrusts upon the Booths. I found this a frustrating read overall. It's understandable that the author does not want to glorify the ideals and motivations of a murderer. But we end up with far more information about his family than we need, and learn precious little about of the personality of this historical figure, who is notable for all the wrong reasons. It's an unbalanced novel, and though it's rich in certain detail, it left me discontented.

A thorough exploration of the history and family dynamics that shaped infamous John Wilkes Booth. This novel follows the Booth family, largely involved in the Theater and other artistic pursuits, as they become more embroiled in the nation’s tumultuous political conflicts, until passions erupt with history-altering consequences. A solid glimpse into the ways in which our families build us up and tear us down, inspire us for good or for evil, and change the course of our identities as artists, activists, scandal makers, and criminals. With the detail and confidence of nonfiction but the poetic fluidity of a play script.

2.5 I found this novel somewhat "meh" hence the 2.5 stars. I listened to the audio which was nicely read by January LaVoy. I think I can safely say I now know far more than I ever wished to know about the family of John Wilkes Booth. Frankly I think Karen Joy Fowler set herself the near impossible task of writing a book about the family of John Wilkes Booth without making him the central character. It probably explains why the narrative jumped about all over the place encompassing all family members in the retelling of anecdotes about JWB. Karen Joy Fowler says there is a lot of written evidence but some of what she wrote was made up and some not. So my favourite piece of information (which I sincerely hope is not made up) was a letter from Asia written many years after the assassination in which she actually blames Lincoln himself for his own assassination because he should have stayed home that night or gone to church to pray for the souls of the many thousands killed in the war rather than going to the theatre to watch a play. She uses quite colourful language about the theatre which makes me suspect the veracity of the letter since her entire family made their money from acting. Either way it is this sort of evidence that reflects the book in that for the most part John is coddled and adored by his family and his brutal tendencies ignored or explained away. It is clear they were all a bunch of deluded idiots so far as their brother/son was concerned. The other part that I found hard to deal with was the huge cast of characters - quite a lot of whom seemed to change or share names- Junius, Jun, Joe, Johnny/John ... thank goodness the women didn't follow suit. It was like trying to follow the Kardashians singularly dull naming system. I know this has been a much lauded book but I found it circuitous, overlong and in need of a good edit. Not my thing at all.

Booth is not a story about John Wilkes Booth. Instead, it follows the entire Booth family, from its troubled patriarch, the heralded stage actor Junius, to the eldest surviving child, the quiet spinster Rosalie, to the stubborn and beautiful Asia, to the passionate Edwin struggling to assert himself as heir to his father’s theatrical legacy. John is just one of the many characters in this story, a volatile, handsome young man loved fiercely by his siblings even when he begins to fall from grace. Repudiating his father’s tolerant views and his family’s loyalty to the Union, John steeps himself in sympathy to the Southern cause, while the rest of his siblings wrestle with their own changing affections, burgeoning careers, blossoming families, and decades-old sorrows. Karen Joy Fowler creates an unconventional structure to the story, sprinkling vignettes of Lincoln alongside scenes from the Booths’ lives. There are moments where the text skips into the future and back again into its present, the narrative adopting a meandering, omnipresent quality as the Booth family endures both tragedies and triumphs. 3.5/5: A unique work of historical fiction that humanizes the infamous family and JWB himself without eulogizing or excusing his actions. It was a bit too slow-paced for me, partly because I knew it was heading for the inevitable conclusion of the assassination. Some characters are more compelling than others, but each of the Booths manage to emerge as holistic individuals rather than caricatured or hollow interpretations. Booth is more a collection of musings on the concept of family than a straight-forward historical fiction novel, something that is likely to appeal to many readers. I found myself seeking something more solid and structured, but I also appreciated the creative and measured approach to such a tricky historical subject. Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Now Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2024, because this year's Booker is more or less a joke It really, really pisses me off when a book employs Nazi references in an attempt to simulate depth and importance, and Posthuma constantly slaps us with the infamous Dr. Josef Mengele (and of course also Adolf Hitler). Yes, the novel is about fraternal twins and the suicide of the older brother, but there is absolutely no plausible connection to the brutal twin experiments Mengele conducted in concentration camps, experiments that encompassed the severe torture and murder of children. To continuously reference them for shock value and to signal pain is rather disgusting, IMHO. Stop the literary abuse of the Holocaust, it's not a tool authors should employ when they can't make their actual topic work. And the actual plot here is about the aforementioned twins, with the younger sister narrating how she grew apart from her queer brother during their college years, how he sank into depression in his thirties and finally drowned himself (no spoiler, we learn that right away). The suicide happens at around 60 percent, so we also have a substantial part dealing with the aftermath for the ones left behind and grieving, a narrative decision I want to applaud because it's not portrayed frequently. There are also attempts to make the narrator appear interestingly odd, as a woman with a temper who likes to stroke and collect sweaters, but it comes across as a weird girl trope - and this leads us to the heart of my criticism: The text is contrived, every aspect is obviously rendered to signal heaviness and importance. It's also often clichéd, and, worst of all, it's terribly boring. We get the mandatory cultural references from Osho to Trump to Ween to watching "Survivor" (hahaha, funny), and it's mainly just pointless. The stronger scenes involve the grieving sister in the last quarter, convincingly showing a woman trapped in her sadness. What I'd rather not think about are the many strong eligible novels the International Booker decided to ignore in favor of this.

Shortlisted for the 2024 International Booker Prize - which will make a fascinating factoid for a future novel in this ilk. The fact that we weren't identical was something I'd long considered a handicap. What I'd Rather Not Think About is Sarah Timmer Harvey's translation of Waar ik liever niet aan denk by Jente Posthuma, the novel's title is in part a nod to Deborah Levy's Things I Don't Want to Know. The story is narrated by one of a pair of fraternal twins, in her mid 30s at the time of the novel, the younger of the two siblings: My brother called himself One and me Two because he had been born forty-five minutes earlier than I was on a sweltering day in August. He treated me like his little sister, was longer and heavier than me at birth, and had taken up almost all the space in my mother's belly. I'd been stuck behind him with my left leg thrown over my shoulder, or so the story goes. This was why it took a little extra time for me to emerge. Our actual due date had been a month later but my brother had gone ahead, and I wasn't about to be left behind. The fact that we weren't identical was something I'd long considered a handicap, a consequence of our premature birth, even once I understood the difference between identical and fraternal twins. We could have grown even closer in that ninth month. The author explained at the Booker readings that she doesn't like characters in books (that she reads as well as writes) having given names, as she finds is distracting, hence the 'One' and 'Two' - and she'd have ideally avoided that as well. We learn early on that Two's brother, One, has died of suicide, a death with echoes of Woolf as he cycled into a river laded down with stones. The novel tells of her relationship with her brother -close but not as close as she wishes it was - and of their respective lives, and the source of his, ultimately fatal, depression, in a series of non-linear vignettes. Some Wikipedia pages I read only because I knew the information on them would interest my brother. I searched for facts about pigs and deforestation and antidepressants so that I could share these little titbits with him, always in small doses, otherwise it would seem like I deliberately sought them out. After his death, there was no limit to my googling. I constantly searched for new facts, for ways to outsmart my brother, now that it was no longer necessary. I learned that pigs will compulsively rub against the bars of their excessively narrow cages in a desperate attempt to seek out some form of contact. In theory, and particularly as a twin, this should resonate emotionally. However, rather too much of the novel consists of shallow facts gained from Wikipedia. This lacks the intellectual depth of a typical Wikinovel - here we 'learn' about the twin towers and Philippe Petit; Donald Trump's divorce from Ivanka and the fact he has small hands (who knew?); the 2008 financial crisis and Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. A TV series called 'Survivor' also features prominently - apparently an international franchise developed in the UK. It doesn't help when the facts include statements like, referring to Ulm Cathedral: The church had a tower, that was 16,153 metres tall, the tallest church tower in the world, which I’d read on Wikipedia before I visited it. Leaving aside the fact that the decimal comma really ought to have become a point in the English translation, a 16 metres highest church tower is clearly an order of magnitude wrong. I'd wondered if this was actually a clever nod to the narrator's lack of intellectual depth, but apparently the Dutch original has it, correctly, as 161,53 metres. There is an odd diversion into the story of Osho / Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, whose philisophy attracts her brother but added little to the novel. More pertinently and movingly, the narrator is obsessed with Josef Mengele, and two twins who were his victims in particular, Miklosz and Tibor Bleier. Although the analysis lacks depth and, as her twin points out to the narrator: You’re not Jewish, my brother said. You’re not an identical twin. You’re not a victim of anything. For me an odd inclusion on the International Booker longlist, although this interview with the translator does bring out the novel's qualities: https://www.asymptotejournal.com/blog....

2.25/5 did not enjoy this. started out great, but i slowly got lost trying to decipher the linkage between mental health and all that mentions of 9/11, the holocaust, hitler, trump etc… is the book trying to simulate grief by using devastating real life events in a fictional story? also that mengele obsession is weird as hell.

Review post book club What is the moral of the story? How did the character grow? it felt like the author started to write a journal entry that didn't follow a proper storyline. You'd read about random thing that could have been mentioned 100 pages back, but those things didn't add to the story so what was the point? I want to lower the rating now that i think about it. The first half was GREAT, i got super into it super quick, i was looking forward to seeing the character development, but then the brother died (no spoiler) and it felt like a downward slope truly. Nothing made sense, the character learned nothing, i felt like i was being fed air. The second part was hard to get through and it was barely 100 pages?? Anyway. I wouldn't recommend the book, and im also lowering one star for casually mentioning a genocidal state. Can't believe it was shortlisted for the bookerprize.

listen i understand the purpose of the third person and how it illustrates her detachment from reality from grief but good god i couldn't be any less invested in her if i tried

2.5 ⭐️ This honestly just didn’t work for me I felt nothing for the main characters and for such a depressing topic I felt it really lacked depth and emotion Really disappointed cause the concept of this was so interesting but the execution didn’t work at all for me personally Also the weird political references in this ? Idk what the author was on Felt the pacing of this was so slow and dragged on so much considering it was only 200 pages

Longlisted for 2023 Booker Prize Does this book idealize what it means to be autistic? I don't know, but it felt that way. And it's not the only problem this book has. Like 'Pearl' (another one written by a poet. What makes someone a poet? Because I doubt that without prior knowledge, people reading the Booker longlist would spot the poets), it is amateurish. It is mediocre at best. Anyway, I feel like I'm getting too harsh, so I'm going to stop talking about the book. Lets discuss a little bit the Booker. This was the first and only year that I've read the entire Booker longlist. I wouldn't recommend it. I liked some books (half of them), but the experience of reading all the books makes me doubt even the good ones. Did I liked the good ones because they were good or only because they were in the company of the bad ones? I'm not so sure anymore. For example, I struggled with 'How to Build a Boat' the most, not because it was the worst one, but because I started it after leaving the Booker bubble. So I'm not going to do it again, at least not in the way I did it this year. I cherish my ability to DNF a book and I don't trust the Booker judges too much either.

The flow of the story was largely lost under the structure the author chose to present it in. Not a fan of the trend of being stingy with punctuation. It just about works to emphasise the stream of consciousness style of Jamie’s thoughts but loses the effect when applied wholesale throughout.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2023 Okay, so let's celebrate our tolerance for ambiguity: This ambitious sci-fi story is a possible Booker winner, it's very well crafted - and I didn't enjoy it one bit. I applaud MacInnes for writing an eco novel that shows how human beings are part of a larger, mysterious, and beautiful natural system, it's one of the few Booker entries that at least somehow relate to current political issues. In the world depicted, climate change has accelerated. Enter our protagonist, marine biologist Leigh: Growing up in Rotterdam with a violent father who despaired over his job keeping the rising tides at bay, adult Leigh first joins a mission that researches a vent apparently three times deeper than the Mariana Trench - Leigh specializes in the research of unicellar algae, one of the oldest sources of life. Then, Leigh is recruited to join a secret space mission that aims to find out about mysterious irregularities - the algae are supposed to provide food and be part of the intended research. So yes, you need to have a propensity for slow-moving, description-heavy, 500 page tomes that dive into the intricacies of marine biology and space travel and extrapolate the status quo to possible future developments in these fields. I really tried, but the fact that I didn't care about any of the characters (especially the space crew hardly gets any proper character development) made it even harder to plough through page after page of elegiac evocations of scenes and atmosphere. It's not that it's badly done, in fact MacInnes achieves exactly what he aims to do, it's just that this kind of writing does nothing for me: Endless mundane occurrences on ships and in space, intricate, lengthy scene-setting, conversations about the how's and why's of detailed scientific endeavors... that's a no from me. We have recurring motifs like immersion, distance, and connection, we have light and darkness, the unreliable human apparatus for perception and understanding, it's very well thought out. I also liked the constant idea that in nature, time exists horizontally, so the beginning of life is still happening in various senses. The title of the novel alone underlines the author's cleverness: Leigh ascends from diving, she ascends to the sky, there's an idea of religious/spiritual wonder, and the spacecraft is supposed to come down on Ascension Island. In the final part, we hear the perspective of Leigh's sister Helena (IMHO, the most interesting character, so needless to say she hardly features) who questions natural scientist Leigh on many levels. But I was bored out of my mind: The broad descriptions and the slow pacing, the even temperament of the whole text just drove me nuts. So all in all, I'm not surprised (and not even mad) if this wins the Booker, but I can't get behind this novel, purely for reasons of subjective taste.

At 35, I was supposed to start having seizures. Thanks to a mutated gene, my body does not process the amino acid commonly found in meat. However, long before the geneticists got their hands on me, I knew I didn’t feel good eating meat and became a pescatarian (a person who eats fish and is a vegetarian). So, trust me—I believe in the power of greens. Research indicates that looking at green for as little as 2 seconds can boost creativity. Nominated for a Booker Prize in 2023, In Ascension checks a lot of the right boxes. Strong female characters. Less than ideal childhood. Familial dysfunction. Environmental issues. Mysterious elements. At the same time, the magic in this book is buried under a mountain of boredom because In Ascension needs sharper storytelling. When the reader starts to nod off, MacInnes should cut those bits. In particular, 90 out of the last 100 pages should have been cut; the reader doesn’t need a 100-page epilogue. The book is so slow that I dreaded each time I picked this up. It felt like a watered-down version of Project Hail Mary. This is an important work with meaningful elements but proceed with an abundance of patience. *Thanks, Edelweiss, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and unbiased opinion. How much I spent: Electronic text – Free/Nada/Zilch through Edelweiss provided by publisher Audiobook - Free through Libby Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta

An intriguing start; the way the author writes science fiction about the present and the past, how it seeks out mysteries in the depths of the ocean rather than in the sky. Unfortunately, I don't think it lived up to its promises. I lost interest very quickly. Perhaps certain events didn't leave the expected impression on me? Or maybe I'm just surprised that the hype didn't materialize. It quickly became one of those novels that tries to be serious and profound but fails by being so ordinary. However, I am aware that this checks many Booker boxes and it seems that many people enjoyed the 'profound' '2001: A Space Odyssey,' 'Contact,' 'Interstellar,' 'Ad Astra,' and 'Arrival' type of ending. How profound can a book be that ultimately repeats that kind of bigger-than-life mystery? I also want literary science fiction, but I can't pretend that this story is better than it is just because it has a different kind of writing.

I didn't hate this book, but I think its moments of brilliance were far outweighed by its flaws. For me, the brilliance mostly lay in the crafting of individual sentences and moments of vivid description, especially as relating to nature, the environment, and I thought the final final chapter was beautifully rendered. I can see why this book was nominated for a literary prize. It's not like the author can't write. But reading his work felt like playing a slot machine. You pull and pull and pull, hoping to hear that happy sound of the jackpot. And there's just enough "winning" to keep you going . . .but barely. In the end, I didn't feel like I walked away with enough payoff to justify the time spent. It was so uneven, often boring. The characters weren't fully realized because if they were, I would have cared about them when they were in danger, and I never did. So much straight up narration. The book is divided into five parts, and it's a miracle anyone makes it through the second part which is mostly set up for what's to come. It did wonders for my insomnia though.

Oh boy this is bad. Many problems here. The Sci-Fi is jarringly implausible, the depiction of an abuse survivor doesn't ring true and the characters are completely humourless. There are utter basics here in Scientific method and technical details, not to mention fundamental physics, that the author, editor or publisher should have checked as feasible before continuing. Not to mention, basic safety precautions while diving were not adhered to and then the main character is offered a place on a Space flight? All divers don't jump out of a zodiac without anyone staying on the boat. I mean WTF, in the middle of the ocean? Oh, not to mention the preparations for Space travel and how they carry on while there. Seems somebody forgot to pack the Geiger counter, so the poor sods can't be certain if they were exposed to radiation (head-slap). I can read fiction and practicalities don't bother me, but it has to be written in a way that I can see beyond it and not be completely yanked out of the story. I couldn't suspend disbelief at all, despite listening to the end in the hope it would get better. I can't rate it higher than two stars for that.

There’s a quote on the back cover from Karen Joy Fowler (I’ve no idea who that is!): “I don’t think I’ve ever read a book that was as profound and moving at every scale …”. With the greatest of respect, she’s obviously not very well read. This book somehow manages to be not moving AT ALL. Completely devoid of emotion, despite a promising plot line. Incidentally, one of my major disappointments was how such a promising plot line led to such a weak book. It reads like a textbook, not a novel, moreover one with several pages missing.

2.5 stars. I was really enjoying this book at the beginning, I found it so intriguing and loved the bits about Leigh’s family and the search for the unknown algae. But about half way through I just started to get really bored as the story shifted to a completely different set of characters. This was marketed as an Annihilation/Arrival type book but this is so much more open-ended and literary than those which I really didn’t enjoy. To me there was no pay off at the end and there wasn’t as much of a scientific mystery as I was hoping. I wanted something which was going to really scare me and blow me away like the book and film it’s compared to but there was nothing in this novel which really hit me. The bits I liked the most were the parts at the start, the bits about Leigh’s sister and her mother, and the bit on the ship with K and Tyler where they were all starting to get sick. Really gelled with these sections and thought they were great, but the book as a whole was just really disjointed and slow for me and was failing to grab my attention. I’m learning how picky I am with sci-fi and this is one which just missed its mark. The more literary a sci-fi is the more I seem to hate it. Sad because I had such high expectations for this book and it was the only one on the Booker longlist which I really fancied reading. I would still recommend it if you enjoy slow burning sci-fi with a great prose and simmering atmosphere but don’t expect this to knock your socks off.

For what this book ends up being, it's obscenely long. I enjoyed it initially because I didn't know where it was going and I didn't find it so aggressively pretentious like everyone else does, everybody giving it a 1-star made me excited but I was on board with it for the first two parts or so, but I'd say that the philosophising on all these boring well-worn sci-fi tropes hits at about the 40% mark (about when the alien ship or some shit shows up) and does not stop. The plot is absolutely ridiculous with this woman becoming an astronaut and being privy to every important event in the history of man one after another, and the book does not seem aware of this. They just show her aliens casually and she's like 'wow how strange', HUH, the fuck was that? The book spends so much time talking about the details of the space journey and her research but none of it made any fucking sense and never felt like a realistic progression of circumstances. I liked the dual plot of her mum dying as the main character is doing other things but the book insists on the significance of that more times than I could possibly count. This author puts a 'transcript' between the main character and the therapist talking about her trauma, the book is first person bitch we've seen all of this, every single bit, we get the subtext and we get the character, the only reason you included that to break the flow of first person is because you thought it was such a genius move but it feels so sloppy. Nobody talks like a human, characters explain concepts to each other that they should already know for the sake of the reader, the plotting was really bad and so much felt inconsequential, no character was memorable, and in my mind it felt like the length of fucking Anna Karenina. This shit gets worse the more I think about it. I apologise for liking it initially, that was my mistake, it won't happen again. The Booker Boogie is turning into a Depressing Booker Polka

** spoiler alert ** Oh my. This is one of those interesting cases that I feel like should have worked for me. Literary sci-fi? Check. So many people whose opinion I respect loved it? Check. A mashup of Our Wives Under the Sea and Contact (both of which I loved)? Check. And yet this turned into a cascade of disappointments that left me actually gripping my Kindle in frustration by the end. The core of the issue, I think, is that the “personal” side of this novel left me cold. Something about Leigh and her family dynamic and backstory felt too obvious, a bit contrived, repetitive and full of unnecessary detail. To me it distracted from the sci-fi mystery/adventure storyline, which I wanted to be the focus. So when the last part shifts perspective to Leigh’s sister and spends most of the time narrating mundane events, I was increasingly annoyed and actually felt it was wasting my time.

Ismail Kadare is one of those writers who I just don’t like. I’ve always thought his plots were interesting but his writing style does not gel with me. I find it laborious. While researching, Kadare discovers that in 1934 Josef Stalin called Boris Pasternak for three minutes in order to enquire about an arrested poet. Kadare then takes this call and views it from 11 different perspectives, with a 12th being an epilogue. In the process Kadare discovers the link between politics and literature or how literature is a form of protest. I didn’t like the book. I found it dull and a slog for such a short novel. Even the message didn’t impress. I know one can’t like every book on a longlist and this is the one.

Booker long list 2024 - this was extremely dense and complex for how short a book it was, but writing 250 pages about a 3 minute phone call will do that to ya. I was super excited by the premise of all of the different points of views and perspectives of this obsessive sleuthy auto historical fiction about a true 3 minute phone call between Stalin and Pasternak, but it was too chewy and bitter.

Ismail Kadare remains one of the literary figures I most admire,his ability to distill the psychological complexities of life under authoritarianism is unmatched. However, A Dictator Calls left me unexpectedly unmoved. The book attempts to interrogate a singular, opaque moment in Soviet literary history ,Stalin’s phone call to Pasternak concerning the arrest of Mandelstam nd expands it into a broader meditation on fear, complicity, and the writer’s role in totalitarian regimes. The premise is compelling, and Kadare’s erudition is never in doubt, but the execution felt curiously stagnant. Though I approach the world through a socialist lens, my dissatisfaction with the book was not ideological. Rather, it stemmed from its structural repetitiveness and philosophical detachment. Kadare circles the event obsessively, but instead of deepening the mystery or illuminating new dimensions, the narrative becomes increasingly insular, even arid. In place of emotional resonance, we are given abstraction.in place of narrative tension, reflection that borders on redundancy. Kadare is a master, but mastery does not always guarantee vitality. A Dictator Calls feels more like a footnote to his oeuvre than a necessary addition to it.

An intriguing premise sadly let down by the execution. I was sorely disappointed in the lack of profundity of A Dictator Calls. Worse, the regular allusions to the Nobel Prize had it reading like a begging letter. No, thank you.

June 1934, Stalin allegedly had a 3-minute phone call with novelist and poet Boris Pasternak to discuss the arrest of fellow Soviet poet Osip Mandelstam - what could they have said to each other…? It was such an intriguing premise to imagine what could have been exchanged in the alleged phone call between Stalin and Pasternak, but thirteen versions of it were just too much. Yes, thirteen. The writing was so dry and with a lot of jumping around between different thoughts, resulting in quite a disparate novel that lacked flow. Yet it also felt repetitive - there’s only so much variation possible in a 3-minute conversation about a specific topic. The novel also didn’t get off to a great start with a confusing and frankly self-indulgent self-insert by Kadare - the guy is clearly desperate to be awarded a Nobel Prize, but I rather doubt that this is the book that will get him there (I haven’t read any of his other work, so can’t comment on the rest of his œuvre). It must be said that there were interesting tidbits around writing under tyranny and the fine line that writers and poets must walk between veiled criticism of an authoritarian regime and falling foul of it, but they were too sporadic to salvage the book for me. An intriguing premise exploring writing under tyranny, but the execution was dry, repetitive and filled with disparate thoughts that just didn’t come together cohesively.

Good concept, extremely mid execution. There are some gems in this book, but they are few and far between. Otherwise the author often gets boggled down in repetition that of the dry and dull type, one that does nothing to push either affects or narrative further. Author's thoughts on tyrants and poets did not strike me as interesting, but rather as extremely naive - especially towards the end. That is aside from the sudden diatribes against socialism, Lenin, Marx etc. Diatribes that are - again, see a theme? - extremely simplistic and of the "communism bad" type, not to mention that they suddenly depart from the chosen historical period for seemingly no reason at all. As a scholar working on him I also have to state that the misreadings of Marx are especially mindboggling, so much so that they force me to wonder whether they author ever actually read him. And for a book about poets - to a degree - it seems weird that the Soviet artist circles and their art are entirely absent beyond a few names. The entirety of the Russian avantgarde disappears, as if it did not matter at all historically. The author seems to imply that real art could not exist within the Soviet states, but that is both inaccurate and, well, stupid. 2 stars only because of the potential and because it is not badly written, aside from the dryness of Kadare's style. But this is a potential that was very much wasted.

I read this book due to its longlisting for the 2021 International Booker Prize - thankfully the book quietly disappearing at the shortlist stage. The translator Nichola Smalley won the Oxford-Weidenfeld Translation Prize (I assume for the technical aspects of translation). The book’s title is taken from a Simone Weil quote included in the epigraph where it is translated from the French via the Swedish as “Contradiction is our wretchedness, and the sense of our wretchedness is our sense of reality” – and (in contrast to some other books on the longlist) I am glad here the publishers and translator retained the original title and I think this gets at the heart of the book – a fundamental contradiction between a life the narrator is now living and the reality of the way he grew up. The book could be said to be a tale of modern art music mixed with drugs and violence which is Proustian in composition, told in a Bernhardian style and with an Atkinsonesque ending. Unfortunately I also found it be to be rather Wretched to read. The narrator is a classical musician in his late 30s, but one who grew up on a deprived immigrant-filled suburb of Malmo – one described in 1985 by a Swedish journalist as a “human rubbish dump”, the narrator and his immigrant – or as his father preferred to say emigrant/exile - family moving there in 1982 having seen Sweden as something of a promised land. He then seems to fall in with a gang of friends who one of their members describes as “failed-abortions” and into a life of drugs, violence, tagging, suicidal tendency hip-hop and metal music all played out against a background of ethnic/racial tension – and later (I think) moves around a number of European cities. His first Madeleine is a changed-begging junkie he encounters when walking away from a rehearsal of a piece by the composer Giacinto Scelsi. Sometimes discussions with two fellow musicians have the same impact – for example when discussing a piece “Airs” the narrator starts thinking about the effect of broken ribs and the difficulty of taking in air in a way I found rather clunky (I started being concerned that “flats” would remind him of where he grew up, “sharps” of some knife crime and “minor scales” of the juvenile justice system – but to be fair I think the author pulled back from this). As my brother Paul has pointed out, there is a fascinating partially-inverse symmetry in this book to last year’s main-Booker longlisted “Who They Was” by Gabriel Krauze. In this book as have a narrator who starts in a life of drug use and violence on Swedish estates, but who by the time of the main narration has become a professional cellist. Krauze by contrast (for his book was almost entirely autobiographical) grew up in a middle-class family and learnt the cello (his brother is a professional violinist) – before deliberately choosing to move to a London estate and getting involved in gang drug use and violence. One of the most worrying but also strongest aspects of Krauze’s book was its autobiographical nature. Most worrying because it seemed from interviews after publication (I originally read it pre-publication) that for all his protestations that he was a changed man, the author seemed to rather revel in his crimes and assaults – posing with his “grillz” for publicity photos. Strongest because it gave the book real authenticity: incidents in the book, places, roads can be easily looked up and verified – plus you know that that the author is speaking from real experience. Another strong aspect for me was its London setting – the book had much to say about the divide in London into almost two different Cities, and with most of the book set less than 10 miles from where I have worked for 25 or so years, this really struck home with me. Here I felt the book had much lower impact on me (in fact almost no impact) – both due to its lesser authenticity (the author has said much comes from "indirect" experience, which is really not the same thing) and to the much reduced personal resonance of its setting. This book has extensive musical references and the author has produced a Spotify playlist – with detailed notes on how it relates to the book https://thequietus.com/articles/28531... I cannot pretend that the modern art music here really appeals to me at all – and nor did the references in the book. As a quick musical aside though – the Scelsi piece in the article is a “slow, creeping, microtonal movement from one note C to another A". Returning to the Krauze comparision (as an aside Krauze’s political cartoonist father shares the author of this novel’s first name) neither of the two books describe the move from one state (cello/crime) to the other (crime/cello) with any real conviction or at any real length. In Krauze’s case this is part of what makes the book feel ultimately uncomfortable, he cannot really account for his life choice; in this novel the author in the playlist article refers to wanting to show the “fallacy of social mobility” and a simplistic redemption or improvement narrative was not going to fit. The writing style between the two books is also different - single-paragraph chain-of-association monologues with often spooling sentences, as opposed to the immediacy and tautness of Krauze’s prose. On one level this suits the two books I think: one as I described above a Proustian style reverie taking place in the narrator’s mind and memories while he is simultaneously carrying on a present day classical music conversations; the other designed to put us right in the narrator’s eyes and body in his gangster days - right from the impactful first chapter. But I have to say that the Krauze approach worked better for me – the combination of the rather repulsive subject matter and rather reprehensible narrator worked better for me with staccato immediacy that with sentences I found to be completely unreadable. I would rather read a quick description of some more drugs and fights – matching how they actually occurred - than one that takes place over pages of interminable and contorted prose. In the end I started flicking through my Kindle from around 25% onward with this book – went to the end (which was rather cliched in its twist) and then went back only to start flicking through again. Overall a book I was pleased not to see on the shortlist.

Wasn’t a big fan of this book. Long stream of consciousness sentences dominate this short novel from a guy in Scandinavia living in the streets. It feels like it’s meant to be a tough gritty portrayal of a grown up street kid (a bit lik a Trainspotting) but feels more like it stereotypes it.

** spoiler alert ** I think this can only be described as poverty porn. Reading a few reviews online, they seem to have this novel as an exemplar case of how we miss the troubles of our cities. But I don't know whether it's the way it's written or the Narrator we follow but I just couldn't enjoy it. We're meant to believe this character, he's kind of escaped this life and it's not something he's interested in. But the whole text is him going back over it and ruminating on it. There's nothing worse than talking about a problem, Pointing out all the things wrong with it and then really kind of just reveling in that, that's what it feels like. I may reread this one day and feel differently but... from the reviews I've read online and the praise I've sort of seen this text been given. The whole thing kind of comes off as people sort of pointing and looking at "Wow, this is what it's like to be poor, oh my gosh, this is so breathtaking." It feels exploitative and that may not have been the intention but that's how it feels. It came off. Maybe if You're a fan of William Burroughs, Irvine Welsh or hunter S Thompson, I feel like maybe you might get something out of this. It really just depends on the sort of person you are. I haven't and I may have to try again.

I think I was simply the wrong audience for this book. I didn’t like it at all. As best as I can make out the book is a blend of fact (the therapist A. Collins Braithwaite did exist and the book details his rather lurid life) and fiction in the form of 5 notebooks which make up the case study. If any of that is wrong I simply don’t care. There are other, more positive reviews, of the book and I would encourage you you read them. The case study comes about as an unnamed narrator calling herself Rebecca Smyth starts seeing the therapist her sister, Veronica, was seeing 2 years ago and whom she blames for inciting her sister’s suicide. The point of that is unclear to me. The point of the book was unclear to me. The characters were all odious. Braithwaite was nothing but a pretentious twat, although he readily acknowledged that. Rebecca started to get confused about where her ‘self’ ended and Rebecca began. However I did not care about Rebecca or whoever she really was either as she came across as a pretentious twat as well. This was supposedly set in the 1960s. I was around them, albeit very young but I really can’t remember people speaking like Rebecca or being so self absorbed. Maybe it was because I am a heathen Aussie but my memories of that era and into the 70s is of not giving a fig what people thought. We just did what we wanted and had a good time. I never spent long in front of a mirror obsessively examining my face and clothing, I was just anxious to get of the door and party, nobody gave a toss about appearances. It read as set at least a decade earlier. And maybe the author was trying to make some point that escapes me or he is not able to channel a young woman as well as he thinks. Oooh controversial! Anyway I found it all very long-winded, boring and full of irrelevant details. Thanks to Netgalley and Text Publishing for the much appreciated arc which I reviewed voluntarily and honestly.

This is not my first rendezvous with Graeme Mcrae Burnet. I've previously read and enjoyed His Bloody Project and The Disappearance of Adèle Bedeau. So when his most recent novel earned its place on the Booker longlist, I needed no encouragement to get stuck in. The story is mostly concerned with the affairs of Collins Braithwaite, a leading proponent of the anti-psychiatry movement of the 1960s and at one point known as "Britain's most dangerous man." At the beginning, the author tells us that he has come into the possession of several notebooks written by a former patient of Braithwaite's, who believes that he was the leading cause of her sister's suicide. The book then splits into two separate narratives. One gives us a biography of Braithwaite - his troubled upbringing, his study of psychology, his hellraising ways. The second storyline looks at the nameless narrator's attempts to investigate her sister's death. She becomes a patient of Braithwaite's under a false name, Rebecca Smyth. She exaggerates Rebecca's fragile emotional state, in the hopes that he will continue to treat her, and she in turn can learn more about him. But she begins to enjoy this alter-ego a little too much, and it threatens to take over her whole life. Once again, Mcrae Burnet takes pleasure in blurring the lines between fact and fiction. I had to do a quick Google to verify that Braithwaite was not in fact a real person, so convincing was his description. But I must admit that I didn't enjoy this book as much as the author's previous efforts. Not all of the story's mysteries were satisfactorily concluded, in my opinion. The biographical sections about Braithwaite were a little dry and pedestrian, for my tastes. Rebecca's descent into madness became harder to fathom and my interest waned. As I turned the last page, I wondered about the point of it all. Something to do with the nature of identity, but I couldn't summon the enthusiasm to think any further about it.

all the characters think of themselves far too much but there were some great sentences in the jumble of it all

I'm very much in the minority with my low rating of this Booker Prize shortlisted title. Case Study opens with the author informing us that he is writing a biography of the radical psychiatrist Collins Braithwaite, who became a celebrity in the 1960s. The excerpts of CB's life story is alternated with six notebooks supposedly written by one his previous clients. I agree with everyone else that the author does a brilliant job in creating a non-fiction feel in this novel by immersing and surrounding the fictional character with people and events genuinely from the 60's. Some of his ideas on identity - Don't kill yourself. Kill your Self - was somewhat interesting. But mostly I felt bored while reading this. To be fair maybe it's just too clever for me.

I wanted to like this book but it came up short for me. Long listed for the Booker prize 2022. I thought it was well researched but then at the end in the Postscript of the second edition the author tells us so many people had contacted the him and corrected a lot of stuff he’d put in the book about around the areas mentioned. Bottom line is he’s read the case notes and notebooks taken it as gospel without checking any names of places or descriptions of areas. I felt it was “Eleanor Oliphant Is Completely Fine” and “The lessons” rolled into one. I did enjoy the section with ‘Rebecca’ obviously not her real name but a person she hiding behind to give her confidence but the rest of the book was boring. It’s very sad why she has to see this person but it’s a bit of a cat and mouse story as she’s trying to find out a reason why something happened to her sister. They say you eventually go mad dealing with mental health clients at least some did or was that just here-say, but the psychotherapist here is a bit bonkers to start with. Drugs and alcohol add to his demeanour and he’s not at all very professional in his dealings with clients. A lot is left to the imagination here too behind closed doors but I certainly wouldn’t want anyone I know going to see him!

Reader, I wanted to love it more than I did. Wood is an interesting author who is able to write compellingly obscure stories. However, the deeply reflective nature of this one didn’t work with the lack of narrative drive for me. There are some really interesting ideas here, about eschewing capitalism and the modern world for isolated introspection, and the role of ritual in helping us cope with, and/or avoid global and personal issues. I found moments of the consideration of these ideas interesting but this didn’t work for me as a whole.

After her husband leaves the country, our unnamed narrator spends a few days as a guest at a Catholic abbey, where she finds solitude and rhythm amongst the daily routines of prayer. Inexplicably (literally, we are never told why), she herself comes to live at the abbey years later, despite being an atheist and never taking religious vows. The abbey is located in dry and doer scrub and farmland in Australia, plagued by endless drought and increasingly, mice. Much of the book is spent detailing the killing of mice. This is not for the squeamish! If this wasn't enough for the half dozen nuns to deal with, the bones of a former sister, murdered in Thailand many years before are coming back to the abbey in the middle of the pandemic, along with a woman our narrator knows from childhood, now also a nun, but a worldly one. The bones sit in the nun's parlour for months as bureaucracy grinds on. Throw into this a friendship with a local farmer, our narrator's grief over the death of her parents and many other small plot lines. While Stone Yard Devotional is at times beautifully written I found it a confusing, disconnected and overly weighty story that didn't really go anywhere and lacked any kind of point. While is is stated at the beginning that the narrator is writing a diary, this is lost during the book and isn't played as it might have been. 2.5 stars.

This book was a series of thoughts. You never know the main characters name and I swear 90% of it is about a mouse plague. It is set in a small religious community, where the lady decides to go and live to work through her grief of losing her mother and father but it’s not really about that at all… I’m disappointed because I saw so many good reviews but maybe this style of writing is just not for me.

Propaganda disguised as a compendium of really, really, really dry anecdotes. An encyclopaedia of clichés. A lesson on how to overpopulate a novel with completely underdeveloped characters. And why “The Trees” as a title? Family trees? The trees of the state of Mississippi? A reference to bloody climate change? The trees that Donald Trump wanted to use to build a fence across the Mexican border? I really don’t know what I was supposed to take from this chaotic mess, and am really intrigued about the reasons why Mr Everett and his plain writing became so popular, all of a sudden, after more than thirty novels. Oh, well… I guess we’ll never know all the answers - or love all the books.

Not sure about the world, but I definitely didn't understand what's so special about this book. It felt very uneven in its fictionalising of scientific events, and even though the writing flows well, I was utterly bored. This seemingly unique approach at historical fiction is also found on another contender in the shortlist for the International Booker Prize ( The war of the poor), yet I'm left dumbfounded at how either of them made the list in the first place.

This is a book for readers that enjoy allegory and metaphor. It’s a book to be dissected and analyzed in a literature course. Sarah Bernstein could not have intended for this to reach a wider audience. In so doing, however, her point will be missed by those who might need to hear it the most. That’s her prerogative, of course. My prerogative as a reader and an unpaid reviewer on this wonky website is to say that this didn’t really appeal to me. Bernstein writes intellectually, while I crave a mix of the cerebral with a bit of heart. I wanted to feel the pain of history and trauma deep inside me. Unfortunately, I spent too much of my time trying to crack through the layers of this for the deeper meaning. It was an academic exercise versus a visceral reading experience for me. “Where to begin. I can it is true shed light on my actions only, and even then it is a weak and intermittent one.” I knew I was in the hands of an unreliable narrator from the start. An unreliable narrator is either a stone in my shoe or a gift from the literary gods. It can go either way for me. An unreliable narrator combined with opaque writing makes me tired and cranky. But I plowed through, thanks to the fact I had two buddies along for the ride. If not, I very likely would have set this aside for the time being. The reader is completely in the head of the narrator throughout. There is little to no dialogue. I wish there had been a bit more. Of course, the lack of dialogue emphasized the isolation of the narrator who has gone to the place of her ancestors in order to help her brother, who has recently been abandoned by his wife and children. He’s an asshole. His actions and abuse of power, combined with the submissive nature of the narrator, and the ostracism inflicted by the townspeople are what make this the study for obedience as indicated by the title. When her brother goes away for a period of time, the narrator is forced to handle her precarious situation on her own. A transformation begins. “In the days and weeks that followed my brother’s departure, something in me quietened. It was as if I had been living my life against the backdrop of a roaring noise that I had not known was there and that had ceased suddenly and absolutely. My perceptions turned outward.” This is an unsettling story when it comes down to it. There are weird happenings in the town related to livestock. There’s the super creepy relationship between brother and sister. And there’s the behavior of the characters that reveal the intolerance and bigotry towards others. Our narrator too is not all that she seems. I’m not even getting into the core of the story and its themes, because I believe if a reader is so inclined to pick this up, he or she needs to chip away to reveal his or her own truth. To be honest, I think this would have worked a whole lot better for me in short story form. It brought to mind some of Shirley Jackson’s short stories (that work very well for me compared to some of her novels.) I often found myself going in circles, the narrator’s thoughts coming back to the same points repeatedly (as is naturally the case when in someone’s head), and wanting to take frequent breaks from this. I believe I came to understand the author’s intent, but I have to say I didn’t have a whole lot of fun getting there. Ultimately, my heart was left cold while I crave warmth. Thanks to my buddies whose lively banter kept me going! I don’t know who I can recommend this to. Just as with my own cozy little group, this novel will be polarizing. Check out their thoughts!: Markus and Pedro “I thought often about life and its chance encounters, the inexorable question of complicity, about how not one of us could claim to be innocent any longer.”

Unreliable narrators, just like unreliable people, always give me a massive headache. Writers who know their grammar but can’t tell a story always give me the shivers. Books that make me feel stupid really upset my stomach. And every time I waste time with pretentious stuff like this, my belly just starts rumbling and I have to run to the toilet. Now, where the hell did I leave the bloody painkillers??

Look, all I'm saying is: Like FFS. Why do authors (and editors, and publishers, and critics, and award judges) think that "literary" has to mean "suffocating under the weight of cringeworthy self-importance, babbling more than every brook in every fairy tale, and crammed with so many damn commas you could string them together and make a belt for Jupiter"? Okay, so, I will say this wasn't completely awful. (I'm such a kind soul.) I get that this is sort of an examination of prejudice--in this case antisemitism--that is so insidious and so stridently suspicious that it consumes both the wielder and the target. I appreciated that Bernstein managed to create this oppressive and unsettling atmosphere in a setting that on its surface seems quaint and serene. And as someone who has experienced antisemitism, the looks and thinly-veiled disgust and inane beliefs all rang painfully true. But those worthy elements were nearly engulfed by the tedious and unyielding prose and the author's need to ramble on and on (and on and on and on) about everything. The writing style of "replace 90% of the periods with commas because that makes it sound profound for some reason" gets tiresome very quickly. This book is only just over 200 pages, but this absolutely could have, and in my opinion should have, been a short story of maybe 40-50 pages. It was honestly difficult at times to even figure out what the hell she was trying to say, because it was written like someone eagerly hoping to impress the Booker judges (and I suppose fair play to Bernstein, because it obviously worked). This is the kind of book, and especially the kind of writing style, that literary award judges have wet dreams about. But like...you can write a smart and deep story without doing shit like this: I saw no reason to object - I had always wanted to live in the countryside, had often driven through the rural areas surrounding my natal city in the autumn to see the leaves in colour, to experience the fresh air, so different from the turgid air downtown, well known to be the primary cause of the high rates of infant mortality, not that I had children myself, no, no, nevertheless, the air quality and its deleterious effects on public health were of concern to me as much as they might have been to any other ordinary citizen. It looked in other words much as one might expect a faded small-town manor house to look; my brother was nothing if not conventional, he would not have wanted to stand out, nevertheless even I was impressed at how precisely he had achieved the intended aesthetic effect, as if there had been no rupture in the house's historical lineage, as he were the natural inheritor of the house and its grounds, of its contents, of the social status and indeed bloodline these things suggested. The different between me and anyone else was not that I wanted more to be good, it was not even that I was guiltier, no, it was something rather difficult to place, a surface placidity with which I moved through the days, plodding, plodding, what certain teachers had in my youth described as a kind of idiot impenetrability, who could blame them, the school systems were overburdened, understaffed, and to be frank there were prolonged periods during which I refused to speak a single word anywhere on the school grounds. I kept up with my work for the legal firm, continuing the transcription of the audio notes of one of the firm's partners, presently engaged by a multinational oil and gas corporation to pursue every possible course of action against a certain individual, who happened also to be a member of the legal profession, and who had sought to prove, indeed had proven in law in certain countries though not his own, gross malfeasance on the part of the multinational's leaders that had resulted in the poisoning of a number of water courses, the destruction of ancient woodland, the decimation of at least two protected species of birds, the kidnapping of activists and the corruption of public officials, as well as tax fraud, racketeering, stock-market manipulation and other crimes besides. The teachers lavished me with praise, holding me up as an example in front of my classmates, who despised me with good reason, in the first place because I appeared to relish the attention, taking every opportunity to answer the questions the teachers posed to us, delivering sentences with multiple clauses to showcase my linguistic virtuosity [LOLOLOL], revelling in every single syllable as it rolled off my tongue and into the space of the classroom in which I sat, together with my classmates, who observed the spectacle with silent loathing, suspecting I had prior knowledge of the languages and was in point of fact a cheat. THOSE ARE ALL SINGLE SENTENCES THAT SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN SINGLE SENTENCES. There were so many more like that throughout the book, and I'm sorry, but this kind of shit is just pretentiousness masquerading as eloquence. I tried reading a few of these lines out loud and was out of breath before I got to the end. (Granted, I am a frail old hag, but still.) Ridiculous. And then...I don't know, maybe no one else would agree with me on this, but the relationship between the narrator and her brother really seemed to be telegraphing an incestuous situation. He is the eldest and she the youngest sibling in their family (I can't recall if she ever mentioned how far apart they were, but he was at least a teenager when she was born), and the way their relationship when she is a young girl was described was super fucking creepy and uncomfortable. And then in the present, she's at his house because his wife left him, and he's yet another dude who went from Mommy taking care of him to Wifey taking care of him and he doesn't know how to do jack shit for himself. So he whines his sister into coming to the house (which she is overly eager to do, another red flag), even though we are told he is not infirm and is in good health and shape. And I shit you not, she was making his meals and bringing them to him on a tray, which...fine, but also...BATHING AND DRESSING HIM. Her brother. Who is not sick, who is not disabled, who is perfectly capable. And he has his sister bathing him, including scrubbing his back and stuff, and then dressing him like he's a toddler. WHAT IN THE HELL. And then at one point as he's starting to have some health issues, she starts dry-brushing his body and giving him lymphatic draining massages. Again I ask you WHAT IN THE HELL. I really don't understand judging panels. And I don't think I want to. This could have been a really good short story. Instead, it's a bloated novella where the good aspects are drowned out by the exponentially greater bad ones, and if it were anthropomorphized, would probably spend its days fellating itself.

Mediocre, middle class navel-gazing of such a banal self-indulgent degree that it made me feel like I wanted to headbutt a wall. This right here, this genre, this style, whatever you want to call it... I absolutely loathe it! The whimsical gazing out to sea, oh, the begonias, the begonias, the endless internal search for meaning, the autumn leaves floating on a strange breeze, the... whatever! I just despise this kind of writing. I'm not sure if there's a term for it but I come across it more and more these days and very usually from women writers. Just relentless navel-gazing and pondering and ruminating and oh, the begonias. But never with any charm or wit or bite. The story concerns a woman going to the north of a foreign country where her brother lives and there are some townsfolk. And she's submissive. And she loves to ruminate and ponder and gaze out at the sea. Or whatever. Who cares? I lost interest. And the townsfolk don't like her. And there's an allegory for the holocaust. And vague. So very vague. And there's a dog. And blah blah feminist allegory. And as she's gazing at things, she also asks questions. Another sign of bad writing. 'Why did the sky look like that? What was holding me back? Where did that path lead?' And there's a references section at the back, something writers only include so that you can marvel at their interests, their unique genius. I would read a paragraph, then discover that I had taken none of it in, my mind elsewhere, so unutterably bored by what I was reading. So I'd read the same paragraph again and find the same tedious nothing full of indulgent triviality and empty words. Then this would happen again. And again. On every page. Just a never-ending lack of interest in any part of her whiny existence. None of it reaching me, none of it being remotely engaging. My mind was screaming for something to matter. Even the fact that the book is short didn't help. I'm only amazed she didn't write in stream-of-consciousness. That's usually what mediocre writers hiding their mediocrity do. Like trying to read a book made of water. Booker prize people want shooting. They really do. I can only gaze whimsically upon the begonias so many times.

Struggled a bit with this one. Bernstein is clearly a talented writer and this will definitely have its fans, but the writing style is not for me. I found her tendency towards long, drawn-out sentences a little difficult to engage with, and occasionally difficult to follow. The novel as a whole is quite slow-paced and contemplative - not a bad thing in itself, but combined with the writing style I found it came across a bit meandering, and the novel dragged as a result. I’d be interested in reading more of Bernstein’s work, but this one was sadly not for me. Many thanks to Granta and Netgalley for the eARC!

Not my cup of tea. It just felt pretentious to me.

If you asked me to recount any plot points of this book, I would have nothing to say. This book struggled to keep my focus and I genuinely have next to no idea what was going on for the majority of this short novel. I just don't think Bernstein's writing style is for me and I know I will be in the minority on this, but I'd still like to thank NetGalley for allowing me to read this before the release date regardless of how much I did or didn't like this book.

DNF @ 35% It’s tough to put this aside as it is a Canadian author and I do try to read l local (or at least country) authors as much as I can. However, I just don’t have it in me right now to get into a book of this literary caliber. This is a book that could be discussed and dissected in a high level literary class. It’s got all of the over written stylings, metaphors, and descriptions of feelings (literally paragraphs of them) that make it a slow methodical read. Study of Obedience may very well be a great read; but to get to the end will cost too much time and effort for me right now. I will keep it in mind as a future read when I’m in a mood or headspace to possibly enjoy it. Please note: I received an eARC of this book from the publisher via NetGalley. This is an honest and unbiased review.

Now Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2024 From the trenches of WW I into the future, Anne Michaels gives us a montage of connected story lines centering on characters dealing with memory and grief - and if you're like me, you'll now say: "Wait, what? World war, history, and memory? Like the masterpiece that is Austerlitz? Like this other experimental gem the Booker nominated, The Long Take??" And the answer is: Yes, but if these were written by Paulo Coelho. And I hate Paulo Coelho. The multiple characters we meet in the text are connected, some closer, some only vaguely, and we jump not only through time, but also change place, from England, to France, to what's today Belarus (Brest-Litovsk) to the Gulf of Finland. The conviction that the power of love and human connection can maybe not conquer everything, but stand strong in the face brutality, is an important narrative thread. And it all comes together in the most cutesy way imaginable: Calendar sayings, sentences screaming "hello, I'm deep" mixed with the most obvious metaphors. We also get various diary entries and dreams, all in the same tone, and love stories that heavily rely on the descriptions of optic details and touch, the latter actually very well done. But no, I don't want to read about a soldier coming home from war and then working as a photographer, and then suddenly the subjects' dead loved ones appear in the images, and then some somber lines, and that's it for that vignette. That's lazy, and it's boring: The dead are never really dead, blah blah, blah. And there is so much more in that vein. Make something more of it, Anne! Give us a surprising angle, a new insight, a crisp, less self-involved sentence! Also, the way trauma is represented in the characters is very poor. Every episode of "Babylon Berlin" tells you more about the specific psychological trauma caused on the battlefields than this. And then, Ernest Rutherford shows sup. *Sigh* And "history is a continual convergence of stories" - you don't say. This ain't it for me. Thanks for The Long Take though, Booker: What a fantastic novel about the repercussions of war, also written by a poet - and as prose poetry for that matter! - that I would never have encountered without the Prize. So please read this, or read some Rainer Maria Rilke, whose quote "Every angel is terrifying" from the Duino Elegies features in the book - has Michaels also read Walter Benjamin's ideas about the "angel of history"?

If poetic, atmospheric writing is of paramount importance to you, and the lack of a story doesn’t bother you, you might just love Held by Anne Michaels. I, unfortunately, did not. In a “story” (I use that word in the loosest possible sense) spanning four generations (probably of the same family - though this isn’t abundantly clear), award-winning poet and writer Michaels delves into life, love, death, science, war, grief, the evanescence of time and the mysteries of the universe. All of it is shrouded in mystery and vagueness, with beautifully descriptive language that while haunting, was devoid of emotion for me. The choppy, fragmented narrative didn’t help. It’s a relatively short book at just over 200 pages but I knew not after I started it that I couldn’t wait for it to be over. Definitely a case of- it’s not you book, it’s me. Lots will love this but it wasn’t for me. It will probably make the Booker! 2/5 ⭐️ *Many thanks to the author and publisher @bloomsburypublishing for the arc via @netgalley. Held was published this month. As always, this is an honest review.*

Thank you Netgalley for this ARC of Held by Anne Michaels. Usually the star rating system works for me, but sometimes I wish I could just rate a book "not for me." Yes, the writing is poetic and very beautiful, but I just couldn't get into this story. I rarely knew what was going on. Even with a beautiful poetic style, I still enjoy being able to follow a story.

I feel terrible rating this 2 stars as there are some moments of real beauty. At the halfway point I thought I understood how it was coming together. I could relate to many of the feelings portrayed in the story, particularly about grief and the meaning in everyday moments. But then we dive off into a whole new set of characters and stories and the reader has to work very hard (too hard) to interpret what is going on. It’s told in a fragmentary style and shows poetic snippets of the lives, deaths and loves of interlinked characters over a period of about 100 years. What I realise I have a strong dislike for is when characters have in depth scientific or philosophical musings - as I can’t escape the feeling that it’s just the author’s thoughts and need to show us how clever they are being shoehorned in. I love thinking about subjects in a bit more depth - but show me! Don’t just tell me what you think. There were glimpses of this but not enough, and I finished this one feeling like I missed the point.

For such a short book, my interest waned rather quickly. Yes, the writing is poetic, but the constant switches in time and place left me dizzy. I will either have to read this book again, or it will languish in my library for eternity.

DNF at 38%. Someone else said it best: beautifully written, hard to read. Languishing in long run on sentences, through multiple time jumps and generations and characters, reading felt like a chore. The history is important and I wanted to finish it (this is my first ever DNF), but when I looked at how much was left to go I realized that I was deeply not having a good time.

Due to family history, I have a knee-jerk negative attitude toward any book that spends too much time mired in substance abuse, especially when there are strains of glorification running through all the explanation, realization, condemnation, rehabilitation, and forgiveness. I certainly don't want to spend multiple chapters in the minds of various people who are drunk or high. It also doesn't help that this feels less like a novel and more like a series of short stories or vignettes. The first half of the book traces through the ancestors of the family at the center of There There while the second half follows up on that amazing book's aftermath. There's a thematic through-line, but no forward momentum as we skip around between people who seem at times to be wallowing more than living. The episodic nature made it very easy for me to set the book aside and a little reluctant to pick it up again. Very disappointing.

I really wanted to like this book! It started out good, with the history of native Americans & how badly they were treated. Then, boom! The book jumps to 2018 & a whole lot of drug taking. There were too many characters, not enough dialogue, & I just didn’t connect. I did finish, although I skimmed through the last half. Not my book, I guess.

reading around the world: suriname

I didn’t really connect with this one, BUT there was some crazy stuff happening!

2.5 stars. I don't want this rating to give the wrong impression. For its time, I'm sure this book was electrifying, but I suppose the synopsis gave me the wrong idea. I thought this would focus a lot more on a queer relationship than it actually did, which is my own biases and I can own that. Let's start with what I enjoyed. I hadn't ever read a book set in Suriname, so I loved learning more about the culture and history of this country. The writing, from a purely craft standpoint, was beautiful and definitely reflected the psyche of our main character. What little we did get of the relationship between Noenka and Gabrielle was lovely. There were lines in this book that I underlined and still so completely capture a burgeoning awareness of queerness. I do think that this represents a fantastic addition to queer literature in general and I'm glad it's accessible to English readers for the first time. The ending also took me by surprise. However, my experience was tampered by the fact that this book felt muddled and difficult to follow at times. Part of that is intentional, because Noenka's mental health is clearly affected by the cruelty and oppression that she's faced throughout her life. But as a reading experience I often lost the thread of the narrative. This book also focused a lot on Noenka's unhealthy and abusive relationships with the men in her life. While realistic, it's not my favorite subject to read and if I had known that was going to take precedence over the queer relationship I may have given pause to starting it. That said, I am glad I read this. I'd still recommend it especially if you're interested in learning more about Suriname and exposing yourself to more underrated and obscure queer fiction.

DNF —- So I’m 45 pages in (18%) and this is really not interesting me. Its just long enough as well that I don’t want to waste my energy reading the rest. I’ve just gotten up to the part where the main character is talking to her mum trying to justify her existence as her mother acted ungodly or some shit and I just really am not tryna read a book about pleading your existence with a mythical man in the sky. Maybe I’ll pick it up again one day, but for now, probably not. Given the quality of some of the books in the International Booker Prize this year,, I really don’t know how or why this one made it into the longlist (sorry)

I thought I enjoyed fragmented novels; this book proves that I have limits. Framed as an interview or confessional with the author, the narrative swings back and forth through time. It took me about half the book to get my bearings and that was too late. Sometimes it reads very much like a 43 yo book, while other times it’s surprisingly fresh.

"I'm Noenka, which means Never Again. Born of two polar opposites, a woman and a man who pull even my dreams apart. I'm a woman, even though I don't know where being female begins and where it ends, and in the eyes of everyone else, I'm black, and I'm still waiting to discover what that means." Longlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize My longlist ranking #13 Translated from the Dutch “Over de gekte van een vroiuw” (1982) by Lucy Scott – the forty year gap from original publication being a record for the International Booker Prize which has no time limit on original publication. Published by Tilted Axis who in 2022 had no less then three books longlisted – “Happy Stories, Mostly”, “Love In The Big City” and “Tomb of Sand” which won the prize. The subject of this classic of Dutch Surinamese queer literature is Noenka – her mother a Christian, her father (descended from slave labourers) from a family notorious for their embrace of traditional religion. And in a society still steeped in racism and patriarchy, Noenka a primary school teacher, causes scandal when she walks out of her marriage – to Louis – after only nine days. The narrative style is extremely fragmentary – not least as each time Noenka meets someone in what its ostensibly the “present day” of the novel, her thoughts and the narrative immediately take in various past encounters with the same person (often from her childhood), so that as a reader I found myself often seemingly floundering, looking for a small piece of wreckage to cling on to. As an example, she stays with a childhood friend Emely (and her husband Emile) immediately after leaving Louis but this is bound up with fond childhood memories of Emely’s mother Peetje, recollections of a traumatic discovery (signalled by the presence of Vultures) at her house, a breach, a funeral, memories of sleepovers and so on. A later section brings in Lady Morgan, a close acquaintance of her mothers, who she stayed with as a child and her son Ramses (who was five when she first knew him) – both of whom play a key role in the middle part of the novel (Lady Morgan as a landlady, Ramses alongside his tennis coash friend Alek) and with Ramses Orchid’s collection providing some opening and then recurring imagery in the novel. Bit more than that at times the fragmentation turns into seeming choas. The effect is I think deliberate – much of the novel’s thesis (captured even in its protagonist’s name) is a rejection of conventional societal expectations, and I think its also represents the fissures both in Noenka’s life and in the society around her – but it does not make the reading experience a particularly fulfilling one. Further I rarely read English novels from 40 years ago – preferring predominantly contemporary and occasionally genuinely classical (ie pre 20th Century) literature – and it is perhaps no surprise I did not really warm to a translated novel originating from the same era. And it seems rather dated – as it progresses Noenka starts a lesbian relationship with Gabrielle (married, mother of two handicapped children and some 15 years her senior) – but for a queer classic the portrayal both of their relationship (and the cliched way in which they end up in a murder conspiracy) and of the condition of the children are both very much of their time. Interestingly, in a recent interview about the translation of her 2019 novel “Off White” and asked about how her writing had progressed over the 37 years she said “I’ve really deepened my humanity, and over time I’ve arrived at a comprehensive experience and understanding of my ethnicity, my female gender, my heterosexuality, my historicity as a Surinamese woman, and my membership in the human species. And above all, I’ve learned how to let go of those categories and become more open to our remarkable existence on this strange planet.“ So while its admirable that this novel was translated after so long it did not really work for me.

A photograph functions as proof that a moment in time has happened. I am making this statement because Maaza Mengiste’s novel utilises the concept of photographs extensively. I’ll get to that later. The book open in 1974, Ethiopia and Hirute has to deliver a box containing letters and photographs. She suddenly drifts off to 1935 where a number of events occurred, which are connected to the box’s contents. Namely Italy’s second invasion of Ethiopia and Emperor Haile Selassie’s exile. This is no ordinary historical novel as Mengiste weaves in a number of themes and subplots. Hirut herself, during this time, is under the care of her parent’s (now deceased) close friend Kidane and his wife Aster. At first Hirut and Aster clash but then, through necessity they both join the Ethiopian army, which did have a women’s faction and reconcile. At the same time there is a plan to replace the exiled king with another person, a case where a subplot turns into a main plot and forms the crux of the story (hence also the title) obviously the term Shadow King can refer to other characters in the book but I don’t want to give too much away. To add some more to the book, there’s another subplot featuring an Italian photographer/soldier called Ettore, who takes pictures of the war and these photos are described in the novel. Later on Ettore’s life becomes connected with Hirut’s and his work links the 1935 and 1974 sections. Themes of relationships feature, each character has their own dynamic. Hiut/Aster violent. Hirut/Kidane brotherly (although this takes a turn for the worse later on) Ettore and his father etc. The book also serves as a character study as nearly all protagonists are given a backstory. The book also is about empowerment. Both Aster and Hirut overcome their abuse by becoming warriors in both a physical and metaphorical sense and in the process being the standouts of a male orientated army. There is a lot of great things to say about The Shadow King ; there’s depth, it is about a period of history that’s not really talked about in fiction and the characters are rich. Saying that I did not like the writing style. I found it dull bordering on the lifeless. At times it was a slog, the only sections I genuinely were the ones dedicated to Ettore’s photos of the war. For me, The Shadow King falls into the the ‘admire but not like’ category.

I’m afraid I found this unengaging and wordy. The Ancient Greek apparatus felt jarring, and people really should start putting quotation marks back into reported speech, unless the lack of them signals something meaningful. This is a pretty ruthless and petty take on the novel, but it reflects my personal reading experience.

This just dragged from beginning to end for me, maybe the audiobook was a mistake? So..we begin with the Italians about to invade Ethiopia, and follow Kidane, Hirut and Aster as our main characters and pov’s as we traverse the war with them. Kidane becomes a soldier and rises through the ranks, Aster - his wife and an equally formidable leader and solider during these times and Hirut who comes to work for the couple after her parents die and also becomes embroiled as a soldier in the war. We follow the three of them as the fight for their country and grapple with themselves along the way. This was just boring. The drama picked up from time to time but slipped away so quickly into endless hours of metaphors and descriptions of photographs that I couldn’t help but tune out of. The prose just felt so shallow and heavy that your mind just sank into oblivion. One of my most anticipated books of the year, such a disappointment.

This book about women at war in Ethiopia has more scenes of sexual assault than named women. And the plot it describes in the blurb only begins in the last 30% or so.

Shortlisted for International Booker Prize 2023 - Maryse Conde's book, dedicated to Jose Saramago, tells a too familiar story that is limited by the need to make the main character go through experiences similar to those of Jesus. While the writing is not bad, it is not captivating enough to read the book for it alone. Though there are some new ideas, they lack clarity and depth. Overall, the book falls short and could have been more effective if it were shorter.

Quite confused by this book. I feel like the over all theme is on how one person cannot affect world peace just by wanting to. But so many things happen, but none it felt like it had any significance because it went by so quickly and we did really get to know any of the characters. What was pascals or anyone's philosophy? maybe the point is we don't know but it made for a seemingly pointless book. Also I know this was written by an 80 year old woman but the world in this book didn't feel very "new" like how could you talk about a modern day prophet with out the internet or even tv?

Low energy review This is about a guy named Pascal, whơs mother leaves him in a shed when he's born. The couple who find him think this must be a miracle, they always wanted a baby but couldn't have one. There's even three drunks passing by as his mom runs away. thought we were in for a good time, some sort of funny Jesus retelling, maybe something with social media. It pretty much goes down hill from there and still not sure what the point was. Following in your father's footsteps is hard? People want to believe what they want? Even you want to change the world you really can't? Sleep with as many Women as you want? This quickly became repetitive and the bland prose didn't felt nothing other than the desire for every character's doom.

I was so looking forward to reading this International Book Prize 2023 short listed book. Conde's Segou is a masterpiece and I was expecting something great. This was not that book. It was a disappointing read. Primarily because the characters, including the main character of Pascal Ballandra, presumed son of God, were all very two dimensional. They are mouthpieces, not depictions of real, complex human beings. We follow the life of Pascal on a small modern Caribbean island (named by one reviewer as Martinique), as he tries to discover who his father and mother really are. He sees poverty, corruption and male violence all around him, and wonders if his destiny is to change all of this. He travels to other island nations and to Brazil on his quest, bedding various women and encountering different social systems, all oppressive, only to finally conclude that "...the love between two individuals... and that only this love can transfigure the world and make peace on earth." Well, duh. This conclusion is both obvious and politically dubious. The book began hopefully, with some lovely descriptions of life on the island, but begins to peter out midway through the unremarkable story. There's no passion in the writing, no anger or even enthusiasm. For example, in writing about a Dalit character, a woman named Sarojini, she writes: ",,, . women...it goes without saying, are untouchable the world over. The only right they are entitled to is the right to suffer." Ultimately a sadly disappointing book, thought interesting perhaps for someone who hasn't read Segou.

“He had chosen the autobiography as a genre which allowed him to tell the truth about what really happened in the colony, since the novelist has a serious problem with truth. Who is the person talking about his experiences and his adventures? Is it the novelist himself or an imaginary character or both?” From: The Gospel According to the New World by Maryse Condé (translated from the original French by Richard Philcox) This was my 4th book from the International Booker Longlist and if you followed my stories you know that I was struggling with this one. I don’t really know what to tell you about it. To me the writing was too detached and “van de hak op de tak” (a Dutch saying that fits perfectly in my mind and can be translated roughly to “choppy”) and it failed to spark any emotion in me except after a while boredom. The story is a parody of the life of Jesus Christ and it feels like it should be funny but to me it just wasn’t. I found his meanderings repetitive and sometimes downright annoying, especially his relationships with women. At parts I was wondering if maybe it just all went over my head, as I am not enormously familiar with biblical stories, however I still know the basics and it just felt too forced. So this turned out to be my least favorite read of the longlist so far (and I also haven’t seen it on anyones shortlist prediction post…), I am curious to hear from people that did love it. Sometimes a different view helps you appreciate a book more than you can on your own.

Baby Pascal miraculously appears on Easter Sunday - following rumours that he’s the child of God, he eventually sets off in search of his origins and life’s mission. I probably would have appreciated this rather more if I was more familiar with the finer details of the Bible - as it was, I could tell that there were plenty of biblical references, but most of them were rather lost on me. Now, if I don’t have all of the reference points but a story and/or characters are still gripping or interesting, that isn’t too much of an issue for me. But, while I did enjoy the distinctly Caribbean setting, I just could not connect with the writing - I felt held at a remove the whole way through and never felt particularly invested in Pascal and what happened to him or any of the other characters. Frankly, on finishing the book I was left wondering what the point of it had been, which is never a good sign. Maybe this is a very clever book, but any cleverness and the corresponding commentary around (I’m guessing) love, the conviction of faith and finding meaning in life was entirely lost on me.

Well…the main character, Pascal, is Jesus? This is a modern day retelling of the Gospels complete with, born in a manger, disciples, the last supper, raising the dead (his best friend Lazaré), angels, a traitorous friend (Judas), etc.. Taking place in modern day Guadalupe, this book is too on the nose and very choppily written (maybe the translation?). Not sure why this was shortlisted for the Booker other than Maryse Condé’s literary reputation.

Read for the International Booker prize 2024. There was a lot I actually liked about this book but the majority of it just felt so dull and I had to force myself to get to the end. This book is about four generations of one family and it centres on the relationship between Korea and Japan, and how it was affecting the workforce and the rights of the working class people at the time. One of the main stories in the book is the man at the bottom of the family tree (so the great-grandson) who is striking for better working conditions by sitting at the top of a chimney at the workplace's factory and not coming down until his demands have been met. The workers in solidarity with him are also striking and sending him food and drink and things to keep him occupied during his strike. I really loved this section and found the development of it fascinating. But this was the smallest section of the book really and it only returned to it now and again through the entire thing. The rest of the book was focused on the other members of the family in the past. I loved reading about all of the different family members and how they met and were related to each other, but I can't help but think it would have been super helpful to have a family tree somewhere to keep track of the characters as there were so many and quite easy to get lost. It jumps around in time a lot and this I also just found really confusing. I lost my thread so many times in the book and just couldn't drag myself back into enjoying it. There is so much that happens but it is super focused on politics and the relationships between a bunch of characters I felt quite overloaded with information most of the time and I really didn't enjoy that. Kind of annoyed I didn't like this book because it's such an interesting topic to read about and has an opportunity to teach you so many things, but it's execution I found so muddled and overbearing that it became really slow and boring for the majority of it.

Sooooooooo boring. ‘Mater 2-10’ is a sweeping historical and generational saga covering the Japanese occupation, WW2, the Liberation, division of Korea - all through the story of a family of railway workers and their tryst with labour unions. It has all the elements of a great novel: perfect premise, time period covering the long arc of history and empathetic characters. And yet, the novel left me jaded. Sok-yong turns the golden rule of writing “Show, don’t tell” on its head by just telling throughout the nearly 500 pages of the novel. It is with much sadness I report that the best part of the novel was the Afterword in which Sok-yong tells the story of the chance travel and a meeting in North Korea which inspired this story. The long discussions between the characters on the doctrines of communist activity, a key part of the historical narrative, are written in quite a dull manner. The emotions of the ordinary Korean workers, the stars of the story, show up rarely in between the long boring passages of dry descriptions; and I wish the novel had more of this: “Wow, good for you! How did you manage to get a job there?’ Ilcheol’s admiration made Daryeong scratch the back of his head. ‘Well, it’s not a regular position, I’m just a kotsukai.’ Ilcheol smiled when he heard Daryeong refer to himself in Japanese as a servant or helper. ‘Aren’t we Koreans all kotsukai, wherever we work?”

It pains me to rate this book only 2 stars, as it is a well-written, detailed, historical, and highly political novel. It addresses themes such as imperialism, occupation, the erasure of culture and language, capitalism, and the lives and protests of ordinary railway workers. However, I found it to be unemotional, dry, and incredibly boring. Perhaps those who enjoy reading PhD-level historical non-fiction for breakfast would love it, but I felt like it was too overwhelming even for historical fiction. I couldn’t connect with the characters at all, and I would have been happier if I had just DNFed the book.

104th book of 2023. 2.5. Not really bad by any measure, just choppy and uneven as a short story collection. Other people consider it more of a novel, but it didn't read like one at all to me. I liked some, not others. It just didn't have much guts, like many other of this year's Bookers. Lack of guts.

2.5 ⭐️ If I Survive You is a collection of interconnected stories about a Jamaican family who flee political violence in their native Kingston in the 1970s, settling in Miami, Florida. Their two sons, Delano and Trelawny, are vastly different personalities and with an unreliable father, a society hostile to their brown skin (they’re described as being Black in America but not Black in Jamaica) and financial precariousness threatening any sort of stability, Delano and Trelawny end up pitted against one another. The writing is sharp and observant, the premise and themes in the book are interesting (racism, white privilege, identity, the struggles of young men of colour to establish any sort of foothold) and the differing POVs the stories are written from sets up what I expected would be a great read. The first story, written in the second person, is very strong and had me convinced this was a book I was going to love. Unfortunately, the rest of the stories failed to reach those heights and were disjointed, discomfiting and chaotic. The book is billed as hilariously funny but it lost me when Trelawny took a job that involved him punching a girl in the face (at her request) for $40. The book is very male-centred; Trelawny’s mother Sanya is the only female character of note in the book and she doesn’t get enough airtime, moving back to Jamaica leaving behind an all-male cast to carry the story. Delano’s story was my least favourite. Undoubtedly, there is an audience for this book; it’s just not for me. Many thanks to the author, the publisher @4thestatebooks and @netgalley for the arc. If I Survive You will be published on 2 February 2023. As always, this is an honest review. 2.5/5 ⭐️

DNF - listened to the audio (which is a must to hear the Jamaican dialect), but there's only so much I could take with the first story of "What are you?" since the main protagonist couldn't be categorized as American, Puerto Rican, Dominican, African American, or even Arab and so his search for identity amidst all the questions he gets asked went around in circles. I gave 2** since I feel that this is an immigrant story that many people deal with and he tells it well, though I feel this type of memoir is becoming oversaturated.

While I usually like the format of linked short stories, the material here was definitely not my cup of tea. Not the target audience for this.

132nd book of 2022. "M", the narrator of Second Place is the antithesis of Faye, our steely narrator from Cusk's Outline Trilogy. Coming straight out the back of the trilogy, this was a disappointing read. In a strange way, Cusk's reserve, her coldness, her autopsical eyes, is what made me fall in love with her stellar trilogy. None of that is present here. The narrator leads us (but they are really leading Jeffers, whom they address every few sentences it feels like), through the story of an artist and his downfall. It's a bit Moon and Sixpence in that way. I'm a sucker for art, but didn't care for Cusk's thing here. There are her usual themes of motherhood, womanhood, the self, etc., but just felt diluted, less explored. I didn't care about "M", or any of the other characters and I found the tone of the book distracting and unengaging. Something about it just didn't grab me, maybe the trilogy spoilt me.

This book can be found at the intersection of Ferrante’s Neapolitan novels and Garner’s autobiographical fiction, but sadly falls far short of them both. Second Place is fine, it’s readable, but it’s also nostalgic to the point of boredom and quite forgettable. My full review of Second Place can be found on Keeping Up With The Penguins.

Nearly every trigger warning imaginable is necessary for this book, so please only read this book if you feel you can handle triggering topics. This book was less than 300 pages, but it is emotionally draining and extremely difficult to handle. Had I known this beforehand, I might not have picked up this book as soon as I did. Thank you to the publisher for sending me an advanced reader’s copy of this book through a Goodreads giveaway. I find it hard to rate this book as it is not my culture that this book is centered on and I read that this book is somewhat based off of the author’s own family history, but I still want to express my opinions on this book the best that I can and this review might turn into a rant... If this book interests you, don’t let my dissatisfaction in the book hinder you from reading it, but do proceed with caution as this book effected me mentally while I read it. China Room has two stories that are loosely connected. One follows a girl in 1929 who is in an arranged marriage and some events happen that cause her life to go down a path she wasn’t expecting. The other story is about a man who is struggling with ending his drug addiction. I appreciate how this book allowed me to see into another way of life and another time period. I also enjoyed the writing style as the author has a way with words that are easy to read yet at the same time very well written. However, I had many problems with this book. To start off with each story was not dived into too deeply. It felt like by combining these two stories into one short book, neither story was fleshed out to its full potential. I didn’t fully understand the reasoning behind each character’s actions and I didn’t understand the historical events that were briefly mentioned in the book. Maybe a longer book or two separate books could’ve provided much needed detail and context to many parts of the story that were lacking. And more importantly, the portrayal and treatment of women was a problem. This is not a women empowering book. Not every book needs to be, but I was horrified by what I read in this book. Women were only viewed as a wife or as sex objects. There was one woman who seemed to stand her own ground and be independent, but even then the narrator was thinking lustful comments about her. It felt very demeaning for women. None of the relationships had any actual chemistry or attraction in them. It was all lust and sex. Women were the inferior beings throughout this book and I tried to remind myself that the stories were set in a different time period, but even the women seemed to feel purely lust for the men. As a women, it was disheartening to read how women were discussed and presented in this book. This book just was not what I hoped for and it’s a book that I think will be hard for many to get through. It was especially hard for me and while I enjoyed the writing style, this is not a book that I will look back on with favorable memories.

Longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize One of the weaker books on the list. The story is told in two parts - one set in rural Punjab in 1929, and which relies on the Shakespearian bed trick for its rather hokey plot, centred around Mehar, a young bride, one of three married to one of three brothers, but she isn't clear which (you can see where that story is going); - one set 70 years later although, for no obvious reason, introduced by our unnamed first-person narrator with a brief passage from 20 years later in 2019. The great-grandson of Mehar, aged 19, and addicted to heroin, he is sent by his parents from the UK to his uncle's family who are still in Punjab, to rehabilitate. There he stays in the room where his great-grandmother was once imprisoned, learning a little (but very little) about her life, and otherwise not doing much. To the extent the novel has power is it is the narrator's memories of his childhood, the racism he and his family experienced, and how he came to his addiction as a way of belonging. But that story is rather told in the cracks, and overshadowed by the two other, rather dull, narratives. 2 stars.

Have you ever had the situation where someone a long time ago recommends a book so damn strongly that it ends up on your TBR? In my case, this was an older gentleman, thin, and I can kind of picture him, but I have no idea where on earth I met him, and why his recommendation stayed with me so strongly... Was he in a cafe? At the library? On a plane? It was so so random. But let me tell you, his rave was so high, he told me more than once I had to read this book.... That I kept in on the TBR. Finally it had climbed high, and with the Play Harder challenge, I needed a book with Stripes on the cover. Here we go, it was finally time. So it turns out, that the book was not a mystery as promised, not action packed, and it doesn't take place in China. It actually takes place in India. The China Room refers to the room where the lovemaking happens with the three brides and the three sons of the house. Although it is not clear that the mother in law that assigns the veiled brides to her sons, are actually the right matches. The mother in law could be and is likely playing fancy free with the pairs.... Which is interesting... And what if one of the brides falls in love with the wrong brother, and who would know if they did or didn't? Its actually a great premise, and speaks a lot to women's positions at the time in India. And it was gorgeously beautifully written. But it didn't grab me. Now, my not being grabbed by this book, that could really have nothing to do with the book itself. Its a funny month for me, and its been a curvy summer.... It might have grabbed me at another time... But honestly, it was really all about the Stripes. Forgive me for that. Now at some point, I had the book in my car, and I was pretty sure I had finished it, because I took the time after tossing it back to the library to replace it on my TBR. But to be honest, I couldn't remember the second half. And when I went to look up my review, it wasn't there. This is a grief library toss. But I still needed the Stripes. And also India is East of Morocco, and guess what? This week/month, that matters.... So, I have to play fair. I got it back from the library, and I sat down and I finished the book. Sat right here in the library, and now I am writing my review. Check out its gorgeous stripes.... Despite that I have more to take care of that is possibly imaginable, and that I truly haven't slept in months, I just might, after the review, see if I can sit here, and finally finish Atlas, which I have now been reading for over three weeks... And I am excited to read the end of the finale of this beloved series. So we shall see. So China Room, gorgeously written, fabulous premise, but did not grab me due to grief or life - who can tell. I might have tossed it before the grief... I am more focused now, on what it means that this complete stranger rated it so highly and was so grabbed. So if you want the shine of the stranger, don't trust my grief riddled life stressed review. Check it out for yourself. However, if you are looking for stripes, this is a great pick. I think my next pick was going to be The Interestings... Which is also on my TBR and is entirely stripes. Funny review...

I was really thrilled when I received this ARC. The theme sounded fascinating- 2 narratives set in Punjab, one in the 1920s pre-independence and the other set in the late 90s. Punjab has a very unique history ( like all Indian states, really, each is a separate distinct country for all practical purposes), and I expected an account of life in one of the largest states then, with a very diverse population, and an account of 90s Punjab with the beginnings of the drug problems, and the aftermath of the decades long secessionist movement and its violent putdown, and a discussion of the absolute desperate state of emigration from there. I'm very disappointed that I got none of this. The narrative strand set in the 1920s is about Mehar, married off young ( practice that still continues) , trying to settle in to her husband's home, and in a time where the purdah system was still prevalent ( still is in large parts of North India), she doesn't know which of three brothers is her husband. Women were not supposed to lift their heads in the presence of men, so Mehar has never seen her husband. This has unfortunate consequences for her life and attempt at gaining some agency. I expected this part to be historical fiction with the book taking Inthe context of the very turbulent setting , but the writer barely mentions that. There are some passing references to them discussing the situation, but barely any actual engagement with it. If there was no engagement, I would liked to have known why it made zero difference to them if India was a British colony, or not. Kala Sanghian, the village it's set in, isn't even an absolute backwoods, it's fairly close to Lahore and Jalandhar. What were their compulsions that drove their attitudes? Also, it felt like too much time was spent on the buildup , when I would have liked to have known how Mehar , someone who clearly wants more from life, managed to make it through and what wells of strength she drew on, for the rest of her life. Punjab is a state that faced the worst of Partition, and Kala Sanghian, located so near the border, must have seen the worst of it. If one read this book, one would think that her life just continued in the same vein when that's absolutely impossible in a newly independent country. Why set it in Punjab, then , and not use the context at all? The narrative strand set in the 90s is even worse- pointless and self indulgent and overly romanticising of Indian village life. The character is a teenager sent to Kala Sanghian to dry out, from a heroin addiction, and there's some tedious adolescent solipsism. The writing isn't even authentic- Chaturvedi isn't a Bihari name, for starters. Also some of it literally made me laugh out loud- a female character claims she found it hard to get a rural posting as a doctor and was expected to trade sexual favours for it. I'm not suggesting India is a paradise of equal opportunities for women. However, when it comes to healthcare, it's well known that rural India is woefully deprived, to the extent that medical schools mandate a year long rural stint which most students manage to bribe their way out of. In that situation, any doctor volunteering to work in a rural area would be welcomed as a miracle. So why was that sentence even needed?! I assumed he was sent to Punjab so the author could write about the burgeoning drug addiction problem there. Again, absolutely nothing about that. I'm not sure why this part was needed at all, I would have far preferred Mehar's life to have been written about more. The writer drops in instances of racism the protagonist and his family faced in England, but I would have also then liked an examination of the situation at home that they fled, and why they're willing to continue despite hostility elsewhere ( and are still fleeing, Punjab has among the highest emigration rates in the country, to the extent it's a complete business there). A bit about the language used- I far prefer writers to use the actual idioms, or just do a direct translation- the characters set in the 1920s , for instance, sometimes lapse into a strange sort of pidgin English. Why would they talk English at all? They would be speaking Punjabi, so why not just write them as speaking fluent English? Obviously as a reader , you can make that connection. Some idioms are left in Punjabi while others are translated strangely- " Oh, go break an egg", which really isn't a commonly used idiom. And not in the 1920s. As I said at the start of this review, I was really looking forward to this, and it was amazing when I got an ARC. I'm very sad to have to rate it so low.

I thought about why I felt the way I did about the book and how to put it into words. I hope that the time of introspection comes through here. I picked this book mostly because I read woefully few books based in my own home country. I wanted to read something that promised a juxtaposing of two different timelines around one location. The problem then comes with the dual timeline. I would have preferred one timeline focused upon since I found it hard to emotionally invest in both the different people and times we encounter here. There were pockets of interactions or descriptions provided that were deep and involved, and it is only because of these moments that I actually completed the book. Otherwise, it was not for me. The stifling conditions in both timelines, as well as the nuanced background, had a lot more potential than was explored here. Most of the focus was on hormonal reactions and that too at surface levels (or so it felt). In the (relatively) present timeline, we have a boy sent to India in disgrace to cope with withdrawal from drug use. He is forced to stay in a rural location which is the scene of an old family scandal. The scandal is both publicly known and also a secret, with us being given the scene by scene events that led to the eventual issue. Certain other reviewers online have gone into further detail about some of the more technical cultural discrepancies that I could not really put into words other than having a vague feeling of discomfort when I encountered them. I received an ARC thanks to NetGalley and the publishers, but the review is entirely based on my own reading experience.

Less “Four Wedding and A Funeral” than “Four Funerals and A Partheid” A book that simply did not work for me despite two readings and whose choice as winner of the 2021 Booker Prize (together with the decision to represent Africa on the longlist by two white South Africans) was the literary lowlight of 2021. For there is nothing unusual or remarkable about the Swart family, oh no, they resemble the family from the next farm and the one beyond that, just an ordinary bunch of white South Africans, and if you don’t believe it then listen to us speak. We sound no different from other voices, we sounds the same and we tell the same stories, in an accent squashed underfoot, all the consonants decapitated and the vowels stove in. This book is the latest written by an author twice shortlisted for the Booker Prize (in 2003 and 2010). It is effectively a family tale – the Swarts, a white and relatively privileged South African nuclear family of five who live on a farm near Pretoria. Their story and the story of those around them. The family is Manie - owner of the farm and later the main family business – a reptile park, over time he grows close to an ex Reformed Church Afrikaans minister His wife Rachel - who re-converts back to Judaism while she is dying of cancer And their three children: Anton - whose unplanned birth out of wedlock lead to a marriage Amor’s family considered a mistake – Anton kills a woman when conscripted to the South African Army and deserts before later marrying his childhood sweetheart Desiree who becomes increasingly involved with New Age and Yoga Practices and the leader of a nearby Ashram Astrid - who converts to Catholicism, has twins and two unhappy marriages Amor – something of the irreligious conscience of the family, spending her time nursing AIDS patients, refusing to take the family money or to stay in contact, and the only one who holds to the eponymous promise the dying Rachel extracted from Amor – to give the family’s black maid Salome the deeds to her home in the farmlands There are two very distinctive parts of the book’s execution: The first is its cyclical structure. The story (which ranges over several decades) is told at discrete intervals in four sections all based around the funeral of a family member (the sections named after the family member that dies in turn as the nuclear group diminishes - less “Ten Green Bottles” than “Four White Racists”). Each section starts with the circumstances of the death (cancer, snake bite, murder and suicide). Each funeral coincides with an important point of South African history (the rugby world cup victory, Mbeki’s inauguration, Zuma’s resignation). Each is set in a different season. Each has details on the dead body and the viewpoint of the person preparing it for burial. Each features in detail the thoughts of the person carrying out the funeral (and the way their views clash largely with the beliefs of the remaining family members) and each has Amor’s latest attempt to realise the promise. The second is the narrative voice – a very deliberate and intrusive omniscient narrator which swoops from character to character (including some side characters such as a down and out and a criminal and even at one stage some jackals), switches out of its default third person into first person even second person for the point of view character, sometimes addressing the reader directly and sometimes into a brief first person plural chorus. I think the book will appeal to a lot of people and I would definitely recommend others to read it But I have to say it did not quite work for me – and simply felt too gimmicky. The family is clearly meant as to represent South Africa and the book to serve as an analogy for the nation’s history but this felt overdone to me. One clear example of this being the coincidental linking of the funerals to important events - at one stage a character comments that Manie has “died at a very inconvenient time” and as a reader we can only think that the opposite – that the fictional timing of the fictional death is very convenient for the move. And when combined with the symbolic deaths (and their symbolic natures), the need for understanding and reckoning (and dare I say truth and reconciliation) which arises from them, the examination of the decaying states of the bodies (standing for the nation) and so on – it all seems rather forced. And no experienced novelist, even in possible irony, should have characters remarking on how things are like (or not like) a novel, or have a character member trying but failing to write an autobiographically inspired novel or have characters named ridiculously like a soldier named Private Payne or two detectives named Olyphant, Hunter. And while I can see people admiring the sheer bravura and dexterity of the narrative voice – I was struggling really to see what admirable it really achieved. One of the effects for example was to have the voice call De Verwoerd “a great man” and the Pienarr/Mandela encounter that of a “beefy Boer and the old terrorist” and I have to say this got my back up a little. And my negative reaction was further exacerbated by the lack of voice really given to Salome, the way her son Lukas is portrayed as angry and ungrateful and the way in which the first non-white character given a significant voice is a murderous car-jacker (followed by a corrupt politician, a corrupt policeman and so on). Those comments may not be fear but while I went to University in a different era to today’s world of trigger warnings and no-platforming and was not very politically active or aware – but the one area that did affect me politically was the boycott of firms connected to the reprehensible South African Apartheid regime and I am still (to use the phrase) triggered by white South Africans complaining about how their country is now racked with crime and in my personal reading consider no-platforming books written about white South Africans who prospered pre-Apartheid. I say that to put my views into context. But I am not sure my views are entirely unfounded when I read an interview like this with the author (https://www.newstatesman.com/world/af... - apologies may be paywalled) - where he says that "some are leaving the country, and taking their money with them. I’m not among them – yet – but for the first time the idea is in my mind, and it’s not going away" and I put it in the context of someone who was 30 before South Africa had a democratic election and who I believe did National Service in the apartheid army. And then on The Radio 4 Front Row Booker Book club the author said with no apparent irony that "“To be a white man in South Africa today is to be disadvantaged as the odds are stacked against you. " Finally I did not respond at all well to the “plague on all your houses” views of different religious belief. Overall as I said I can see people liking this book but my suggestion would instead be to move a little North and instead read Tsitsi Dangarembga’s trilogy “Nervous Conditions”, “The Book of Not” and “This Mournable Body”. My thanks to Vintage Chatto and Windus, Random House UK, for an ARC via NetGalley

Winner of the Booker Prize 2021 but for me, a tedious, joyless read with a sizeable dollop of sexism, some beautiful prose but stylistically a turnoff. The Promise is centred around exactly that - a promise which Amor, the youngest of the three Swart children (Astrid and Anton are the others) overhears her father Manie make before her mother Rachel dies. The promise is that Manie will ensure that the family’s Black maid Salome is gifted the house she lives in on their land. Manie fails to fulfil the promise and it rears its head in every chapter until the final conclusion. The book is likely intended as a parable for a failed South Africa, and each chapter is pegged to a period in South African history, from apartheid in 1986 to Zuma’s resignation in 2018. I didn’t think it worked particularly well - the cultural and political goings on were tacked on rather than subtly woven into the story. The book has four long (very long) chapters, each detailing the death and aftermath of a member of the Swart family. The writing is descriptive and very lovely at times and I was able to enjoy it in parts. The narration of the book is where it died a death for me - an omniscient narrator tells the story, switching from third person, to first person, and even on occasion to second person where he oddly addresses the reader. I hated this stylistic approach, it’s jarring and the tone is very condescending at times particularly when it came to passages about the female characters, which leads me nicely to the element of the book I disliked the most. Women were variously described as “globular”, having “meaningful calves”, “large breasts”, “never got her body back after the pregnancy”, “a platinum ice lolly”, “a bunch of hookers”. At Amor’s breakthrough moment in the first chapter, she gets her first period at her mother’s funeral, in what feels like a tired trope. Astrid is bulimic and is filled with self-loathing. I could go on. Women described purely in terms of their sexual attractiveness (or perceived lack thereof) is such a turnoff. Finally and not that it matters particularly, but the cover is such an odd choice that doesn’t really work with the story. I’ll just stop now. This wasn’t for me. No doubt others have loved it and will love it. 2/5⭐️

The initial allure of The Safekeep faded quickly as the narrative, poised to be a tale of psychological suspense, delivers a conventional, and occasionally trite, story. The novel’s tense atmosphere quickly gave way to a sentimentality that felt unearned and out-of-place, disappointingly milquetoast (better suited to a generic period-drama if you ask me). In the summer of 1961 in the quiet Dutch province of Overijssel, Isabel, living alone in her late mother's country home, finds her daily routine disrupted by the unwelcome arrival of Eva, her brother Louis’ latest girlfriend. Despite her protestations, Louis, the ‘official’ owner of the house, forces his decision onto Isabel before setting off. Eva is very much an unwanted guest and behaves in a way that sets Isabel’s teeth on edge. Isabel, already prone to paranoia and possessing a rather sanctimonious outlook, abhors Eva. She seems to believe that Eva’s girlish, laid-back nature is a front and soon suspects her of stealing when several items go missing. Now and again they spend time with Isabel’s other brother, who to her disapproval is living with a close male ‘friend’ of his. Nothing much happens beyond a series of domestic scenes in which Isabel is depicted as a repressed, slightly neurotic woman who, like many repressed fictional characters before her, lets out her frustration and anger by stuffing her face into a towel or a pillow or whatnot and screaming. Or giving Bateman-spiraling-over-a-business-card energy. I’m not against conceal don’t feel type of characters, (eg. the lucys authored by Brontë and Kincaid or one of Shirley Jackson’s girlies), or ones who become fixated or obsessed with someone they are also suspicious of (These Violent Delights by Micah Nemerever, Apartment by Teddy Wayne), but Isabel, who is neither complex nor intriguing enough for me to feel any sort of way towards her, fails to evolve beyond a one-dimensional character. Her contradictions and inner conflicts lack depth and come across as contrived and uninspiring. The promised exploration of her 'forbidden' attraction feels forced and fails to make her a compelling or fleshed-out character. Eva, the object of Isabel’s desire, was even less interesting. Her character consists of a series of thin impressions, making her into a barely-there sort of presence. This is surprising given that she is meant to be the catalyst to Isabel, the reason behind the ‘unravelling’ of her studied outer self. We are probably meant to find Eva to be the more approachable character, but I found her for the most part to be forgettable, although occasionally she did strike me as irritating. Her hidden agenda felt disappointingly moviesque, especially the way her backstory is presented to us…it was very giving historical melodrama, which may work for many, but does zilch for me. The novel initially promises to be something more in the realm of psychological suspense, a story where we follow the type of character that is rather off-putting. Isabel is unyielding, rather misanthropic, and believes herself to be the subject of many slights. I was fine with her being this type of character, after all, two of my favorite novels are Giovanni’s Room and Madame Bovary, both of which focus on morally reprehensible characters…but then along the way Isabel’s arc ends up being surprisingly sentimental. There were so many scenes in The Safekeep that should have made me feel a certain degree of something but I just didn’t buy into them. Supposedly charged moments and tense discussions didn’t land, often because they seemed overly dramatic in a way that felt unearned, forced even. I didn’t buy into Isabel’s obsession with Eva, mostly because Eva is for the most part portrayed as very wishy-washy. I’m not against narratives where one character is projecting their feelings onto another character, or letting their paranoia tinge their understanding of another person (their personality, their ‘true’ motivations), or where the central relationship is very much push/pull, but here...the supposed tension, or chemistry, between these two women felt simultaneously rushed and overdone. I would have preferred more of a slow burner, but they go from nothing to 100% in a way that took away from the novel’s initial atmosphere of ambivalence. I was surprised by how banal the plot was. The main characters were dramatic in a way that brought to mind The World Cannot Give by Tara Isabella Burton, a novel I don’t care for in the slightest. The side characters were very one-note, and Isabel’s brother's story was presented to us in a way that made me think of so many period dramas (in other words, cliched). It’s frustrating because van der Wouden’s writing is top-notch and those first chapters were very absorbing. Her descriptions of the house and its contents, as well as the way she describes the characters’ expressions and body language, were very well done. Her writing style exudes a cool, polished quality reminiscent of Barbara Vine, Sarah Waters, and Magda Szabó. On paper, The Safekeep explores compelling themes. Against the backdrop of the 1960s, the narrative has the opportunity to unveil the societal expectations and constraints placed on women. Isabel's adherence to conservative values leads her to perceive her burgeoning attraction to Eva as morally 'wrong.' Additionally, her prejudices extend to those outside her racial, cultural, and class spheres. The novel does allow us to see how Isabel's narrow mindset becomes a self-imposed trap, hindering her from experiencing true fulfillment, living in the shadow of her mother and resentful of her brothers' freedom. The central themes of inherited guilt and reparations are also pivotal to the narrative. However, the way these issues are handled struck me as somewhat schematic, leaning towards a simplistic and moralizing tone. Alas, the novel’s initial tense atmosphere just...fizzles out. I’m all for books where fraught character dynamics are at the centre stage, but here Isabel and Eva lacked substance, consequently, their friction and their developing relationship left me feeling very uninvolved. Maybe the reason I was so unbothered by this novel is that I read it not long after reading Winter Love, an overlooked lesbian classic narrated by someone not that dissimilar from Isabel herself (Han Suyin's narrator is aloof, unpleasant even) who embarks into a love affair with a married woman. Or I just have come across this type of dynamic and atmosphere in several other novels (Sweet Days of Discipline by Fleur Jaeggy, The Inseparables by Simone de Beauvoir, and Passing by Nella Larsen, Belladonna by Anbara Salam, books by Danzy Senna, Patricia Highsmith). van der Wouden's is a clearly talented writer, it's a pity that her novel falls victim to a lacklustre execution. Still, in spite of my negative review, I encourage prospective readers to give van der Wouden's debut a shot. I may have simply been unable to enjoy it due to my overexposure to this type of genre. If you liked Claire Fuller's Bitter Orange or Ian McEwan's Atonement, or if you happen to enjoy the historical fiction penned by authors like Rose Tremain, there's a good chance you will find van der Wouden's debut to be a satisfying reading experience.

(2.5 stars rounded down) I struggled with this book and judging by other reviews, I’m in the minority. Not alone, but in the minority. The story felt extremely slow and much longer than 272 pages. The characters didn’t appeal to me and nothing much happened for quite a while. The publisher’s blurb calls it “An exhilarating, twisted tale of desire, suspicion, and obsession between two women staying in the same house in the Dutch countryside during the summer of 1961—a powerful exploration of the legacy of WWII and the darker parts of our collective past.” For me it was definitely not exhilarating. And it wasn’t all that twisted either. I saw the “twist” coming from a mile away, so there was zero suspense for me in that regard The relationship between Isabel and Eva turned from dislike to obsession way too suddenly. I didn’t buy it. And the multiple explicit sex scenes added nothing to the story. I wish more time and space had been spent on Eva’s backstory, which is an important one. Thank you to Avid Reader Press/Simon & Schuster and NetGalley for the opportunity to read a review copy of this book. All opinions are my own.

“Neither Eva nor the house are what they seem” (from the blurb) The Safekeep has been shortlisted for multiple prizes and eventually I felt I ought to give it a try, even if it did mean breaking by 2024 Booker boycott. I assume this is a novel where the “twist” is intended to be obvious to the reader from the early pages. The provenance of the house clearly is - the opening pages aren’t exactly subtle. Eva’s connection though would be less obvious had the blurb not given it away, so I assume the publisher, if not author, has made that decision. But then there is a rather frustrating 180 page wait for the story to catch up to the reader - that section could have been condensed to a 30-40 pages set-up, as it’s the last section that’s really the heart of the novel. But perhaps it had to be padded out to qualify for the Women’s Prize? Wonder if publishers ought to do a Reverse Reader’s Digest and have a special Expanded version solely to submit to that prize. And it does feel sad that the other prize this novel was engineered to win was unfortunately discontinued by the Literary Review some years ago. That said this is a well written, if very conventional, novel and one that touches on an important topic, as well as providing a touching exploration of queer relationships. She cupped Eva's face and drew a line with her thumb: from the top of Eva's forehead down over the rise of her nose. Over the bridge of it, over her lips, all the way to her chin. She did it again, and then again. "What are you doing?" Eva whispered. Her eyes were still closed. And then, "No, don't stop, keep doing that." She smelled like deep sleep, like trapped heat. Isabel said, "My mother used to do this. When I was young, when I had nightmares." The top of Eva's forehead, the line of her nose. Her mouth, the dip below. "What did you have nightmares about?" "Airplanes. Bombs." She paused, finger pad to Eva's bottom lip. "Girls at school. People knocking at the door. Wanting to get in."

1 is too harsh and 2 is generous Reads like YA. Melodramatic in its execution but writing shows flashes of promise here and there. The main character is too uninteresting despite understanding her to read her for 265 pages.

It was Fionnuala’s review which prompted me to read Michel Houellebecq once more – the parallels she drew with Nikolaj Gogol’s Dead Souls intrigued me and struck me as apt and illuminating once I had finished the book. Looking at the main character, Labrouste through the prism of the ‘dead soul’ itself gives an extra dimension to the protagonist’s forlornness. I was surprised how the tone of this book almost soundlessly shifted from the cynic-hilarious to a moment one stops laughing and realises that life can indeed be as gloomy and dead-end as the one Labrouste finds himself in. As a main character Labrouste’s personality seemed perfectly interchangeable with other main characters in the novels of Houellebecq I did read previously – another manifestation of the author himself, lacking the caustic humour of The Map and the Territory however as he more takes on a sentimental pose of a schlemiel hankering for compassion. As much as this Labrouste seems numbed , there is at least some self-insight when he observes “I can't hide the truth: I will end my life unhappy, cantankerous and alone, and I will have deserved it.” Right. While I recall I didn’t dislike reading Houellebecq’s ranting in the past, finding more tenderness and humour in it than I had expected from his reputation, browsing the notes I made upon finishing the book almost two years ago the lingering impression is one of tepidity. Yes, it is Houellebecq, and so one knows one can expect cynic, racist, sexist and jingoist blathering (in particular his ‘musings’ on his Japanese lover are annoying to put it mildly; bestiality and paedophilia were just of a few other ingredients carelessly thrown into the cocktail). It left me wondering if I had been sleeping when I was reading those other novels, as those snide asides were now screaming in my face (a similar shift I experienced in reading Somerset Maugham recently, The Moon and Sixpence, with an equally unlikeable main character). Nevertheless I cannot say I was shocked, rather stupefied, befuddled, numbed. Particularly in the first half of the novel the prose stuck me as rather tedious and as flat as the narrator’s emotions seem numbed by the serotonin. Yet, as much as Labrouste’s narcissism and amorality puts the reader’s empathy to the test, the bleakness and suffering of which this novel is replete eventually got under my skin. Far more however than Labrouste’s bleak views the hopeless situation of the French farmers and of his friend Aymeric were what unsettled me – Houellebecq’s depiction of the cynic excessiveness of neoliberalism. (Willem de Kooning – Woman I)

It was ok. I started really nice but the main protagonist is real (SUV-driving) pretentious asshole, drowning in self-pity. If you scratch all the endless remarks about french cuisine this might be still a pretty solid novell, but it’s going nowhere and it was not enough for me. The book had it’s strong moments but for me it was not enough. It seems to me that not few authors are damned to only write one good novel. And in the end i still don’t think Mr Houellebecq knows a thing about love, nor does his “hero”.

I am deeply upset over the turn this novel took. I will begin by saying this was a highly anticipated read for me, one that has received hype from reviewers I trust with my entire heart. Unfortunately, I was violently reminded, once again, not to trust cisgender reviewers with my safety. This may seem harsh, but continue reading and it was ideally make sense. I was LOVING this book. It is haunting, spooky, realism and magical realistic horror pulled together by writing that clung to the insides of my scalp. There was so much about this book I loved thematically and could rave about. Toward the very end of the novel, the "T word" slur was used ... a lot. The first time it happened, I felt my stomach drop. The second time I thought, "okay, at least it's over." After the fifth+ time, I was nauseated simply because I had been so wholly unprepared for its use. None of the cis reviewers I trusted mentioned its use and the other stories were not transphobic in the slightest. In fact, they explored complex social themes with a refreshing sense of relentlessness that made me feel safe reading this book as a Latinx trans reader. Many cis and Latinx folk will say "well it was a story about life on the street" to justice the violent use of transphobic slurs which is *say it with me* - transphobic. I am rarely actually triggered by works simply because I go into them with my guard up. That was not the case with this book. I wanted to be sure to warn those of you who may also be harmed and humiliated by the author's choice of language. Reading that story filled me with a deep sense of shame, shame that was not mine to carry. Cis (non transgender) reviewers: Imma need you to MENTION that this book has use of the T word in your reviews. You don't have to go into a lengthy explanation, you could honestly just say "hey i liked this book but content warning for multiple use of transphobic slurs". *note.* I did look into the author to see if she was out as trans and did not see anything. I do NOT believe in forcing authors to come out before allowing them to write about transness, but still wanted to see if she had spoken about being part of the trans community. Ultimately, I decided even if she is trans, this book is still harmful to trans reviewers because A) it harmed me, a trans reviewer and B) the only time transness is even mentioned in the novel takes the form of slurs? Not here for it. That is harmful representation regardless.

dnf@story 4 Story 1 Angelita Unearthed : 2.5 stars I didn't understand the point of the story; it was disturbing and unpleasant at points, but what was the point or background, as we call it?? Story 2 Our lady of the quary : 1.75 stars It was much more tedious and uninteresting than the previous. Jealousy among teenagers leads to the summoning of spirits to kill the people they are jealous of. Very cliched and unoriginal. Story 3 The cart : 2.25 stars Again, a mediocre storey emphasising the value of treating others who are less fortunate than you with care. Story 4 The well : 3.5 stars This one is the best so far, especially the beautifully dramatic ending, which is stunning. Over the course of a week, I read four stories, all of which were mediocre to below average. This compilation, which is marketed as horror, did not appeal to me. I didn't find it horrifying or mysterious in any way; in fact, for the most part, it was fairly bland.

This book was a rollercoaster.... First and foremost I absolutely loved the writing style and Mariana Enriquez's talent is what made me enjoy these short stories. I unfortunately was quite let down by this bound up of short stories. Promised to be a horror, I struggled to see where the horror element was actually scary?? There absolutely were some gory, 'body-horror' elements but none of it was frightening to me which was a bit of a shame. A positive however, was that this book was extremely quick paced and I devoured it in one sitting. I am definitely interested in reading more from this author, I was just quite disappointed with this read.

Appreciated the content of this novel even though I found its delivery lackluster. In Shuggie Bain, Douglas Stuart writes a bleak yet realistic novel about a mother with a substance use disorder and her three children who love or leave her. Stuart focuses most on the youngest child, Shuggie, a more feminine boy who feels devoted to caring for his mother through her addiction to alcohol even as she continues to spiral out of control. Throughout the novel we see Shuggie do his best to parent his mother even as she proves incapable of returning his love in a way that would heal or restore him. I liked how Stuart portrays the dark themes of class and poverty as well as having a parent with a mental illness in Shuggie Bain. These topics are so often stigmatized and I felt that Stuart wrote about them in a realistic way without glorifying or trivializing the characters’ struggles. He also does an effective job of highlighting the harmful nature of toxic masculinity in relation to Shuggie’s femininity as well as how cruel men furthered Agnes’s suffering (whew, the men in this novel were pretty garbage similar to many of the men I’ve encountered in my life). I found the writing style of this novel a major letdown compared to its content. The writing felt dull, repetitive, and devoid of the intense emotion I would have expected from a set of characters undergoing such tumultuous life circumstances. I felt like the prose stayed so much on the situational level in terms of describing event after event, without ever really getting into the characters’ more nuanced emotions or their interior psychological processes. For example, Shuggie’s attachment to Agnes exemplified a heartbreaking situation of a child trying to tend to an ill parent. However, while I understood their relationship as heartbreaking on an intellectual level, the writing felt flat to me and lacking in terms of Shuggie’s internal world, which reduced the emotional connection I felt to him and to the characters overall. Would potentially recommend this novel for its content and themes though not really for its writing style. In terms of a book about trauma and mental health I’d recommend A Little Life by Hanya Yanagihara, and for a book about nuanced and often messy parents told through the perspective of a child I’d recommend Caucasia by Danzy Senna, to name a couple of novels I enjoyed more.

Reading Shuggie Bain felt something like hearing a lost Bach cantata for the first time. There are 200 extant Bach cantatas, which might be enough Bach cantatas even for us avid lovers of Bach cantatas.

I'm not going to write a lengthy review of this book. The bottom line is that it just didn't work for me. I normally enjoy stories set in the Wild West but I found the pace of this one much too slow. On the first page, two Chinese-American kids find their father dead in his bed. They load his body onto the back of the horse, traipse around the countryside and don't bury him until page 50. At which point, his corpse has begun to severely decompose. One of the sisters, Sam, identifies as male, but I felt like I was being hit over the head with this element of the story. It could have done with some subtlety, is all I'm saying. I see a lot of positive reviews for this book here, and I realise I'm in the minority. But I didn't have the patience for its meandering narrative and couldn't bring myself to care about the characters.

A bleak novel that explores what makes a home, a family, an identity. Set against the harsh environment of the American west, we follow our characters as they struggle through life, wandering and left wanting, left with so many unanswered desires and questions. Told with a lyrical wistfulness, and filled with loneliness.

This book has so much unrealized potential, but unfortunately falls way short of what I expect in a good novel. The themes are interesting. Tambu was very successful academically in her youth through hard work, but in the real world, she seems unable to grab a foothold on the ladder of success. She is wildly jealous of those who have been able to amass anything approaching material success. In Zimbabwe, the poverty, the lack of respect for women, the corruption, the unenforceable property rights all make it hard for a woman to make her way in the world, and all of this is elucidated during the course of the story. Unfortunately, it is told in a way that is so boring and unnecessarily obtuse. I did not read the two prior books in the trilogy, and I do think that might have made a big difference because perhaps I would have had passing familiarity with the characters beyond the protagonist. But since I didn’t, they all just seemed like a stream of names. Some of them had multiple names and were referred to differently from time to time. Others were referred to as her mother’s uncle’s sister’s son (okay, not really, but that represents how confusing it all was in terms of who was related to whom and how they were interrelated). If I have to spend this much time just figuring out what is going on, it is very, very hard to get lost in the storytelling. Many people will dislike the fact that the book is written in the second person POV, but I actually liked that element and thought it was well done. It’s almost like we were inside Tambu’s mind as she scolds herself for her many failures. In addition, there were actually some descriptive passages that were beautifully written, but sadly there weren’t many of them. I wanted to see more of that author and less of the one struggling to move her character to the finish line. Bottom line, this book didn’t get interesting until the last 20% when I finally understood where the author was going and why. The first 80% is such a slog that honestly in no way was the journey made worthwhile by the payoff. Writing quality: 3/5 Originality: 4/5 Character development: 2/4 Plot development: 1/4 Overall enjoyment: 0/2 Total: 10/20

I last read Dangarembga back in 2009 when I was trying out the 1001 Books Before you Die challenge (the least said about that, the better) it was her first book Nervous Conditions, which introduced the character of Tambu and I didn’t mind that. This Mournable Body is the third part of the series and it is by far one of the worst books I’ve read in a long time. I hated everything , the writing style, the characters, the plot. I wavered between boredom and frustration. Yes the plot is touches upon topics which are relevant; abuse, suffering and bits of magical realism. I also saw it as a commentary of modern day Zimbabwe and it’s shifting ‘tourist friendly’ culture. Reading the novel was a chore though. An unpleasant experience. I know this is my opinion and it’s definitely me not the book.

DNRA Towards the end, I found it very repetitive, so ended going to the last two chapters. Seemed to wrap up the whole tale in the last few pages, as if the author, too got tired of it! I grew up in South Africa, so perhaps knowing much about the history of Zim, thought it a pityI didn't like it. Glad she is getting this recognition, though.

Maybe it would have helped if it advertised itself as something of a sequel more clearly but ultimately I just couldn’t get into it and it felt like a slog (even with three hours of train time to read). Thought the second person was effective in portraying Tambu’s inner distress and turmoil at how her life had panned out but even that got to a point I was spending too much time confused to care what was going on.

I feel for Tambu but I could not understand several things

Loved the writing the first 40 pages but then the book became totally unraveled and discombobulated. I know I’m in the minority here and most people that read it loved it. I got halfway through and had to stop. So this is a DNF for me but read enough to know I stopped enjoying it,so much so that I had to put it down.

Wanted to get into this one but couldn’t, sad to say it’s my third two-star review in a row. I think within The House of Doors lies some interesting themes related to the secrets we keep in our relationships as well as how power dynamics related to gender, race, and sexual orientation affect our relationships. Unfortunately I struggled to feel invested in the story and the characters though. One, the writing style felt both flowery and dull – like it came across as both intellectualized and distanced, while still trying to convey emotion, and it didn’t work for me. The characters also felt flat and unintriguing. We’ll see what my book club thinks of this one.

Maybe it's me. Maybe I'm too attached to "The garden of evening mists" to see Tan's following books as a natural progress. "The house of doors" doesn't come even close: he pours into my mind water and oil, two fluids that don't mix and therefore don't create a new flavor. It feels like an old, distant, political anecdote with some insanely good descriptions. I want to cry.

I wanted to tell the man that life itself is a spectrum disorder, where each of us vibrated at some unique frequency in the continuous rainbow. I was not nearly as enamoured by this super-hyped book as I thought I might be, and I think I can pin it down to three main reasons. 1) A novel-length Neruda poem is not really my thing. Don't get me wrong, I've gotten tingles like everyone else when I see a quote like: I love you as certain dark things are to be loved, in secret, between the shadow and the soul. I have no idea what that means but I like it. The narrator mentions and quotes Neruda in the book, and I got the impression he inspired quite a bit of the style. There are a lot of sentences that straddle the line between poetic and cringy, and maybe it's my mood, but I found them falling more often into the latter category. It's a very introspective novel that gets way too dreamy and star-gazey (add it to the dictionary for me) for my liking. 2) I read Migrations last year and liked it a LOT more. This is a personal thing that obviously won't apply to a lot of people. I picked this book up because the mysterious synopsis and the reviews made me think this could be on the same level as the other near-future ecological novel I read last year. In fact, there are a number of similarities. Both are set in a future that may very well be just around the corner, both deal with grief and loss, and both are rooted in nature and wildlife. But where I found Migrations taut, compelling and moving, I found this one overwritten and a bit boring, honestly. I thought the obvious stand-ins for Trump (unnamed American president who denies election results and fuels bigotry) and Greta Thunberg (Inga Alder-- teen girl on the autism spectrum who stands up to world leaders about climate issues) were a bit silly, and the parroting of rudimentary philosophy from Robin was uninteresting. Also, Migrations never felt preachy; this one did. 3) I really disliked the uncriticised anti-medicine, anti-diagnosis and, frankly, anti-science approach this book seems to take. The narrator-- and, seemingly, the book itself --seems to push Big Pharma conspiracy theories. Theo repeatedly ignores the medical advice of doctors regarding his son, is horrified at the notion of "psychoactive drugs" which he sneers at in the same sanctimonious way that some parents gasp Give my child vaccines with mercury in them? (view spoiler), and makes the following statement: "No doctor can diagnose my son better than I can." Oh, boy. I don't have a sigh big enough. Now, look. I know that a character saying or doing something is not necessarily the author condoning it, and I would love to be wrong about this, but I really felt the whole book was selling these ideas. And it's... well, a bit concerning. And on the subject of diagnosis and drugs, I personally think the former is extremely important and the latter sometimes necessary. It's not an easy decision to start psychoactive drugs, especially when the recipient is a young child, but I know from experience that they can be the difference between getting up and sleeping your life away, the difference between being able to look after yourself and sitting in your own filth, and, sometimes, the difference between keeping going and giving up on life. It's not always the right answer, for sure, but sometimes it is, and the way the narrator sneers at drugs and doctors irritated me. And as someone who went a long time without a diagnosis, I know that getting one can be a wonderful key to understanding yourself and others. If anyone thinks I interpreted this wrong, then I would genuinely like to hear from you in the comments. I feel quite blindsided that a book about science, space and nature would contain this narrative, so I'd be very happy to be wrong.

Video Review (YouTube, more of a rant than normal) I would like to thank Netgalley and Random House UK for the honor of reading Bewilderment before its commercial release. This is the hardest review I remember writing. I really don't think everyone will love reading this, because I did not find it uplifting or touching as other reviewers have. However, I still think it will be shortlisted and stands a very good chance of winning the Booker Prize, because it is highly topical and relevant to the 'pandemic era' we are (hopefully) beginning to leave. When I started Bewilderment I really thought I'd like it based on the blurb. I love stories with strong father figures (The Road, To Kill A Mockingbird). I love stories about boys who seem like they could be on the autistic spectrum (The Curious Incident of The Dog In The Night-Time, Independence Day). I love stories about grief (Nox, Bough Down). I think we need to write more frequently and deeply about these topics, and that the world needs more books about them. I am a former neuroscience researcher, and I knew this would have science in it. Richard Powers has won the Pulitzer Prize for The Overstory, so I figured this book would be popular too. I like Bewilderment for what it does, but I dislike it for what it was as a reading experience. To read it was a cold, claustrophobic, paranoid reading experience. I'm sure Bewilderment will serve history in reminding the world the sociopolitical climate in America during the COVID-19 pandemic. Its themes outside of the father-son relationship reminds me a bit of First Reformed, except that film had more heart to it, which is what I think is the distinction to my disdain for this book. I found it strange how there was no conflict was seen between people strongly in support of space exploration and environmental conservation. I wanted simpler explanations of space, not technical simulations loaded with jargon. I felt like space sequences were randomly interspersed literally as an escape from the story, but they didn't really add much? Nothing really happens in the plot, and I found little else to redeem that. There wasn't the description or empathy I felt that would compensate for an uneventful story, but instead, multiple scenarios of emotional discomfort. If anything, Bewilderment to me seems like a masterful exercise in how uncomfortable can you make a reader with an uneventful yet realistic plot. I felt like there was no real momentum to the story itself. I felt the story had a nihilistic dread to it that threatened anyone who cared about anything. I didn't feel like there was much development to the grief process. It bothered me that there was never any reflection on whether space research funds could not be redirected into environmental activism? It felt like an obvious connection to me based on the conversations and motivations of the characters in the book. It felt almost necessary to deal with the emotional leap from speculating what species might exist on other planets, while also showing that you want to save the ones on earth? The ending to me felt a bit predictable and abrupt. My reading experience was always a matter of 'what on earth is going to happen next', so when the story was over, it was not so memorable to me. I don't carry with me moments from this book, only missed expectations. It did not flow to me very well as a narrative. I did not cherish any sentence constructions, I found nothing memorable in the writing style. I felt closed off from the vulnerable emotions and thoughts of the characters by a pane of glass. My ARC review is negative and in the minority, and I am sorry if this disappoints other readers (I feel bad about it, more so than normal). I am not representative here, I only write here how I truly felt. This may be partly because unlike other ARC reviewers I had not read and loved Richard Powers's last book (The Overstory). I went into this blind. It may also be specifically personal issues I had with the representation of the son's behaviour and the neuroscience scifi element. It is hard for me to realize why my perspective differs so much from the collective response now. It's not a 1* review because there's some fascination here, Richard Powers does write some natural conversations very well, and the book is unconventional. It probably seems very conflicting for me to still hope this book wins the 2021 Booker Prize. Something in me still thinks that, what Bewilderment drags the reader through, makes it worthy of being promoted as a talking point for the current problems in the world. It's an eyesore and a warning, not a fun time looking up at the stars. I just don't think this book will be as popular in a decade, it seems too relevant/current, and progress is surely ahead. I only hope more stories will write about these themes, but do so with quite a different perspective and writing style. —— [Initial thoughts after reading] Oh boy. I'm going to have to fight my corner for this one. Very conflicted. My experience that this was a 2-3* experience, but I need time to process it all. I did really want to love this and I'm still confident it will be shortlisted, and may even win the Booker Prize this year. But I also don't think it will be an enjoyable read for many. It is hard to articulate that massively conflicting view right now. All I can say for now is — read the synopsis in the blurb very closely, and think about what that might feel like to read. The pre-release rating is currently 4.31, I predict it'll come down to around 3.8-3.9 after release. Expect a more comprehensive review soon.

Can we sit by the water first, before we pitch the tent? The day was fresh and clear, with hours of light left and no chance of rain. “We can sit by the river for as long as it takes.” As long as what takes? “To figure out the human race.” The only other novel by Richard Powers I have read is ‘Orfeo’ (2014), about an avant-garde composer who biohacks musical patterns into a bacterial human pathogen, which does not endear him to the local authorities. ‘Bewilderment’ features the experimental Decoded Neurofeedback used to treat the Asperger syndrome and related mental ailments of the child Robin by ‘training’ him on a healthy brain pattern, in this instance his deceased mother. Exactly how the process functions is never spelled out, but it clearly serves as a narrative device, because Robin soon comes to spookily mimic mannerisms and spout arcane knowledge that could only have come from his mother. When the government gets a sniff in the wind about the behavioural modification potential of Decoded Neurofeedback, its kneejerk reaction is to close down the experiment with immediate effect. Which, of course, has a dramatic impact on test subjects like Robin, who rely on weekly treatments to retain their mental equilibrium. If you are getting vibes of ‘Flowers for Algernon’ (1959) by Daniel Keyes, you are not wrong, as Powers himself references that classic. The problem with Robin in ‘Bewilderment’ is that he never seems like a fully fledged character, but rather an idea animated by the author. This is underscored by the curious decision to have Robin speak in all-italics and without speech marks, which distances him from the narrative. When he begins to act like his dead mother, the ghostly estrangement is even more pronounced. Aly is an equally problematic figure, painted in a haze of reminiscence by husband Theo as the great love of his life who got away. There is some mystery as to how she died in a car accident, but this is a plot strand that ultimately does not interest Powers, so he abandons it abruptly. Another jettisoned plot strand is the merest hint that Aly (view spoiler) This is an unresolved value judgement on Aly that, for me, skewed the narrative even further. It also raises important issues about the nature of their relationship, which clearly was not as idyllic as Theo remembers it to be, not to mention the impact it had on Robin’s own development. Another classic book referenced by Powers is ‘Star Maker’ (1937) by Olaf Stapledon: “The whole cosmos was infinitely less than the whole of being … the whole infinity of being underlay every moment of the cosmos.” Theo is an astrobiologist working on the ‘Byrne Alien Field Guide’, “a taxonomic catalogue of all kinds of spectroscopic signatures collated to the stages and types of possible extraterrestrial life that might make them.” That is, alien worlds. This was my favourite part of the book. It begins quietly and unannounced 5% into the Kindle version when Powers gives us the following sentence, which had me reread it and then check to see if I had missed anything prior to that point: “I took him to the planet Dvau, about the size and warmth of ours.” These chapters, usually brief interludes, are moments of genuine wonder and flights of fancy, yet underpinned by credible science. It is also the emotional heart of the novel, as it is where the father and son bond is at its strongest, especially towards the end when Robin begins to make up his own versions of alien worlds for his father. However, none of this is actually the core focus of the book. It takes place in an unspecified ‘near future’ that is clearly a dystopian Trump version of America where he never accepted the outcome of the election, declares martial law, and installs himself as dictator-in-chief. Law and order continue to break down, the authorities’ response becomes ever more draconian, and so the country begins an agonising death spiral into anarchy. All of this plays out against a backdrop of global extreme weather events and bizarre disruptions of the natural order, such as mass outbreaks of animal diseases in human populations. Instead of using the ‘Byrne Alien Field Guide’ to illustrate the immense richness and variety of the universe, Powers takes the bewildering turn of using his characters as soapboxes for the idea that life is unique to earth, and that if we continue on our current path of environmental self-destruction, it is effectively the end of the universe as we know it. (There is a lot of discussion of the Fermi Paradox and how this is actually a true reflection of nature: Humans are the epitome, and hence custodians, of sentience. Also, you do not have to look anywhere else for ‘alien’ life: it is all here in copious abundance and infinite variety on earth itself.) It is curious to find such an anti-scientific and human-centric argument lurking like a black hole at the heart of a book that is ostensibly on the side of science and reason. It is also a curiously didactic and polemical book where it is clearly apparent that the author is manipulating the characters, and hence the reader’s response to them, especially on an emotional level. This does not gel. The dystopia is tired, preaches to the converted anyway, and keeps the climate change scenario at the periphery rather letting it steer the narrative. I have yet to read ‘The Overstory’ (2019) by Powers, which of course won the Pulitzer Prize in Fiction. Other CliFi novels I have yet to read that I think will provide an interesting dialectic with ‘Bewilderment’ are ‘The Ministry for the Future’ (2020) by Kim Stanley Robinson and ‘Terminal Shock’ (2021) by Neal Stephenson. Invariably when ‘mainstream’ or ‘literary’ writers dabble in genre, the end results are unsatisfactory. One only has to recall ‘Machines like Me’ (2019) or ‘Klara and the Sun’ (2021) by Kazuo Ishiguro. ‘Bewilderment’ packs a lot into his short length, to its detriment. Powers could have narrowed his focus even further and produced a far more powerful book that paradoxically would have had the universe as its true backdrop.

Richard Powers’s poignant new novel, “Bewilderment,” is a cri de cœur. Like his recent masterpiece, “The Overstory,” which won a Pulitzer Prize, “Bewilderment” deplores humanity’s destruction of the environment and the perverse incentives that make our descent toward universal suicide so difficult to stop. But unlike “The Overstory,” with its sprawling network of interconnected plots, this is a hauntingly intimate story set within the privacy of one family trapped in the penumbra of mourning. Although there are allusions to a Trump-like fiend accelerating the country’s decay, Powers isn’t interested in exploring the full scientific and political complexity of our environmental catastrophe. Instead, “Bewilderment,” which is shortlisted for the Booker Prize and longlisted for a National Book Award, focuses on how that tragedy is perceived by one special little boy. When the novel opens, an astrobiologist named Theo Byrne is camping with his 9-year-old son, Robin. The setting is bucolic but tinged with tragedy. Theo and his wife, a passionate animal rights lawyer, once spent their honeymoon in this forest, but two years ago she died in a car accident. Now, father and son are negotiating that tender border between reminiscence and grief. “Alyssa would’ve propelled the three of us forward on her. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...

Theo Byrne is an astrobiologist. As part of his job, he speculates on what planets outside the Solar System might look like, and shares his ideas of these worlds with his 9-year-old son Robin, as a kind of bedtime story. Robin is going through a hard time - he's on the spectrum, though his condition has never been definitively diagnosed. He's also grieving the loss of his mother Alyssa, who died in an accident two years ago. Theo struggles to look after his son's special needs. He takes him camping which helps to ease his mind, but as soon as Robin gets back into the routine of school, old problems resurface. Salvation arrives in the form of a neurological experiment, which allows the boy to recalibrate his emotions based on a recording of his mother's brain activity. This proves a big success, but also becomes a media sensation, and Theo & Robin end up with a new set of problems to deal with. I was a fan of Powers' previous novel, The Overstory, so I had been looking forward to this one. I thought it started off brightly - I was engaged in the hardship facing father and son, and felt sympathy for their plight. But as the story progressed, I became less enamored, and most of my bugbears were to do with Robin. As the treatment takes hold, he turns into a kind of ecological savant. Some of the stuff he came out with made me cringe, his sentimentality about the natural world seemed over the top. And the overall message of the book felt so preachy, a heavy-handed attempt to press home the anxieties of the climate crisis. While The Overstory had its flaws, I thought it addressed environmental concerns with a much subtler approach - its characters were well-rounded and the story was compelling. Bewilderment, however, is wrapped up in schmaltz and though it has admirable intentions to tackle an urgent topic, I found it an unconvincing, awkward effort.

Oh dear, absolutely not my thing. I thought it was manipulative, sloppy, grandiose, trite, and incoherent. Clearly I am in the vast minority here! I am traveling (traveling!) at long last so will need to put off a more detailed review.

This book did not justify the pain and discomfort caused in the act of reading it. In the blurb it says its heart is - How can we tell our children the truth about this beautiful, imperiled planet? But the book is not about our planet. It takes place in a version of our planet that is a highly dystopic one. One where Trump wins again. One where there are no qualified Special Ed professionals in our schools. Even in the podunk stupid town I live in there are wonderful Autism Specialists and Occupational Therapists in the school system. And that stupid therapy the father puts his son through? Therapy is not having an AI teach you how to be someone else. Therapy is teaching you how to be yourself even if it involves taking drugs. Drugs can be good. OK end of rant. Sorry to all you people who love this book. I'm not the reader for this book. I don't want it to win the Booker Prize.

This is not a book for me. In fact, this is not a writer for me. I am quite allergic to unctuous voices and a preachy tone, so this quickly became insufferable. My problem clearly lies with the father: nature is good, people are bad, especially doctors and teachers. Except for my family who are all fantastic. Especially my late wife who is an absolute saint. I was hoping for some irony, self-reflection or moderation but no: all meant very seriously. And then the constant, obvious attempts to awe the reader, trying to convey the greatness of our universe...they just had the opposite effect. Sure, it's more than fascinating stuff and I agree 100% with the underlying environmental message. But there are great TV documentary series and non-fiction that work a lot better for me. 2,5 rounded down

I received a copy for review purposes. All opinions are honest and mine alone. LOTS OF SPOILERS AHEAD Without a doubt, HUNCHBACK, by Saou Ichikawa, is one of the most unusual books I’ve ever read. Presented as fiction, it’s really biofic on many levels. Both the author and main character share the same disabling condition,(myotubular myopathy), with the same affects: the need for a ventilator, regular suctioning, almost full time care, assistance needed to perform most ADL’s, a power wheelchair to ambulate and so on. She’s able to speak in a limited capacity by covering her trache and can use the bathroom by detaching from the ventilator for short periods of time, (with careful planning), able to take a few steps. It’s possible for her to sit at a desk with specific orientation of tools and use a laptop or read physical books, with great discomfort/pain. Altho’ Shaka/MC is independently wealthy, (thanks to the inheritance from her deceased parents), she receives income from the care home she lives in and owns, earning money writing tawdry sex books and online articles while studying to finish an advanced degree. Being a student makes her “feel normal”. It’s the other issue that Shaka thinks will “make me feel like a normal woman” that almost had me DNF this very tiny tome. Shaka has decided that becoming pregnant and then having an abortion is the key to her achieving normalcy as a woman with a disability. There’s no mention of her seeking medical advice as to whether or not she’s physically capable of becoming pregnant or if she can, would it jeopardize her life, given the extremely precarious nature of her health. It appears that she has surmised that having a menstrual cycle equates to being able to become pregnant, sustaining it long enough to recognize the condition and then survive the abortion. Fiction or not, I find this incredibly repugnant on every level. Shaka goes forward to realize her goal but things don’t go as planned. She definitely needed to do more research with regard to her own health and potential catastrophic consequences. Beyond that, her access to significant funds was a weapon that caused harm for which she had no apparent remorse; wretched character. There’s a place in the book where Shaka bemoans how difficult it is to manage physical books with her disability. I found it incongruous that she, in turn, produced a book that is very difficult for handicapped people to manage in its physical form. The jacketed hardcover is 5.4” x 7.9”, 112 pgs with a retail over $20. It’s very difficult to hold, keep open and turn pages. $10 on Kindle is going to be a far better option. How this book won the highest award available in Japan and is currently listed for a variety of awards in literature is beyond me. The idea to feature a significantly disabled person as the main character is good but the execution is sorely lacking in development. As a woman who has at times been bed and/or house bound for years, I’m dumbfounded and offended by Shaka and pray that she is not what readers will conjure up whenever they see a person in a power chair, living with a disabling condition. The only truly positive aspect of this book is the translation - it’s great📚 UPDATE 7/26/25 - I shared this book with 2 friends. Neither had access to my review prior to reading the book nor did I share my own opinions other than to say I found the book to be “disturbing”. One woman is in her 60’s and is bound to a power chair due to a massive stroke; the other in her 50’s, gainfully employed. Both women are avid readers and in long term relationships in excess of 25 years. My fellow handicapable friend reacted very much like I did, finding Shaka “irresponsible regarding her own life and health and void of any real human compassion.” My younger friend tho’t Shaka was “a typical rich bitch that just keeps throwing money at whatever or whoever she wants and doesn’t care what it costs, even if that means her health…or life” She then shrugged her shoulders and said, “What a f’n waste!” That’s not my usual repartee however, in this case, I agree📚 Read and Reviewed from a GoodReads GiveAway

Hunchback explores disability and desire with an unflinching perspective, but its execution falls short. While Ichikawa’s prose is evocative, the novella format limits the depth of character development and thematic exploration. The protagonist’s struggles and relationships feel underdeveloped, making the story feel more like a draft than a fully realized narrative. The abrupt ending further weakens its impact, leaving me a bit unsatisfied. Though the book raises important questions about sexuality and self-perception, it ultimately lacks the depth to fully explore them. A longer format could have made this a more powerful and immersive read.

This is an angry book in a lot of ways. Written by an author with severe disability about a protagonist who is severely disabled, this book is probably semi-autobiographical. The key word is semi, since you hope the worst parts are only fiction. Shaka, born with congenital muscular disorder, has to use an electric wheelchair and ventilator to prevent her lungs from collapsing. She is now forty with a considerable inheritance and she is being cared for in a facility she owns which have other patients. Whatever her physical limitations are, her mental prowess shines through with her doing course after course and earning on the side by writing erotica of perfectly abled people. She also galivants on the social media under various false ids voicing her fantasies. She makes one such tweet where she wants to get pregnant and get aborted. She is willing to throw away her entire inheritance to experience this but the experiment goes wrong with her developing complications. Trust me when I say this, but this is one of the toughest short books I have read where you can feel something akin to physical pain. In her writing she calls out the debate between pro-abortion rights of parents who find the foetus disabled and disabled people rights to live. She talks about the elitism of normal people and their preference for physical books without realizing how it is biased against people with disability. There are almost no filters and she even sympathizes with a caretaker who has post partum pain. She starts writing her own fiction. While the book is critical to be recognized, it is not a pleasant reading experience. In fact, i had initially turned down the reading offer after I saw it starts with a graphic erotica piece at a swingers club. But then, after the longlist, I picked this up and finished it in a day. It feels wrong to rate it, I am reacting as to how I felt reading it. Not for me.

This is probably one of the most difficult books I've had the opportunity to review. I was left torn between two main thoughts, what the fuck? and sadness. There was so much I wanted the author to explore more and expand on, as we were already restricted by the page count; however, there was also quite a lot of unexpected, very specific content packed into the short novella which overshadowed the true importance of the story for me. I was totally not prepared for some of the plotlines and it ended up just being difficult to read on a personal level. It is a shocking story which will probably stay with me for a long time, I just wish it had lived up to the expectations I had for it. 2.5 stars (rounded down to 2 on Goodreads)

A severely disabled woman, writes erotica and fantasizes about getting an abortion. It could be read as an ode to feminism and disability being recognized as a part of it Yet, this made me feel like a voyeur...It's an unsettling short story. It made me see things, and it made me feel like I'm not supposed to be seeing these things. This is quite disturbing in its realness and the unfiltered views of its main character.

Somewhere along the way I fell out of love with the writing style and lost interest in the story. With everything that happened, I was pretty bored for most of the book. I went in thinking it would be a quick read, but it was a struggle to keep reading to the end. It also felt bogged down with similes and metaphors that didn’t really add anything.

2.5* I think this has to be one of the most cliche thing I’ve ever read on motherhood and couples after parenthood. Also, the amount of objectification of other persons in this book just for the sake of sex is just…

Finished this in less than a day: Booker Prize Shortlisted Boulder by Eva Baltasar. All I can say is thank god this was only 100 pages because I couldn’t wait to finish it from the moment I started it (arguably only 13 hours ago on my morning commute). I don’t really see the point in this one and I’m quite shocked to have seen so many people saying great things about it. Take out the nonsensical comparisons and similes, and you’re left with just a horny middle aged woman, obsessed with gutting fish, who’s jealous of her own daughter. Half of it didn’t make sense to me, but the half that did was just ok. I don’t want to have children anyway, but this book made me want to have them even less. Yeah, if you’ve read this one please share your insight into why people are saying it’s so good, and why it’s been shortlisted to win the Booker Prize? Love the cover though lol, so that’s something! 2/5 stars ⭐️⭐️

Jack Edwards gave this 5 stars and it takes place in Reykjavik so I had to read but unfortunately it wasn’t for me.

Translated into English as Solenoid. A frustrated middle-school teacher lives an unassuming (though not always quiet) life in one of Bucharest's sleazier slums. Armed with an intriguing past that slowly unfolds as the events progress, he proceeds to drag the reader through numerous flashbacks, urban legends and philosophical musings of dubious origin ... presumably in an attempt to unravel whatever point this book is trying to make. Reading for my book club is often a challenge, albeit one I enjoy tackling as a rule. Unfortunately, every once in a while, the club members will get nostalgic for their school days, and foist some precious modern classic on us to fawn over. I, however, am less enthused by these throwbacks, having escaped lit classes with some serious trauma. And now Solenoid brought it all back. Suddenly I was studying old literature with inept professors, reading the works of monks and would-be monks, who’d written maybe three lines in Old Church Slavonic, and even those were copied. All because someone had to patch over the giant historical hole of a culture that woke up embarrassingly late. It's clear from the get-go that this novel is keen to transcend the conventional rules of enjoyment. So much so that it literally throws every trick from the playbook at the reader: unintelligible metaphysical musings, run-on sentences, horrific graphic descriptions, insane murder threats, and even random tangents. Case in point: this bizarre threat that comes out of nowhere... Why didn’t I just ask [my mother] directly what the hell had happened? Why didn’t I just grab her soot‑stained hands across the table and force her to tell me the truth? Why didn’t I demand to suck the milk from her breast under the house’s foundation, pressing the whole house down onto her sagging breast with its unusually large areola, until she finally told me everything? I imagine the end-goal of all these lengthy passages could have been to impart some sort of mind-blowing revelation. One that would speak directly to people's souls or some other mystical mumbo-jumbo... but I just couldn't get over its inherent pretentiousness. By the 100th page, I started seriously doubting my resolve to keep going, but I soldiered on... if only to see how far I'd get. Spoiler alert: I dropped it around the 400th page mark, so halfway through. As much as I enjoyed all the gruesome horror stories (no, seriously!), it was ultimately just cheap window dressing. Score: 2/5 stars Much like his unnamed protagonist, I suspect that Cartarescu had actually wanted to write a very long poem, but, unlike the protagonist, decided to turn it into a novel instead. ...and since poetry and I just aren't compatible, all this self-inflicted suffering was inevitable. But hey, if lengthy lyrical musings are your jam, don't let me stop you. ----- Note: quotes are self-translated from Romanian, not taken from the English version.

I read it in the winter, at the start of the year, when one should be reading something luminous. For the first few days, I was inebriated — delirious even. What a genius, I thought. What a cathedral of thought. But genius, like perfume, fades faster than one expects. Somewhere between the metaphysical insects and the endless digressions, my admiration turned into endurance. What began as ecstasy became survival. By the final pages, the only feeling left was the relief of having completed the ordeal — a calm as cold as the snow outside. It’s not that it isn’t brilliant — it simply forgets that brilliance must seduce, not suffocate.

Read this one as a continuation of 2025: THE YEAR OF THE BRICK, in which I’m diving into all of the massive novels that have been collecting dust on my shelves. Not sure exactly at which point a book becomes a brick, but at 638 pages, I think this one qualifies. (I’m a bit drunk, so bear with me - I quite literally couldn’t allow myself to finish this one sober.) Solenoid has been praised to high hell by everybody and their mother recently, including many people whose opinions I respect, so I had fairly high expectations going into this. I had also seen it compared to Pynchon, which I realized was bullshit within 2 pages and decided to judge it on its own merits. Or lack thereof. Cărtărescu is incredibly self-indulgent - this is not debatable and I’m sure that most fans of this novel consider his excesses to be a feature, not a bug. The novel is much longer than it needs to be, but a lot of great fiction is, so this isn’t inherently a bad thing. In fact, there were moments where this one reminded me of Gass’s The Tunnel or Bolaño’s The Savage Detectives, both of which manage to pull off the whole “interminable rambling for hundreds of pages” thing by virtue of being much more well-written than what we’re dealing with here. There is an absurd amount of repetition in Solenoid and none of it strengthens the novel’s themes, it only bogs it down in familiarity. And the themes themselves are not very unique/interesting - in fact, I found the endless meditations on the nature of dreams/why do humans suffer/loss of community to be juvenile more often than not, a pale imitation of the authors that Cărtărescu constantly references (the Kafka worship becomes straight obnoxious at a certain point). To be clear, I adore lengthy books where very little happens, but the ones I like aren’t written like garbage. Which is another point I’m not sure if I’m allowed to make. It’s hard to judge Cărtărescu’s prose since I’m reading it in translation, but if Sean Cotter did even a halfway decent job retaining the author’s voice in English, he deserves a Purple Heart for sticking with it for the length of this tome (or possibly he deserves to be jailed for burdening the English-speaking world with such nonsense). Regardless of who to blame, I can’t help but feel disappointed at the poor quality of the writing here. Word choice is severely limited and I found myself sighing every time I ran across another usage of “minuscule”, “envaginated”, or constant comparisons between women’s vaginas and flowers/petals/etc. If your whole shtick is stream of consciousness rants, I’m going to need a bit more pizzazz to roll with it for 53 chapters, or maybe just stop writing about every female character’s vagina within 3 paragraphs of introducing them, you horny little goblin (I distinctly remember assholes being described as starfish-like at one point, but I could just be confusing the book with Limp Bizkit lyrics [in which there is more value to be found]). Learn to write, fraud! If we somehow manage to forgive the book’s length and lack of quality writing, we’re left with a series of images and recollections that amount to, if I’m being generous, jack fucking shit. Nothing that is said here hasn’t already been said better by dozens of others, and very few threads come together in the end to mean much. Usually when I read a lengthy novel, I take notes to keep track of characters and themes, but that wasn’t necessary here as most chapters feel like they were written in the spur of the moment and it’s rare that they even get referenced again. Cărtărescu does try to tie things together in the last 100 pages but it’s a feeble attempt, as he clearly hadn’t planned any sort of meaningful ending from the outset, so it’s actually slightly insulting to wrap it up with a bow and pretend it’s not crap. Seeing the acclaim this book has received truly confounds me. I don’t think I’ve ever disagreed more strongly with critical consensus than I do here - I genuinely think that this is an embarrassing experiment that fails on nearly every level. And the fucking gall to call your novel an “anti-novel” in the text!! - I’m not going to serve you a calzone and tell you it’s an anti-calzone just because I replaced the cheese with vomit. Don’t get cute, Cărtărescu, you’re a hack. Speaking of which, Cărtărescu claims to have written this novel without planning anything in advance, and not to have edited or returned to any of it as he continued to write. Fans and critics are mixed on this, some arguing that such a work of genius surely must have required careful planning and attention to detail… …I believe him!!

Usually historical fiction isn’t my thing, but I read this after it was longlisted for the Booker prize. I found it problematic. The novel follows the lives of five (white) people from South London, with chapters spaced 15 years apart, so that we check in with the characters at roughly ages 10, 25, 40, 55, and 70. Various domestic themes are addressed as well as societal issues - racism, classism, Thatcherism, etc. Whatever the merits this might otherwise have, I can’t get over framing a historical narrative of post-WWII Britain told solely from the perspective of a bunch of white people. Longlisting this for the Booker seems particularly tone-deaf at best.

Hmm, this is a tricky one for me. I was ready to give up after about 50 pages, but I stuck with it and while it certainly improves toward the end, ultimately I can’t forgive the set up that goes absolutely nowhere. 2.5 rounded down.

Trying to compose myself here, but this was a huge miss for me. The prologue is absolutely pointless since it does nothing for the story. A chip thrill that gets you invested. I can bet this was solely done for the purposes of making this novel somewhat palatable and marketable. Because what follows is just a story of a bunch of boring baby boomers. Barely inventive, or thought-provoking, or reflecting, or corresponding with the times it takes place in. It feels forced and pseudo-intellectual, and I pretty much agree with every critical review on here. Just pass on this one.

A disappointing second novel by Spufford. The conceit is interesting: Spufford pretends that a handful of children killed in the Blitz of London during World War II in fact survived and lived for the next sixty years or so. The novel traces these lives, which very occasionally intertwine. Unfortunately, it therefore splinters into a number of generally unrelated novellas featuring in some cases some very unlikeable characters. There is no momentum. The one thing that is most interesting about these characters proves to be their death in the Blitz. It never becomes particularly clear why we should care about them, so the reader is constantly seeking the point of the story, turning the pages not on account of any suspense, but in a bewildered way, wanting to understand what point this collection of novellas is trying to make, other than the V2 rocket that killed them snuffed out a bunch of lives that could have gone in many different directions. That sense of potentiality, though, is snuffed out by the generally mediocre lives they in fact lead in Spufford's account. Not all is lost, to be sure. Spufford writes with a deft hand, and some of his characters (Alec, Val, Jo, Ben) are genuinely moving and even interesting and the cross-cultural character of London comes through loud and clear. But the fragments never add up to a whole.

as soon as this was compared to rachel cusk’s outline it was curtains for me

One Boat By Jonathan Buckley An interesting premise with the promise of a balmy Greek coastal village setting, however the author holds the reader at arms length, the language is practically tortured, and it's difficult to understand exactly what the story is actually about. A return to the place where Teresa previously sought haven to grieve her mother's death nine years ago, and this time it's her father's death she is mourning. There isn't much of a sense of grieving, and it's not clear exactly what she hopes to achieve by tracking down former acquaintances. The story feels directionless, the pace sags, my only points of interest being the sense of place. At times I was reminded of the mood and imagery I associate with Hot Milk and August Blue by Deborah Levy. The final two chapters don't feel connected to the previous twelve, and close with a reminder that there needs to be a sense of direction, momentum, to keep the destination in sight at all times, always be moving forward. Ahem! Languid, intriguing, confounding. Publication Date: pushed out from 13th March 2025 to 9th September 2025 Thank you ##Netgalley for providing an eGalley for review purposes.

this book was so boring. the whole story was giving “girl who graduated high school years ago comes back to visit and never stops talking to people who don’t want to talk to her”

Teresa’s father has passed away and she returns to the same small town on the Greek coast that she spent time in nine years prior when she was mourning her mother’s death. This trip she reconnects with several of the town’s residents that she spent time with on the first trip. Unfortunately this was not the book for me. The two trips Teresa takes blur and often felt indistinct. I understand they were meant to be fragmentary and I often enjoy this approach in writing but not this time. I have no idea the purpose of the story. I didn't actively hate it but can't think of anything that I particularly liked. Actually possibly the only thing I didn't mind was the phrasing of Teresa's italicised words used to signify what she later wrote in her notebook about the events she experienced. These often had a lovely turn of phrase but this was certainly not enough to redeem this book for me. It definitely gave off Cusk and Levy vibes in its location and writing style. These are authors I’ve only dabbled in so I can’t tell if this type of writing is just not my thing or not. And for a short book this took me a long time to read! By the end the story descended into discussions of a philosophical nature which honestly lost me completely. The twist at the end didn't do it for me either. One Boat would be sitting last on my personal Booker ranking except for how much I really did not like Universality! Oh well onto the next book – trying to decide between Land of Winter or Seascraper?

Some moments of beautiful writing, but not enough to keep my interest.

I needed a life preserver.

Beautiful writing, but I got entirely lost in the narrators many aimless musings. I genuinely couldn’t describe a single character, they were so flat and devoid of characteristics, which is odd considering there is no overarching plot or direction to the novel. Was super excited to read this, but ended up having to force myself through & resist skipping sections.

Exceedingly mixed. The books ends with a conversation speaking about dreams: “dreams are like the contents of the kitchen bin: the rubbish might tell one something about the person who created it, but not a great deal, and certainly not anything crucial.” The narrator continually stabs at ideas that seem interesting, but doesn’t commit to anything for long enough or with enough feeling to make them interesting. No part of this is sexy, and only in brief moments (mostly in the back story and specially John’s sister and nephew) does it find an interesting mystery.

*2.5 Not quite my cup of tea. The main character came off as quite contrived to me, and the philosophy quite surface level. I got the sense that in real life, Teresa would have been quite frustrating to deal with. The lackluster characters and plot are cloaked in deftly written prose. Buckley certainly has a skill for subtlety and weaving together disparate stories and times. I was impressed by Buckley's style but not so much the substance.

I really liked the setting of a small Greek town, it felt like I was immersed in the cute small beach town myself. I also liked the people in the town and their stories. I really did not like the narrator, Teresa, and the philosophical ramblings and references to her intelligence just felt pretentious. I thought grief would be explored more and so would her relationships with people on the island but it felt self absorbed and overindulgent. “I knew from experience that this place was conducive to introspection. The previous stay had been beneficial, and this one had been too, I told Petros. A considerable amount of thinking had taken place. But what was happening when I considered these things? What is happening when we look inward? An image suggested itself, I proposed to Petros, and I noted it later: the 'essential' self, the 'true self, occupies a secure vault in the core of our being, and we open a trapdoor in the ceiling and shine a light into the vault, to examine the thing that's living there”.

While the writing itself had an engaging quality, the book as a whole was one big miss for me. As soon as I finished, I returned to the beginning to skim the initial third to see if maybe I just missed something. I didn't. There's really no clear purpose to this novel. Is it supposed to be suspenseful? Entertaining? Enlightening? Is it teaching us about another culture? About human relationships? It's none of these things. The protagonist mostly seems out of her mind in the sense she opens her home and her life in unfathomable ways that threaten her marriage. She makes a multitude of bad decisions making it hard to root for her. I felt more empathy for her long suffering husband. There were enough teasers to keep me reading, but on the whole, it's an unsatisfying story told in a way that makes it seem more literary than it really is. Meh. It seemed pointless. On a more positive note, glad to see Albania to be referenced as I am pretty sure I have never read a book set in Albania or with Albanian characters. Also, this type of book is normally something I would love - - a book where the reader has to really think about what's going on - - but now I see how other readers find these books frustrating. If you can't make linkages in your mind that make the plot work and make sense, then it just feels like you wasted your time.

Reader, I did not like it. Misinterpretation started, not strongly, but promisingly for me. It begins with some ethically complex situations, and explores some interesting challenges or dilemmas relating to translation and cultural dislocation. Unfortunately, I found the obscurity to the narrative as it progressed hindered my engagement and enjoyment of the novel. The protagonists relationships were all so problematic, and she seems to lurch from one illogical choice to another. I love reading about fallible characters here, but I found this trajectory frustrating in this context, because my inability to comprehend any narrative cohesion meant I couldn't see or consider why the protagonist might be acting this way. 2 stars for the interesting ideas that were fully developed for me.

.5 stars for writing (clean prose for sure) .5 stars for characters 0 stars for setting .5 stars for plot 0 stars for liking it I really loved how this one started, but I felt bludgeoned with the point of it. It was not subtle. I don't have this one pegged for the Booker, but this is the first one that I've read so we will see as time goes on. Feel free to join me with a little Booker Bracket fun at https://jamieraenewman.substack.com/

2.5 - it was okay but I am very grateful to my book club which always makes me get more out of those books that I think I'm not rocking with :)

Frustrating read. The main character (with whom we're supposed to resonate, apparently) is selfish and insufferable. The prose is alright, but simplistic when the book claims lyricism. I'm tired of reading about women who think the world revolves around them and expect no consequences for their actions, and unfortunately this is one of those. She apologized to her husband what, once in the entire book? And far too late, after already lying up and down the river. Did not enjoy and skimmed the last few chapters to be done with it.

I was drawn into the world of this novel and enjoyed some of the descriptions of the narrator’s inner world and her relationship with her husband, Billy. The narrator herself is quite an unlikeable person, but she is at least a fully rounded character, as is her husband. I wish I could say the same for the Kurdish characters in the book, but this is where the novel fails. I had been excited to buy the book having read that one of the characters was a Kurdish poet, because Kurds so rarely feature as characters in contemporary fiction. However, I was disappointed that the author seems to reinforce negative stereotypes of both Kurdish women and men. Of the Kurdish man, Rakan, who is stalking one of the characters, the narrator says: “He was uncouth. Like a bear” and he is constantly represented in this bestial way, complete with yellow teeth that are mentioned multiple times. He is shown as a two-dimensional “baddie” character with nothing to complicate that fact. This description of him as somehow wild and rough is accompanied by another stereotype: that of the Kurdish woman as a victim. Early on in the novel we meet Leyla, a Kurdish woman who is a poet, but unfortunately (despite being a poet) she is not given much of a voice and her victimhood is reinforced repeatedly: first that she was a victim of domestic violence by her husband, and then as a victim of stalking (connected to her husband), as a victim of the immigration system, and then as a victim of sexual abuse when she runs away and ends up working as a Nanny. Of course, many Kurdish women are victims of violence, but the author does nothing to allow this character to speak or have a voice of her own. By the end of the novel we don’t even know what has happened to her for sure and she has just disappeared. Similarly we don’t know where the Kurdish stalker has gone, except that he may be in prison. At least we get some kind of resolution for the Albanian characters. The narrator herself is not a likeable person by any means, as she is self-obsessed and immature in many ways, but at least she is shown as a more rounded character who exists in society in a way that exceeds the stereotypes that may traditionally be placed on an Albanian woman. I did enjoy some of the descriptive passages in the book and at certain moments the language was quite beautiful. I think it’s just a shame that an Albanian writer could write so intelligently about her own community and resort to stereotypes and shallow representations for the Kurdish characters. The racial stereotyping and two dimensional characters mean that I would hesitate to recommend this book to others.

the author was confused about what kind of book she was writing therefore i was confused while reading it

Misinterpretation was a medium slog to somewhere forgettable. The characters were ridiculous, acting in stupid inexplicable ways. There was no plot, no purpose, nothing of value to redeem the time spent with this boring entry into the Booker 2025 longlist.

I read right to the end of Klara and the Sun to be really sure there wasn't a moment, a dark depth lurking somewhere, that would make me love it. I pushed through an underwhelming narrative of recycled sci-fi themes, waiting, surely, for Nobel Prize-worthy goodness. The kind that made me fall for Never Let Me Go and The Remains of the Day. But I couldn't find it. So then I went to read the starred reviews from critics who raved about this book to see where I went wrong. I read the gushing Publisher's Weekly review that cites the author's "astute observations of human nature" as being star-worthy, pulling the following quote as an example: “There was something very special, but it wasn’t inside Josie. It was inside those who loved her,” Klara says. ...and I couldn't help wondering why the best example they could come up with reads like something from the most saccharine of children's novels. I turned next to Kirkus who uses examples of solar-powered androids and vague mentions of pollution to present this as some kind of climate change/dying planet parable. Despite listing few, if any, original ideas in the body of the review, and, in fact, declaring it "familiar territory" to readers of Aldiss or Collodi, Kirkus slaps a star on the work anyway. Is it just that no critics will dare say anything bad about an author of Ishiguro's standing? Is this also why I felt such a complete disconnect between what the reviews said about Atwood's The Testaments and what I was actually reading? Klara and the Sun takes on the same old sci-fi themes authors have been exploring for decades, and does nothing new with them, in my opinion. A girl called Josie and her mother purchase an AF (Artificial Friend) called Klara, who then observes their interactions, plus the interactions between Josie and her friend, Rick. Much time is spent looking at the sun, sketching, and navel-gazing. I cannot figure out if we are actually supposed to be surprised by the info Ishiguro reveals halfway or not, because it is obvious from the moment Klara is purchased. The story is deliberately vague, which here feels lazy rather than mysterious. Klara's stiff AI narrative voice makes for a dull read, and it is even more disappointing to discover we are not being led anywhere remarkable. And I would like to say here that I actually have very high tolerance for quiet character studies about human behaviour. Give me some Anne Tyler or Celeste Ng any day. But I sadly did not find this to be a very successful one of those either. Klara, Josie, Rick, and Josie's mother are not characters I will remember. This whole book lacked a spark for me.

Do you hear the eerie sound of trumpets informs us an unpopular review is on its way! I am not sure I read the same book everybody did. All those critics have written marvelous things about this one which made truly excited to dive into! We’re talking Nobel prize winner author! This is brand new book of the author of “Remains of the day” and “ Never Let me go”! What could possibly go wrong? But too many things absolutely went so wrong! I felt like I stuck in mud and sunk deeper at each page! Everything I read were blurry, vague, going nowhere, no smart earth shattering twist, no sign of brilliant intelligence of the author. It was just flat and as long as I pushed harder I couldn’t get any result. When I reached the conclusion and expected to get something different at the end, another disappointment train crashed me over and over again. The story was simple. Jodie’s mother purchased an AI( artificial friend) for her daughter to observe her and her interactions with her friend Rick. Most of the book they stare at the sun and keep sketching. If there’s some reference about climate change, air pollution or any other sensitive issues I couldn’t catch it. So it doesn’t seem like a dystopian or apocalyptic story. After seeing those five stars and high recommendations I feel weird! Did I miss something everyone easily got? Did I lose my objective perception? Am I not smart enough to understand the deeper meaning of the story? Maybe I was in the wrong mood and this was wrong book for me to read at the very wrong time! But I still give my two stars, covering my ears not to hear your boos! As my final decision : unfortunately this book is definitely not for me!

I'm not a fan of Ishiguro's restraint. It bothered me a lot in The Remains of the Day where it began to feel mannered and even a little childish to withhold so much personality and emotional demonstrativeness from the character of Stevens. But I don't think it's necessarily a flaw that Ishiguro doesn't explain everything, and that he sticks with one very limited point of view throughout this newest novel. BUT I do feel the flatness of the tone in this novel, and the limited point of view--along with the utter mute acceptance of the main character, Klara, to whatever exploitative or dangerous situation she finds herself in--puts an extra burdon on Ishiguro to make me care about his story in some other way...and I didn't. Klara's indifference to her fate made me fairly indifferent to what happened to her. This feels like a flaw in the story, and a diminishment of the particular kind of story that Ishiguro likes to tell, of a character who defines their purpose as one of service to others. For me Ishiguro told this story best with The Remains of the Day, and told it well enough in Never Let Me Go, and for this third go-round I'm finding the story kind of played out.

This Review ✍️ Blog 📖 Twitter 🐦 Instagram 📷 Support me ☕ Actual Rating: 2.5 Stars “Sometimes,’ she said, ‘at special moments like that, people feel a pain alongside their happiness.” Klara and the Sun is my first exposure to Nobel prize winning author Kazuo Ishiguro. I have seen the author’s works on my GR page more than once but I was never really interested in them. Last year, when this book came out, I kind of liked what it is about and decided to give it a chance specially that many of my friends like it. When an author wins a fancy prize as the Nobel prize in literature, there ought to be some expectations and unfortunately they were not met here. I am going to be totally honest here and say that even if he wasn’t an award winning author, it would not change my mind because simply this was not it! The story itself is not unique, I am not an expert when it comes to this genre and yet I have already read books with similar messages but better execution. The story is told through Klara, an Artificial Friend (AF) and she does narrate it using first person. The problem is that the writing was very dry, very artificial (Pun intended). The Humans by Matt Haig also has similar themes but it is narrated by an alien visiting Earth and it was so much more compelling. Pollution and saving the environment, human relationships are all important themes to the story but the cold writing style and slow story that is really not going anywhere -despite it being a relatively short book-did not simply work for me. Summary: I usually tame my expectations for hyped books to try and enjoy them as possible. Despite me doing that with this book, I still did not enjoy it or think it was that revolutionary of a novel. I just think it was vague and robotic for my own taste. I am willing to give the author’s earlier work a chance though.

(2.5) This was my first book by the author and honestly a letdown for me. I can see the appeal of Klara coming to wild conclusions as an AF I couldn't suspend my disbelief and found myself bored. I'll try the other books I have on my shelf from this author but after hearing praises about his writing I'll now go into them with low expectations :/

I usually love AI stories, but this one didn't meet my expectations. I liked the concept. The beginning (Part 1) and the very ending were my favourite parts. Everything in between dragged for me. There were endless dialogues, a lot of things were left vague or seemed pointless and, apart from Klara, I felt no emotional connection to any of the characters. The audiobook was pretty good. I liked that there was a clear distinction between the way Klara and the other characters speak, though I think that the narrator's British accent, as well as the portrayal of one English character, felt very unnatural.

This was one of the more forgettable reading experiences I've ever had; the fact that I didn't even think to log this on Goodreads as soon as I finished it says it all.

I was so desperately trying to find a meaning that I ended up losing the plot completely. It balances between surrealism and hyperrealism but it gave me nothing I could relate to. I would be willing to love it, if it came with a manual, since I refuse to believe it's too well constructed to just be empty words. As it stands though, I struggled to finish it.

I really wanted to like this book, but it didn't let me. I have a little bit of praise but also many problems with it. It's a sentimental story that brings to life many forgotten local Iranian folk tales, but it's so poorly written and its message is a bit distorted and exaggerated that I can't rate it anything higher than a 1.5. The Enlightenment of the Greengage Tree is a novel by Shokoofeh Azar, an Iranian based in Australia. It uses magical realism and Iranian folklore to tell the story of an upper-class Iranian family whose life is driven to absolute ruin in the aftermath of the 1979 revolution. Like every other work of fiction by Iranian writers in Diaspora, it's very complicated for me, as an Iranian to talk about this book with non-Iranians, especially since such books receive attention in international circles by people who don't exactly understand the complications, nuances and the reality of life in post-revolution Iran. I don't feel safe to write as freely as I'd like to on the subject, so I will leave that for another time, and only mention three main things about the book itself: 1) the use of magical realism and folklore, 2) political message, and 3) writing. The usage of Iranian folklore to tell the story is the book's only strong asset. Azar has used many elements and imaginary beings of Iranian folk tales (especially those of Mazandaran, a province in Northern Iran) and I praise her for that since those local folks and legends have become so niche and unknown that are on the brink of extinction these days. I knew about some of the legends, and I checked the rest with my mother (whose family is from Mazandaran) and she confirmed that some of the elements are very old, almost forgotten fairy tales that she vaguely recalls having heard about from her elders. I think Azar's attempt to incorporate them in her book is a nice way to breathe some new life into these forgotten legends. (Personal side story: (if you've read the book you'll find this bit interesting) my maternal family owns an old family property, an orchard with a house in it on top of a hill overlooking a village in the mountains of Mazandaran, just like in the book. Interestingly enough, one of the villages down the hill is called Razan. Even more interestingly, there are some stones at the end of the orchard that the elders in the family are convinced are the remains of an ancient Zoroastrian graveyard. Also, everyone in the village is convinced there are ancient treasures buried deep in neighboring hillsides. Of course, I am skeptical of the truth in any of these claims, but it's interesting to observe the similarities between this place and the book, it only goes to show how realistic Azar's portrayal of Mazandaran's remote villages, legends and beliefs are.) The book doesn't follow a strictly linear timeline and spends enough time to explore each of the main character's individual stories, which is good. There are some interesting twists, too (ghosts narrating, side stories getting a whole chapter to suspend the main story, etc). The magical realism is alright, but I have heard from fellow GR reviewers that it's an amateur imitation of One Hundred Years of Solitude and since I haven't read that one, I refrain from further commenting on that. (The people who said that are probably right, though.) Then there's the socio-political content of the book. The thing is, it's not easy to write an honest and non-exaggerated story about the causes and aftermath of the 1979 Islamic revolution in Iran. People usually fall on one of the two extreme sides and both groups tend to distort the reality to fit their own agenda. Group one believes life before the revolution was absolute hell and the revolution made the country prosper. That's a ridiculously false claim. The second group likes to think life before 1979 was heaven on earth, that the Shah regime had no problems and everyone was happy, then for some abstract reason a revolution just 'happened' and now life is absolute hell. The second part is perfectly true but the first part of that claim is also ridiculous. Shokoofeh Azar is obviously a member of the second group. The reason why this book is getting such hype is simply that it was published abroad, so the author managed to write freely without censorship and attack the revolution, which is great, but that doesn't erase the lack of literary merit in this book. Before the 1979 revolution systemic censorship and total violation of freedom of expression in the country had paralyzed writers, journalists, and basically everyone, leaving them unable to publish and create what they wanted. That got much worse the revolution, the only thing that changed was the guideline on what content is considered banned or offensive. Before the revolution, no one could talk about socialism or criticize the Shah, after the revolution it's forbidden to question Islam, Islamic values, the legitimacy of the regime and many more. Iran's post-revolution social situation is abysmal in freedom of expression and everything else, which gives people a false sense of nostalgia that "everything was great before the revolution", but that's not true. Azar has published her book in Australia. She's written freely, attacking each and every single hegemonic dogma that exists in post-revolution Iran: She's ridiculed everything they hold "holy", she's touched on almost all unspeakable things that are childishly considered taboo. That's quite satisfying to read, I love that part. The issue is that she doesn't have a solid knowledge of Iran's contemporary history, and has written things that a Western audience loves to read about Iran. The problem is, you cannot judge what is distorted and what is not unless you've lived in the country or have read extensively on its history. She mentions book-burnings, brain-washing, rape, mass-executions, etc., which are all perfectly verifiable historic events. But then, the way she portrays the social dynamics of the country are out of touch with the reality. It's as if her portrayal of Tehran is fixed in the 80s and 90s, but she's describing life in 2010s. Some other atrocities she describes are perfectly realistic, possible, or even certain to have happened (I'm particularly thankful that she's mentioned the mass executions of 1988 that were very real, absolutely catastrophic and no one can talk about them publicly and safely in Iran), but the way she's mixed real events with imaginary, exaggerated one is so problematic. Her mixed-up message makes it difficult for the non-Iranian target audience (or even Iranians with insufficient knowledge in recent history) to judge what is real and what's not. And that's the hardest thing for me to explain on a short Goodreads book review. (I'm saying this as someone who is wholeheartedly opposed to and disgusted by the current situation, I'll make this clearer when I'm in a safer position.) But now, here comes the huge flaw, the most annoying flaw: language, writing, and grammar. Before starting the book, I read in some English GR reviews that the translation is lacking something. That's not a translation problem, it's a writing problem. I read the book in the original Persian, and I'm disappointed and even enraged to say that the prose (and I can't even call it that) is flimsy, wacky, inconsistent, flawed and downright abysmal for the most part. There are even grammatical errors that I consider a huge red flag in any published piece of writing, let alone a book shortlisted for the Booker Prize. There are commas in places you absolutely don't need a comma, the definite direct object particle is missing in some cases where sentences get too long, and there are some other syntax and grammar errors and editing inconsistencies that lowered my opinion of the book by many steps. The other problem with writing is its tone. Farsi (Persian) has many different registers of formality and if you mix them up in a text, it becomes messy, clumsy, and cringe-inducing. Azar has failed to use them correctly. She's used verbs that don't fit in with the tone of the rest of the sentence, she's phrased her thoughts in a way that signals incompetency in writing or lack of mastery over the Farsi language. Some of her phrases even feel translated word by word from English. She is particularly bad at dialogues. Her characters speak in an unrealistic, formal, and pseudo-philosophical register that doesn't fit the scene or the tone. It's not because of a decision to steer clear of colloquialism: in a few instances where unlikable and inferior characters talk, she uses believable colloquial language for them; which only makes the rest of the so-called elevated dialogues sound more unrealistic. No one, no native Farsi speaker ever speaks the way Azar's characters do. There are some interesting sentences peeking through, but they never last longer than two lines and she falls back into her amateur, distasteful, and incorrect writing. The English translation has sedated and camouflaged some of the huge shortcomings of the writing, which makes the reading experience slightly more bearable. My final problem with the book is its internalized and subtle racism and manifestation of problematic ideas. There are a few cases of fat-shaming (trying to depict a disgusting character, the author insists that this woman is overweight, fat, 120kg, at least 50kg overweight), a few cases of slut-shaming, many cases of racism and problematic ethnicism (using the words "pale" and "crystalline" to describe beautiful people and black/swart/dark-faced for inferior or ugly people, anti-Arab sentiments, etc.), some cases of using rape metaphors where "virginity" is the "purity" and "value" that's being "conquered", elitism (many usages of somewhat derogatory language and tone for villagers and "rural people" in contrast with educated, upper-class people from Tehran), and some other things that I would rather not mention in the review right now. It could have been a tolerably agreeable book if a) it hadn't exaggerated and distorted so many things and b) if it didn't have such abysmal, messy writing.

I pre-ordered this book because of the premise. The complexity of what happens at the cross-section of racial stereotypes, especially with differing points of view, seemed compelling. I spent 80% of this book FURIOUS. For context, I’m a black woman, and that influenced how I read this book. Almost all of the characters in this book were infuriating. The character of Emira, the 25-year old college graduate with no real future, comes across as undeveloped. She’s written with three different personas: the sweet and seemingly only woman to understand and cherish three-year-old Briar (who’s complex personality is confusing for such a little person but okay); the quiet and almost uneducated employee of Alix (some of the interactions had me wondering about Temple’s degree program); and a partying, mid-twenties friend and girlfriend that is depicted as the “real” Emira. The problem is, none of the personas are written well – they all felt like underdeveloped caricatures that needed more complexity. Emira stresses about job security and health insurance the entire book, to the point of being jealous of her friend’s successes and having valid fears about paying bills – yet she didn’t start applying for ANY jobs until her friends made her? It’s one thing to not know your place in life after college; it’s another to seemingly not know how to put yourself in any position to better your situation. This is made clear over and over again. Emira, despite being surrounded by resources of all types, knows nothing about how to do better for herself. This mindset is exactly what Alix preys on, and where the complex of saviorism comes into play. Moving on to Alix. The entitlement and saviorism had me livid. I will say that I appreciated the insight into her thinking, especially when she was talking with her friends. Alix’s perspective is one that I know exists, but never will truly understand. I will never know what it could be like to be a white woman with the world – and people - at her fingertips. The best writing in this book was with Tamra, Jodi and Rachel because in those moments, I could truly appreciate the dilemmas that Alix felt she had. Otherwise, she was selfish, unaware, entitled and absolutely disgusting. Her depiction of the hell of her senior year felt overexaggerated for her to still be affected 15 years later. She’s clearly done well for herself - get over it. To find out that *spoiler alerts in the remainder of this paragraph* Kelley was right about the letter after all, and that she chose to play out a victim narrative for FIFTEEN YEARS is exactly what’s wrong with the world today. Before I found out that she invited Robbie to her house unintentionally, I didn’t have a problem with her calling the police. In that moment, those kids were trespassing on her property without her permission. But knowing that SHE KNEW at the end? GAH. I’m so furious I almost can’t finish this review. But here are a few shorter thoughts to wrap up what’s quickly becoming a novel. Kelley: I can’t decide if Kelley truly fetishizes black people/culture. His only interactions with white people were always negative – is this why he gravitates to black people or the othe way around? I don’t know. Alix went out of her way to find out that Kelley’s other girlfriends were all “lightskinned” or “exotic” and that Emira was the exception. Yet another white person in this novel who wants to save a black person, especially one with darker skin. Tamra: Yet someone else trying to save Emira, but this is supposed to be okay because black on black saviorism is okay. Yeah, no. Emira’s friends: love the support system but the characterization of slang, dress, affectation, etc. is over the top. It’s possible to be relaxed with your friends and speak properly, I promise. And then the ending? *SPOILER ALERT* What was truly resolved? Emira’s still undecided what to do with life, even after her boss literally told her to move up and on. Briar is seemingly still ignored, although it’s unclear if there’s a new black nanny in the picture. No changes from Kelley either, just back to his standard black arm candy to make himself feel better about his life choices. It only gets a two for the friendship stories – those were well written. Outside of that, I’d give this zero stars if I could and I could have done without reading this book.

Entertaining mostly towards the end. For a debut novel it wasn’t terrible, but I most definitely felt like I was reading a book written about black struggles by a white woman. The dialogue was also fucking atrocious.

I’m completely in the minority here, this book is popular and there is a reason for it, it’s readable (mostly) engaging and fun with a fresh and contemporary feel while also tackling some pretty serious issues of race and white privilege, parts of this story are great for furthering discussion about inequality and racism although I’m afraid it also perpetuates stereotypes rather than evolving them. (Perfect for book club discussion!) But what I can’t get past is the poor execution of the writing, it’s choppy and incomprehensible at times. The dialogue..don’t get me started! I understand this is a debut novel so some lenience I’ll allow for the undercooked writing. Also what’s with the title, is it meant to be ironic, I don’t get it??

I feel like this book started off pretty strong, but then it just sort of lost its way.. I really enjoyed the first few chapters of this book; I like what it was trying to say about race and the way people of color get treated differently and unfairly in certain situations, and I thought it was a really great start and shedding some light on important issues. But then I feel like as soon as Kelley’s character is introduced into this book, it really lost its momentum. The dialogue got so cringe. There were so many dialogue moments I underlined and wrote “what the fuck?” because who talks like that??? There’s literally a scene where Emira says “you’re lit” and Kelley is like “you too miss” like um, no thanks. The writing was just so bad in some parts. And I just couldn’t get invested in these character or this story, it just wasn’t really for me. I’ve been trying to read this for weeks, which is a long time for me to get through something this short and I just don’t care enough about it.

So, first things first: my expectations for this book were all wrong. Most summaries of this book describe in detail the novel's first 20 or so pages, in which the protagonist, Emira, a young Black woman, takes the white toddler she's babysitting to a local supermarket and is accused of kidnapping her. From this I expected something sort of Celeste Ng-esque, or maybe even comparable to Jodi Picoult's courtroom thrillers; the reality of this book is much more banal. Shortly after The Inciting Incident, everything goes back to normal, except for the fact that Alix, the mother of the toddler Emira was babysitting, becomes fixated on making amends, to the point where Emira's wishes are disregarded entirely in Alix's attempt to do good by her. The theme of performative allyship is a topical one, but it's not navigated with any particular finesse. I think there's a good book in here somewhere, buried deep under irritating dialogue and commonplace events unfolding with melodrama; take for example this description of a toddler throwing up at a dinner party - this is the seriousness with which this utterly unremarkable event is written: "And when Emira grabbed what she knew was a very expensive napkin and dove across the table to cover the toddler's mouth, Jodi was the first to notice and scream." The chapter ends there. At 'Jodi was the first to notice and scream' I thought the child was about to have a seizure and be rushed to the hospital, but not even in a way where I felt the tension? This whole book was melodrama one-step removed. And as much as I admired Reid's intentions, I couldn't help but to feel that the whole thing was just so heavy-handed. It's so easy to intuit Emira, Alix, and Kelley's narrative functions so early on that I could never quite believe any of them as real people or become invested. I just felt like Reid knew exactly what she wanted to say with this book but not how she wanted to say it; the novel as a whole feels clunky and unfocused, like a quilt that's stapled together rather than sewn. Ultimately: a perfectly fine debut and a good book club book (I don't mean that in a judgmental way! if you want to force your friends or coworkers into having a serious conversation about racism and white allyship, by all means start here!) but as a literary novel this left so much to be desired that its inclusion in the Booker longlist is... baffling to me.

Now Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2020 This debut novel tackles some important and fascinating issues, but it's still chick lit: A group of predominantly black twentysomethings and a group of predominantly white thirtysomethings "oh my god" the hell out of each other, drag each other in bathrooms to discuss men and lead pseudo-kinky conversations that make you want to pierce your eardrums to make the stupid stop. Our protagonists are Alix, a blogger and public speaker, and Emira, who at 25 is around 10 years younger and whom Alix hires as a babysitter for her little daughter. Alix feels stuck und unfulfilled in her role as a mother and becomes obsessed with Emira, trying to take on the role of the "white savior" who helps the young college graduate to figure out what to do with her life. Meanwhile, Emira starts dating Kelley, a white guy who seems to be equally obsessed with black people, and as it turns out, that's not the only connection between him and Alix... Reid shows white people trying to project wokeness and performing virtue signalling without ever really empathizing with Emira or respecting her agency and personal decisions - they envision Emira mainly as a tool to curate their own image. This is of course an extremely interesting topic, but Reid's characters - all of them - are so clichéd and lacking depth and finesse that the satire becomes silly rather than sharp. The storyline is as contrived as it gets, and on top of that, you can see the twist at the end coming from miles away. The faulty execution is particularly disappointing because the theme of "white wokeness" is so timely and could make for a captivating read, but unfortunately, Reid does not deliver on the narrative potential.

Updated for my second read of the book after its Booker longlisting - a listing which came as a surprise to me and I think to most people who had read the book. The book has now won the Goodreads Choice Awards Best Debut Novel. Unlike many of the debut novels on the list, this was a book which was widely featured in book previews of 2020 (which I tend to read avidly), was published in the UK nearly 6 months prior to the longlist publication, was widely reviewed in the UK media and widely reviewed on Goodreads. The other lists I follow avidly are Goodreads, bloggers and You Tube reviewers predictions for the Booker longlist - and looking back over myriad predictions I can only find one list that included it. In my view it is both too lacking in literary merit and too US-centric too make a good addition to the longlist. The judges I think (based on an interview with three of them) enjoyed the book due to how it managed to be both fun and profound, how it was so insightful on transactional relationships and relationships across so many dimensions (race, class etc), how it mixed complexity with readability, how she cleverly pokes fun at every character but without assassinating any of them. One judge (Lemn Sissay) said there were lots of books submitted which set out to discuss race, many “high-falutin” (“one in particular which shall remain nameless" - my completely unsubstantiated guess "Water Dancer") but this was the one that carried it off. But it really should not be on the Booker list. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Now she sat in Philadelphia, participating in a losing game called “Which One of Us is Actually More Racist” SPOILER FREE DISCUSSION OF PLOT The book (I am almost tempted to say - long-form movie script - as that is surely its destiny) opens with a dramatic scene – which anyone vaguely familiar with the book from reviews or 2020 previews (or even the Goodreads blurb) will know in outline. Emira is the black 25-year old (this age is crucial) babysitter of 3-year old Briar, the daughter of Alix (a feminist influencer and blogger – now potential author - whose specialty is inspiring young women to confidently write letters/applications and whose breakthrough moment was breastfeeding Briar during a panel discussion); and Peter (a local TV news presenter). Peter makes a casual but racist sounding remark after a news clip causing their house to be attacked – Alix asks Emira (at a party at the time) to take Briar while they clear up. Emira heads to the nearby Market Depot but due to the incongruity of her appearance with Briar and slightly inebriated state is effectively accused by the white store guard of abducting her. She calls Peter who comes to explain the situation but not before a passing white man (Kelley) films the scene on his phone (agreeing afterwards to email it to her and delete it). Emira and Kelley meet again a few days later and start a relationship; while simultaneously Alix starts to try and build a relationship with someone (in Emira) she realises she does not really know. Both Emira and Alix are advised by a group of close girlfriends (Alix’s from her time in New York, somewhere she is desperate to return). Both in turn start to advise Emira on her life, future and even what action she could take over the potentially explosive confrontation. Emira though is non-confrontational and more focused on her future – particularly her upcoming 26th birthday and her need for steady income with health insurance. Less than a quarter of the way through the book, the first section ends with a sudden revelation (direct from the omniscient narrator to the reader) of a past link between Alix and Kelley (a link none of the characters have yet made). The second section includes two series of past revelations/secret sharing between Alix and her friends, and Emira/Kelley and Emira’s girlfriends – which rather clunkily we can guess are telling us about Alix’s past view of Kelley and Kelley’s past view of Alix. The second section ends with them meeting at the start of deliberately over-the-top Thanksgiving Party that Alix throws – and the events of that party in the third section only confirm the long-held prejudices that each character has about the other and their attitude to race. Emira then in the fourth section becomes the unwitting and unwilling battleground for their prejudices and the game in my opening quote (both convinced the other is acting out their worse latent racist tendencies through their relationship with Emira): although encouraged by her friends Emira finally takes on a sense of agency. The book ends on something of a tie-up-the-loose ends note but with a very clever and pointed final paragraph. DISCUSSION OF THEMES Thematically the book is interesting. It is much less didactic than I expected, both due to the author’s treatment of the issues in the book (the set piece only really acts as a way to establish the characters), and the way she sets up Emira not as a victim or someone constantly focused on the injustice of longstanding institutional racism (which instead forms more of a background to her life) but as someone who has more immediate concerns of her own which are very grounded and practical: how to get regular income, how do you decide what you want from your life, how in particular do you cope with the deadline of a 26th birthday and losing the benefit of your parent’s health insurance (which apparently is a thing in the US?). This is nicely contrasted with the preoccupations of Alix and Kelley on issues of racism but only in a self-interested way. And the two represent two different versions of white, liberal privilege: one obsessed with black culture (Kelley), the other largely indifferent (if not exploitative) to it except when it gives them an opportunity to burnish their woke credentials (Alix). Something which plays out in both of their relationships with Emira but with both hyper sensitive to seeing that in the other and completely blind to their own actions. DISCUSSION OF ISSUES But I had a number of issues with the book. A book which is at heart about book promotion will I assume pay some attention to the front cover blurbs – so the choice of Jojo Moyes should have acted as an early warning indicator to me I found the writing rather clunky and the dialogue clumsy. Reaching its nadir in the speech of Briar – there is only so much “I read dis now” or “I don’t like when Catherine bees the littlest favorite” I could take. I can see it if very hard to write for a three year old – my question would be why would you keep trying? I think the answer is that Emira's love for Briar is crucial to the plot (she would have taken different/earlier decisions if not for this) - but a little like when someone (other than a close friend or relative) shares their loveable toddler anecdotes to you (and I have been both perpetuator and victim) this tends to achieve the opposite effect to that intended. There was an over-reliance on coincidence in the plot - not just in the crucial connection but more unforgivably I think in the symmetry of the secret sharing. I also struggled with the periods where Emira and Alix were with their groups of girlfriends, I felt like an eavesdropper on a completely unrelatable and uninteresting conversation. I was going to add particularly with Alix and her friends – but it is perhaps a sign of how the book has impacted me that I am now wondering if I am saying that to sound woke. Overall therefore I found this an interesting read but not a great one and definitely not a literary one. Finally I think the book is too US-focused in its themes to really be appropriate for a UK book prize - its disappointing that the year after Girl, Woman, Other's success (a year when the Black Lives Matters protests took on an appropriately differently nuanced direction in the UK compared to the US; and a year when Girl, Woman, Other and Why I'm No Longer Talking to White People about Race both topped the UK bestseller charts - showing the UK reading public's thirst for fiction and non-fiction that address white privilege in the UK) - this year's Booker's judges picked a longlist where every UK/Irish author was white and where the three book's addressing racism were all US based and focused. Particularly when the books are also flawed - particularly this one.

2.5 stars What compelling story this book had was completely overshadowed by its weak dialogue. There is so much extraneous dialogue in this book. So. much. unnecessary. dialogue. I like "unnecessary" dialogue when it helps build character dynamics or establishes a social atmosphere of some kind, but that was not the case here. Like Emira and Alix would be talking and literally every other sentence would be Briar interrupting them with some weird observation (do kids really talk like that ?) that completely detracted from the oftentimes serious conversations being had. Also I didn't like the ending of this at all. I'm just so tired of endings that deflate all the conflict that had been building up in the story by tying everything up in a pretty little bow with zero nuance or time to actually flesh out the implications of what the characters did. One more thing that irritated me: the constant references to Alix's weight. Always the fact that Alix hasn't lost her baby weight or has gained weight or her friends telling her she needs to lose weight or her eating too much and thinking about how she needs to drop the baby weight. This was never questioned or challenged; we were just supposed to accept that being fat is bad and that shaming your friends for their weight is okay. (Hint: it's not.)

If someone asked me what this book was about I would not be able to begin to explain because it is simply plotless. There is nothing at all to say about this other than it is a series of sentences about a character and things she used to do once or twice. Absolutely pointless. Without a centimetre of character growth, this is a book that is neither plot driven, nor character driven, it is just matter. Somewhere it says this is an Italian Fleabag but I fear someone has either severely misunderstood or mistranslated somewhere to get to that conclusion. The reason this is not a 1 star book for me is because there are full sentences of absolute beauty to be found, especially those that reflect the cultural and societal nuances and traits that are shared by all Italians. I felt my family within these few and far between lines. I also found the males mentioned to be fair representations of Italian men (no further comment) As a result, 2 stars but have no idea what the point was and absolutely would not recommend to anyone who values their time

And with this, my confusion at this year’s International Booker longlist reaches an all time high. The Silver Bone is your run of the mill genre mystery/police procedural and in my humble opinion, is leagues away from what I would consider a quality translated title. Forgetting its status as a longlister and focusing strictly on its merits as a mystery novel, it doesn’t even rank highly here. The central mystery begins in earnest with just over 100 pages left in the book and the titular silver bone is mentioned for the first time at the 70% mark. It’s not a particularly compelling mystery to begin with, our leading man makes several logical leaps I’m not sure I buy into, and the resolution was rather unexciting. The highlight here was the historical backdrop of 1919 Kyiv and its chaotic period of transition when power was switching hands faster than people could keep track of. Not enough to carry the story, but it’s something. Really truly would have loved to be a fly on the wall listening to the judges justify this book’s inclusion on the long list.

Really didn’t like this book. It read weirdly which may or may not have been a translation issue. The pacing was off and for a mystery, the climax was quite unsatisfying. The only redeeming feature was the setting, which captured the turmoil of revolutionary Kyiv.

I wish Kurkov had chosen to write this novel simply as historical fiction rather than opt for creating a mystery/ thriller. The book would've worked well, I believe, as a historical depiction of the era. Its interesting themes of life under constant fear and day-t0-day changes that you can never prepare for, the worthlessness and absurdity of human life under such circumstances and finding love even when under the worst conditions could've been set up as a beautiful story. However, it never works as a mystery or thriller. There are some great character building, but very little action, and what there is usually verges on the ridiculous. The mystery plot is ridiculous as well and extremely uninteresting. Even there there was a potential of bringing in supernatural elements (which Kurkov hints at but never develops), and creating a masterpiece in the lines of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Dracula or Frankenstein. But it seems throughout the novel that Kurkov wasn't really into writing a mystery at all. It may have been a commercial decision rather than an artistic one, and it feels like the author was coerced into it and tried to make the best of it. This could've been great, but fails to deliver a satisfying read that offers suspense, interest and fascinating insights into the human condition. Shame.

I did not particularly enjoy this book. It was overly repetitive and contained unnecessary sentences which added nothing to drive the narrative forward. You had to get through a lot of content to get to the actual mystery, which for me did not deliver. It was not gripping to me like a mystery/crime fiction should be. Will I be getting the next installment? The short answer is no. 2 stars.

A boringbpolice procedural that fails as a mystery and as a work of historical fiction

I read this novel because of its excellent reviews and its being on the Booker longlist – but I think it just wasn’t the right novel at the right time for me. I realize that I am very out of sync with my GR friends on this reaction. The novel tells the story of a woman (a wife and mother to a teenage girl), as she succumbs to metastatic breast cancer. The writing is excellent in many respects, but very, very “arty”. Cancer is its own character - a very interesting and novel twist. I completely understand its appeal to many readers, but for me at this point, this one just didn’t work well.

Longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize I am firmly of the view that the vast majority of novels over 300 pages would be improved by simply halving their length, but seldom have I come across such a clear-cut case where the reader would find their experience considerably improved simply by ceasing at that point, with no modification required to the text. Indeed the change in nature of this novel at the exact halfway point is so precise in its timing and stark in its execution, that it defies belief that this isn't the manifestation of a deliberate design, rather than natural evolution. The novel is 356 pages and 30 chapters long, and for the first 15 chapters, which end on page 178, this is a character-driven novel, with lyrical prose, if rather overwritten at times. "I do not appreciate anyone," Isabelle continued "who pays mind to cruel rumors and outright lies. Or those who speak behind the backs of others. Now hear me say this. My husband is a kind man. A decent man. And he has done nothing, since the day he entered my life, but follow his passions, no matter how remote, no matter how odd, and often in the face of those who might think him different. But nothing he's done has ever had ill intent. Such trifles of character are beneath him. Can any of you say the same of yourselves? I surely cannot. But I admire those, like him, who can." And then in chapter 16, a cartoonish racist Sheriff arrives, even to the discombobulation of the novel's own characters as they had expected a different man, and the novel lurches into cliched movie-style action, the cast completed with the incompetently bumbing Deputy, cruel local landowner and the tart-with-a-heart, and with a rather incongruous happy ending. 3.5 stars for the first half, 1.5 for the second, giving 2.5 overall, rounded to 2 as the editing here is so disappointing.

I thought I was reading a book that centered black characters, fleshed them out and made them real people. I was wrong. This book is made for mass consumption and tiptoes around controversy. I mean, books gotta sell, but for me it lacks bravery. Audio narrator was amaze-balls but the book was slow and pointless.

When I first saw that this book was chosen to be part of Oprah's Book Club, I had high hopes for the novel but when I started reading they were quickly diminished. Many parts of the book was unbeliveably boring and in many of the parts that were suppose to be important to the story, I felt like those scenes did not have an impact on me at all. While the author does give good character background on the characters in the story, it seems has if the backstories have little to no effect on some of the characters' actions. I do wish that the character Isabelle had more development because she was a vital character to the story but I felt that she was just a plot device to the other characters. This book was a very underwhelming read, and I hope the author's future novels will be better.

After a bit of time to marinate, I've decided that the reason this didn't really work for me was that it felt like 3 separate books and I didn't like all of them. There were moments when I liked this much more than my star rating suggests; specifically the first third of the novel which I found to be quite a thoughtful but light consideration of moving out of the phase of active parenting. At that point, this felt sort of Nick Hornby-esque and although it wasn't giving BOOKER vibes, I was enjoying it. I found the second 2 thirds a bit less coherent and compelling and the storytelling lost some of its charm. Basically, a bit too disjointed for me.

A potentially promising plot for this Booker longlister but for me it plays it too safe, which ultimately puts it on the boring and forgettable side. Tom Layward, a married father of two in his fifties, drives his youngest child to college and then just keeps on going, off on a cross country road trip. He may be leaving his wife, he’s not sure. Something like this had long been expected, we’re told, as after his wife had an affair twelve years ago he’d planned to wait to leave the marriage until the kids left home. Establishing his wife’s affair at the open immediately puts the reader on Tom’s side and establishes a conventional reason for his actions. We can sympathize with Tom, whereas it would have been more challenging if he’d simply been fleeing an unsatisfactory marriage. Markovits himself offers a hint of this more interesting novel that was not to be when he writes, You fall in love with somebody when you’re 26, and you see them in all kinds of different lights and according to their potential, but after years and years of marriage and shared parenting and all the other shared decisions you have to make just to get through the days, you accumulate a lot of data about that person that after a while just seems more or less accurate. If you continue to have illusions, that’s your fault. So if you stay married it’s because you’ve accepted that this is what they’re like, and what your life with them is like, and you stop expecting them to do or give you things you know perfectly well they’re unlikely to do or give you. But dissatisfaction with a version of that particular description of marriage was not sufficient for the novel he ended up writing, which makes Tom less interesting than he could have been. Markovits also plays it very safe, given the audience for literary fiction, in his handling of the “anti-woke” backlash currently topical. Along his journey, Tom meets with a young white basketball player who is trying to make it into the NBA and who wants to sue the league for anti-white discrimination, given that the majority of players on rosters are African-American. This is pretty ridiculous obviously, and the character in general is clearly drawn to be. Is this character interesting? No. Could you write a character to represent the “anti-woke” ideology who is not easily dismissible? Come on, try. Playing it safe in these and other ways, in addition to its unremarkable prose, make this a disappointment as an example of one of the best pieces of fiction of the year.

In "The Rest of Our Lives", Benjamin Markovits introduces us to Tom Layward - a very white, very privileged man - who has been waiting twelve long years to leave his wife after her brief affair, a self-imposed deadline he plans to keep once their youngest daughter starts college. So, as he drives her to Pittsburgh for university, he keeps driving west into a midlife crisis that's been a decade in the making. But this is not a road trip novel. What unfolds instead is Tom's overly extended interior monologue: one man's reflection on marriage, aging, parenthood, and all the small disappointments that pile up over a lifetime. In that sense, the book felt sometimes reminiscent of, among others, Catherine Newman's "Sandwich" series, which I really enjoyed. But while there is a lot of potential in that premise - plenty of room for insight, even tenderness - here, the result is, frankly, tedious, missing both the humor and heart of other books. Tom's musings on his wife's long-past infidelity and his own inertia wear thin fast, and his self-pity never quite earns sympathy. It's a portrait of privilege and regret that feels heavy without being moving, not least because it lacks any self-awareness. The audiobook, narrated by Eric Meyers, is well performed; his smooth, weary tone fits the character perfectly. Still, no narrator could inject energy into this meandering exercise in self-absorption. This was the last book I finished in 2025, and I was just glad once it was over. Tom's only relatable moment comes when he sighs, "I just wanted to sit around and read books for the rest of my life." Honestly, same - just maybe not this one.

Somebody once asked what a book about my life would be like. I said boring. This book felt like that. It's definitely a character driven story, and it felt real and quite representative of what it's like to be a parent when your youngest is about to go to college. But to be honest it's not all that interesting and this book made it seem even more dull, despite the undercurrent of health problems and a flailing marriage.

What is up with lifeless, listless protagonists? The premise of this book has promise, however, the man character needs a swift kick in the backside to get him moving or make a decision. If I had a dollar for every time this guy says "I don't know" to virtually every question posed to him, I could buy my own NFL team.

Can someone take this man to a hospital already?!

Showed flashings of a 3⭐️ towards the end but nope. A solid snooze-fest soz

11th book I’ve read in the Booker Longlist 2025 and I’m done. Into my Christmas December reads soon 😊 but I have enjoyed the challenge for my 3rd year reading done Booker Longlisted titles. This is a quick read but I did not enjoy it. Tom is a middle aged man who doesn’t seem to know what he’s doing about his kind of mid-life crisis. Amy his wife is the ‘confident’ one in the marriage but he told her he’d leave when their daughter left home. This was due to Amy having an affair 12 years prior. He goes on a road trip across America visiting strange places and old friends. Never goes home after dropping off his daughter at university. Tom annoyed me so much, how can a book do this but perhaps that’s where author was going throughout the story. It’s a slow burn! He becomes ill with an unknown illness. Maybe it was long Covid but they don’t really know. All in all not an awful book but it just did not grasp my interested throughout but I do not like to give up on a book.

First of all, I could not stand this entitle, whiny dude. Second of all I feel catfished by the ending. Very cringe and uncomfortable and just unnecessary. This was not for me. I hate it when you really need a trigger warning but it’s too much of a spoiler. What a terrible story. I could see how others would like it, the inner voice reminds me of Michael Chabon.

Another one short listed for the Booker and I don’t really see why. It wasn’t a bad book, a load of unlikeable but realistic characters. By the time our main character comes across Todd we can see his views have started to change and we start to side with him but it all felt very surface level for me and just stayed on the top of very serious topics.

frankly this was just boring... even the subtle airing of white grievances didn't annoy me as much as a writing style that felt dated and a bit derivative... I've read this book before except better

Great cover and a pretty interesting story, but I could have done without the constant sexualisation of the female characters (especially Geumbok) and fixation on violence against women. I really liked the descriptive opening and wish it had continued in that vein. Not really my cup of tea overall.

2.5 Stars While this was very well written, I found the fairy-tale-like writing style kept me from really feeling for these characters. The plot just kept going and going and overall this book really felt endless. Mostly I was just unable to stomach the continuous violence against women and crude sexualization.

Magical realism, set around the Korean War. The protagonist is mute and works tirelessly on her solitary project without being able to disclose her will or purpose, leaving the work to speak for itself in perpetuity. That's a pretty fair model of authorial intention.

I'm well aware I'm going to be an outlier on this one, but I'm not deliberately trying to have a contrary take – it just didn't do anything much for me. Feels a few years out of date despite its supposed up-to-the-minuteness; I found the tryhard Weird Twitter humour unfunny and the emotional beats predictable. Review copy from Edelweiss.

Winner of the International Dylan Thomas Prize. Shortlisted for the Booker Prize and shortlisted for the Women's Prize for Fiction. My overall verdict The two sides of Twitter: The best bit: no one everyone is talking about this

Let's start with the fact that this book had a couple of tremendous strengths. Despite those, I can't really say I liked it. While it was thematically interesting and had moments that were truly touching, those strengths were offset by its structure. The book is divided into two parts. In the first part, we are introduced to a girl who is really, really into the internet (known as the portal here). She is an influencer (in today's parlance) who rose to fame with a single meme. Her life is effectively lived online. Part I basically illustrates this by re-surfacing a whole bunch of Twitter nostalgia in bite sized chunks. If you were into Twitter in 2017-19, this whole section might be a fun reminiscence. If you weren't (and I wasn't), you basically have little idea of what is being alluded to. Fortunately, you can google it all, and some enterprising person actually compiled a list. But I fail to see how this structure made for a good reading experience. Nor did I feel like I really got a whole lot of insight into our protagonist other than her life was inseparable from the online world. That's an interesting piece of social commentary to ponder actually, but by trying to present it in such a "I'm oh so clever" way, I think it became mostly boring. Part II was fortunately much better. The protagonist's niece is born, and unfortunately she is has a syndrome (one you will recognize, but I don't want to spoil too much here). She is yanked away from her internet life forced into the real world by this crisis situation. From here, we see a family dealing with the tremendous love of a child, despite her imperfections, and the accompanying grief that derives from her hopeless condition. There are some important moments of truth in this section, and I think anyone who has had a child will really be hard pressed not to shed a tear. However, there are still moments from the portal and bits of pop culture woven into part II, and the structure of very short paragraphs remains . . .and for me, it was merely distracting. As soon as I was feeling something, I was onto the next thing. This book struck me as one that might be cool to read in college. The author seemed to be saying that online life, which is almost always going in for a laugh or out for a kill, is a distraction from the real world where perfection is not a pre-requisite to love and even the helpless creatures help to underscore our humanity. Or maybe I was just hoping that's what the author wanted to say. It's possible she just wanted to juxtapose the comedy of our online existence to the pathos of reality, and to show how fragmented our lives have become with only the most impactful life events pulling us back from the lure of the portal. The problem is - - I'm really not sure what she meant, whether this book was intended as black comedy, or a salute to internet culture, or an autobiographical tribute for her sister. I have no idea really, and while I salute the creative effort, I can't say I liked where I ended up.

2.5, maybe 3 stars. I liked the first half but felt super meh about the second half. Review to come!

Unfortunately, not my cup of tea at all. I guess twitter just doesnt interest me enough? (Ok, boomer, yes, I know.)

It’s strange. Although this novel has all of the ingredients that should combine to form one of my favorite books, I did not like the taste of it. Perhaps, these ingredients were thrown in willy-nilly, with no regard to the proportions and measurements provided in the recipe. Now that I say that, yeah. Yeah that’s it. There was way too much of some things, and way too little of others. Now, you know I hate to be a hater (that’s a lie. I don’t know why I lied. I’m sorry for lying), but this book was so surface level to me. Our unnamed protagonist has garnered some internet fame (or as the author Lockwood would say, “portal” fame) by making a stupid post asking whether or not dogs can be twins. Just like past internet stars such as Alex from Target or Daniel with the white Vans, she has been invited to numerous talk shows to, well, talk about it. While I pondered on this question (the dog twin question) for a little bit and found it to be humorous, I was waiting for something a little bit more. Something a little bit deeper. As I flipped through the pages, I was met with more post-ironic imitations of memes and things you would see posted on the portal. Some half-assed political commentary was made and then we moved on to the protagonist’s “irl” struggles. Some readers may say that this book was able to tackle “deep” issues posed by the portal and question what the modern age is coming to, but I would disagree. Unlike the title of the book suggests, nearly every point that Lockwood made has been made before. Honestly, everyone I know is talking about this. The internet sucks, and it’s ruining our perception of the real world and our interaction in relationships. What else do you have to offer? I have to say that most commentary that arose from this book came from quite a privileged and white perspective. Of course, there’s nothing wrong with providing that kind of viewpoint to the conversation, but it ends up being an incredibly lackluster reading experience in the kind of novel that should challenge the structure of today’s society. What do we have so far? Too little social criticism, and now I bring you too much fragmentary writing. I will say that this is more of a personal opinion, but I could not dive into Lockwood’s novel as deeply as I could have because almost every paragraph is separated by 3 little dots aligned in the middle of the page. While it made for a rapid read, it also rapidly jumped from topic to topic that I feel I could not be settled. If this was intentional to represent how gathering information feels in the portal, then I applaud Lockwood. Otherwise, I just don’t like it. Whether or not my criticism resonates with you has a lot to do with your individual reading taste. You may love this book, and I would totally be able to see where you’re coming from. But as for me, it was simply not my novel.

Wow, The start of this book was so good and then it quickly fell apart and jumped off a fucking cliff, much like Twitter — which also ironically kind of felt like the purpose of this book and like the cliff dive was bound to happen. Some great moments came out of this book tho and they mainly surround the fact that Lockwood is a master of synthesizing the already synthesized. Part One kind of felt like a funhouse mirror where every post you’ve ever posted or seen on “the portal” see: Twitter, was doubled-backed-upon and scrutinized against the reality of the world and news and culture pre-twitter. It was jarring but incredible and absolutely of this minute. Then Part Two hit and it was a total bait-and-switch a completely different novel about her sister’s baby struggling to live. Pair that with the acknowledgments and it doesn’t seem like fiction, it seems like a supremely real reflection on whatever was going on in Patricia Lockwood’s life at the moment. It felt kind of meta because that is also totally what the portal and Twitter is like: a bunch of random shit, interspersed with or capped off by a bunch of real-life, real-world shit. However, I wish the two parts were separated into two separate books because the first part is five stars and the second part I did not sign up for! You played us out with part two Ms. Lockwood.

I really wanted to like this more. There were strong moments in the middle, when the key happening of the novel came about. But the first half of the novel is a mess, unsure what it wants to do or say, felt a bit to focused on trendy ruminations about the internet and the jarring shift in tone and purpose leaves the reader a bit blindsided when it occurs. I haven't read Priestdaddy so I can't speak to Lockwood as an author in general, but the prose in No One Is Talking About This also felt a bit generic and the tone a bit too "been there seen that". It's a shame because when Lockwood finally decides what this story is about she offers some pretty powerful and poignant passages that unfortunately couldn't save the book from it's clunk first act.

Shortlisted for the Women Prize for fiction as well as the Booker Prize, everyone seems to be talking about this. While I appreciated Lockwoods attempt to create an experimental book, a book for the “now” day and age; I personally did not enjoy this novel at all. I understand that it was purposefully meant to be fragmented as if your scrolling through Twitter, but it just seemed ridiculous, highly disjointed and not funny. I wish there was something to grapple with or care for, but Lockwood just seems to be throw random threads at you without any contexts other than the main character being obsessed with the internet. And about the main character, what the hell was that? There was no characterization at all. Part two seems to be another book squeezed into this first part component and I didn’t bother finishing it. This definitely a ‘It’s not you, it’s me’ type of book. It will all come down to personal taste, whether you see this novel as a work of art or absolute nonsense. I unfortunately found myself to be with the latter.

The novel, which I always believed was infinitely versatile as a form was late to respond adequately to the seism of the internet. Few tried to do anything more than incorporate the new technology into the backdrop, a digital mise en scene that was somehow always hollow. In recent years, however, that startling want has been provided for by writers like Patricia Lockwood who, in No One is Talking About This captures the feeling of now in a voice better, more accurate, and less affected than pretty much any of her peers with the exception of Jarett Kobek. The novel's central juxtaposition of life and life in tragedy casts modern existence in blinding relief, and even if we all know that after the final scene the narrator will simply replace her stolen phone, she will do so at least with the mystic knowledge gifted her by sorrow and by joy.

Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2020. It’s strange. They say, study science and you’ll always have a job. And it seems so easy. But they don’t tell you that there’s all this other stuff attached that will make you hate your life. This book is based on a premise I like well enough: the suffocating alienation in a place that should have been otherwise ideal. I am quite wary of academia even though all my decisions were/are shaped to ultimately lead to it. So Wallace's story should have struck some chords. But, except for a single chapter in which Wallace talks about his childhood sexual abuse, the story mostly seemed flat and superficial. Something baleful seemed to be lurking underneath each relationship and interaction, and it left me feeling anxious. There wasn't a single relationship/friendship that wasn't toxic and a sense of inevitable doom remained throughout my reading. As Wallace tried to find spaces of stability he could rely on, he also longed for strong currents of change to sweep him away from the world he inhabited. And this confusion just disorients the reader too. While the story was mostly vapid, the writing in the first half was also lousy. Simone stood standing at the window watching the wind and the rain, the sallow glow of the streetlights below. Stood standing? I don't know if this is simply American English that I'm too Indian to understand, but it made me sigh sighing. The book also ended abruptly, leaving too many loose ends. I'm just frustrated. This was a very unsatisfactory read.

Generously, two stars. Had I rated before I had a glass of wine? One. Sober Katie dgaf about feelings, apparently, but Tipsy Katie is worried that the author or someone the author loves will stumble upon this negative review and feel sad about it, which is ridiculous but nevertheless is what my brain grapples with. (Tipsy Katie possesses a certain vanity about her paltry Goodreads account, it seems.) Anyway: to the meat. Re-reading the book synopsis above actually made me excited to read the book they describe. It’s undeniably got a killer blurb, but unfortunately it has little to do with the actual book, which is...disappointing. Turns out a good blurb doesn’t always translate to a compelling read. Here’s a small taste of why not: CHARACTERS: Our protagonist, Wallace, inexplicably surrounds himself with the worst group of humans in the entire world, I guess because he met them early on in his studies? They’re racist and violent and hateful, and I’m simply not buying their interactions, like to the point that I’m not sure the author has ever had friends before. I certainly don’t need to like all the characters, but cartoonish villains have no place in lit-ra-cha. DIALOGUE: Similarly, I’m not sure the author has ever engaged in human dialogue before, because none of this is how people talk. Truly, this book had some of the most bizarre, unnatural and pointless dialogue I’ve ever read, ever. Several times I felt called to dramatically perform a passage or two of these insipid, stunted exchanges for my husband as a form of Ironic Art. (He didn’t really appreciate my artistry, da fuq. 😒) PROSE: Overwritten and bloated. Every action had to be imbued with some metaphorical meaning, and it felt cloying and excessive. Constructive criticism: Coffee cups on a shelf don’t resemble foster children. They just don’t. Characters, dialogue, prose — those are three biggies in the land of books, I’d say, but don’t worry: there are other issues at stake, too, including straight male sartorial mishaps, undeclared sadism, and hopelessness, the latter of which is my lasting takeaway from the book. I’m a grown-ass human and don’t need Pollyanna to come and make everything better, but shit: that was bleak. To call out a few positives: Some of the prose was gorgeous, and some passages were so well done they restored my faith in humanity (or, at least, in the author). There were some thought-provoking comments on race (although my head hurts from having it beaten over me with such a heavy hand). Ultimately, this is one that — no pun intended — looked better on paper than it did on...uh...paper. (Or a Kindle screen, as the case may have been, but then I lose the pun. Go to bed, Tipsy Katie!)

I got an early copy of this from my bookseller, who couldn't make up her mind about it. I get that this book has a lot of in-crowd support right now, but it just feels tedious and self-congratulatory, mostly interested in its own cleverness. Wallace can't make up his mind about anything, and it feels like the author is wringing him dry for the sake of the story, rather than that pain coming from the character. It's also a book where very little happens--there's a lot of looking back--and that doesn't help things. The prose is, you know, like, "burnished" or something, very proud of itself.

There was a chapter in the middle related to the main character’s childhood and written in the first person in a lyric and moody language which I really liked. Other than that I was less impressed. In terms of the form, i had an impression it was MFA project or its aftertaste. And yes, today in the Guardian, it was confirmed. There is too much “show not to tell”. We constantly notified about different smells. Also the sense of touch is overbearing. The characters are constantly touching each other with palms, backs of their hands, fingers, thumbs and even thumbnails. Just a few illustrations: “Wallace touches the edge of Miller’s cardigan, slides his hand inside its coarse knit, to the place where his skin bare” “He smells like smoke and ashes, and also like oranges” “His voice is hot like asphalt congealing” “The tasteless, strained, diluted flavour of white people food, its curious texture, its ugliness” In terms of the content, I am not sure I want to comment as I am not queer, black person living in the US. So I would not do that at length. I only observe one thing which I hope I am permitted to do. (view spoiler) On the higher level, whole story for me was summarised in two quotes: Wallace feels sorry for her, but then also for himself, because this has been his life since he came to this place alone among white people.” The whole story takes place during the weekend on a campus between the grads. And another quote: To do something. And I can’t. Because I keep thinking about that - how no matter what I do, it can’t change the thing I’d like to change. “ I am not sure how to help a person in this situation and with this attitude. But I want to keep hope for Wallace though.

Really thought I’d like this one more than I did. Based on the reviews, seemed right up my alley: Black gay protagonist, graduate school, interracial relationship, social anxiety, etc. But I ended up finding it tedious, overwritten, and a chore to get through. Tells the story (in plodding, painstaking detail) of a late summer weekend in the life of Wallace, a depressed, insecure, introverted Black gay man pursuing his graduate degree in biochemistry at an unnamed Midwestern university. Over the course of this seemingly never-ending weekend, he questions his future in the graduate program, wrestles with personal demons, and suffers acute social anxiety as he navigates various social encounters with his (mostly white) friends. He also stumbles into an unexpected new relationship with one of his supposedly “straight” white colleagues. I don’t usually have a problem reading about depressed, damaged characters. Books would be terribly boring if everyone was always perfect and happy, right? But Wallace’s innumerable neuroses made him an exhausting and insufferable main character. Are there really people this anxious and miserable every second of every day of their lives? Probably. Doesn’t mean I want to spend over 300 pages stuck inside their terminally sad heads. Not that this was a TOTAL waste of my time. The novel took me back to my own grad school days with its vivid, authentic descriptions of academic life: the intimidating professors, backyard parties, rivalries and hushed gossip among colleagues, and intense pressure to meet and exceed the high expectations of academic advisors, peers, patrons, family, etc. There are also several strikingly original, insightful passages about the anxiety and loneliness of being the only Black student struggling to survive and succeed in an almost exclusively white world, and the countless aggressions, both micro and macro, that accompany that. In these occasional flashes, the story felt truly focused and urgent and fresh. But all too often these moments are overwhelmed by repetitive reflections and strained, overstuffed prose that seemed to me to be trying way too hard.

Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2021 I went into this with high expectations: A book about about Sri Lanka, written by a Tamil author? Yes!! But then this novel turned out to epitomize one of my pet peeves: Ruminative, meandering writing. And don't get me wrong: Arudpragasam achieved what he aimed to do, because for him, this text was never about plot or character development or the depiction of historical events; this is meant to be an experimental, philosophical meditation pondering human consciousness, trauma and memory. Unfortunately, I found the execution rather boring and tedious. The plot is basically this: Krishan, a Tamil who works for an NGO in Colombo, receives a message from his ex-girlfriend who left him because she prioritzed her activism; he also gets a phone call informing him that his grandmother's carer has died while visiting her family in the North; he takes a walk; he makes a loooooong journey by train to the North; then he attends the carer's funeral. While these events unfold, we are basically trapped in his head where he ruminates about the Sri Lankan civil war and how he and the people around him were affected by it. The language is slow and winding, floating broadly, piling words on words on words - and while the storytelling technique is rather accessible and conservative, the experimental part only being the very limited scope that reflects one person's thought process, it's demanding and exhausting to read, because it's just so associative and descriptive and full of rhetorical flourishes and big images and words. It's just too much verbal hocus-pocus, not enough substance. I saw some reviews comparing this to W.G. Sebald, but while Sebald also pondered war, trauma and memory, his writing is sparse, tentative, sometimes elliptic and does not define memory as a purely verbal endeavor, but a human technique that relies on all senses and forms of cultural expression. Arudpragasm's focuses on things that can and can't be verbally expressed, which is a very different framing, and the ornamental writing stands in stark contrast to what Sebald does; to put it differently: Arudpragasam trusts in the power of beautiful, elaborate wording as a means of healing, while Sebald distrusts verbal reflection altogether. (Needless to say, I'm of the Sebaldian conviction.) But I want to do this text justice as the author never intended to do what I expected from this book in particular or from literature in general, and he is clearly an unusual writer with a vision and deep knowledge (he also draws from Sri Lankan culture and classic texts), it's just that this book is not for me. You can render texts that reflect consciousness wild and exciting, but the slowness and the meandering nature of this novel just drove me insane. An ambitious novel that relies on its quiet undertones and that requires patience and a love for elegic storytelling.

When I started reading this book, it deeply resonated with me-like the narrator ( and seemingly, the author), I’m Tamil, but my circumstances could not be more different from those of Tamils in the northern and eastern parts of Sri Lanka, where most of the Sri Lankan Civil war played out. Like the narrator, again, I followed the movement for an independent Tamil state for Sri Lankan Tamils, very closely, initially through the newspaper, and later on, through all the resources on the Internet. Living in a state that was sympathetic towards Tamil self-determination in Sri Lanka, I’ve practically grown up reading about it, the times when a breakthrough seemed achievable, to the devastating years from 2010 onwards, when the movement was crushed by a belligerent government, and the ultimate defeat, and decimation of all that hope and courage. However, I was following this from a position of immense privilege, and while it was deeply affecting, there was always an emotional remove that my completely different circumstances brought. I would have liked that to have been addressed with more depth in this book. The book seems to cast the narrator, a privileged Sri Lankan Tamilian, Krishnan, as a modern-day Prince Siddhartha, who undergoes personal growth through experiencing the break-up of a relationship, and decides to work in the areas most affected by the conflict, and has to deal with coming in close contact with someone for whom this wasn’t happening far away, but to their home and family. Real-world genocide, however, does not occur to provide a backdrop for solipsistic privileged men, which is ultimately how this book feels. The narrative choice is whiplash-inducing- the narrator explores a non-fictional facet of the Sri Lanka Civil War, where the writing is very good. The writer, however, chooses to juxtapose this with the narrator’s musings that read like a teenager’s exploration of existentialism and heartbreak (these parts reminded me quite strongly of AJ’s privileged emotional crises in The Sopranos). It makes for a very jarring reading experience-harrowing accounts of custodial torture, followed by completely unconnected navel-gazing. This might be the way the human mind works, but when faced with real-world humanitarian tragedies, musing on the unfairness of rejection by a partner seems rather shallow. The narrator’s ageist as well, and if his views on the tragedy of the decay of the human body had been to highlight the parlous state of affordable assisted living, that would be commendable. The sections on his grandmother, and ageing in general, read like accounts of the narrator’s impatience with his grandmother, for not shrugging off her mortal coil quickly enough for him! The narrator also states with apparently no irony at all, that his mother is occupied with all the housework and the burden of care-giving , apart from her career-which begs the question: why doesn’t the narrator chip in at all?! The Buddha’s views on ageing weren’t that you might as well die before you get old! ( the writer and singer of that, incidentally, are perfectly healthy well into their late 70s, and leading far more interesting lives than the narrator of this book who is seemingly in his late 20s/early 30s). The book has some powerful writing on the male gaze, that’s unfortunately undone by the writer’s own male gaze- an account of a documentary on 2 women members of the Black Tiger unit of the LTTE( the cadre trained for kamikaze missions) starts with an entire paragraph on how the woman seemed “divinely ordained” to be in this “elite cadre”, because of her beauty and goes on to describe physical attributes such as “darkly lustrous skin” ( the 4th or 5th time a woman is described that way). This would be hilarious if it weren’t so depressing to think that a man watches a documentary on women discussing why they’ve chosen such a harsh lifestyle, and the first thing that strikes him is how hot she is. It’s even more depressing that not a single editor found that problematic. The writer’s in a unique position to tell a great story, in more depth- what is the situation like for him in Sri Lanka? Does privilege insulate them in Colombo to such an extent? What reserves of strength have the people who lived in the North-eastern parts of Sri Lanka drawn on to rebuild their lives and go on? And ultimately, do those most affected by the Civil war feel it was all worth it because it gave them stories of courage and inspiration to draw on? Stream of consciousness and a lack of paragraphs do not always mean profundity, ‘The God of Small Things’ and ‘ Midnight’s Children’ managed quite well, without resorting to gimmicks of formatting ( or the lack of it). If this is the only work you've read about the Sri Lankan Civil War, please don't make this the last. Samanth Subramaniam's compelling non-fiction book, 'THis Divided Island", and the movie 'Dheepan' are recommendations I can make.

They say that childbirth is painful but you forget the pain afterwards. It must be true or we'd be a world of single children and bitter mothers. I find long train journeys in exotic countries share some of the characteristics of childbirth because I suffer horribly and then a couple of years later, I completely forget how terrible they were and book more. I am a fool to myself and now jump at the chance to take domestic flights when the chances arise but in Sri Lanka, the choice is road or rail and on balance, rail is a bit safer. I have taken several long train journeys in Sri Lanka - first during the Civil War and more recently just a few years ago. Each time I looked forward to them, imagining the views of the lush countryside as I chugged through. Each time, without exception, the journeys were slow, rambling and deeply uncomfortable. 8 hours in a luggage compartment; not great. Another 6 or 7 hours in an 'observation' car going backwards - seeing where I'd been, not where I was going chilled to the bone by overactive air conditioning. 3 hours standing crushed in a coastal train on a Friday evening, unable to see a thing and with my nose too close to a lot of armpits. Why do I mention this? Because that's what I was thinking of as I listened and read Anuk Arudpragasam's book 'A Passage North'. Slow, rambling, uncomfortable and with an overwhelming sense that I'd never get those hours back again. Krishan, a Tamil living in Colombo with his grandmother, receives a call that Rani, a woman who looked after his grandmother for several years, has died, found at the bottom of a well with a broken neck. He decides to go to the funeral, worrying that perhaps Rani's family will blame his family for taking her away from them for so long. On the train, he ponders events from his life, things he's read, films he's watched, and his relationship with the enigmatic Indian woman, Anjum. I really wanted to love this book, so much so that (without realising I'd done it), I requested both the ebook and the audiobook from Netgalley. I even loved the cover - feeling sure I'd seen that stretch of railway track. I wanted to dive in and experience this tale of a journey through the heart of Sri Lanka. I've read quite widely about Sri Lanka, through the colonial era, Civil War and Tsunami themes. This is not my first time at this particular rodeo. But, I fear it's probably my last time trying to read this particular author. I don't want to be dismissed as insufficiently 'intellectual' to love this book. I read one comment on a review that had called the book 'boring' and found that the feedback given was that readers who think something is boring should look to themselves and not the book to understand why. I'm sorry to disagree; this book is dull to such an extreme that I'm not prepared to take the blame on my own shoulders for not liking it. Heck, I got through it - about three-quarters on audiobook and then finishing off with the ebook when I realised that I couldn't take any more of the former. Almost everything that happens could have been so much more interesting if it had happened in half the pages and with five times as many full stops. Sentences run on through multiple sub-clauses. Paragraphs take pages. No sentence starts with a clear sense of where it's going to end or what tangents it will take along the way. I take my hat off to the narrator who, despite a rather monotone deliver, cannot have found it easy to breathe adequately through some of these superlong sentences. Actually, it was only when I saw them on the screen that I realised quite what a challenge he'd taken on. This book is like getting stuck in the corridor with the office bore whom you've casually asked if they had a good weekend and still being there 2 hours later whilst he rambles on about his historic reenactment battle and tells you all about how to make a suit of armour and how to roast a pig over an open fire whilst taking diversions into telling you which A-roads were congested and how he's 'hyper-miled' his 10-year old Ford to maximise the fuel efficiency. The tangents this book takes are extreme. Want a rather long synopsis of the life of the Buddha? Yep, that's in there. Want an account of a Tamil leader who got his eyes gouged out? You can have that too. There's even a point where he's off the train but following a funeral procession where he recognises the scenery and then recounts (in unnecessary detail) not only the plot of a documentary on female suicide bombers but also a sex-laden trip to Mumbai with his bisexual girlfriend where they watched the documentary and then took a walk along the seafront. This felt like the longest three hundred and something pages of my life. I'm grateful to Netgalley and the publishers of both the ebook and the audiobook for their kindness in sending me copies but I can't bring myself to endorse this book. There may well be a pretty good 100 page book hidden among an extra 200 pages of what Greta Thunberg would probably call "blah blah blah".

Books with sentences that run on endlessly should be banned.

A Passage North by Anuk Arudpragasam deals with the aftermath of a bloody civil war in Sri Lanka which began in the 1980s and raged for nearly three decades. The central character, Krishan, is a young man who escaped the horrors of the war by studying in India. He returns home to work at an NGO. The novel opens with Krishan receiving news that his grandmother’s caregiver has died unexpectedly while visiting her daughter. The news catapults Krishan on an existential odyssey in which he questions his purpose in life while simultaneously exploring the impact of the civil war on survivors who lost loved ones. The novel covers a two-day span in which very little happens. Krishan lost his father during the civil war and lives with his mother and aging grandmother. When his grandmother’s condition requires full-time care, Krishan hires Rani, a woman severely traumatized by losing both her young sons during the civil war. Rani and Krishan’s grandmother form a strong bond and for a while it seems as if they are both able to lift each other’s spirits. So it comes as a shock to learn of Rani’s sudden, possibly suicidal, death. Krishan decides to attend Rani’s funeral in her village. He embarks on a two-pronged journey: the external one north to attend Rani’s funeral and the internal one into his own past and into an exploration of the enduring impact of civil war. From the time he first receives the phone call from Rani’s daughter until he attends Rani’s funeral and witnesses her cremation, Krishan engages in a series of lengthy flashbacks and digressions. He measures his worth against the dedicated activism of his former girlfriend and feels he comes up short. He scrutinizes even the most insignificant movements, gestures, emotions, and expressions in minute detail. His sentences stretch with excessive subordinate clauses and phrases; his paragraphs extend for several pages. Dialogue is indirect to slow the pace and diminish the sense of immediacy. The novel inhabits Krishan’s interiority, which, unfortunately, is immature, uninteresting, and passive. Plagued with guilt at having escaped the horrors of civil war, Krishan indulges in philosophical pronouncements and excessive navel-gazing. Many of his lengthy digressions and interjections of stories based on myth lack a unifying thread, so one wonders why they were included in the first place. They detract from the main theme—the ongoing trauma experienced by survivors of a civil war. The novel has potential and would have benefited from a greater exploration of some of the more interesting characters, for example, the two suicide bombers and Krishan’s charismatic former girlfriend, Anjum. Rani, in particular, merited far greater consideration. Instead, the focus is on Krishan and his memories, his immature musings, his intimate relations with Anjum, his exhausting self-analysis, and his tedious inability to shift his lens outside of himself. My book reviews are also available at www.tamaraaghajaffar.com

I have no doubt Arudpragasam is going to be one of those great and necessary literary voices but this wasn’t the one for me. I l admired the boldness of the formal challenge he’s taken on - writing a novel that is totally situated within the protagonist’s consciousness as a way to explore some interesting political and philosophical ideas. But it didn’t make for good reading in my opinion. I think the issue isn’t with the concept itself as with the way it’s executed. The subject and role of the narrator in a novel that’s 1) contained within a single subject’s thoughts and memories yet 2) written in third person is totally ambiguous unless given some sort of justification within the text itself. In A Passage North, the narrator and why he speaks/writes the way he does is unexplained, and accordingly at times it’s voice in relation to Krishan felt completely confused. (Is it Krishan’s voice? If so, are we meant to believe Krishan’s inner monologue is so much more refined and profound than ours? Is it someone else? But then how do they have such insight into Krishan’s mind, indeed to the point where they sometimes seem to know more about Krishan than he does himself?) Secondly, I felt that at times Arudpragasam’s writing became merely instrumental to the form, with sentences / paragraphs continuing on to meet some formal-aesthetic rule at the cost of becoming less and less productive or substantive, and more aphoristic or sometimes just plain meaningless. The combination of these two faults, plus some other details (Are the amount of joints Krishan smokes meant to me something? Are we meant to care?) made me unable to believe in what I was reading as a novel and hyper-aware of the presence of the author and the physical novel as an artistic endeavour he’d taken on. That being said, Arudpragasam can write well in moments and his perspective as a South Asian writer, writing about uniquely South Asian ideas and experiences, that didn’t feel situate his writing in contrast to the West, was really refreshing.

Read for the Booktube Prize / Quarterfinals. Rating to come once the judging of this round has been finalized (30 May).

