Memory Man was a wonderful book with lots of twists and turns, so naturally I had to read the series. When Long Shadows was finally released, I bought the book immediately and couldn't wait to read it. I don't know if Baldacci is getting careless with his books as he cranks them out regularly or he is just writing for the sake of writing ( does he have to fill a quota?) but this book is disappointing. Where "Walk the Wire" was short on detailing Decker's amazing abilities, "Long Shadows" is overkill on that aspect. The book constantly went into his past, kept reminder the reader of so many events that were covered in detail in the early part of the series. At times I thought the book was just a rehash of the previous 6 books and the crimes in this book was just a byline at times. The book seemed disjointed and the language used by the FBI agents certainly had less professionalism than the previous books in the series. The book was basically "dumbed down". Makes me question if Baldacci has someone helping him to churn out the Memory Man series.

I don't know what happened between this book and every other Amos Decker or Baldacci book. I remember maybe one f bomb across several other books. This one has probably 20-30. For no reason. Adding no value or realism, or creativity to the story. Just random filthy language. The story skips around a little. The characters were more stale in this story. The random jumps from asking questions to suddenly having answers are incomplete. The mystery solving was incomplete and fragmented. Slow. My mind strayed too often. I'm guessing a ghost writer wrote this one and it just isn't the same. If Baldacci wrote this one I would be surprised.

You would hope a successful writer would not fall prey to injecting pandering BS and clichés into an already popular series. Let's see what boxes we can check with a new partner for Amos. Minority...check. Female...check. Held back unfairly because of these...check. Is a badass and holds a black belt in karate....check. Hard working single mother...check. Father was killed by racist white guy...check. Her brothers are in prison because of the affect on them even though they were 18+...check. FBI are trying to terminate her because she is black and a woman but she does great work...check. Dead kid...check. REALLY, Mr. Baldacci???It all reads as a joke. I think you made a bet with some other writers and the loser had to put this tripe in their next novel. FBI wants to fire Decker because he is a pain in the ass and a slob, but the reason she's on the chopping block is because of her gender and race.?? Yet you give so many other options of why she might be dismissed. I'm sure dealing with her kid dying, her husband leaving her, and trying to raise two kids with her mother might actually cause her not to be the most dedicated or focused FBI agent. And that would be reasonable. But no, it's because of race and gender. How about the scene when she helps Decker disarm the guys on the beach and when they are incapacitated, she yells "Run!" WHAT????? Two FBI agents get attacked, beat them down and then run away??? They don't arrest them for attempted murder?? There wasn't a gang after them, it was two on two with the two bad guys down for the count and unarmed. And before you all accuse me of being a "Toxic Male" (true or not, it has no bearing here...) read my reviews on newer Stuart Woods books and some other male centered books that I have called BS on as well. After reading several pages of reviews on here, it amazes me how many women give this 5 stars. Is that all it takes? Write a subpar book and if you check all the persecuted female boxes, a huge percentage of people will give you kudos? All the praise mentioned for this "great new character" is embarrassing. Why not be original and honest and make her flawed like Decker? Like her work performance suffered because of her real life. That's relatable and commendable. Maybe not be a 2nd degree black belt because where did she find that time? Demanding job and home life, but hey, I gotta get to Karate class, sorry dead kid and other children. Good Grief, Charlie Brown!!

Reality TV, influencers on social media, and genealogy sites? That about sums up Harlen Coben's latest. There's not much action and even his over-vaunted signature twists are missing (or maybe I just didn't care!). So, why do I read this guy whenever he has a new book? He's a talented story teller but sweet Jesus, I wish he would come up with a decent story.

The best part of this book was the author’s new cover photo - Love the John Lennon glasses and all those polka dots! I can’t believe Harlan Coben wrote this - it was terrible. You needed a PhD in genetics to follow all that DNA history. The plot was a mess - it made no sense and I disliked all the characters. What happened to Richard Levine and why was that even included in the story. The conclusion was the final blow. I am a big HC fan so I’ll read the next one and hope it’s an improvement over this. Maybe all those polka dots went to his head!

I’m about ready to give up on Harlan Coben.

As a US Marshal, Lucas is called back to Washington DC to handle a sensitive case in which a website is discovered that puts several politician's children at risk. While there are some twists and turns as to who is behind the website, I was sorely dissatisfied in this novel. I felt Lucas's endgame of being judge and jury was unwarranted. While always a schemer, and willing to play dirty, his decisions at the end seemed obvious and not subtle in the least. What I have most enjoyed in the 30 Prey novels, is that they primarily occur in the Midwest. Political thrillers set in DC are a dime a dozen and Sandford's usual locales make his series stand out, so the DC setting was an additional disappointment. And I also got the hint that this book wasn't written entirely by him. Although it had some trademark Sandford in it, but similar to the Virgil Flower's book Storm Front, this book seemed off.

To begin with, I think it is only appropriate that I admit to being a fairly avid reader of John Sandford over the years, especially a fan of his Lucas Davenport “Prey” series. A pretty big fan to be honest. That is until the last couple of years… Now that fanship is struggling… When we last saw our fearless hero, Lucas Davenport, he was still recovering from being shot during a shootout with bad guys in his federal marshal job. When this book begins, Lucas has been called to Washington, DC to meet with Elmer Henderson and Porter Smalls, two U.S. Senators from Minnesota who have used him several times to conduct investigations in his home state, as well as playing key roles Audrey Coil, the rebellious teenage daughter of a U.S. Senator has been busy building up her social media presence. While promoting her blog videos she ends up finding her own picture of on a very strange website titled “1919” that references articles and propaganda from several Neo-Nazi and other radical hate groups. And it gets worse, because there are more pictures of other children of politicians identified by their name. Lucas is charged with investigating whether the website is serving to call out extremists to attack the loved ones of powerful Washington, DC politicians with deadly intent? Lucas is given an FBI focal, Jane Chase, who he has worked with before, as a resource. Lucas also calls in has two federal Marshall agents – Bob and Rae - both of whom are witty, hard-working and never lack an opinion. However, trying to find some a killer willing to eliminate children among violent anti-government hate groups while the clock is running is looking like an impossible task, even for Lucas. There are a couple of good things in this novel – Lucas going hunting and having Bob and Rae around – everything else was sadly disappointing. It hurts my fanship deeply to share the following criticisms: - This book is way too political; it is way over the top with political references of all kind. There were so many of them, including comments about left-wing, right wing, National Socialism, White Supremacy, hate groups, anti-government organizations, Neo-Nazi, gun control, Democrat vs. Republican, CNN vs. Fox talk shows, abortion, rape, and Trump. Too much time was spent on this rhetoric than investing in a compelling and interesting story. - There are no strong bad guys. No devious serial killers. No evil plotting adversaries worthy of Davenport’s attention. The one primary villain is extremely weak, experiencing his first kill, and carries no sense of challenge for anyone. He is by far the weakest opponent Lucas has ever faced. - There is very little interaction with Weather and none with his daughter in college, who is completely absent from the pages. - Nothing much of any substance happens in the first half of the book. The action doesn’t even start until page 208 (out of a 406-page book). It took so long to get moving that I actually jotted down the page number when the story kicked into gear. - The last 100 pages (25% of the book) is one large and over-extended chase scene to capture the weak killer. You know the ending before it happens because it is much too predictable. Over the last four years, Sandford’s quality has really slowed down. 2017’s “Golden Prey” and last year’s “Neon Prey” both suffered from a one-dimensional, weak plotting. Now this year’s “Masked Prey” is a an even feebler read than those two were. Sandford can tell as story well, but the truth is three of his last four books have not been good stories. They were not interesting, nor complex. They lacked strong adversaries for Lucas and complex plotting. The didn’t have layered storylines that stretched Davenport’s character and intellect. Quite frankly, they were weak and lacked Sandford’s writing style that was once fast-paced, fluid, and sharp, seems more now like a stream of consciousness – one that rambles and is extremely disjointed at times. Overall, to be transparent and completely honest, I found this to be Sanderson’s weakest outing for Lucas Davenport. I am not sure how he went off the rails in three of his last four books, but I am hoping that we haven’t seen the last of Lucas at his best. Here’s hoping that the next outing will include a reinvigorating storyline rather than another lazy, mailed-in lackluster story. Come on John, let’s get it turned around… And sooner rather than later. My fandom is struggling to keep interest…

I would have to guess that this one is ghostwritten. In fact, my guess would be that Sandford did the outline, as the plotting and concept are tight, as always. It has always been the prose quality, witty repartee, and humor and callbacks that have made this series stand out in the genre and none of that is present. While reading, I found myself highlighting things that sounded off - the prose was littered with tell-not-show and explaining the obvious in a way Sandford/Camp never really did, the dialogue sounded off, and many of the suspects/investigative leads end because "Lucas decided he was telling the truth" without any of the fun little character interactions that usually lead up to this. Occasionally in the series there has been a miss (I think there was one about two thieves that was really not that interesting) but they sounded like Sandford and had fun moments, always. This sounds like a much less skilled writer was assigned to copy his style. (Rae sees a murder scene and cries???) There are some parts that seem like he did write them - the opener I believe did - and a few scenes throughout, but the style chagne was so obvious at other places, I can be almost sure. If I get more annoyed I'll go back and add some of the lines to make my point. My objection isn't the subject matter/villain/plot (I actually liked that and thought it was well done, like Sandford did have a hand in it), like some, but rather that it is lacking the sparkle and elan of Sandford's writing. Thinking back, I do think one of the latest Virgil books had the same problem, though not as spectacularly.

Not up to his usual standards I have really enjoyed the other Prey novels and his other novels. The Masked Prey was nearly as good. It was mostly about politics. His other books sometimes made laugh and were hard to put down. Unfortunately this book was not one of the

Lucas Davenport works for deep state wealthy politicians. He hunts people. This book portrays people on the Right very stereotypically. Lucas says he is not political, but he kills those he deems need to be killed. Rather a reprehensible story.

I think this book was written simply to introduce readers to a character which will be fronting a new series. However, like everything else in this book, there was potential that never engages the reader. After all this time Stephanie is still doing the same rookie mistakes, depending on Ranger or Joe to help her out. Lula is still a caricature which has become borderline offensive. The lack of character development after 26 previous books is sad. The story has the usual varied and failed apprehension cases, featuring typical loser types. The treasure story line was intriguing in the blurb, but wasn't interestingly developed. I got two minor laughs, more snorts than laughs. I was able to finish the book though. Glad I got it at the library, because it isn't worth whatever they're asking for it.

They go to Cluck-in-a-Bucket, randomly fire bullets, Lulu wears an outfit that she does not want to ruin, Stephanie wrecks a few cars, she talks about Ranger’s Bulgari shower gel, her mom takes a drink, they go to funerals, grandma brings her big purse with the gun, a guy with a flame thrower gets involved, Big Blue gets used and Stephanie feeds her hamster Rex. Somewhere in there she is flip flopping between 2 guys who both seem to have nothing to say except “Babe” and “let’s get a pizza from Pinos”. * none of this is a spoiler, it has all happened in each of the 27 books. I feel like I could write these books at this point.

** spoiler alert ** SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW, READ AT YOUR OWN DISCRETION. I'm pretty disappointed in this book. Does she finally choose between Morelli and Ranger....? Nope. She doesn't. I was really looking forward to that, because I've been wondering for ages if she ever will. I'm honestly annoyed since it's right in the blurb that she might be forced to choose, and it doesn't happen. After 27 of books that all feel pretty much the same, I was hoping for something more climactic, but this isn't it. All the same Stephanie Plum tropes are included. It's nothing new or exciting.

I thought the book was pretty juvenile. More importantly, Connelly is going to discover, like ESPN, the NFL and the NBA discovered, that people do not want politics mixed in with whatever they do to escape politics. I am taking him off my list of authors to follow. I will miss Bosch but that is the way it works. If Connelly cannot learn this lesson instinctively, maybe the 72 million people who voted for the man he characterizes as a liar can convince him.

I usually can't wait for Michael Connelly novels to come out. It seems like I'm going to have to stop doing that because this is about the 4th book in a row where Mikey lets his trump derangement syndrome leak into his novels. It was all great until about 2/3 of the way through the book and then he crapped all over half the country. I don't know if it's just his super liberal publishers wanting him to push the left wing narrative or what but it's getting old. STOP!!!!!

** spoiler alert ** . I was so disappointed in this book. We go through the whole book and in a few pages the character is let go and you find out who the killer is. I would like to have seen the trial through. ALSO, stay out of politics if you care at all you have Republican fans. If not, please do respond that your contempt for us will not stop and I will discontinue reading your work. Thank you. Deborah Kleinschmidt

I love Bosch.This one,though...very disappointing.Thin,boring,no real resolution,no answers to several key questions.

thé FBI is the villain? Mr. Box should remember that most of his readers voted for Biden, and that they find his plot just too far fetched. His description of nature is terrific, and Joe is levelheaded, but leave out all of the politics…

More politics from C.J. Box. I think I’m done.

Series writing seems to have a shelf life and the end of the shelf usually coincides with TV and movie deals. There are a few exceptions. Box isn't one of them. I tried really hard to ignore the ridiculousness of the last Joe Pickett book and the author's choice of "experts" on antifa. I keep telling myself it's just fiction but I certainly never expected to see Joe Pickett become a vehicle for validating conspiracy theories and the entire "deep state" narrative. There are two problems with that. The first is, I personally know many people who will read this book and say "oh hell yeah - I KNEW it!" There is no line between fiction and reality, storytelling and evidence for these people. If C.J. Box writes it into a fiction novel, it's like God Himself has validated their victimhood and confirmed that what they want to believe is absolutely 100% true. Those poor far-right domestic terror groups are a figment of the coastal elites' imagination and the FBI is just out to get them and their way of life. I understand that these people and what they want to believe is not Mr. Box's problem. What is Mr. Box's problem is he seems to forget he is writing fiction and he should remember those of us who are trying to escape it by reading books. If I want to hear about deep state and conspiracy theories, I can call my cousins. The bigger problem, however, is that like many of my other formerly favorite series, this one reads like it was phoned in. Blah blah blah Joe Pickett blah blah blah Nate Romanowski blah blah blah Bad Guys blah blah blah Snowstorm blah blah blah oh where was I going with this? Oh yeah blah blah blah Chinese spy blah blah blah poor trampled upon neglected misunderstood Americans who produce for the elites who show no appreciation for them (where have I heard this all before?) no wonder they're depressed taking drugs drinking too much and plotting civil war blah blah blah. I soldiered through the last book but for the first time reading Joe Pickett, I seriously thought of tossing it into the DNF pile. And the day that actually happens, I'll shed a tear for what used to be a great series with some really fantastic storytelling and characters. Yeah, I can do without the politics, Mr. Box. Go re-read the first 10 books in the series and bring THAT magic back. Please. I beg you.

A total mess of a book. Unless, of course, you thought Jan 6 was just a bunch of happy tourists out for a stroll to our nation's Capitol Building. This is the first book I have read by this author and it is my last. The plot is ridiculously thin and contrived. The writing is so-so. The "he said, she said" drove me crazy. I've read other reviews on this author's work and apparently, he headed for the deep end and dove in with full force. I'm sure his title "Storm Watch" is his metaphor for where he thinks the United States of America is heading. Save yourself the time because there is no story with a plot here. Just a paranoid man's rambling diatribe.

This is the 23rd Joe Pickett novel by C.J Box I have read. I have loved them all until the last two. As many other reviewers noted, the books have become a little too political and a little less “Joe Pickett”. It was written well, but extremely predictable and repetitive to all the other books in the series. I can’t say I blame the author though; I think to have 21 really excellent and successful books about the same characters over so many years is an amazing achievement. But I am sad to say perhaps it’s run it’s course? I also noted that most of the chapters were broken off into smaller sections and I wasn’t sure why. It made the flow of the chapter awkward and the only thing I could think, was that it read like a TV show - breaking the chapter into different “scenes”. Perhaps I shouldn’t be surprised by that either now….I have been a devoted C.J Box and Joe Pickett fan for years, but this may be the end for me now.

I have listened to the entire Joe Picket series on audio after having received a recommendation from a friend. On a positive note, I will say I felt the books were well written and the main characters: Joe and his family, even his odd ball mother in law, were engaging. Also the descriptions of the mountain west and the animals were great. And it’s hard for me to pass up anything read by David Chandler. But as the body count and amounts of blood started rising with each book I became discouraged. Then in the later books, the author’s right wing sympathies became more clear. Apparently. in the authors mind, right wing domestic terrorists are just an inventions of corrupt Federal agents, but ANTiFA is clearly an organized group destroying cities and the “deep Sate” is real. The East and West coast are populated by people who are seen as idiot liberals determined to over regulate westerner’s ways of life, destroy the energy industry and make us dependent in foreign oil and take away westerner’s guns. They are people who can’t change a tire, they only drive electric cars don’t know where their food comes from and don’t even shop at Walmart. Speaking as an east coast liberal, who supports hunting rights, drives a truck, rides horses and occasionally shops at Walmart, I take exception. So as much as I like Joe and his family, the legitimately good story telling and the descriptions of the west, I must say I find the books, mostly the more recent ones, disappointing and cannot recommend them as they only fuel the fire of the divisions in this country that are already at a boiling point.

** spoiler alert ** why would you ruin a perfectly good romance with a rape scene. just because it was a guy doesn’t mean it’s not rape!!!! hoping the creators of the netflix adaptation uh change that

2.5 Stars For the most part, I really enjoyed the first installment of The Bridgerton's. I've seen the show, so I knew what to expect more or less. I will say, I really started out on the fence with the adaptation because of how it comes across a little over the top and theatric - kind of soap-opera-ish. Idk, it threw me out of the era a few times. I thought maybe it would come through differently with the books, but nope - still super dramatic and kinda rom-comy. At times it just doesn't fit the regency era - for me. Idk. Honestly, maybe it's because Simon and Daphne are just not my favorites lol. °˖➴ Spoiler ╰┈➤˗ˏˋ Anyway, all of that aside. I did enjoy the book, this is not even a bad two stars. This is just an unfortunately you lost a star because of the whole rape scene. ╰┈➤˗ˏˋ I really got the ick from Daphne forcing Simon - I didn't like Simon lying to Daphne. I didn't like Violet being able to pop out 8 kids but can't manage to explain sex to her daughter? Yuck , yuck, and no. Moving on to book 2 and continuing my Bridgerton era. ₊˚ ‿︵‿︵‿︵୨୧ · · ♡ · · ୨୧‿︵‿︵‿︵ ˚₊

2.5 Stars Simon & Daphne = Dumb & Dumber I’m officially starting my journey with this series. Whether or not I’ll read all the books, we shall see since I’m not exactly off to a good start with this one. Do I have to read everything first if I want to watch the Netflix adaptation? I mean, of course I don’t have to, but will watching the show spoil ALL the books? Or is it one season based on one book? Please, lemmeknowww! Anyway, this book. Simon’s stutter endears him to readers, but for the most part he’s just so... flat and uninteresting. Meanwhile, Daphne (I’m sorry) is so stupid it’s baffling. No one is that clueless and dim-witted. How can a daughter with SEVEN siblings from as respectable family as hers doesn’t know the basest knowledge on sex education?! I refuse to believe it. Even more ridiculous is the mother who has birthed EIGHT children. She turns into a bumbling idiot when asked about the birds and the bees and can barely explain it to Daphne. Also, I’d been informed about *THAT* scene before going in, so while I was partly desensitized, reading it myself still disgusted me. Were things really that taboo and abhorrent during that time period?! The only thing I enjoyed about this was the family aspect. I liked the fact that the children were named alphabetically cause it was easier for me to remember. I loved the brothers, Anthony especially, mostly because I always wish I had one and the brother-sister dynamic made me envious. Other than that, I also liked the Lady Whistledown’s Society Papers sections cause they were the ultimate comic relief. (Read as an Audiobook)

tw~ rape I was really enjoying this book to start off, but the way one scene can ruin an entire book... Can we please not write on page explicit rape scenes and then try to pass them off as consensual and also dismiss and make excuses for what happened like it was a simple misunderstanding? I'm literally asking for the bare minimum here. 2 stars

Will this be my only read of May? Yes, probably, and I hate me for it. You can also read my complete review here! This book could have been a 3.5 stars rating if it had not been for THAT scene. Holy shit, what the hell? I wish I could unread that scene, please and thanks. I was only following the train of hype for the Netflix show, because I still wanna watch it. There were some parts that I liked, but not Daphne and Simon, they were unbearable, annoying and stupid. Daph's personal trait was "I've lived with four brothers my entire life, I know men" and Simon's personal trait was "I won't fall for her, but oh, she's so beautiful, how can I not?" I'm gonna keep reading the other books because I've been told that the rest of the series is pretty good!

The book started off on a good note. Loved Anthony & the Bridgerton siblings right off the bat. Their interactions I’d say were even better here than on the show (although we did mainly focus on the Bridgerton brothers for the most part… was missing the Bridgerton sisters). The banter? Also excellent to begin with. But then the book just went downhill from there. Along with, the very problematic thing Daphne does to Simon. It’s even worse in the book compared to the show. I will keep reading on since I own the first few books already, and have heard they get better from here haha.

Honestly, this was a pretty difficult book to rate. It's a shame that the entire story was thrown off for me by that one scene. Please understand that I did hear conversations about it prior to my own read, but I've always been inclined to make my own judgements about a book regardless of others thoughts and feelings. 2.5 Stars The Duke & I has definitely been getting a lot of buzz because of the TV show. I've seen parts of the TV show, but only after I finished this first book. Most people are aware of what the book is about so I won't waste anyone's time by going through a summary. There were elements of this book that I completely and totally enjoyed. I think that the entire concept of the book is fascinating and I'm not the biggest reader of historical romances. There were even scenes in which I laughed out loud namely those that included the conversations between Daphne and her mom that centered sex. I literally was at my office desk screaming with laughter because I can't imagine having to have that those awkward conversations with my own daughter. I was pleasantly surprised at how invested I was in the story in the characters. The banter, the relationships that were being formed. I can wholly say that I enjoyed myself through a great portion of the book. Unfortunately, my experience in reading this book was tainted by that final scene. For me, personally, the scene read as dubious consent because alcohol was involved, but my issue was with the fact that it all felt brushed under the rug. Simon was definitely wrong in his manipulation of Daphne, but two wrongs don't make a right. And it was the reoccurrence of his stuttering as a sign of trauma that really bothered me. I also couldn't sit with the fact that Daphne attempted to rationalize her reasoning for taking advantage of Simon. To be honest, there should have been some space where the two of them needed to grow on their own. Yes, there were moments when I found their relationship to be sweet and endearing, but let's be honest: the relationship between them was toxic from the beginning. Simon started the relationship on a bad note and Daphne added to it. Granted, this book was published 22 years ago and takes place during a time in which a lot of this would be considered normal; however, I'm rating it based on my experience of reading it and level of enjoyment. It would be unfair of me to not acknowledge how uncomfortable that scene made me feel. With that being said, I did hear that the rest of the series is better and we don't come across anything of this nature going forward. There is a likelihood that I will continue the series, but at a much slower pace.

not giving this book more than 3 stars for obvious reasons plus the relationship in this book to me was meh

Reread December 24, 2020 in anticipation of the mini series starting tomorrow on Netflix. Same rating. **** It's a good thing this story wasn't my introduction to the Bridgertons. I did like Simon and his backstory was heart-wrenching. Daphne was sweet and had good intentions, although her actions in trying to get pregnant were reprehensible. I can live with reprehensible in a novel. That wasn't the problem. I just found this story needed a good trim by a ruthless editor. There was a lot of repetition and I had to force myself to keep reading at times. It's not a terrible book by any means, it's just not her best. My e-book had a second epilogue which included Colin and his wife. I enjoyed that little story.

I didn't hate the book it was just really really slow and honestly I got bored. The rape scene like the show was just awful to read. So yeah overall, didn't love it. I prefer the show.

I have been a huge fan of Sparks' previous work, but this did not hit the mark. The Male protagonist was unlikeable, as was one of the females Natalie. He was too full-on, and she was too guarded, and I was seriously frustrated reading their conversations. The plot around his grandfather and the beehives was much too slow to keep my attention.

The story was just Eh. Took too long to get into it and the protagonist was unlikable. In my opinion, not the best from Sparks.

I'm unsure if I've outgrown Sparks or if Trevor is just the worst protagonist he's ever written. His perspective is so toxically male that I felt uncomfortable just reading the book. Trevor is an expert on everything; don't worry, he'll tell you about it. At times The Return felt like a textbook on therapy techniques rather than someone working through trauma and applying therapeutical approaches to their daily life. And then there was a lesson on bees; when he's on a pseudo-date with Natalie, showing her the bees, it sounds like he's giving her a lecture. This was my biggest problem (out of many) with their whole relationship - Trevor rarely stops talking. He's always so surprised that he knows so little about her life because he's made such an effort. In his case, this means he asks her one question, she evades, and he starts a monologue about himself. But don't worry, there's a serious case of instalove going on, so their relationship doesn't need to make sense. There's no give and take to the relationship, just all Trevor all the time. "It's been said that women are the mysterious sex, and even now, my first inclination is to laugh when a guy I'm talking to says he understands what makes women tick. I was flummoxed by the one-sided nature of the conversation. I'd told her a lot about myself but had learned almost nothing about her." The Callie/Trevor's grandfather storyline could've been the best part of this book, but it feels like an afterthought. Something that was thrown in to kill time after Natalie ghosts Trevor. Because *gasp* instalove is not. a. thing. At least, not a sustainable thing. I am a sucker for a tearjerker, and Sparks usually gets me good, but The Return didn't make me tear up even once. So honestly, I think I'm being generous with this two-star rating. Review originally posted here on Britt's Book Blurbs. Amazon | Blog | Bookstagram | Reddit | Wishlist

"Guilt is simply an emotion, and like all emotions, it will eventually pass. Unless you choose to hold on to it."

I thought this book was okay! I thought this book was a little slow in some parts of the book. I had some trouble starting to read this book as I found the plot and characters to be simple and not extraordinary. I thought some parts of the plot were fun and interesting and at other points, the plot felt a little flat. This would not be a book that I would read twice. This is the second book that I read that was written by Nicholas Sparks.

“In the end, people generally regret the things they didn't do, not the things they did.” First of all, I absolutely love bees and I am fascinating by any facts about them. This novel talks about honey, beekeeping etc., and I loved that about it. My dream is to have my own bees one day (in a sustainable way), and I wish there was a genre called "bee books" or something, to collect all books that feature bees, beehives or beekeepers. It will automatically become my favourite genre. Maybe I should start a list... any suggestions? Anyway, apart from the lovely bees, this was definitely my least favourite Nicholas Sparks. I found it quite boring, repetitive, and absolutely unoriginal. If you read any of his classics books, you'll be able to predict every single event in this one. I mean, not that Sparks is famous for his inventiveness, but I mean, this was particularly unimpressive. Also, again, he seems to think cheating is okay, I don't know why he features it so much in his books. Figures. Anyway, a bit of a miss, but saved by the bees!

This book was lame! Half the book is filled with words and slangs from urban dictionary, that only add to the lameness quotient. I hated Shelley Carpenter's phrase "Stay well friends...", who by the way was so inspired from Bridgerton's Lady Whistledown!!!! The ghost Grace, another lame addition, was annoyingly stupid! Her only source of knowledge are high school kids or hotel guests, yet she acts like the wisest of them all. It’s hard to believe that Jack’s son waited until his death bed to share his diary. Why? But what stood out to me was the book’s misogynistic portrayal of female characters. -a woman can only be employee of the week if she sleeps with other men. Lizbet or Magda were never even considered even though they were best at their job. -Alessandra is depicted as an evil person for having many affairs although she is single and has no attachments. Despite that, the married men she sleeps with are actually shown as victims. Heidi says about her husband's affair with Alessandra that its "half his fault". No actually its all his fault because he invited a strange woman into his family home and cheated on his wife. -Richie calls Kimber a great mother because unlike some women, she didn't send her kids to camp for the summer (his literal words). How is sending your kids to summer camp bad? -And oh, you can absolutely have alcohol while nursing. Another time when the author shamed a mother! I had surgery with anesthesia and my doctor still allowed me to bf my baby! -Kimber is praised for standing by her man, Richie! A man who is literally a thief and has committed fraud on multiple counts; but a woman's job is to stand by her man no matter what, isn't it? -Jack benedict is also shown as a victim! seriously?! He was the one having an affair yet he is the victim of an alcoholic wife. And instead of firing Grace like a normal person would do, Dahlia sets her own hotel on fire where she herself was sleeping. Unbelievable! -Even JJ is shown in a poor light, and Christina is depicted like another evil woman who ruined JJ and his restaurant. The author has subtly excused all men in their faults and hinted that women were the true cause of their unruly behaviour - be it Chad’s mother or Richie’s ex-wife.

Thank you to the publisher and Netgalley for an advance copy of this book. Several years ago, I loved Elin Hilderbrand novels. Somewhere along the way, they started feeling stale and I stopped picking them up. I decided to give this one a chance and unfortunately it was a bit disappointing. In the middle of it, I found myself relaxing into the story and enjoying it a little, but ultimately the book was too long, with characters who felt very surface-level, storylines I struggled to care about, and revelations at the end that were not even slightly surprising. The worst part, however, was the absolute cringefest of reading all the attempts at modern slang every time a young character was in a scene. Hilderbrand fans will enjoy it, but it was not for me.

this was not a great fit for me. I kind of hated the ghost aspect.

https://wendyreadit.wordpress.com/202... This story centers around an accidental death where the deceased is now a ghost and a main character in the story. Sound familiar? Well, it should because 'Golden Girl' had that same storyline. Right from the beginning, there's a lot of name dropping, book titles, authors, song titles, and their artists. It makes me wonder if the author is getting paid by the word. The next thing that I noticed was the anonymous person whose hotel reviews were paramount to this story that made me think of Mrs. Whistledown in 'Bridgerton' as they tried to figure out who Shelley Schwartz, the hotel reviewer, is. I also am aware of something that I guess the author is not, people from San Francisco would NEVER refer to their city as 'San Fran'. I would definitely make that correction before publication as well as explain to the narrator the correct pronunciation of 'BuckNELL', it's not 'BUCKnul'. OK, with those things out of the way, the hotel staff characters were, for the most part, likeable people and the reader does get involved with their lives.

Too corny and too pretentious. Sorry. The ghost thing didn't work for me.

This was going to be one star, but I decided to reserve that rating for books I actively hate. I do not hate this book, but oh my goodness it was boring. Just incredibly, mind-numbingly boring for 90% of the book. Honestly, I checked my progress on my Kindle after reading for a few hours because I wanted to know how much further I had to go, only to find I was just 30% of the way through. I despaired. This is my first go at an Elin Hilderbrand, and from the happy cult that seems to surround her books I thought it would be a good beach read. You know, something fun and light that's interesting enough, maybe a little intriguing or steamy, but ultimately not so addictive that you can't put it down when you need to go out for dinner or something. This was none of those things! The book ploughs laboriously through setting up all these characters around a hotel, each of whom has a "secret" (oh my) that takes either way too long to come out, or is just dumb and easily resolved. I did not really care about any of these characters, their "secrets" were easy to guess, and the only halfway interesting one (Alessandra) did not get nearly enough page time or development. The ghost was particularly poorly done—she pretty much does nothing for the entire book, then her issues are resolved in a single page info dump. And don't even get me started on the writing. The narrative switches bizarrely between plural first person ("we"—which I liked, actually) and third person, between past and present, for apparently no reason. Characters' names are repeated awkwardly in every second sentence, just in case you somehow managed to forget whose perspective you're in for 3 seconds. The narration is peppered with terrrrrrible jokes; eg: "Back in 1922, well...Grace had a feeling that the hotel's GM, Mr. Leroy Noonan, preferred gentlemen, but he could never have said it. He was more "closeted" than Grace was!". Kill me now. All in all I was not really a fan, and the appeal of Elin Hilderbrand remains a mystery to me. However, she does seem to be very popular, so obviously there are many people who would disagree.

2.5 stars My least favorite of her books. The last “chapter” is a 48 minute guide on Nantucket…..forget about tying the loose ends I guess!

From what I have gathered, Elin Hilderbrand novels perfectly capture the spirit of a summer read. What "summer read" actually means, I'm not too sure. This was my first time reading a Hilderbrand novel. I've seen some of her other works in the past and riffled through pages while considering a purchase, but I've never actually read them. However, after reading review after review extolling this book, I thought, "Why not?" and bought the book. My thoughts on the book follow; there will be some spoilers so please proceed with caution. --------- I'll be blunt; it's a fairly mediocre book. It centers around Lizbet Keaton, a newly single woman whose relationship with JJ (her ex) was forever ruined when Lizbet discovered salacious text messages from JJ to another woman. Lizbet used to run a restaurant with JJ called The Deck, but after their relationship crashed Lizbet needs some space and decides to find a new job. That new job ends up being the general manager position for a newly renovated hotel. Billionaire entrepreneur Xavier Darling has decided to purchase the Hotel Nantucket, a dilapidated and haunted (that's right, haunted) old hotel. The hotel is haunted by the ghost of Grace Hadley, a 19-year-old maid from the early 1900s who was having an affair with the owner. The owner's wife, Dahlia, was apparently quite a vicious and nasty woman. Dahlia decided that she wanted to get rid of Grace, and we find out at the very end of the book through a journal confirmation that has suddenly been discovered that Dahlia set fire to the hotel and locked Grace in her room. Grace spends the novel spying on everyone. She is simultaneously invisible and corporeal, since she can apparently wear a bathrobe and cap and exert force on wrongdoers. Let's go through the cast of characters: Lizbet Keaton is the main character of the story. She is trying to move on with her life. She ends up falling in love with Mario Subiaco, who just happens to be incredibly attractive and an incredibly talented chef. Oh, Mario is also JJ's (Lizbet's cheating ex) idol. Kimber is a woman who comes to spend the summer at the hotel with her two kids and dog. Her son Louie loves chess and beats absolutely everybody who plays against him. Her daughter Wanda loves exploring the hotel, somehow discovers that Grace is a ghost in the hotel and writes an article about the ghost that goes viral and spurs the reputation of the Hotel Nantucket. At the end, we discover that Kimber is also the incredibly famous and anonymous hotel reviewer who goes by the name Shelly Carpenter. Edie is a young woman who works at the front desk of the hotel and is being blackmailed by her ex who is using indelicate videos that he coerced her into participating in. She's generally a good person. Alessandra is an attractive woman who seduces wealthy married gentlemen and blackmails them into giving her money. She also works at the front desk. She does some pretty questionable things throughout the novel. For example, she sleeps with a man named Michael Bick. They seem to have a great time, although Michael is obviously cheating on his wife. When she leaves, she blackmails Michael into giving her $50,000 and then still plants evidence in the house so that when Michael's wife, Heidi, returns, she will suspect that Michael is in fact having an affair with their close friend and neighbor. Chad is a young man from a very wealthy family who partied a lot and screwed up big time (partially blinded his friend, let his family's house where he was throwing a party burn down, and let his family dog die). Chad is on a redemption arc by working as a maid at the Hotel Nantucket for the summer. Magda is the head maid who just so happens to be the person who Xavier Darling has been in love with for 30+ years. She's also absurdly rich because she made a lucky bet (with her own money, as was repeated several times) and invested her winnings with Xavier. There are a number of other ancillary characters, but quite frankly I don't want to go through all of them. It doesn't really matter. This is a book to read if you enjoy gossip. There isn't really any major conflict in this novel. The primary plot point is that Lizbet desperately wants to get a 5 key (star) review from an anonymous hotel critic. Keep in mind that all of this happens on Nantucket Island, so everyone is in everyone else's business. That's pretty much it. Reading the book, I never felt that any of the characters would not be okay at the end. There is no sense of danger or struggle, just a bunch of bland characters thrown together for a summer in a feel-good novel that goes nowhere. I was not a fan of the ghost. I did not care for many of the characters. Most importantly, the book unfortunately was not especially engaging. Another novel that I've read, A Gentleman in Moscow, follows the same general theme of this novel. In A Gentleman in Moscow the main character is of course imprisoned in the hotel, but the idea is that we as readers become attached to the main character and the ragtag group of people who work at the hotel and who the main character befriends. As in this novel, I didn't feel much of a sense of fear for the characters. However, A Gentleman in Moscow was quite simply a better written novel. I cared for the characters more, the plot spanned much more time, and the language was elegant and at times beautiful. This book was not terrible. Sadly, in my opinion it was certainly not great either. It focused too much on drama and superficial romantic plot points. It's a light read, and based on the reviews, other people are clearly enjoying the book. While I'm surprised at the intense positive feedback, I'm glad that other people are enjoying the novel. It was only ok for me, but it may be good for you. At least I tried it out; always try new things!

“What hallmark story monstrosity was this?” These were my thoughts as I forced my way through this book which my book club suggested. I wanted to dnf a few times but I pulled through so I could have a fair discussion but the ending did not improve my opinion. Maybe this story is not for me but I felt it was trite, predictable, and a bore. The main male lead saw the lead female’s red toenails and had an epiphany of some sorts. I’m wondering if he has a foot fetish. He is a Delta force veteran which excited me as I love Delta Force, the movie, but this man was no Chuck Norris. We expected manly magnetism but we got a guy who wandered around everywhere and can’t commit to anything. The lead female loved sleeping naked and is apparently very beautiful. Don’t forget she’s a doctor but she has zero friends. Girl, not one female friendship in your life? A coworker? The people she volunteers with? A cousin? I feel like the author really wanted to push the idea that this woman was ripe for being swept away by a brawny dude with a tight shirt. Anyway, there is a dog which is the only redeeming thing. The children were annoying. (sorry) The book had a lot of cringey moments and I wanted to scream a few times. I even found a grammatical error which is shocking for a trad published book. The story was bogged down by weird details and meandering paragraphs. There was an old man named Jasper who I liked but had so many “boomer” tendencies that I gave up on him. I do not get the hype and suggest this only for people who are looking for a simple comfort read with closed door romance and zero brain cell work needed.

Wow. As someone who's looking forward to this book, I would say that this did not go well. I'm sad to say that I did not enjoy this for so many reasons. 1. It feels quite unnecessary descriptive that turns the novel way too dragging. 2. The storyline really felt boring. I don't know, but the pacing and flow are not doing it for me. 3. The romance is really minor here to little development. I'm not really convinced. 4. Reading this made me feel my slump return. Long story short, it was boring. I don't think I'll consider this romance? It's more like fiction to me. The novel lacks intrigued for me. Although I was really looking forward to the characters, the whole execution did not just do it for me. Thank you, Little Brown Book UK, for the e-arc copy. —--- Date Published: September 24, 2024 Date Read: October 12- October 17, 2024 Ratings: 2⭐️

Thank you to Penguin Random House Canada (Doubleday Canada) and Netgalley for an eARC in exchange for an honest review ooof, where do I start? First of all, it seems the biggest issue with this book is that it is not marketed in any way as being that of a religiously text. It sort of comes out of nowhere when we're introduced to Jasper's character so initially I was shocked but thought "okay we're just adding some complexity to this character"; however, that was not the case. I would shelve this one as Christian Fiction, it's pretty heavy handed in that regard. To say that's even a "critique" feels misleading because there is surely an audience for this novel, however it was not me and had I known this before I probably would not have requested it. The problems I had with the book go beyond those aforementioned though. I was a Nicholas Spark girlyyyy in high school and had read close to all his publications back in 2010/2011? I remember them being a cheesy, predictable, feel-good romance novel that had some type of twist and an overarching theme or life-lesson behind the writing so I was looking forward to a bit of nostalgia going into this. This entire book fell flat & made me uncomfortable I am second guessing my judgement. For starters, I had a hard time with navigating who exactly was the main character in this book. We start off with Tanner and then Kaitlyn and in my mind Tanner is the MC. But then we spend so much excruciating time with Jasper that suddenly he is the MC? & that should make sense since it seems he and Arlo (his dog) are on the cover; however, I didn't care for this character at all. I would have much rather spent the majority of the book between Kaitlyn, her kids and Tanner with a little bit of Jasper here and there than vice versa. I believe the outcome could have been the same but executed better if this were the case. In addition, the writing felt too simple. To put it plainly, I just wasn't connecting with the story or the characters. Although they all undoubtedly have complicated pastimes, the writing was too shallow to bring any of that to the forefront of the story. To circle back to the religious component (that was also confusing), at times there are 2-3 bible verses on the page with interpretation but in the next moment Jasper states that he no longer believes in his practicing what he preached. It was confusing as to if he believed, if he didn't why are reading the bible, why are interpreting it and why are we following a white deer through the woods that is believed to be a visit from "the other side"? Sparks has a line where he refers to "it's always darkest before the dawn" that he takes so literally when Jasper is abandoned in the woods & has to navigate his way back in the middle of the night. That part irritated TF out of me because duh it's not true in a literal sense and that's also not what the quote means!!! Lastly, in some instance I couldn't care less if a relationship moves fast in a romance novel of all places. However, because we don't spend as much time with Kaitlyn and Tanner if felt too fast. Jasper's chapters were over-written and too long, it left no room for their relationship to spark any sort of longing or connection to the reader. & to think that no one in his life, not even his grandmother who raised him, could make him settle down but this woman who he just met could in one conversation? That part didn't resonate with me AT ALL. Lastly Lastly, what WAS the point of this book? Again, at first, you think it's Tanner trying to find his biological father before he returns overseas for a job - we then go the majority of the book with no update on this search. Then it's Jasper and finding the white deer. Then it's Kaitlyn not jeopardizing her happiness and taking chances with Tanner. Then it's back to Tanner not going overseas and settling down. Then it's Jasper finally coming to terms with the death of this family..IDK it just seemed all over the place for me. This is not the Nicholas Sparks I remember and know and came to cherish in my teenage years, I am a bit disappointed. On top of that, this is a USAID/military advertisement if I ever read or saw one which just...c'mon not my scene!!

I want to start with saying this isn’t typical a book I would pick up. This was a book club pick that I read but I am trying to look at it through the story and not whether or not I typically like books like this. I want to start with the plot. To be honest it felt all over the place. There were two major plots following different people and it got super confusing for me. I kept forgetting who was who and what happened to who. It was really difficult to follow at times. I feel like it needed to be done a different way. Have the small side story but don’t make both the plots so large. It felt like they needed to be two separate books. I felt so bombarded with information and different things happening. It was just too much. I liked the characters when I could remember who everyone was. They were all pretty likable and I enjoyed them. I wouldn’t say anyone was super memorable though other than Jasper (not sure who the main characters are but I think Jasper was supposed to be one). I would say it felt like there were a little too many characters and people I learned about. I just couldn’t keep track lol. With all that said I did however enjoy the end. When the two stories finally ended up connecting I enjoyed getting to see it tie together. I like how the book wrapped up. It was a satisfying ending. Even though I enjoyed the end of this book I don’t think I would recommend it. TW: Death, suicide, grief, child loss, ptsd Spice level: 🌶️ There is one romantic scene with some detailed lead up but ends of being closed door.

I made it half way through and I was bored out of my mind. The beginning felt very promising. I loved the different verses but the story of Jasper was killing me. The story of Kaitlyn and Tanner was boring as well. I gave it two stars because like I said, i really enjoyed the beginning. The story reads slow and I lost interest

I didn’t love this book unfortunately. The characters, the story, none of it was memorable to me. I was thrown off by the huge majority of the book which contained biblical references and scriptures. The romance aspect was rushed and unoriginal (falling in love in less than a week). I wished for so much more as a long time Nicholas Sparks fan but unfortunately this one wasn’t for me. Thank you random house for the arc in exchange for my honest opinion.

I was really feeling fortunate to have an opportunity to read best-selling author John Grisham’s latest legal thriller, thanks to Netgalley.com. Unfortunately the book did not live up to my expectations for a number of reasons. The third and final volume starring defense lawyer Jake Brigance starts off powerfully as we are plunged into the death of a blind-drunk abusive police officer by one of his terrified victims. The setting is the same sleepy, insular stereotyped Mississippi community we have experienced before, peopled with ignorant bigots, a few colorful characters with good hearts and our hero Jake. Unfortunately as soon as Jake shows up in the story the drama is dialed back. As usual, Jake wants no part in taking on the defense of the accused, the traumatized adolescent son of a woman who was the victim of frequent domestic violence at the hands of the now dead cop, Stu Kofer. Jake is still suffering money problems and hasn’t overcome the horrors he faced from local enemies as a result of his previous big court victory. The prospect of having to defend the killer of a police officer with a stellar reputation understandably brings back all of Jake’s anxiety and fears, but his mentor, the judge in the case, applies pressure and Jake reluctantly takes the case. Grisham now goes into formula mode. Every chapter is padded with paragraphs about such minutia as Jake’s healthy breakfast choices and descriptions of daily routines that add pages but not value to the story. The worst example though is his course in Courtroom 101. Since this is the third in a legal series it seems fair to assume most of his readers will know the basics of courtroom procedure. The addition of all this superfluous explanation slows down the story and condescends to Grisham’s readers. The best part of any legal thriller is, of course, the questioning of the witnesses and seeing the strategy of the lawyers unfold. Perry Mason used to do this every week when he delighted his viewers with a surprise that confounded Hamilton Burger and won the day. Well, there was a surprise in this story too, but the reader learns it early on, and the only question is when Jake is going to spring it on the prosecution. And if you are looking for a powerful ending that ties up all the loose ends and sends Jake happily into the sunset, I’m afraid you are going to be disappointed. Frankly I think Grisham was tired of Jake. The writer must have had a three book deal to tell Jake’s story, but really he didn’t seem worth the effort. There was no passion in the man, little humor and not even much personal struggle, except for the constant worry about paying his bills. I’ve got a suggestion if he ever feels tempted to write about Jake again. Relocate him from this caricature of a sleepy southern town and let him be a real lawyer.

Easy to read and it kept my attention for the most part but it was way, way too long. About 150 pages too long. I keep reading John Grisham’s books, but sadly, I can only recommend his very early books. And the icing on the cake for this so-so book was the author’s note at the end. Basically he says that he’s too lazy to make sure that all the laws he’s writing about, are in fact, correct. What? That’s not just lazy, but in my opinion, disrespectful of the legions of readers who have put him up on the pedestal he sits on today.

I realize my opinion will not be popular but I was not impressed with this book. I love the series but every once in a while I feel like there is a sub par entry and this is one. First of all, the method of murder is redundant. Exact same scenario as used in a previous book. The author could have at least made up a new poison. Its the future; invent something. Too many poorly developed supporting players also. I didn't care about any of them. I will admit that the twist of the hiding place for the poison at the end did make me like the character of Sylvie more. That was a good plot twist. There was also a part where Roarke references a certain HBO show and says that he thinks Eve would like it. I found this very unbelievable for the character as that show has many, many triggers in it that a victim of child abuse/rape/incest like Eve would NOT enjoy and he would know this. There is no way he would suggest she would like it. I just didn't think the book flowed well and there were too many redundant plot points very similar to previous books. I found it boring. There was literally no action in it. Roarkes anniversary present to Eve was also very predictable; anyone who pays attention to the books knows he has been working on that. Hopefully the next book will be better.

Below average offering for this series. The case is so-so and takes a long time to resolve even though I suspected who the killer was from the beginning. There’s also minimal interaction with Eve’s normal supporting cast, so the book feels fairly flat. Compared to the emotional storm of the previous book, this is a letdown.

Save your money.... I have purchased every book in the Death series by Nora Roberts. However, I have to say the last four or five were bought only because I was hoping the spark would return, the intensity, the humor, the deep storytelling that I so enjoyed in the earlier books. This book was so terrible, I ended up scanning the first sentence of paragraphs and just turning pages looking for anything that could hold my interest. I will admit I did smile once. Anyway, I am done. I refuse to purchase any more in this series by "J D Robb".

I didn’t finish this book. “Life is too short to finish books you’re not enjoying”- Goodreads podcast.

Such a disappointment. Trite. Repetitive (no one finds the duck funny anymore and the fact that Clara has food falling out of hair all the time is disgusting and an insult to artists). Jean-Guy is her favorite character to dump on. Mercy killing of disabled people as the plot line? Really? Even if you were going for satire, this was poorly done. Bring back the real Gamache or end the series. This was awful. Two stars only because I love these characters when she’s not screwing them up.

I think it's fair to suggest that the 17th book in a long-running series is probably not the best place to start your relationship with a new crime-solving protagonist. I also need to admit that I didn't know this was part of such a long series, and I probably would have thought twice about requesting it if I'd known there were 16 before this one. Why do I mention this? I don't expect any regular readers of this series to agree with anything I say. If you've already read more than a dozen, then you clearly like this stuff. BUT there will be people who are wondering if you can join at this point and still enjoy this book. I'm going to stick my neck out and say "Probably not". I found this rather bland and disappointing. It took me a long time to drag myself through it because this was the opposite of a page-turner. In a small-town university in Quebec, a notorious mathematician/statistician (notorious not being a typical adjective for such people) is due to give a talk between Christmas and New Year. So much, so bland, you might be thinking. The problem is that this statistician has a very unpalatable position on how to avoid future pandemics - by the involuntary euthanasia of the elderly, sick and disabled. Her talk draws opposing crowds and leads to an attempted murder. Chief Inspector Gamache is working security during the talk and soon trying to work out how the gun got into the university hall, and how a person connected with the speaker gets murdered a couple of days later. I found a lot to criticise about this book. I'm sure that if you've already read the first 16, my negativity will be like water off a duck's back. That's fine. Each to their own. The premise of involuntary euthanasia is never properly explained. There's supposed to be a statistical drive that supports Professor Abigail Robinson's proposal but the author doesn't bother to make up a good story. I felt a bit cheated. The pandemic sets the backdrop to the novel but is again handled so lightly, that it might as well not have even happened. I didn't pick up any of the sense of suffering and subsequent vaccine-based hope. This book could have been set at any time against any circumstances and still felt the same. The book relies on a lot of coincidences. A local elderly lady has left a ton of paperwork that eventually ties into the present-day events. A woman from South Sudan who has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize seems to be totally adrift in the story. I can only guess that she ties in somehow to an earlier book as her presence in this one is baffling. And of course, there's the need - as in any high number serial book - to do some major data and character dumping in order to establish a cast of hundreds, many of whom are only peripherally involved in the story. And there's the 'Ca va bien, aller' slogan that possibly means a lot if you're Canadian or Quebecois but isn't really explained. Oh, and don't get me started on the elderly poet with a pet duck. This feels like a rag-bag of poorly developed characters that probably make sense to those familiar with the series but don't deliver to the one-off visitor dropping in for number 17 in a seemingly interminable series. Many thanks to Netgalley and the publishers for my review copy.

** spoiler alert ** I normally just give star ratings but I want to write a review of this book partly because I was so disappointed by it. I'm a big fan of Louise Penny and Gamache is one of my favourite characters. Of the books so far I would say some are good, some very good and some excellent - the two best are The Brutal Telling and How the Light Gets in. This book has so much wrong with it...Firstly the case. It's just far, far too big, too unrealistic. She did this before with the corruption in Surete but that worked because Gamache was a prominent figure within the organisation and it was several books in the making. This time, it's major coroporation, machine guns, drones following them....it was just way way too much. I disliked the involvement of the family in it, Reine Marie isn't Jessica Fletcher, and the dispute with his son just didn't ring true. We know Gamache at this stage and nothing about his character says he would not ever try to get to the bottom of a 20 year problem with his son. The reveal about Annie and Beauvoir's child, I didn't like that, it's not something I would use as a twist in a book. Finally, the survival of Stephen and his coming to Three Pines, way way too much, wholly unbelievable and totally unnecessary. Gamache is such a perfect figure in many ways but what has always saved the books from being overly sentimental is that Penny gives him struggles, and pain. If Stephen had died, as a 93 year old hit with a truck should do, it might have redeemed the book somewhat. Hoping for better next time.

I am surprised at how highly rated this book is. Not that I can see no reason why readers might like it— I can —but it does not come across as a crowd-pleaser. Had I read this book before it became a hit, I would have expected it to be divisive. The reason being that it's hard to explain or categorise this story. It is a very strange literary book, built of components— some I liked, a lot I didn’t— that didn’t really add up to a cohesive whole. Is it a satire? It seems it must be because some parts are obviously intended to be funny. Humour is highly-subjective and, I have to admit, most of this wasn't my particular flavour. Very over-the-top goofy humour at times. The story reimagines Mark Twain's Jim-- a character who is treated as benign and a bit simple-minded --as a secret intellectual who can not only read, but is well-versed in Voltaire. In this version, the way Black slaves behave and speak is not their true selves but a performance for slave owners. I tried my best to get on board with this, because there is something quite amusing and satisfying about an author taking the way slavers belittled, stereotyped and made jokes about slaves, and being like ha, joke's on you. But, then, other parts are aggressively unfunny. Floggings, lynchings and an on-page rape. I remember thinking at one point: Is this the point? Is Everett just that clever? Was he waiting for the reader to have the audacity to laugh before screaming “Oh so you think this shit is funny, do you?! Well, here’s a woman being raped.”? I just don’t know. And, by the way, I do not think every book needs to have central female characters, but I do think you have a responsibility not to introduce female characters for the sole purpose of them being rape victims. Especially when there are already almost no women of note in the book. I found the decisions Everett made here curious… he rewrites a character who I agree needed rewriting, but I expected a complex character, someone with depth of characterisation… it is strange to me, and a bit farcical, that Everett replaces the stereotyped, one-dimensional Jim we know with another surface level character whose entire personality seems to be "secret genius." Everett's Jim plays a rough-talking halfwit to his white overlords but secretly has dream conversations with Voltaire and Locke. Other than this satirical twist that actually Jim was a genius, I didn’t feel we knew him at all. And: “Are you referring to my diction or my content?” is a line a robot would say, not a closeted intellectual. Then there's the plot itself, the style of which is very much just the characters running from one place and drama to the next. It reads like a series of sketches, some comedic, some horrific, with a twist that I am still undecided about. Knowledge of the characters and general story in The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is pretty much necessary for the book's events to have significance. So, again, I'm surprised this book has been as universally-loved as it seems to have been. A rating above 4.5 at more than 200,000 ratings is impressive, so I guess I'm the problem.

How are we supposed to be excited about a book we already know how it’s going to end by the second chapter? Besides, I love reading. Reading is my happy place. I don’t read to get depressed. I read to run far far away from depression. And this book is the depression itself in pages. I lost my father to cancer and reading this book was like reliving the nightmare he went through. I couldn’t finish it. Not only was it VERY depressing, but it was also boring and predictable. I don’t think this is a book for anyone who has been touched by cancer in some way. So fair warning ⚠️ cruel and brutal details of the disease described in minute detail. Can’t this author give us a happy ever after for once???

The Wish is a rightwing conservative morality tale in the vein of Karen Kingsbury’s Someone Like You in which author Nicholas Sparks appropriates a pregnant teen girl’s experience from the perspective of a middle age white male. Protagonist Maggie starts out as a desperate teen mother and ends up as a dying cancer victim. When she finds out she’s pregnant, abortion is villified, single motherhood is averted, and adoption is praised as the only “virtuous” option. Frumpy, lackadaisical, low-achieving Maggie is juxtaposed with male counterparts Bryce and Mark--physically, intellectually, and morally muscular--unrealistically flawless “saviors.” “I was pretty clueless about the state of the world...and honestly didn’t care all that much. But I liked hearing him talk and he occasionally posed serious questions about serious issues. After pretending to think about it, I’d say something like, ‘That’s difficult to answer. What do you think?’ and he’d start explaining his thoughts on the matter...I’d enjoyed the sight of his muscles...It made me wish that I could be more like him.” The novel wraps up with a saccharine and predictable reunion tied with the bow of Maggie’s last words to Mark, “Thank you for finding me and becoming my wish somehow made true.” If you “wish” for a more authentic alternative, Jennifer Weiner’s That Summer is a similarly setting-based novel that tackles parallel issues with diverse characters and depth of perspective. While Sparks’ “reckoning” is the impending birth of Maggie’s baby and departure from Bryce, Weiner describes, “This is a reckoning...if I sit here and do nothing, I’m...complicit...‘Do you think you deserved what happened to you that summer?’...No girl did...I don’t think it’s about blame. It’s about what happens next….All the girls who come after us.”

Oh man what a disappointment! I don't know if my expectations were too high because it's Nicholas Sparks or what. Maybe I'm completely heartless, but I didn't cry even once. It was all so slow and predictable! There honestly wasn't a single surprise. All I know is I love anything Nicholas Sparks except this one.

I think it's time for me and Sparks to part ways. I loved his novels during my late high school and college years, but I definitely feel differently about his writing now. The formulas to his books are so predictable, this one especially. There were so many eye-roll moments that I don't even know where to start: (view spoiler), which all prevented me from being drawn into the story and the characters' lives. I will say that I enjoyed seeing Maggie and her aunt's relationship develop. Most of the books I read are audiobooks, and I've listened to very few books where multiple narrators read for a specific character throughout the book, so that was fun and unexpected! (I'm shocked that this book has such a high rating! I was debating between 1 and 2 stars...)

I’ve pretty much stopped buying lunch at my work cafeteria because no matter how often the description of the day’s entrée induces those salivary glands into action, the end result is always terribly disappointing. The food looks like it should be good—braised beef that seems savory, fresh-looking tomatoes to impart a robust flavor, colorful specks of herbs that hint of a certain deliciousness and make the tummy grumble. So it’s a fresh shock to the system almost every time when it turns out to be nothing but a ruse. Doesn’t it takes a special kind of talent to start with what appear to be such promising ingredients and to produce with them a dish as utterly bland and as pitifully uninspiring as that cafeteria food invariably turns out to be? Well, doesn’t it?

GREEN EDGES. Is it normal that it makes me so excited? One week later. Maybe the green edges set too high expectations. I may or may or may not have skimmed through he last 150 pages (out of 520). And now I really don't know what to say about this. The writing is very rich, substanstial, and ther story seems, initially, to absorb such qualities itself, but right after you close the book you just know that, actually, it left you nothing. And while I know -I experienced- that this story is anything but flimsy, I wonder what went wrong. It's not even that I found it boring as many reviews say, it just told me nothing. I think I will pick this up again in the future. But this time around, it uninterested me so much that I am speechless. For the wrong reasons.

While this book is indeed well written on a technical level, it does nothing for keeping me interested. And for me, that is crucial in fiction. I have to feel SOMETHING. When I first read this the concept didn't leave me mind and I felt that ZI had been unfair. SO I tried the audiobook version. Big mistake. That was worse! But I toughed it out knowing I blanked on some parts in the second third of the book. But the narrator kept putting me to sleep. So lots of re-listening trying to figure out what I missed. I kept hoping to get a better feel for the "Wicked Witch." To learn how she became a witch, etc. Instead I got more a book that focuses on the politics and religions on OZ. Through Elphaba's "college" years I can see many real life students going through similar things in today's world. This is OZ! There is suppose to have a feel on wonder and the fantastical!!! Where was it? Yes there are mention of talking Animals and such but outside of the debate (animal vs Animals) the book covers that is about it. This is a crude world we see. Especially through the beginning. So if you are sensitive to what you read, stay away from this. Almost all the characters are immoral and self-centered. So what little I did feel was frustration at how similar the characters are and how non are truly likable. Boq, Elphaba and Nanny are probably the best and even they are far from likeable. I also could not visualize much. Lots of telling and little showing. Again, another no-no in novels for me. I want to SEE the characters and the world they fill. And what imagination I could strum up for this world was less than pretty. In fact, if left me with a depressed feeling for the land. Overall, not my thing. . It just drags at way too slow a pace. I really struggled to get through it and why? Because those that recommended it said it gets better. Umm, not for me it didn't. For how long it was, it was closer to a waste of time. Twice now I have tired and failed to read it properly. If it was not not so well written in it's grammar and verbage I would have. But that alone does not redeem a book enough to enjoy it. If you do read this, READ it. Do not listen to it unless you are an insomniac needing some help falling asleep.

Wicked' by Gregory Maguire seems endless in so many ways - in unnecessary characters, in discussions, digressions and developments of "evil", in personal afflictions, in magic affectations, in weird reveals and strange meetings and murders. It tries too hard. I admired the writing, basically, and also the author's imagination in rewriting The Wonderful Wizard of Oz as a modern YA fantasy. But eventually I felt the plot only a tangle of mismatched yarns (wool and fairy tales) while essentially trodding and plodding over the same philosophical ground - rephrasing over and over the question "what is evil?" with the same circular non-answers and late-night conversations familiar to all young adults everywhere. This novel is a lengthy domestic fiction disguised as a literary novel, despite murders and villians. I couldn't finish it. Maybe it got better. Idk.

RTC idk what I just read. NEEDED to read this bc I am officially obsessed after finally seeing the film!! 💚🩷

When I first began reading this book, I was delighted at the feeling of being enveloped in this dark, Grimm Fairy Tale type place called Oz. The concept of the time dragon, the dwarf-operated marionette machine completely spooked me. The baby elphaba with her green skin and huge teeth was freakish, yet I could feel a tenderness at her otherness, the trouble she would surely find fitting in. From then on, the book became much less interesting or sympathetic. Elphaba never morphed into a likable character. I genuinely did not like her and did not care about her fate, problematic as she is the main character. It is apparent that Maguire is trying to dehumanize her in the latter part of the book, referring to her as "witch" rather than "Elphaba." But even in her formative college years, she is unlikable and condescending. From a dialogue perspective, Maguire attempts to make her witty at times, but she is not witty at all. She is an awkward conversationalist, yet always shares her snide opinions. From here, Elphaba becomes a terrorist for the greater good of helping Animals. The flaws of terrorism -- the way Elphaba shrugs off how innocents will die as necessary to the greater good makes me very unsympathetic to her cause. I feel she should be wiser, smarter, cleverer than that -- and she's not. But the real reason to dislike Elphaba is the treatment of what is surely her own son. She treats him coldly, like a servant and offers no parenting to him at all. She is so indifferent, she cares more for her bees and crows and monkeys with wings. Perhaps, Elphaba is really not very human. You would think that Maguire would show that underneath her physical deformities is a sensitive human with great intelligence and abilities. I see a subhuman with a crabby negative demeanor that gets her nowhere. Maybe I'm not getting the political or philosophical commentary. Maybe I'm not seeing how Elphaba needs to be this way to make the book work. But in my view, a book will never work if there isn't a solitary character to like and emphathize with. And there wasn't. My recommendation to anyone: see the musical -- for all its cliches, it's a much more satisfying experience.

** spoiler alert ** I don't get it. OK, so I read the book thinking it would be good preparation for possibly seeing the musical while it's in Chicago. Now I'm not so sure, though I'm told the musical is vastly different from the book. I'm guessing I'm no more prepared than I was before I started. It started strong, with experiences that lead her parents to believe her disfigurements are a curse; she's born with green skin, razor-sharp teeth and a fatal allergy to water. Maguire then spends way more time on her infancy than is really necessary, especially since she's not really the focus of that part of the story; it's about her parents and their relation to a foreign glass-blower. There were two sections of the book that were simply excellent; the Witch's time at school with her sister and Glinda, and the following section, in which she lives in secret in Emerald City and carries on an affair with an old school mate. The character grows a lot in these sections; she starts as a reclusive misanthrope, disinterested with social interaction until political revolution lights a fire under her and she discovers an unlikely set of like-minded revolutionaries. They work together, become friends and expand their group to include more lost souls when one of their teachers is murdered to stop his research. I felt that such a person would quite reasonably become a target of the Wizard's tyrrany. When she goes to see the Wizard with Glinda and is convinced upon meeting him that he must be brought down, she's ambitious and passionate and ready to act. In the next section, when one of her old school friends finds her and pursues her to her hideout, she continues that ambition and passion, so firey that it's not hard to believe he could fall headlong in love with her. Sadly, when her big plan comes to a head, the narrative collapses into unremarkability. She fails to kill her target, her lover is murdered, and the entire rest of the book is a plodding story in which she occasionally encounters the chance to do something, and never, ever does, until Dorothy comes right up to her doorstep and she completely loses her mind. The end. Seriously, that's what I got out of the book. I thought this was about giving depth to the Wicked Witch of the West, but what little she had was cast away in a whirlwind of guilt and confusion halfway through the book, never to be recovered. Worse, reams of character development are left untold. We never see any evidence that the Witch's assassination plot is part of something larger, save her insistence that it is. Presumably her coconspirators are captured because of her failure, but when she begs forgiveness, they are left unconsidered as she heads to the ancestral home of her murdered lover to beg his wife's forgiveness, which she never gives before sharing her husband's fate. Though she speaks often and passionately of political and military movements going on within Oz, she never does anything about it! After her botched assassination attempt, she doesn't do anything else, despite several opportunities to get involved and take a leadership role, and all the important people in her life give her reason to do so! By the end of the story, she's not even a threat to the Wizard's rule; she's just a convenient scapegoat. Then there's Liir; presumably her son by her murdered lover. She spends some time in a convent hospital, and when she leaves, this kid is right there with her, even though they don't seem to like each other and they rarely speak. The Witch's motivations are clear, but failed. Liir's motivation is never explored and appears not to serve any significant role in the story, despite being there from the midpoint of the story right up to the end. Apparently a sequel has been written about him, but I don't care -- he's not interesting. I was really dissapointed here, and I don't understand the reviews I've read that made me want to read the book so much; why are they all so glowing?

I read the book because I really enjoyed the musical that is based on it, but perhaps for this reason I did not love the literary version. I found interesting the reflections on the relationship between humans and animals, or rather 'Animals', and the requirements for which we recognise human dignity to other beings. After all, being Animals ourselves, it is also a reflection on how easily humans have been able to deny human dignity to members of their own species. Also very topical is the description of the 'tiktok' religion, the religion of easy pleasure, and the effects it can have on society and individuals. However, the book seemed to me unnecessarily long and I did not like the long-winded, cynical, often vulgar style. In addition, there is not one character I really became attached to in the whole book. Especially Elphaba was a disappointment: at school she is described as a bright, rebellious and passionate girl, then she becomes a mysterious terrorist, but, in fact, she fails to get anything done and spends the rest of the book feeling sorry for herself. Her fallibility makes her more realistic perhaps, but I couldn't help but wonder what was the point of reading her story at the end of the book. Also, her relationship with Glinda and Fiyero is not explored enough, since they only appear for a short part of the book. I think the musical was right in giving them a more central role, since they kept the plot interesting and diversified.

I had mixed feelings about this book. On one hand the plot is very interesting. On the other, the author makes so many sexual references and adds scenes that are not even needed for the plot that it almost ruins the book. It seems he thinks the real learning arena is sexual encounters and sensory gratification. I also think he blurs the lines between real good and real evil. Obviously those who are different are not really evil. But killing, even for political reasons and vengence, is evil. The story seems to have no real morals only political implications. Plus the author is all over the place. He has many ideas and narratives and they are very disjointed. He talks about Animal rights and the political climate of Oz and suppression but don't really tie it in well. Except that this is a passion of Elphie. I almost think he is comparing them to todays climate. Would the outcasts be lesbians and gays? Immigrants? He doesn't do a good job of making it interesting or thoughtful. Its just plain boring. He also spends tons of time describing relationships that go nowhere, and places that mean nothing. I found myself wishing for a cliffnotes version and I have never wished that before. I do think it challenged me to look at political activity in a closer light but not the rest of my life. I enjoyed the plot but also found myself skipping tons of parts where he seemed to get preachy over the reality of good/evil. I also disagree in his depiction of fate. I don't think people are puppets but I believe all have a choice in what they do. You also feel sad for Elphaba because she never really succeeds at anything and never really finds happiness. Her death is so vague that you are unsure what really happened and what it meant to you. The end is disappointing. You feel cheated. Watch the play - skip the book.

I am quite dissappointed. I couldn't wait to get my hands on Holly, but this was one of the weakest, blatantly political books I've read this year. Part of every character's profile was whether he/she was vaxed and how many times. I don't care. It's like reading a novel with several female characters and comparing their gyno appointments or pap tests. It doesn't add up anything to the character, it doesn't make them good or bad which was undoubtedly the intention in this case. Covid and vaccines were mentioned 107 times, masks 66 times, and there were 14 comments on whether or not a character was double-vaxxed. I understand that Holly herself is a bit of a hypochondriac but.. Seriously? I also get Mr. King's personal opinions on politics and Covid, I always expect a pinch of liberalism in his books. But I hardly need them to be shoved in my face from every paragraph. I would've watched an interview if I cared that much about his personal beliefs. Where's the thriller, the mystery of what's lurking behind dark corners, the gritty suspense that keeps you on your toes, the supernatural that's unbelievable and unpredictable? 80% of this book felt like some boomer ranting on Twitter about all the dreadfully overtalked subjects of Trump-bad, his supporters-bad, covid sceptics-bad, white people-racist, and so on. The other 20% of the book, which, sadly, were all in all the actual thriller, weren't bad at all. Twisted villains, disturbing revelations and Holly trying to piece everything together on her own. The last few chapters, where some real action was happening, were the best. If it wasn't for all the liberal ramblings this would have been a great book.

Too long, too predictable, and way too grim. SK has written some of the very best stories I’ve read, and, in general, I’m in awe of his abilities as a storyteller. And yet there’s a good amount of his writing that I do struggle with. I don’t read supernatural or horror stories: the former I find hard to believe and the latter I find hard to stomach. Consequently, I tread a wary path through his fiction, seeking out books that include neither (or at least as little as possible) of these elements. His Bill Hodges trilogy started out as straightforward – but high-class – crime fiction. But by the last book in this trilogy, a degree of magical realism had crept in. I didn’t like this, but I reluctantly accepted it because I was already locked into the lives and adventures of the characters in these stories. I wasn’t expecting a follow-up to End of Watch as it seemed that the life (quite literally) of this mini-series had run its course. But then this book came along, featuring a character from the series who was picking things up where Bill left off. I won’t go into the plotline – there will be numerous reviews on this site alone that will comment on that – rather I’ll simply record my reaction to listening to an audio version of this tale: - The story feels stretched out. The same thing happens to a number of characters (and normally in flashback, which confused the hell out of me as I wasn’t playing close enough attention to the dates). I quickly tired of hearing a very similar sequence of events repeated a number of times, particularly as there was little else going on. But to compound this, when the action had finally come to a dramatic conclusion, the clean-up summary then went on endlessly. I know King is a star writer, but couldn't his editor have prompted some judicious pruning? - It was pretty obvious from very early on how this story was going to play out. There really are no surprises here. - It’s a crime fiction story, but it’s also a horror story. In fact, there are many sections that really made me feel quite queasy, and several times, I debated quitting early. I know others may feel differently – perhaps those with a stronger constitution - but this was my honest reaction. I think this tale is a pale imitation of the Bill Hodges books. Frankly, Holly isn’t as interesting as Bill, and the story itself just doesn’t stand up to those that preceded it – it’s impactful, definitely, but for all the wrong reasons. Sorry, but it’s a two star offering for me, and that only because I managed to drag myself to the finishing line.

Not a fan. 90% political talk. King should’ve left it alone as a short story. I know a lot of people like Holly, but she’s too self righteous for me. Was only going to give it 1 star but Olivia’s character deserves a star all her own.

Maybe I've just outgrown this genre, but I could barely finish this book. It was, honestly, just boring. And also silly - guy is literally trying to drink himself to death over the very recent murder of his wife and then two seconds later he's falling for the stereotypical female sidekick. It just felt trite and formulaic and not suspenseful at all. I was an avid Mitch Rapp fan until Mills ruined that series. I've read a few of Thor's books in the hopes they would come close to Vince Flynn's writing, and I'm always disappointed. Just not for me.

A Thriller? I’ve read all 19 books in the series, so I felt confident purchasing this one. Chapter 11 made me stop and post this review, something I would normally never do without finishing the book. The writing here is slow, dry and boring; lots of exposition, more like historical non-fiction than a rollicking action thriller.

** spoiler alert ** I am a huge Brad Thor/Harvath fan! I will say that this is the first book that I didn’t care for. The first reason is that too much of the book was spent recapping the last books’ plot. The second reason is that I did not like that a love interest was introduced for Scot, knowing that his wife had just been killed. I know that Lara’s death was in a previous book, but when you think about the time line, this book is maybe two months since she was killed. When Scot started to have an inner monologue about Sølvi, or announced that he dreamt about her, I thought it was way too soon. Just my opinion.

What a disappointment. This is probably the worst Harvath book in the series, and a shame that it came after what was maybe the best in Backlash. I put off reading this because I heard that was the case and that was correct. This is supposed to be a thriller, but I kept waiting for said thrills and there were none. Harvath is a bad ass character and the reason to read this series. However Thor decided to not put him into an action sequence until over 90 percent in the book. Instead he drinks, rehashes details from previous books that we already know,talks to people trying to solve a mystery we already know the answer to, falls for a hot Norwegian chick even though his wife was just murdered, and then everything wraps up really quick and in a way that's anticlimactic. , I'm not sure what Thor was trying to accomplish. If he wanted to reset the series after Backlash he could have. This book seems unnecessary because the character work falls flat. That's not the reason to read this series. It could have really been a kick ass action packed book full of pursuits and Harvath avoiding contract killers. Instead it was a phoned in placeholder. I might be done with this series.

I loved his last book so much that this book disappointed me.

The most boring installment yet in the Scot Harvath series. This was a huge disappointment for me and felt more clip a greatest hits rehash than a new stand alone.

Meh. It wasn’t bad but it wasn’t anything spectacular.

Dan Brown’s The Secret of Secrets is yet another global romp through the corridors of history, symbolism, and questionable geography. The plot, if you can call it that, unfolds like a fever dream stitched together by someone who fell asleep during a History Channel marathon. Does it make sense? Absolutely not. But since when has “making sense” been a requirement for a Dan Brown novel? Reality in this book is more like an optional suggestion, loosely waved at before the characters sprint off to the next set piece. The pacing is relentless - mostly because if you stopped to think about the logic for more than three seconds, you’d burst out laughing. For example, when Langdon ran back to his hotel, pulled the fire alarm, and then jumped into an icy lake - all because his faulty extrasensory perception picked up the “whiff of death” - you realize you’re no longer reading a thriller, you’re watching a Monty Python sketch that accidentally took itself seriously And yet, somehow, the man remains one of the most widely read authors on the planet. How? I have no idea. Literary critics might call his prose clunky, his dialogue wooden, and his metaphors criminal, but apparently, millions of readers call it “a page-turner.” Maybe that’s the real secret of secrets. I give it 2 stars out of 5 - one star for the energy, 1/2 a star for the occasional moment of actual suspense, and 1/2 a star just because I admire the sheer audacity of making this nonsense a (possible *yawn) global best-seller. If there’s a lesson here, it’s this: Dan Brown is the perfect poster child for every struggling writer. If this can top charts, then by all means, keep writing. Because if Dan Brown can become a publishing phenomenon with labyrinths of gibberish dressed up as profound insight, then honestly- so can you.

I’m being very generous giving this sorry excuse for a thriller two stars. What you get are stick figures with zero personality being moved around the gorgeous gothic city of Prague. I really want to go back there, this being the only feeling except boredom that this book managed to elicit. Thrown into the mix you have CIA, a revolutionary book about consciousness, depraved experiments in a basement and endless pseudoscientific ramblings. For a while I even thought there was a dash of fantasy thrown in, but that had an explanation. The plot moves at the pace of a tick on a tar stick and my eyes hurt from rolling so much. Dan Brown is hit or miss for me, with the misses being dominant, so I shouldn’t be surprised. I am surprised that I bothered to finish and NO it wasn’t worth it.

I'm the outlier here, but really: 8 years for this? 700 pages of....? I’m absolutely in the minority on this one but the newest Robert Langdon is, sadly, very disappointingly MEH. Do we learn more about Langdon? Not much. As a Robert Langdon fan, this was chock full of predictable villains and heroes, a familiar murder and clue solving formula that was not subverted enough for the core secret to feel truly impactful, weak dialogue, a predictable twist, and the underwhelming concept of "awakened universal consciousness," which felt out of sync with the present and like a techno utopian relic of the 1990s, failing to live up to the promise of its premise. The cringy dialogue detracted from the overall reading experience. Poor Michael Harris though. 2.25/5

Maybe like 2.75 stars rounded down? I don't know because Goodreads plans on sticking their app to the 90s with no half stars. I really wish Tom Hanks never played the role of Robert Langdon, because how can I possibly take this book seriously? The Secret of Secrets (even the title is ridiculous), takes place in Prague, where limitless history occurs, mostly in the form of a giant Golem, who is somehow caught up in this mystery. The first 350 pages, I was like, ok, I'm on the edge of my seat, but realizing I have now an additional 300 pages to go...must keep persisting. This book could have been at least 250 pages shorter, since I ended up skimming through to the end. And I'm glad I did, cause I had one more day to return it in my Libby app, and could no longer suffer through some of these apt, overwrought descriptions of the human consiousness that the CIA is attempting to infiltrate: "As the cloaked body rose into view, its arms were extended horizontally, showing bare palms like some kind of ascendant Christ." “It looks like Threshold is growing something…and I’m guessing it’s not arugula.” “I am not as you think I am,” the monster whispered, gazing down into Housemore’s eyes as he tightened his grip. “I am The Golěm.” "It was rare that Langdon invoked Shakespeare, but this near disaster seemed Bard-worthy. All’s well that ends well, he assured himself" I can go on, but I will spare you the details. While I read the first The Da Vinci Code and loved it - it was refreshing, controversial, and the history was quite fascinating, I skipped the next four (not even realizing there are actually FOUR more of these), I think its really time for Dan Brown to hang up this character, because there's no way Tom Hanks is Robert Langford, who should really be played by a Hemsworth brother or Channing Tatum.

guys, what was this? honestly..... I recognize i am no longer the target audience for these books - but this still felt worse than previous. This story first and foremost should have been Katherines, not Roberts. the ONLY reason its Roberts is because its very apparent Dan can't write anything successful without Robert (see, Deception Point and Digital Fortress, books most people probably don't realize he has published). Lets also be clear i do not want to see Dan try and write a female perspective for 700 pages but that's another story. I think if I wasn't a hater, I'd find the inversion of Dan's real life Editor Jason Kaufman being homaged on page as Langdon's editor, Jonas Faukman a cute little nod. However because I am hater it just served to remind me that Langdon is just Dan's self insert. One of my biggest beefs with this universe is the way everyone is so fucking obsessed with Langdon to the point of absurdity. What do you MEAN this insanely smart scientist was taunting her password to Langdon....and that her password is 7 characters.... my job is significantly less important and requires a way stricter password than 314s159 but the plot needed Langdon to get into that hidden room I can suspend my disbelief when i enter a book, but i need the rules of the universe to FEEL real, and given that Langdon largely operates in the same world as me (save for a few bits of cooler sciences) these smaller things stand out a LOT. Maybe she wanted him to get into the room and i'm being overly critical its still stupid. and the AI use. its in the copyright about how PRH is basically anti AI. But this book HAS A PRH EMPLOYEE decide to throw out his morals to use AI. And yes I understand that this is meant to be a high stakes situation, and realisitically the fastest solution may be the best one and YES in that scenario AI is the fastest. HOWEVER there is NO guarantee the AI is accurate so that's already a risk in and of itself BUT IT ALSO COMPLETELY IGNORES THAT THE PREVIOUS BOOK HAD A WAY MORE SENTIENT AI so how is it that what 8? years ago the slightly different than our world-world that Langdon inhabits had almost literally sentient AI but now they're all using ChatGPT? that seems like an insane downgrade.... not to mention, if Roberts experience with that AI was public, i think that would've killed most AI markets going forward given taht it was so sentient it was trying to kill people..... but sure they just backtracked it to ChatGPT and everyones chill. the Villians and anti-ai people alike? sure. i just can't buy that after 6 books the only real carryover from book to book is Katherine existing and Roberts watch. everything is so insanely repetitive, i feel like we could've shaved a 100 pages easily by not repeating every single thing so many times. please remind me when book 7 inevitably comes out that i do not want to read it.

Not great. And Dan could’ve saved a forest by leaving out the Prague tourism center’s brochure.

This book takes place over a couple of days, but reading it felt like a couple of years.

Profoundly dull.

This book matched my expectations completely: like all Dan Brown books, it spews Wikipedia trivia wrapped in a mindless plot. There’s even a random fact about the Starbucks logo that has nothing to do with the story. I did enjoy the virtual tour of Prague, but the rest follows the usual trope—villains practically calling attention to themselves, whose dark deeds would’ve gone unnoticed otherwise. I was waiting for the moment when the bad guy holds the good ones at gunpoint and confesses. And that also happened! Katherine, the “scientist,” isn’t convinced that something she wrote in her research paper (and even applied patent for) could be practically implemented. Now I get it—she’s not a scientist; she’s a noetic scientist. I hadn’t heard of noetic science before, and everything I read makes me think it’s humbug. She laments that people are skeptical because the experiments aren’t repeatable. Uh-uh. Please read "Attack of the Unsinkable Rubber Ducks" by Chris Brookmyre for a brilliant takedown of pseudoscience. The super-secret research lab has only one security checkpoint at the entrance. No guards, no restrictions in internal rooms, no other employee , not even a janitor working—Katherine and Langdon have free reign to wander and even find a book labeled “confidential.” Even by the end, I couldn’t figure out what the big deal was about all the secrets. I’m not holding my breath for the next Langdon book, though I’m sure Tom Hanks is already busy preparing for the movie.

JENEVA, BABE THERE BETTER NOT BE A TRILOGY… A Perfect Divorce is the sequel to a A Perfect Marriage and we are back following Sarah Morgan 11 years later where she is now married to Bob Miller and has a child. Unfortunately, the cheating bug seems to follow Sarah as she catches Bob having a one-night stand. She immediately files for divorce. But she has bigger fish to fry because new DNA evidence has been uncovered against her ex-husband throwing her back into the spotlight and when the woman that Bob slept with is found missing both are at the front centre of her disappearance. Let me just be completely honest. This sequel was not needed! Not only did I have to wait till 40% in the book to actually become somewhat interested but there was a whole bunch of cat and mouse that was lacking serious electric energy. Sarah is still Sarah and Bob is Bob! No character development just two entitled fools who think they are above the law… SNOOOZE! The was some funny dialogue in certain parts and I am a lover of short chapters so that was a win. But in terms of the whole plot and some anticipated “twist and turns” … PLEASE BEHAVE! As an obvious Popcorn Thriller, I can accept embellished and extreme over the top shenanigans and twists but the ones in this book were sooo ‘MEH’ There was a scene that I think the author thought we was going to fall for and I absolutely laughed out loud at the cliffhanger because bless you hun, you really thought you got me there…😒 Then the last ‘twist’ just had me shaking my head in disappointment. The story is told in numerous POVs that I didn’t particularly care for. It would have been enough to keep it with just Sarah, Bob and Sheriff Hudson. ⋆｡°✩WHAT I LIKED⋆｡°✩ ➽ Short Chapters ➽ Funny dialogue ➽ The police procedural ➽ Quick read ⋆｡°✩WHAT I DIDN’T LIKE⋆｡°✩ ➽ Too much unnecessary fillers ➽ Too many POVS ➽ The twists were not enjoyable ➽ Eye rolling embellishment ➽ Predictable ➽ The ending Although not a banger for me, I do believe it’s a digestible book that you can get through on a lazy weekend or maybe play the audiobook (Adam Lazarre- White voices the sheriff and whewww that mans voice🥵🥵🔥) in the background as you get on with other things. 2.5 ⭐ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ⋆｡°✩pre read⋆｡°✩ Happy Pub Day!!! Cant wait to see what the characters are up to now! Hope this sequel is as funny and entertaining! 🤍❤️🤍

yeah no lol. I didn’t like the perfect marriage—honestly dreaded my way through it—but i still gave this one a shot bc the ARC reviews had me hopeful. Huge mistake. It’s literally the same book. Same vibes, same plot structure, different characters doing the most with zero logic. If you loved the first one, maybe this’ll work for you. but if you didn’t? don’t bother. I’m begging authors to stop recycling the same story and calling it a sequel.

the devil works hard.. sarah works harder

2 ⭐️ Oh Jeneva, why can’t I quit you? She’s very much in the same category as Ali Hazelwood in that I don’t connect to any of her books, yet they are so wildly popular and I get the worst FOMO if I don’t read them. Then I read them and get mad at myself all over again, it’s a vicious cycle I can’t seem to break. I love Jeneva, she is so funny on social media and it kills me that there is such a big disconnect between how much I love her content and how much I dislike her books. This book is the sequel to The Perfect Marriage. Which I loved until that terrible ending and I wanted to throw the book away, which I didn’t since I read it on my kindle from the library so I just returned it, angrily. This book was not needed, it is basically the same book. I honestly didn’t remember much from the first book since I read it 2 or 3 years ago but it does do a good job of catching you back up with all the characters. This book has too many POVs and Bob and Sarah are so boring at this point. I hated the Sheriff’s girlfriend, she was too smart and perfect but also just used as the girlfriend of the sheriff who had to constantly spoon feed him what was going on, even though she’s a cop too. Ugh it was a distasteful use of a woman but also annoying that she saw through literally everyone’s bullshit yet no one else did. There isn’t a single plot “twist” I didn’t see coming from 100 miles away, I do read a lot of thrillers but this was pretty bad and so obvious. I am still struggling to find the point of this book. I found it funny that Jeneva cleaned up all her critiques from the first book with simple explanations in this book (like why her daughter was named summer, how she was able to defend her husband in the murder case and a few other instances people hated from the first book). I listened to the audio, which has a full cast and that’s probably the only thing that kept me interested. I did have the book as well and read a few chapters but found the audio much more enjoyable. Overall, it was so predictable and once again outlandish that even if she continues this series (which she hints she will), I will not fall into the hype again. Hard pass. This was my 39th book of 2025. Format: Libby, audio & ebook

** spoiler alert ** I seriously think I have a brain bleed after finishing this book. Anyways, I digress... Here are some of my issues with this book: Why? Why was this book even written? It seems to me that the first book was written as a stand alone book but when it got popular, the author thought "Awesome! Let's take advantage of that and write a sequel!" Now, don't get me wrong, trying to carry on with the popularity of a book is understandable IF it adds to the story. Personally, I don't think this did. Why not? Because this book was the exact same plot as the last book, just with some peripheral differences. Summary of plot for first book: Sarah gets married. Husband cheats on Sarah. Sarah frames him for a crime. Sarah gets him kills indirectly. Sarah gets away with it. This book had the exact same "plot". Sarah and Bob have had absolutely no character development over the course of these 2 books. They remain the self-centred vile people they were in the first book. I feel like this author writes like she thinks her readers are dumb. Some things seemed to be spelled out while other things that should be addressed are just ignored. So many things were predictable and honestly, a couple of chapters were just cringeworthy. I mean, come on now, some of the "wrap up" for this book was just ridiculously stupid. At least the police work was a bit better in this book. But here are a couple of things that I totally do not understand: 1) why would Bob marry then cheat on Sarah when he knows she offed her last husband for the exact same thing? 2) why would Bob hold the murder weapon from the first book WITHOUT GLOVES and then keep it as an "insurance policy?" Makes no sense. Also, Alejandro is a crap "hit man". He sleeps with Sarah and is then going to kill her? It didn't sound like they used a condom so his DNA will be everywhere (literally). If you are a hit man, wouldn't you want to do the deed (the killing deed, not "doing the deed" as in sex) without having physical contact with your future victim? He totally messed up both jobs he had. And don't even get me started with Sarah. The all-knowing and all-seeing Sarah. At the end of the acknowledgments, the author said that we would be seeing more of Sarah Morgan. I don't want to. The only way I will read the next book is if my book club makes me read it.

Windsor Horne Lockwood III – a dubious antihero with very personal visions of justice and the fine distinctions between legality and morality Arising out of Harlan Coben’s Myron Bolitar universe, Windsor Horne Lockwood III is a mythical near superhero, operating with the guidance of his own moral compass and very personal distinctions between right and wrong. He is willing to spend his vast wealth and exert his talents for violence, murder and mayhem however he sees fit to make his will and decisions come to pass in a manner that recalls Edward Woodward’s 1985 portrayal of THE EQUALIZER. With WIN, author Coben brings WHL III out of the shadows and showcases him operating on his own behalf – recovering a pair of priceless Vermeer and Picasso paintings belong to his family, solving a murder in which that family is implicated because his suitcase was recovered in the murder victim’s apartment, and dealing with the 21st century resolution of a decades old mystery of domestic terrorism dating as far back as the Kent State mass murders and the ironically violent peace protests against the US involvement in the Vietnam War! Win is not a likable protagonist, not that he cares what anyone thinks about him. The only opinion that matters to him is his own. Consider this brief autobiography that he offers in his own words: “I grew up in privilege … every human being is snap-judged by their looks. … the fact is, many people detest me on sight. They see the towheaded blond locks, the ruddy complexion, the porcelain features, my haughty resting face – they smell the inescapable stink of old money that comes off me in relentless waves – and they think smug, snob, elitist, lazy, judgmental, undeservedly wealthy ne’er-do-good who was born not only with a silver spoon in his mouth but with a forty-eight-piece silver place setting with a side of titanium steak knives.” “… I understand this. I, too, sometimes feel that way about those who inhabit my socioeconomic sphere …” “… I had the financial means, the motivation, the past trauma, the innate skills, the disposition, and perhaps, when I am most honest with myself, some sort of loose screw (or primitive survival mechanism?) that allows me to not only thrive but take some pleasure from acts of violence.” So, what does a reader take away from that? Well, this reader sees a protagonist that is narcissistic, self-righteous, and self-serving, violent (pathologically so) and very unlikable. The story, once again in this reader’s sole opinion, is not terribly credible AND I look askance at Coben’s portrayal of the abilities of the legitimate police force who seem to have totally forgotten that Win did commit murders in the solution of the crime in question!! What’s up with that? Do they just get swept under the rug and ignored? I’ll carry on with the Myron Bolitar series, hope that my opinion doesn’t ruin a perfectly good MB series novel in which Win makes an appearance, and definitely forego any future novels in the Windsor Horne Lockwood III series. Not recommended. Paul Weiss

Mr Coben is one of my favorite authors but he really struck out with this book. I’ve lived the bolitar books with “Win” as a side kick but while he was a nice contrast to Bolitar, his character cannot carry a book as the lead. He has so few redeeming character traits and comes across as an entitled bully and bore. There are a lot of references to Bolitar in the book which just made you miss him even more and hoped he show up and make this an exciting story. The overall story was pretty boring as well. I used to enjoy when Win answered the phone with “articulate” but now it’s just overused a loses it’s quirkiness. I will not be reading any further Win only books. Please bring back Bolitar and leave Win as the sidekick. I’ve read all of mr. Coben’s books except the YA ones and you will see this is my worst review of any of them. I just don’t understand how anyone could enjoy a book with Win as the main character. Poor decision!

Why do I do this to myself? I said the last one (19) was the last and then I found myself out of actual books due to library closures. The 20th Victim became available via my library's audiobook collection...all I can say is thank goodness I never paid for the book. The Woman's Murder Club at least features all four female characters this time, but the same old, same old everything. It read more like a set of four stories cobbled together to make one with no exciting crime (or at least nothing interesting). The events unfold predictably and the conclusion is bland. And yes, there are 20 victims. The audiobook had me hating Cindy, which even though she has always been a pushy journalist she hasn't annoyed to the extent I felt in this book, maybe it was just the voice/tone of the narrator. Yuki wasn't far behind. On the upside, the ending read like a conclusion to the series...one can live in hope.

Not exactly what I expect when I pick up a James Patterson book. This story felt...forced. The separate "case" that Sargent Boxer's husband was on seemed superfluous and somewhat distrtacitng.

I find James Patterson very hit and miss. His earlier stuff was great but sometimes the more recent work feels phones in. I'm struggling to categorise this one. I liked the story, it's an interesting premise but the details of the Women's Murder Club did little for me. I've not read that many of this series so I was hoping for hooks to make me want to know more about the women to read the rest. There's also hardly anything about the killers and while I understand the reasons for the kills it is simply a throwaway line. Normally I love being able to add authors to my ever growing TBR pile but I think I'm at the point now where I'm taking this one off it.

2...Yep, I can honestly say these novels have went downhill for me! This book was filled with nothing but news headlines and drama you knew would end up just fine...therefore it's overdone! And what happened to the days when the Women's Mirder Club sat together and SOLVED a crime TOGETHER?? Yeesh!!!

2* 7/80. Not a bad book, as such, it’s just very much a case of same-old-same-old for me. I think it’s time to accept that I’ve finally had my fill of the Women’s Murder Club in the same way I’ve had to accept I’ve had my fill of Alex Cross 😔

Too much going on. 5 storylines and none of them got the attention they deserved. Other annoying points - Joe. He takes Lindsay for a romantic weekend away and spends the whole first day with his mate? He even joins them for dinner? Wouldn’t happen on my watch. - The usual over reliance on the poor old lady across the hall - it was mentioned a few times they went out to walk the dog and left the kid asleep. WTF - the gun cabinet was mentioned so many times I was convinced it was going to be involved in some action - the cancer storyline. Totally rushed and unrealistic. Remove some lung she’ll be grand 🤦🏻‍♀️ - the whole Yuki storyline could have been left out. - Cindy and the guy making a pass at her. What a load of shit.

This book started out with an engaging story but the flash backs threw the plot out of line for me. Some of the characters were so corny, I craved popcorn.

Of the many Patterson series over the years, this one was the only one I felt didn’t go downhill; until now. Giving it 2.5 stars as I rather liked the story line but there were far too many side stories (from the main one) to hold my interest. I felt this novel jumped around way too much and why all the repetition in lines, descriptions, etc.? It seemed as the story went on and on it became way too predictable. The ending (last chapter) was a bit corny. Overall I think that like other Patterson series, it’s time to put this one to bed or at least consider letting the characters have some growth, develop a serious story line or at least give us serious readers something to hold our interest till the end of the novel

Disappointing, I think this series has reached the end point. I found it repetitive and predictable, generic even. Not what I am used to from this author.

I went into this one with pretty low expectations, and I was right it was underwhelming. The story followed the same formula the series has been leaning on for a while now, and it’s starting to feel a bit stale. The characters and plot twists just didn’t have the same spark they once did, and a lot of it felt predictable. That said, if you’ve made it this far into the series, you probably already know what you’re getting. At this point it feels more like finishing out of habit than excitement. And knowing myself, I’ll still pick up the next one; because apparently I’m a glutton for punishment and need to see how it all ends. 😅📚

Last J. D. Robb book for me; too many irritants. Irritated by (1) the sex scenes with Roarke, (2) the stupid "furure slang" attempt, (3) the endless descriptions of what everyone's wearing, and (4) the gratuitous and completely unnecessary PC crap thrown in (e.g., the third victim's pair of "moms"). I think this book should be delegated to the YA group; they'd be the audience that would likely fall for this junk. Too bad. I reallly used to love this series. Now, as with more and more authors these days, the focus seems to be more on DEI than actual plot. Yuck.

After now reading 58 stories all about Eve, I find Robb simply dishes up the same formula time and time again...Eve & Roark love each other and get it on a lot! She has a murder to solve and they seem to do it by just discussing it over and over and over again and Googling things! I need to stop with this series (which makes me sad) but then I might miss something good (which would make me mad.) At least there was more than one murder this time but the perp just did not seem very authentic to me. What he called the girls just sounded like something a dirty old MAN would say! Got very tired of the teenage lingo also. I think "meh" covers it for me.

DNF at 27% I tried the audiobook and the narrator is probably the main reason I gave up. It is soooo (literally) slow, I was listening at 1.25x speed to make it sound more natural. I found the narrator's voice kind of grating. The accents used for certain characters (Irish? Italian?) are not good. But it's not just the narrator.... The dialogue is awful. The attempted slang/teen talk is atrocious. I kind of want to know what happens, but I can't slog through 8+ more hours of this. This was my first book from the series. Should I go back and try another, or is this representative?? **Edit: I somehow missed that this is set in the future?? That explains the incomprehensible slang, although I maintain that it is still annoying. Nothing else in the first quarter of the book read as "future" to me. I guess the 2060s aren't THAT far off, so maybe not much has changed. But then why bother setting it in the future at all? I also did not know that the author is Nora Roberts, who I have not historically enjoyed. I almost deleted this review because I expect certain fans will want to tear me a new one, but maybe it will resonate with some other comically uninformed readers. There you are, a fresh-eyed(eared) review. I don't think I'll bother starting at book #1

Awful narrator for this strange futuristic story. Did not enjoy, and disappointed.

did not like Jane . Too many smart ass jokes. Jane has too many smart ass remarks and jokes. Not funny. Not the best Patterson book I’ve ever read. Maybe he should write his next book by himself.

I love a good mystery but this has so much drama I couldn’t finish it.

So many characters…so much fluff and so much boring nothing…but I’ll probably read the next one because it left me a cliff hanger!

Creepy, with all the 'counting coup' sections; not creepy-fun, annoying. (view spoiler) And yay, MC is fighting cancer, but treating it so casually seems insulting to anyone who's lived it. On the one hand, there's a lot of reality in what the MC experiences, but the 'denial' and 'bargaining' bits are offensively over-the-top. In a way its judgmental - if YOU aren't fighting this hard and pretending you're just fine, YOU aren't handling it right. There's also the 'cops are ineffective, corrupt, and lame' messages - three identical killings and they can't figure out what's going on, or who's behind it? Gosh, look at a camera that wasn't shot out of all the cars going by, see which ones moved within 15 minutes either side of the murder, look for patterns... there are computers to do this now. Finally just skipped about 1/4 in the middle, its tedious, too detailed, minute-by-minute, then skips a week, blows a few details, (view spoiler) back to excruciating details punctuated by skipped times. The outcome is no surprise, and a lot of sellout. (view spoiler) Expect there will be more installments in this series; plan to skip them.

** spoiler alert ** I am a reader because my mother shared her love of reading with me from an early age, taking me to the town library weekly to check out - first - all the Bobbsey Twins mysteries and then all the Nancy Drews. When I got to middle school, we would pool our picks (three book limit per person) and find six adult mysteries to share. We have always both loved mysteries. This book was tucked into my Christmas sock this year by my mom. Surprisingly, it was a fail. This is the first "Jane Smith" book I have read and it does not work at all as a stand-alone mystery. The first 50 pages seem to spend more time referencing events from earlier books than advancing this case (and yet I still don't understand what happened previously). The final chapter cliffhanger plays like an advertisement for the next book. The case itself is solved by a fluke. The hummingbird symbolism scattered throughout the book does not make the discovery of the camera in the bird feeder emotionally satisfying. I get that the focus of the story is on Jane wrestling with her cancer. But when I read a mystery, I want to understand the *killer* at the end - "they hated him" really isn't enough. In fact, although the cast of characters is large, virtually all of them are frustratingly one-note. Jane, of course, is the exception. However, I can't say the book was successful in making me care about her. Then there is all of the crime family world building. While it might add background flavor to the series as a whole, I felt like it detracted from this book's plot. I doubt I will be returning to Jane's Hamptons.

After the polarizing reviews I've been seeing around, you don't know how bad I wanted to be on the good side. I know friend-to-lover, in general, is a missed for me, but I do put strong faith in Tessa to turn the table with Hannah and Fox. I refused to believe that Tessa Bailey could disappoint me until today. Hook, Line, and Sinker is literally if not the most — one of my anticipated 2022 reads. The outcome? Underwhelming. I usually would lay it out on what I like about a book first, but I don't think I have anything to bring to the table for this one. Not even the smut could save it. I either roamed or skipped it through as there weren’t much of the plot to cling to. "I'm good at being... supportive" Well, realistically speaking, there is a reason why you're the supporting character in the first book. Obviously, not everyone can be the 'leading lady' and Hannah just proved why. I'm not sure if it's either that she was forgettable in IHOS or this feels like reading a different character who despite the 'reconstruction' is still one-dimensional and the blandest I've read from Tessa. I thought she was cool with being the side chick, who does not care for the 'spotlight.' What happened to the actual plot? 😭 "If you're laughing with them, they can't laugh at you right?" I'm not stone-hearted, because I do feel sorry for Fox. Having people to put a label on you, especially with your daddy issues. It can be bothering. However, as clear as day, Fox's insecurities were frequently exploited to carry the conflict and is inadequate to support the entire plot. It's becoming cryptic. I understand that this is supposed to serve as character growths, and despite the confident demeanor we've seen, Fox surely had a massive self-loathing problem. And I am empathetic on any other day, but somehow, it's so easier to judge a character when they do questionable stuff — so, if I have to be frank, I find it annoying. He could've pulled his head out of his rear end sooner than intended. It's not like Tessa made him stand for himself with the insult or anything. His arc wasn't fully redeemed as it should have which made it more exasperating while reading his POV. Characters - Failed ❌ Maybe the romance can be the saving grace. Guess what? Still no. ❌ Is this a friend to lover? Because I think we needed to dig into a lot deeper emotional connection for it to be more potent. All the same, we know Hannah and Fox only spent one summer together and started to text each other before the battle not to get physicals began. Hence, you can't blame me if I didn't buy their chemistry. Relationships are hard work. Having bosoms and rock-hard abs do not make a partnership. Last time, the insta lust work for Piper and Brendan. This time, it doesn’t. Not to add, the push-pull relationship here is chaotic and emotionally draining. For the last part? It’s just another recycle plot from Tessa since she sure likes to make her heroes chased their girls abroad. And we also have Hannah who finally had her own business to work on… just like Piper again with Cross and Daughters — which is definitely a no problem but again: is getting repetitive and predictable. Conclusively, while I don't like this book, I don't really hate it? The epilogue is adorable but disappointed is still such an understatement. I am more pep up when Piper and Brendan came to pages than Hannah and Fox do. Lowkey wanna give this a star, but I’m being generous and allow Tessa one last chance to vindicate herself. Tough luck.

1.75 stars 🎶 Overall, this was just really boring. The first 1/3 of the book dragged for so long. It was to the point where I would stop reading thinking I’d been reading for 2 hours to find out it had only been 15 minutes💀 Hannah (h) was just ‘not like other girls’ and a ‘wallflower’ because she listens to vinyls, hates parties and wears t-shirt instead of dresses 🤪 With an impatient tongue click, Hannah stepped into the house and immediately had to check her urge to find the person in charge of the playlist. If she let herself, she’d sit in the corner all night searching for the perfect next song—probably some Bon Iver… Now this is more of an issue with the writing, but why does Tessa Bailey keep saying this throughout the book— Hannah ignored the horrible burning in her breast and turned back around. Burning in her breast STOP TRYNA BE DIFFERENT AND SAY ‘CHEST’ 💀 Fox (H) gave me so much whiplash with his ‘I want you’ ‘I don’t want you’ attitude. This man had so many issues with his confidence and I couldn’t bring myself to care. It would cause him to say stuff like this— “No. It’s not.” Her voice shook. “I get satisfaction from holding your hand. Hearing you sing. Being your friend—” “Being my friend?” He scoffed. “Then it’s a good thing we’re not going to fuck, because you’d just be another hookup to me afterward.” —He’s so butthurt that she called him a friend that he called her a hookup 🤣 This scream insecure little boy This book got an extra .75 star for two specific moments that actually made me not hate what I was reading for a millisecond. Hannah noticed that Fox smelled like ginger so she asked him what that smell came from. He said it’s message oil for when he gets himself off😏 He tells Hannah, don’t worry, if you ever need to borrow it…it’ll be on the counter... Well one day, Hannah gets all hot and bothered after watching Fox work on his boat, all shirtless and sweaty, so she run home not knowing he was following— “I’m fine,” she lied—not very successfully, since her voice sounded like it had been sanded raw. “I just needed a minute.” Too much silence passed. Then: “I can smell the oil, Hannah.” Fox had okay dirty talk even though it was kinda basic, but I didn’t completely mind it— “Knees up, Hannah.” He pulsed inside her, pupils blocking out the blue of his eyes. “Let’s see how deep I can get it before you scream.” What could have made this book better would have been more pining from Fox. Hannah had a crush on the director of the movie she was working on. It would have been so much better if the director tried to pursue Hannah. There was also a “fake dating” trope which actually didn’t even exist since they were essentially dating since the beginning… book 1 review

it gave too much ‘i can change him’ and too little romance yk

King crab fisherman Fox Thornton has a reputation as a sexy, carefree flirt. Everyone knows he's a guaranteed good time and that's exactly how he prefers it. Until he meets Hannah Bellinger. She's immune to his charm and looks, but she seems to enjoy his... personality? And wants to be friends? Bizarre. But he likes her too much to risk a fling, so platonic pals it is. Now, Hannah's in town for work, crashing in Fox's spare bedroom. She knows he's a notorious ladies' man, but they're definitely just friends. In fact, she's nursing a hopeless crush on a colleague and Fox is just the person to help with her love life. Armed with a few tips, Hannah sets out to catch her coworker's eye yet the more time she spends with Fox, the more she wants him instead. As the line between friendship and flirtation begins to blur, Hannah can't deny she loves everything about Fox, but she refuses to be another notch on his bedpost. Living with his best friend should have been easy. Except he's fallen for her, hook, line, and sinker. Helping her flirt with another guy is pure torture, but maybe if Fox can tackle his inner demons and show Hannah he's all in, she'll choose him instead? All my reviews have the possibility of spoilers, be warned! I hate myself for not being able to read this book in one sitting. I genuinely found it so difficult. It is so strange because initially I loved the idea of Fox and Hannah I mentioned I had such high expectations after the first book. But this book did not hit the same, something felt a lot different. I don't know why I couldn't get into it I was so sure I was going to love this book more but that was not the case. I really enjoyed seeing them maintain their cute friendship, since their first meeting they shared an instant strong connection. It was lovely to see these moments throughout the book because they stuck to their roots. F (10:42): Map your location on your phone can call a tow truck. F (10:43): Please? H (10:45): Are you this protective of all your female friends? F (10:48): You're the only one I've got. I love that Fox had to promise Brendan to watch over Hannah and Sergie to make sure she's alright. It had me laughing cause he hates the idea of them together, and now he has to watch them. "Sure. If I think something is developing there, I'll..." Sabotage comes to mind, "Make sure she's safe." One thing I will always hate when it comes to a friends-to-lovers is the micro trope of 'they don't feel anything for me'. It was so frustrating because it is so obvious Hannah feels something to Fox, like comparing it with how she acts to Sergie. The whole time I was just begging Fox to open his damn eyes. That little red dress, though. He loved it and he hated it with every fibre of his being. Because she didn't wear it for him. She wasn't even kissing him for him. Despite the effort it cost him, Fox broke the kiss, pressing their foreheads together as they both struggled to catch their breath. "All right, Freckles," he said. "I think we convinced him." Her eyes met his in a daze. "What? Who?" For the first time Fox felt his heart speed up in a sprint. I love that in this book we delved into the past a little more. Fox and his backstory broke my heart. He deserves all the love in the world. I knew there was something to make him so closed off on a relationship but I didn't expect it to be that. I was so happy that he opened up and gave love one last try. It took him some time to wade through the disbelief, but he finally managed to slide one arm beneath Hannah, cradling the back of her head in one hand. Carefully, he drew her into his neck, his eyes closing over the calm she spread inside him. Not quite healing his wounds, but definitely dulling the pain for a while. Just for a while. He'd just hold her for a while. Seconds later, Fox fell asleep in Hannah's arms. I wish I could have enjoyed this one a little bit more, but after the first book, I know I will someday read more of Tessa's books! Check out the rest of the reviews for this duology! It Happened One Summer

I tried, people. I really did. I'm glad so many of you liked it. However, I cannot in good conscience recommend this book. Hannah not wanting to be with Fox, but determined to leave Newport with Fox “cured” of his hang-ups is so damn cringe. Maybe it’s just me and my dislike for simple, formulaic, low-stakes contemporary romance, but this wasn't worth my time.

🌹 2 stars — this book drained me emotionally and spiritually. put me in a slump so bad i forgot how to enjoy fiction. Huge thanks to Hachette Audio & NetGalley for the ALC 💌 ⛓️ enemies-to-lovers 🌹 dark romantasy ⛓️ mind vs. heart magic 🌹 forced proximity ⛓️ royal rebellion vibes I wanted blood, betrayal, and a villain to simp for. What I got was 16+ hours of confusion, repetition, and the emotional depth of a soggy tissue. Not gonna lie—this was one of my most anticipated 2025 releases. A dark romantasy debut from Julie Soto? I was seated. Headphones in. Mood set. But this? This was not the serve I signed up for. Let’s talk world-building: or rather, the complete lack of it. This book threw SO MANY names, histories, and kingdoms at me like spaghetti on a wall, hoping something would stick. Spoiler: nothing did. I was constantly lost. No map, no glossary, no clarity. Just vibes and headache. The magic system? Cool concept, zero execution. Heart magic vs. mind magic had potential but ended up feeling like background noise—never explored, never grounded. The pacing? Agonizing. This wasn't slow-burn. It was no-burn. Chapters blurred together. So much waiting. Waiting for Briony to do something. Waiting for the plot to move. Waiting for a single spark of chemistry to light up the page. At some point, I started hoping for a plot twist just to end the book. Now for the romance: 😐 Look. I live for tension. I breathe angst. I want to yearn. But Briony and Toven? No tension. No chemistry. No reason. It felt like the author told me they were in love and expected me to just go with it. Flashbacks were meant to make me feel something for Toven. All they made me feel was tired. This wasn't slow-burn—it was slow torture. Briony could’ve been iconic. She ended up forgettable. She's the literal princess of a conquered kingdom, but instead of rising, she just floats through the story. Passive. Reactionary. Whiny. I kept waiting for her to roar. Instead, she whispered. Toven? He had every ingredient of a morally grey fave, but ended up a wet napkin. No edge. No bite. Just… vibes and vague trauma. And don't even get me started on the structure. The out-of-order flashbacks felt like speed bumps. Just when things might start moving in the present, boom—we’re back in time again. The book was trying to be deep. It ended up disjointed. The only saving grace? The audiobook narrator. Ella Lynch carried this on her back. Her voice gave life to a story that otherwise felt dead on the page. She gave Toven a pulse. Gave Briony a spine (even when the script didn’t). If you have to read this—go audio. Final thoughts: If you’re a fan of The Auction and want to see it dressed up as trad pub romantasy, this might work for you. But if you’re new to the story and need strong world-building, real tension, or even just a heroine with a spark—prepare for disappointment. This could’ve been everything. Instead, it left me with nothing.

⋆˚࿔ 𝐑𝐞𝐯𝐢𝐞𝐰 𝜗𝜚˚⋆ 2 ⭐ I get that this book is supposed to lay the groundwork for the rest of the trilogy, but… we deserved more than this. So much was introduced with no real follow-through, it felt like I was being bombarded with random bits of worldbuilding or lore that were never explained or brought up again. Hello? Closure? The repetition nearly drove me up the wall. How many times do I need to hear the same line rephrased before we move on? And the plot? People were being lynched left and right while I was sitting there like 😃 because I had no clue what was happening. The world felt chaotic but not in a structured way more like disjointed and empty. As for the romance…. was there any? Because if there was, I must’ve blinked and missed it. Toven had the personality of a door. I kept waiting for something to come out of him, and it never did. And Briony? That girl needs someone to shake her shoulders hard or slap some sense into her whatever works. I’m holding out hope that book two improves, because if it’s more of this, I’m not going to survive the rest of the series. ⋆. 𐙚 ˚ pre read ⋆. 𐙚 ˚ I’m all set, ready to be amazed! Let’s hope it deliver 👀✨ I got the ALC I’m so excited🤭

2.5🌟 I’m sorry, but what the fuck was that ending? That epilogue? What the fuck? It’s been a full 24 hours and I’m still pissed (and not in a good way lol) **SPOILERS INCOMING** First of all, that epilogue? Seriously? Yipee 🙄 her brother’s alive! Whatever 🙄🙄 Who gives an f. You’re telling me that the same brother who she had to boost every damn day in every damn class (who’s clearly kind of an idiot) is the one this dragon wants to bond to and feels a deep connection to? Fuck out of here. You’re telling me Rory is still going to be the one that ends the war, but the man couldn’t get an answer right in class to save his life without Briony telling him the answer?? That’s the plot twist we’re going with? Pass. I was hoping he was dead tbh!!!! LOL. Briony does all the work. She should be the ruler and the one who ends the war. Her idiot brother can kick rocks. Why did this have me excited thinking Briony was going to be the one to eventually bear the heir twice over with Toven. Like that was exciting!!! And then you leave me with Toven yet again retracting and saying them kissing was “inappropriate.” His behavior with her became so confusing & conflicting. I feel like there were missed moments in this book that could’ve & should’ve happened with them. What started to feel angsty, eventually became less and less angsty, and started to actually just piss me off 😂 I just feel like there was so many chances to give us a little something with them in the present. Briony always seemed to be the one that pushed him a little and he’d completely retract. Which doesn’t even make a lot of sense to me because he used to be soooo flirty & confident with her in the past and she was the more timid one. It felt like the switched roles at times out of nowhere. I gettttt this is a trilogy so we don’t have the whole story, but idk I’m pissed off and still raging about this 🤣🤣🤣 I think it’s a mistake cutting this fanfiction into 3 separate books with release dates that are sooo far apart because this book feels way too incomplete, but I guess that’s because it literally is lol. AND now the publishers are making me wait A YEAR AND A HALF for book 2 even though it’s already written? Cool…😐

Traaaaash. Another fantasy that might have been interesting if the author cared more about plot and world-building than sex. I've been putting off reviewing this one because honestly my respect for it was already barely there before I then discovered this was originally a Hermione/Draco fanfic? What is happening with the writing world, honestly. I'm so bummed. Smutty personal fantasies do not equal good books. Please. I need substance. ANYTHING OF SUBSTANCE. Keep the fanfic in the fanfic world please for the love of books. This had some decent bones but was not fleshed out at all because it was so concerned with sexual tension. Tension, might I emphasise, because even that aspect failed to deliver for smut-fans. There's so much of this book that's focused on ownership and making women slaves to men and it was GROSS, not hot. It was trying so hard to be sexy instead of properly exploring how problematic this is. Slavery is not sexy to me. The characters in this book SUCK. The princess is a joke and frustrated the hell out of me. This was another one that was a fast read because I just wanted it to be over. I kept waiting for something meaningful to happen but it never did. What an absolute mess. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, really, unless you have very low expectations and just want to read 400-odd pages of women being abused by men, with an undercurrent of awkward sexual tension. Or you dig fanfic Hermione/Draco vibes I guess? With thanks to Harper Collins for the ARC

I really wanted to love this because you know I was a Slytherin fangirl back in the day. 🐍 The concept and trigger warnings sounded INSANE. But really, Julie Soto, WTF did I just read? Nothing was answered and I guessed the big “twist” in the first chapter. What??? Seriously, the plot holes are never ending. Once I finished this dumpster fire, straight to Reddit I went. Guess what? Readers with the same unresolved questions as me. 🫠🫠🫠 Idk if I can suffer through another 500+ pages in the next book just to MAYBE find something out. My thoughts summed up in one sentence: I read this entire book and I still know nothing.

This book was so slow that I’ve sat at 42% for over a week and don’t want to go back to it. I tried, I’ve heard so many good things about this author, but it’s too much police procedural, not enough thrill. The chapters are way too long for a thriller in my opinion. I just couldn’t stay interested. I almost withdrew my request for this one today 😭😭 and it just landed in my inbox. Yee! I’m excited for this one! And now I have to crack on like nobody’s business bc I have way too many arcs due in Aug and Sept. 😅 Expected pub date - 08/12/25 Thank you, William Morrow and NetGalley - all thoughts are my own.

1.5 ⭐️ As much as there is that is frustrating in this book, it began with an intriguing plot and I wanted to know what happened next. Thank you Karly, you said in the end I might change the way I feel about Emmy. I saw some of it coming and we can talk about it ! What I liked: There’s a great flow, even when the family drama broke the horror story that was unfolding. The main characters, even if there’s too many peripheral ones. Jude. I liked her from her first introduction and waited way too long for more of her. Her story is the best. The emotion this book evoked from me. What I disliked: -The repetition! The reviews are right so much could have been cut. -The *gut* instinct which was mentioned nearly 100 times. -The fact that a major part of this book sounded like a class/textbook of procedure and statistics. -The quick resolution of the first crime. There’s NO way it would have happened that way. Too many loose ends. -Emmy’s lack of character arc. She was young at first but sounded exactly the same 12 years later. -The lightness of Karin Slaughter’s signature dark crimes. The crimes are horrific but no detail, no build up of fear, terror, trepidation - it was glossed over for KS -The way the family drama overshadowed the crimes -Too many breadcrumbs. I knew who the killer was before it was revealed. DO NOT LOOK FOR THEM &8:6 go in blind. Will I read the next book? Most likely ! I’ve been a Karin Fan for nearly 25 years!! If the editors would stop fucking with her work we could have 5 stars on our hands! * My reviews are my opinions. Take them as you wish. I’m not looking for anyone to come at me. If you’d like to discuss this book, then let’s do it!! Maybe you saw things I missed. (But then maybe you also missed what I saw.). I truly hope you enjoyed this book more than I did! Because I know is KS fans want to love them all.

2.5- painfully slow, so many unnecessary peripheral characters, a mind numbing amount of repetition, and somewhat predictable. Almost DNF this one

This book nearly made me quit the Cosmere. In 1300 pages or 62 hours you would think there would be plenty of time to tie up loose ends. You would think that there would be satisfying answers to the big mysteries provoked by book one. Instead, most of the answers we get are extremely disappointing. This book reads like fan fiction, especially in the latter third of the book. There’s so much cringe that spoils what could have just been mediocre plot lines, but this is uncharacteristically bad for Sanderson. I don’t know why the beta and gamma readers didn’t weed out the cringe at least, but the Cosmere-level implications are also thrown in the air. This book made me lose faith in Sanderson. I was hoping for a Hero of Ages-level conclusion to the first arc of the Stormlight archive, instead I got a “Thor: Love and Thunder” conclusion

This was such a disappointment considering this was supposed to be an ending of sorts to this story. Not a fan of where a lot of the characters ended up and there was no major battle and the fighting that actually happens is boring and repetitive to read. Gone are the days of Words of Radiance and the epic Sanderlanches, there is one here but it is nonsensical, stupid, and leaves a sour taste in your mouth. I’m not sure if I can be turned around on this series with the remaining characters at play in the next five books. I will be forever thankful to Sanderson for The Way of Kings and Words of Radiance along with finishing the Wheel of Time, but I’m not a big fan of the direction he’s taking his books.

Praying this was ghostwritten. ___________________________________ Some Thoughts™️ I'm willing to throw hands to defend Kaladin's place as one of the best characters ever written. That said, his therapist arc is trash—as is much of this book. Each of the main characters in Stormlight suffers internally: Kaladin has depression, Shallan has dissociative identity disorder, Dalinar is an alcoholic, Renarin is on the autism spectrum, Adolin has daddy issues, Navani is insecure, and Jasnah is self-absorbed. Most of them also experience symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. The Stormlight Archive has, historically, dealt with these issues in an empathetic and hopeful manner, while managing to keep the external conflicts of Roshar at the forefront of the narrative. In The Way of Kings, Kaladin finds the strength to live despite his pain; he also kills a Shardbearer, forms and trains Bridge Four, and saves Dalinar and Adolin. In Words of Radiance, Shallan's identity fractures and she learns to accept herself; she also survives a shipwreck, crosses a continent unaided, secures a marriage alliance, works for the Ghostbloods, travels the chasms, and discovers Urithiru. Wind and Truth, unfortunately, smushes plot, conflict, and subtlety in the mud. The only characters really doing anything are Szeth and Adolin, and each of their plotlines is more repetitive than Navani's internal dialogue in Rhythm of War. Adolin is my homeboy, but his entire POV in Wind and Truth is 1) fight impossible battle, 2) think about daddy issues, 3) play towers with Yanagawn. Szeth's POV, on the other hand, reads like the training course in Call of Duty: Kill an Honorbearer in a temple, kill an Honorbearer in your dreams, kill an Honorbearer with your powers, kill an Honorbearer with your sword . . . . Shallan, Renarin, Rlain, Navani, and Dalinar spend the whole book floating in the Spiritual Realm to provide an unwanted history lesson. Jasnah continues to think about herself. Sigzil is drained of all personality and placed as a prop to make us, again, hate Moash. Kaladin plays the flute and obsesses over whether he can perform life-changing therapy in ten days—and for some reason, he can? three times? Speaking of Kaladin, Sanderson would have to wear Thanos's gauntlet to be any more heavyhanded. (Marvel referenced with purpose; see Adolin's, (view spoiler)) Nothing made me miss the warm camaraderie of Bridge Four like Wind and Truth. I missed laughter around the fire, sweat over months of training, bonds forged through communal mourning. Bridge Four restored so many men because each learned, in his own unique time and way, that he wasn't alone. Slowly, bridge run after bridge run, these men found the courage to hope again. To believe in something bigger than one bridge crew. That maybe each of them, through small actions, could make the world just a bit better. In Wind and Truth, Sanderson bulldozed the quiet healing of Bridge Four with graceless authorial insertions. The reader was not asked to realize, with some afterthought, how far their beloved characters had come. Readers were told, like the outro of a 2000s Disney movie, exactly what healing had taken place, and why, and that they too should consider therapy. I'm not unhappy that Stormlight's cast of characters underwent some much-needed therapy. I just protest my need to witness 1,300 pages of it. Especially when those 1,300 pages read something like this: "I believe in you," Vienta whispered. "I . . . believe in us, Sigzil. We're what they want, for once." "Live this truth," he said. I will admit, though, that where Wind and Truth ends has my interest piqued. Assuming Sanderson gets an editor (yes, I know he has many, I just don't know what editing is taking place), I'd like to read the rest of the series. I maintain, however, that Wind and Truth could have been one paragraph long: (view spoiler) This approach lacks nuance, but so does Wind and Truth.

If you prefer watching videos, I have a BookTube Channel! The only good thing I feel after reading this book is validation for choosing Adolin as my favorite character very early on in the series. I took a lot of good natured ribbing from friends about loving him so much, so it feels good to know I made a great choice. (In my opinion) That validation was not worth reading this book for though. Characters acted...well, out of character. 98% of the book was spent in the past or in visions of the past which gleaned nothing of use and way too much repetition to slog through. I had intended to reread the first 4 books prior to starting this one and now I'm really glad that I didn't since it all got recapped in great detail. (I would have been even more mad had I reread those though.) I only finished because I expected a Sanderlanche and I wanted to see if it could redeem 1,000 pages and boy was that a waste. ELANTRIS got a better Sanderlanche than this one! Immersion kept getting cracked due to modern day word usage that was not prevalent in prior books and not only that, Sanderson described these things differently previously, so why not continue the trend? Why are we all of a sudden using these words? It didn't fit the mold, so that's likely another reason why they were so disruptive. The "humor" was terrible. Some of the plot points that were added to be more inclusive to all felt forced and in my opinion, because of the way other characters reacted to these or their inner monologue, it felt more like an insult that inclusive. For the love of your fellow human - please if you are going to write these things, write them in as though these are the norm. If you're just going to have your characters question them or point them out as "odd" then just don't do it. Normalize it. Have your world show a good example by displaying acceptance. FFS This is only the second time I've read a last book in a series (or arc of a series in this case), where the final book destroyed the whole series for me. So if you are one of the lucky ones who enjoyed this book and you've not been able to find them all in hardback, keep an eye on my PangoBooks shop, lol. A heartfelt thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for their support towards my enthusiasm for reading and reviewing! Special thanks to my highest level Patrons: Ev, Sharon, Andrew, Star, Kate, Gail, Amanda F., Tara, John, Ann, Chad K., Wilbur & Heidi.

1.75/5🌟 Spoiler Free First of all, I want to start off by saying if you loved this book, I am so happy for you. Keep loving it! Unfortunately, I did not and had to fight for my life not to dnf it. I’m going to break this down into categories to give y’all an idea of why, for me, W&T is far more than a bad Stormlight book, it’s one of the worst fantasy books I’ve read in recent memory. Prose - Sanderson has never been known for having strong prose but my god, has the quality dropped significantly. It felt like the book was constantly talking down to me. Repeating the same info from 6 different povs, 20 chapters in a row. The use of modern language took me right out of the story, and the dialogue was nearly unreadable at times with a strong YA vibe that had no business being in an adult fantasy epic. For me, W&T read like the fanfiction of a 14yr old SA fan with a DSM-5. Pacing - The amount of nothing. This word count is absurd. If you cut out the middle, slammed the beginning and end together, you’d be able to figure out what’s happening. This book is almost entirely filler, with nothing of value to add to the arcs or the plot. World building - Is it cool? I guess, but it doesn’t matter. What you learn has no bearing on the story. For a series that prides itself on “Journey before destination” there is a severe lack of actual journey. Sanderson breaks his own magic rules for plot, and sacrifices logic for moving the story along. Everything about the Spiritual Realm fills me with rage. How does it work? When the author wants it to. Arcs - The kumbaya of it all. Why is everyone suddenly so unrealistically self aware? I should be punching my fist into the air. I should be inconsolable with grief, yet I feel absolutely nothing. Adolin was the only pov I actively enjoyed. The snap of this man’s back carrying W&T echos. These characters felt nothing like the people I’ve grown to know and love. There were fundamental technical writing skills, outside of storytelling, that I had issue with here. I’m glad Sanderson isn’t writing another SA book for some years, I need that long a distance to decide whether I’ll pick up book 6 or not.

Ever since The Way of Kings, I regarded Brandon as, perhaps, the brightest modern fantasy writer. Yes, he's not Martin with his encyclopedic knowledge of history and impeccable talent for writing smart characters, and not Rothfuss either, since Brandon's writing doesn't come near enough to his poetic charm, and definitely not as fresh and almost revolutionary to the genre as Abercrombie. Still, the scope of Sanderson's body of work is so ambitious that it hides his flaws behind the sheer scale of enormity and, the most important of all, sincerity. The first two Stormlight books were brilliant. I instantly adored Roshar, appreciated how unfamiliar and alien it was, and enjoyed slowly understanding the rules and principles behind this land and its societies. The Way of Kings was much more ambitious than Mistborn and all of its derivatives, and it made so many promises of mystery and novelty that I was instantly hooked. Words of Radiance expanded upon it, adding even more of what made the first book great. Oathbringer was good but not as great, though still, it was only a middle point! RoW was where everything started to fall apart. As the penultimate parts often are, it was tense and right on the edge of giving all the answers Wind and Truth should've provided. Still, I feel like Brandon got too excited about writing and explaining a "complex magic system"®, which got in the way of the story itself. The book turned out to be half misery and suffering and another half a weird combination of natural philosophy with fantasy mumbo-jumbo. The final book is underwhelming. Maybe it's my fault, as I had too many expectations. Journey before the destination and all that. And yet, I can't shake off the feeling that Stormlight started as the most fresh, original, and exciting fantasy book series of the 21st century and ended like a season 5 of a mediocre TV show from the CW - on a really annoying cliffhanger, full of too-modern-to-be-immersive jokes, and, worst of all, confusing mental disorders with personality traits. But these would be forgivable if not for the book's biggest problem: it's oversaturation. There's too much of EVERYTHING - from the number of characters to their overflowing emotion, from forced romance plots to connections with other Cosmere books - what once was a fun nod to other stories, connecting them into one universe, now became an annoying reminder about how much the Cosmere changed in recent years, as to follow the plot of this book one needs to read about 10 to 15 other ones from Sanderson, and this is just too much commitment to a single author, in my opinion. And don't get me started on an overabundance of everything magical - light, voidlight, anti-light, anti-voidlight, but wait, there's more! The lowest point of the book comes right near the end, where a particular character gets asked who they are, and they respond, "Well, I guess I'm a therapist." It was the single most immersion-breaking thing I ever expected to read, almost akin to screaming, "Hey, it's a JOKE! In my HIT BOOK SERIES, THE STORMLIGHT ARCHIVE! THERAPIST, LIKE IN THE REAL WORLD, Y'KNOW?" It just came off as... cheap. I felt the same after The Lost Metal. Like the Cosmere is collapsing on itself. And Wind and Truth, unfortunately, confirmed this. There's too much and too many - worlds, interconnected and overarching plots, characters, and magic systems, and I feel like because of that overabundance, because of interconnectivity, the present, here and now, isn't getting enough time, energy, and story relevance to pull off a satisfying conclusion, everything should always be about one more mystery, one more story, about references and implication, and it just became... boring. At one point, I figured that if anyone could pull this gargantuan project of dozens of books connecting into one story off, it would be Brandon, but it seems the ambition was too much for one man, sorry. I think after Wind and Truth, the series (and the universe) is only at half-point, but I'm done.

DNF. When I first discovered BS the first two books of SA were out. The WOK and WOR quickly became the best fantasy books I had ever read. Since then I’ve read all his works. Since then release after release I started to not enjoy his works as much as the last. While during that time I’ve read other authors like Hobb and Abercrombie which had shown me that while Sanderson is a master of world building and magic systems, his writing leaves you wanting a lot more. When I read the last SA book ROW, I found it unnecessarily long and a bit boring other than the typical Sanderlanche at the end of his books. But for me that one was a 6/10. I wasn’t really looking forwards to this one based on his last entry in the series and my opinions were validated. 350 pages in and I’m bored to death. None stop world building and people talking about other people and other systems on and on and on. Not to mention the modern “humour” and dialogue really stuck out and a negative way making it feel like a YA novel or a CW show. I find Sandersons cosmere has become too complex with too many characters and too many turning pieces. I know there’s a lot of people that absolutely love the “marvelization” of Sandersons works, but it’s starting to feel way over bloated and too complex for my enjoyment. Lightly skimmed the middle of the book with not a lot grabbing my attention and read the last 300 pages to find myself equally unimpressed with the last 300 pages as I was with the first 300 pages. Also I really really dislike shallan and it’s been obvious since the last book that she’s the main character. Sanderson writes characters too on the nose. Kaladin is dark and brooding so Sanderson makes him say dark and brooding things. Shallan is smart and whitty so Sanderson makes her say and do smart and whitty things. It all just makes me feel like I’m reading forced dialogue to tell the reader again and again “hey these are how my characters are supposed to be”. I’m a character first reader and I want them to feel organic and have their words and actions speak for themselves, so that I can be shown who the character is. Not told who the character is. I’m glad Sanderson exists, but it’s time for me to move on.

2.5/5 The review contains spoilers! What a forgettable, bland, boring and not Funny Story. This is my first Emily Henry book that turned out being such a letdown for me, as I was a big fan of the rest of her stories, or at least most of them. I'm still not entirely sure if the title was meant to refer to the way our two main characters, Miles and Daphne, began their relationship—"You know, Funny Story.. my fiancé dumped me for his childhood best friend, who happened to be Miles’s girlfriend, and that’s how we ended up living together, and then I accidentally told my ex-fiancé that Miles and I are dating, so now we are fake dating.", or if it was just meant to suggest that this would be a fun story to read. Maybe it even refers to both of these options at the same time—which is most likely, but unfortunately, as I already said, it didn't end up to be a fun read for me. As usual, as in every Emily Henry book, we have a book-loving character, this time a librarian—Daphne, who turned out to be quite an okay heroine for me. I could relate to her in a few ways and if I had to choose which main character I liked more, I would point at her, but at the same time, she wasn't even close to the bond I had with January, who I'm starting to think will always be my favorite heroine of this author. I probably would have felt more than just "quite okay" about her if she hadn't moaned every time she ate something, but like I said, she wasn't that bad. I actually loved that she stood her ground and never considered going back to her cheating ex-fiancé, unlike our hero who wasn't so sure about it and who, speaking of which—let's get to him now. Miles Nowak, our Bridget Jones's Diary-watching, spicy-woodsy-smelling (like every other romance book hero), Crocs-loving hero who as for now is my least favorite Emily Henry male character. Yes, he had some good moments, but instead of screaming, blushing, and kicking my feet for how wonderful he was with Daphne, I kept thinking about these facts about him "Miles looks up at me. “They,” I say, “suck.” “She’s the love of my life,” he says. “The love of your life sucks,” I tell him." The love of your life? Hell no. I didn't like that he said that about his cheating ex-girlfriend, so I expected him to say the same thing about the heroine later in the book, but that didn't happen. I know he loved Daphne and chose her, but this quote left a bitter taste in my mouth. Or when the question was asked "if they would get back together with their exes" and Daphne's answer was this "Would he take her back? I find myself wondering, before seamlessly transitioning into Would I take Peter back? “Definitely not,” I say aloud." and Miles’s that "Petra was the exception, not the rule, for me. So if she wanted to get back together? I don’t know. But it’s not worth thinking about, since she’s engaged to your ex-boyfriend.” She cheated on you with her best friend?!? What do you mean "I don’t know."?? It should have been "No." from the very beginning when you found out about it. The worst moment in the book that confirmed me why he is my least favorite Emily Henry hero was when he went to see his ex when she called him crying and because of that he left Daphne waiting for him. "And then Petra called, and she was sobbing. So hard I couldn’t understand her. I’d never seen her cry before. I honestly thought someone had died. She asked if I could come see her, and I said yes. Because I was worried. I still care about her.” She cheated on you and then a month later was engaged to her best friend!?! What do mean you still care about her?? "I didn’t mean to tell her first.” The tops of his cheeks redden. “That I’m in love with you." And then the first person to know he loved Daphne was also his ex. You know that feeling when you read a romance novel and you just feel that the hero loves the heroine? In Miles' case it was the opposite. Throughout the book, I had the impression that if his ex-girlfriend wanted to come back to him, he would welcome her with open arms. Only at the end of the book, when he did one thing, I was like "Hmm, okay, maybe he loves Daphne then.". But as I just said, I only started feeling it at the end of the book. All the things I mentioned, plus the fact that a month after the breakup he still kept pictures of her in his room instead of burning them, are why he will probably always be my least favorite Emily character. I don't even know what to say about the romance part of the book because it was boring as the chemistry between Daphne and Miles seemed non-existent to me. They finally confessed their love to each other, and the only thing I felt was happiness, because I knew that this book would end soon. I guess that alone says enough how much I enjoyed their love story. I never expected that reading Emily Henry's book would evoke so many unpleasant emotions in me, and yet, as you can see, it unfortunately happened. I hope I'm in the minority of people who feel this way, because Emily's book being one of the biggest disappointments of the year wasn’t on my bingo card. ──────── Me at my graduation: 😐 Me at my wedding: 😐 Me when Emily Henry announces a new book: 😍😍😩😩😻😻😻😍🥰🥰😍🥰

★ 2.75 stars i guess it’s time for me to start considering that maybe i’m not exactly the target audience for Emily Henry’s books. see, i don’t think she’s a bad author. i really don’t. believe it or not, i do think she’s a good writer and i can understand (to a certain extent) why most people are obsessed with her work. but as much as i tried and keep trying, i can’t be one of those people. aside from this book, i’ve read four other books by EH. you can easily guess which ones because they are her most popular: Beach Read, Book Lovers, People We Meet On Vacation and Happy Place. i hated Book Lovers & PWMOV, but enjoyed Beach Read and Happy Place [she’s very hit or miss as you can notice]. however, while these two books were enjoyable — back when i read them, at least — i can’t exactly say i was obsessed with them. were they good? well, yes, but they weren’t perfect and i personally found them a bit overhyped. my not-so-extraordinary experiences with her past works were the main reason why i didn’t have high expectations for Funny Story. although, deep down, i wanted it to be the book that would make me say “wow... now i really understand all the hype she gets, i’m definitely an Emily Henry fan now!” but that obviously did not happen. it’s such a shame because this book actually started off good. i mean... kind of. in the first 50% i was convinced that this was going to be a 3 star read — i know people have different thoughts about three star ratings; some think it’s reserved for bad reads, others think it’s reversed for decent/‘just okay’ reads. in my opinion, it can mean both, it just depends on the book. at first, i thought Funny Story would be getting the “decent/‘just okay’ three star rating” from me. i was liking some things, but disliking others. our female main character, Daphne Vincent, was one of the things i was liking. she was imperfect and flawed, but also realistic, which was a nice thing to me. i prefer reading stories with characters who are not perfect and have flaws because that makes them feel more human, real, and easy to relate with. of course there were particular things i didn’t like about her and i won’t lie that sometimes throughout the book i found myself getting annoyed at her, but generally speaking, Daphne was not an awful character. not the most remarkable or loveable if we’re being brutally honest — i do wish Emily had given her a more captivating personality, but she was still likeable despite that so i’m not going to complain much. my favorite thing about her character is probably the fact that she is a librarian, how cool is that? she’s living the dream! as for our male main character, Miles Nowak... um, was i supposed to care about him? because i didn’t, sorry. honestly, Miles is not even a bad MMC and i truly had nothing against him — the thing is that i just found him uninteresting and rather forgettable. sure, he was cool guy occasionally and he had a few nice moments, but that’s about it. nothing more to tell you. Miles didn’t have any outstanding or charming qualities in my opinion and i was pretty indifferent about him for the majority of the book. i thought he would win me over eventually, but eh, he never did. the story itself was not the bestest and most interesting i’ve ever read, but the positive thing is that it was keeping me somewhat entertained. even with its issues, i was not bored and i wanted to keep reading more and more. i even started feeling a tad hopeful that things would improve at some point because i could see some potential there. but guess what? it did not improve. in fact, it got worse. i don’t know where exactly things started going wrong, all i can tell you is that after 50% i lost all my interest in the story. i assume it might be because of the romance. Daphne and Miles started having more “romantic” scenes and i was not interested in that. not even a little bit. from the beginning, i couldn’t feel any chemistry between them and their romantic interactions were all so cringe and unnatural to me. just unpleasing to read. so yeah, it actually makes sense why i lost interest when they really started becoming more than friends. i genuinely enjoyed the friendship between these two, their dynamic as friends was fun and sweet, but as a couple? oh, absolutely NOT. when i read romance books i surely expect to root for the main characters to end up together, because duh, but Funny Story made me do the exact opposite. Daphne and Miles should’ve stayed as friends and friends only and i’ll die on this hill. no one can convince me otherwise. it’s not even just because i think they have zero chemistry, there are another million reasons why i think that that they shouldn’t be a couple. the biggest one is that neither of them were very prepared to embark in another serious relationship so quickly (nor they should). they should take care of themselves first and get therapy instead. on top of that, the author also started coming up with unnecessary and tedious subplots. like for example the dad subplot — the most boring — and i just... couldn’t take it anymore. i was getting more and more annoyed and the urge to give up was very strong at that point, but i kept pushing through. i don’t know why, though? it wasn’t even worth it. then... when i thought it couldn’t get any worse... the author throws in a ✨ third act conflict ✨ and what a stupid, irritating third act conflict it was. was it even necessary? it came out of nowhere and the whole thing felt way too forced and annoying. (view spoiler) ironically, for a book called Funny Story, this wasn’t funny at all. it’s not the worst book i’ve ever read (trust me when i say i’ve read worse) but it’s not one of the best either... it was just not for me i guess. i still recommend it, though — i feel like others might like it more than me. i certainly hope they do. 𓂃 ⚝ 𓂃 ๋. ₊ ꒰ ✉️ favorite quotes. ꒱ ₊ . ๋ 𓂃 ⚝ 𓂃 “The same universe that dispassionately takes things away can bring you things you weren't imaginative enough to dream up.” “You can’t untell someone your secrets. You can’t unsay those delicate truths once you learn you can’t trust the person you handed them to.” “Life, I’d learned, is a revolving door. Most things that come into it only stay awhile.” “It’s easy to be loved by the ones who’ve never seen you fuck up. The ones you’ve never had to apologize to, and who still think all your ‘quirks’ are charming.” “Trust people’s actions, not their words; Don’t love anyone who isn’t ready to love you back; Let go of the people who don’t hold on to you; Don’t wait on anyone who’s in no rush to get to you.” “Life’s short enough without us talking ourselves out of hope and trying to dodge every bad feeling. Sometimes you have to push through the discomfort, instead of running.” “I don’t think there’s a right way to feel. And you can’t control it, anyway. Feelings are like weather. They just happen, and then they pass.” “You can’t force a person to show up, but you can learn a lesson when they don’t.”

Came for diabolical vengeance and steam but got a boring, watered down therapy session The local librarian, Daphne Vincent, is happily engaged to Peter Collins. Until the eve of his bachelor night when Petey unceremoniously dumps Daphne for his bestie, Petra. Also, heartbroken is Miles, Petra’s boyfriend. Daphne now needs a place to stay, and Miles just so happens to have a slot available. To get back at Peter and Petra, the two decide to “fake date.” Funny Story had potential for some Jerry Springer like drama. Do not dump librarians. They read lots of stories and have plenty of material to work with. Take, for example, our villain, Peter. He is a software person, and say he has a keylogger program on Daphne’s computer. Daphne creates some very interesting stories, googles “pregnancy” and “STD testing” and tells Miles how much “better” he is than Peter. Perhaps Daphne gets drunk, googles “hottest people on GoodReads” and wakes up with a few more bookish friends. Or she walks by Peter’s gym, licking an ice cream cone, only she’s too enthusiastic and the ice cream falls to the concrete sidewalk. She smiles and laughs genuinely while Peter runs over, offering to buy her another cone, but Daphne lowers her voice and says in a sultry tone, “No need. I get all the ice cream I need for free,” as she walks away. But instead of bad librarian, this book went into some misguided attempt to give the characters backstory with characters excruciatingly overexplaining their feelings. The book just plain didn’t bring the fun. Where is our guilty pleasure? Just for the record, Anne Elliot is the Jane Austen character that I most relate to. To pick a character from P&P is just too pedestrian, darling. Lacking creativity, lame, tame, and too PG. Needs a bit more May Cobb. *Thanks, NetGalley, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and unbiased opinion. How much I spent: Electronic text – Free/Nada/Zilch through NetGalley provided by publisher 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango

I think I finally realized Emily Henry books aren’t for me… I took about 5 naps during this book, and my mind was literally everywhere but on this book. I barely got through it tbh 😭

all i am going to say for now is that i am disappointed.

I’m really bummed out by this trend in YA and Chick-Lit novels where once-perfect characters are now portrayed as flawed individuals with substance abuse issues, all to fit into a modern, ‘progressive’ world. Sure, the main characters still have chemistry, but the overall plot feels shallow and lacks excitement. It’s like Emily Henry is more focused on crafting a trendy, relatable image than on delivering a compelling story. Maybe I’m just too old for this stuff. Even when I’m in the mood for a quick, easy read, the constant rehashing of the same themes is a total turn-off. And those endless, surface-level psychological analyses are just too pretentious, especially when they keep repeating the same preachy points. The story’s premise is pretty basic: the protagonist ends up with his ex-fiancé’s current girlfriend’s ex-boyfriend - yeah, it’s as convoluted as it sounds. The characters are all walking clichés. Miles is the only decent one here. At first, he comes off as a fragile, self-destructive mess who’s bound to screw things up. But, surprise, he turns out to be a responsible and warm guy. Daphne, on the other hand, dishes out some practical advice for the love-struck: “No matter how much you love someone, don’t lose yourself. Keep your own friends, hobbies, and alone time. Don’t give up everything for them. If you break up, you’ll only lose one person, but your life will still be intact. Their departure won’t take you down with them.” Ugh, could it get any more cliché? 2 / 5 stars.

can cringe be addictive????? This book was… a cringe-filled experience. Honestly, I went in with very low expectations, because the author’s most recent books have been a complete mess for me. And while this one wasn’t great, I have to admit: I devoured it. I couldn’t put it down. That addictive quality is the only reason it’s getting 2 stars instead of 1. Let’s get it straight—the characters? Absolutely unbearable. Cringe to the max. There’s even an entire chapter dedicated to the funeral of a goldfish… and I swear that scene is burned into my memory forever (for all the wrong reasons). I disliked every single character, and that’s me being kind. Then there were the flashbacks. Supposedly they were meant to help us understand the whole story, but they added nothing. Everything was already so obvious, and dragging us through those scenes just made it even worse. And another thing: a lot of the scenes felt like déjà vu. I kept thinking, haven’t I read this exact moment in one of her older books? Girl, I get it—you publish multiple books a year—but please give us something fresh. I don’t need recycled flashbacks and recycled scenes. I want something new, something different. Is that really too much to ask? The plot itself was so fucking Predictable. The “twist” was presented as though it were some shocking revelation, but really, it was obvious from early on. Still, I’ll give credit: I was briefly surprised, mostly because I wasn’t sure which cliché the story would settle on. Thankfully, the ending wasn’t the one I dreaded most, so I’ll call that a small mercy. Despite all of this, I can’t deny how compulsively readable it was. It felt like a nightmare I couldn’t look away from. And the frustrating part? I know I’ll probably read more of this author’s work, because no matter how disappointing, her books are addictive. Maybe one day she’ll deliver another hit. Until then, The Tenant remains, in my eyes, nothing more than a letdown.

—— 2 stars 🗝️ ᝰ.ᐟ this book was mid. the ending was so anticlimactic tbh. i don’t think her thrillers are for me anymore, i loved her old ones but the new ones don’t do it for me unfortunately 😔💌

જ⁀➴ 2.5 stars (rounded down to 2) ﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒ It's been a hot minute since I started AND finished a book in a single day, so I give this book props for keeping me out of a reading slump! I also give it props for getting me my last Kindle Spring Reading Challenge achievement! Unfortunately, the only likable character in this entire story was Goldy. Goldy's a fish. Blake Porter should be at the top of the world. He owns a nice brownstone in the Upper East Side, he just got promoted to a vice president position at his company, he's engaged to the love of his life, Krista, and with their pet fish, Goldy, everything is perfectly fine in the world. When he gets fired from his job and can't make the mortgage payments, he and Krista decide to rent out one of the rooms in their house to get by. Enter Whitney Cross. She's kind, quiet, and seems like the ideal roommate, but when eerie things start happening around the house after Whitney moves in, Blake starts to wonder if there's more to Whitney than what's on the surface. So, let's get into the biggest reason why I rated this book as low as I did: Blake Fucking Porter. If you've read my reviews, you know I rarely ever swear. I believe this is a rare exception. Now, I will say that this is my first Freida McFadden book, and I've been told by and heard from multiple people who said that a lot of her main characters are either stupid or meant to be unlikable. Whether or not that's based on subjective opinions or if this is just an objective fact, I have no idea and I can't speak or attest to that. However, if this is just factually true, then congratulations to Freida McFadden for creating the biggest tool in the history of all fictional men (that I know of so far)! I've never hated a main character more than I've hated Blake Porter, and that says a lot because there are a lot of fictional characters that I loathe, abhor, despise, whatever your preferred adjective is, but I don't think any of them top Blake Porter. He deserved everything that was coming to him, and I'll admit I had so much schadenfreude watching him suffer. No, seriously, I read the first chapter and I almost DNF'ed it. If you ALSO know me, I NEVER DNF a book. The majority of the book is written from Blake's POV, and in a way, Freida McFadden did both an amazing and horrible job at creating the biggest asshole I've ever read about in a book. Blake was so arrogant, rude, and a massive fuckboy. He spent a majority of the time commenting on how good OTHER women's bodies looked and whether or not he could see their nips through their shirts and how short their skirts were. Like, boy, you have a whole ass fiancée and you're out here checking out other women? What a massive shitbag. I CHEERED when he got fired. I cheered when all of the events of the book were backfiring on him. He deserved everything that was coming to him, and I'll admit I had so much schadenfreude watching him suffer. That being said, let's get into the plot. The book lost a good chunk of stars from me because of Blake, but also because I was able to guess most of the plot twists. The book gets the extra 1/4 star because there was one thing I didn't see coming, but the major plot twist I managed to figure out pretty early on. I think it's just because I read an ARC of a different thriller earlier this year in February that had quite a similar premise and a similar plot twist, so I was like, "Hm, wouldn't it be really weird if X happened? Y character's acting a little suspicious." and then...it happened. Obviously, I'm not out here accusing one author of copying the other, but it was just a random, wild guess theory I had that turned out to be true. As for the ending, I felt it was so anticlimactic. I thought there was going to be more action, higher stakes, and the plot was building up to some big conclusion, but none of that happened! I thought it was going to be more dramatic and action-packed, but I was disappointed when that big, crazy ending we usually see in a lot of thrillers never happened. The epilogue didn't do much to add to the fallout and the aftermath of the main events of the story, and was also just as anticlimactic. Here's the breakdown of my rating: ﹒⭒ 1 star for Goldy ﹒⭒ 1 star for the fast pace of the book ﹒⭒ 0.25 stars for the one plot twist I didn't see coming, but all the other ones I saw coming from a mile away ﹒⭒ 0.25 stars for the fact that Freida did her research on some medical stuff and was actually correct about it all, so I'm happy that the medical details are actually accurate Overall, this was a massive flop, in my opinion. Will I read another Freida McFadden book in the future? Maybe. But it's safe to say that this is not a good first impression for me. Maybe thrillers overall just aren't my genre, considering I've been able to correctly guess most, if not ALL, of the plot twists in most of the thrillers I've read, but I can see how major Freida McFadden fans would love this. It just wasn't the book for me. P.S. I am so sorry to the other members of the book club I'm in who are going to enjoy this😭 ﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒⭒﹒ Trigger/content warnings (these were provided by Freida McFadden on her website!): murder, death of an animal (not graphic) ⋆˙⟡ 𝒫𝓇𝑒-𝓇𝑒𝒶𝒹: This is my first Freida McFadden book! I’m reading this because 1) my last read is about to put me in a reading slump and I’m hoping a fast-paced thriller will get me out of it and 2) I’m trying to complete the Kindle Spring Reading Challenge and I think this qualifies for the “Parasol” bookmark since it’s the last achievement I need to get lol. (It’s also a complete coincidence that this is my book club’s bonus read for July😂) I’ve heard a lot of good things about her thrillers so this better blow me away!🤞🏼🍀 . . . . . . . . . . . . #justiceforgoldy

Freida McFadden really does churn these thriller stories out fast, and I am grateful for that because the fast pace writing style pulls me out of a reading slump, but it may be time for her to take a little break here. Saying that, I do know we will all still read what she puts out regardless. 😅 The story takes a turn when the goldfish, Goldy, winds up mysteriously dead - and please tell me why Goldy is the most likeable character here? Blake is an annoying narrator, Krista is naïve and far too trusting towards their new house tenant, despite there being glaring red flags… But, for what reason…? 👀 That twist around 200 pages in did really grab my attention though, it does feel very classic Freida by now. Making certain actions before them makes a bit more sense, so the second half was more intriguing. No, this wasn’t her best. Yes, the final twist was decent, if a bit daft. Yet, I’ll always come back to her work for more. 2.25 Stars

˙₊➴ ꒰ 2-stars★ ꒱ ꒷⊹࣪˖ ❝ I’m a good guy. You know I am. I wouldn’t do anything to hurt you or anyone. You know that. ❞ Blake was living the dream as VP of Marketing at a top company, planning to get married and start a family in his new brownstone. But when he suddenly loses the job he worked so hard for, everything changes. Now, instead of building a future, his focus shifts to just trying to hold on to his home. Out of work and low on cash, Blake rents out a room to Whitney. She seems great until he starts getting sick, weird smells fill the house, and strange things happen. Now he’s wondering if taking a tenant was a smart move or a dangerous one. ⊹ ࣪ ˖ੈ Characters ⟡ Blake - is a former hotshot VP in marketing at a top company. But after being fired, he is trying to find another job that will pay him the money he needs to pay for the brownstone mortgage as his savings is slowly running out. ⟡ Krista - is Blake’s fiance. She works in the laundry/dry cleaner shop where she and Blake met, and they’ve been together since. Due to Blake losing his job, she suggested the alternative to either sell off her engagement ring or just get a temporary tenant until he can get another job. ⟡ Whitney - is a girl who works at a diner, looking for a place to stay. And out of the list of possible tenants, she was the only one to pass Blake’s standards. Whitney is pretty, and surprisingly, Blake’s type if he weren’t engaged. ⊹ ࣪ ˖ੈ Thoughts Freida’s books have been a hit or miss for me. Some manage to surprise me a bit, while others just feel a bit too predictable when it comes to the mystery/twists of it all. Unfortunately, this one fell into the latter. It was a miss for me. As I listened, I pretty much knew where it was headed, predicted the ending, and even braced myself for the “big twist.” Was I right? Yep. The book was not that twisty, and the major things/plot didn’t really pull me in. The characters felt flat and irritating to follow (though I’ll give Miss Freida an extra point cause she’s always got a talent for crafting truly hateable characters). Krista felt invisible for half of the book, and Whitney felt like a random character who just made an appearance for the sake of being the tenant. And then there’s the man of the hour, Blake, who made me cringe harder than I thought possible. His dialogue, his inner thoughts, and his whole personality was a cringefest. The endless “I was a VP”, “I gave her a level 1234567890 hug,” and the whole “I’m loyal to my fiance” while *eyeballing and ogling at every skirt in sight* + him being a Scorpio and taking it as a personal insult? That just nailed the hate coffin shut lol. In my house we love people who don’t take astrology signs as insults. ❝ My boss’s secretary, Stacie, is standing at the open door to my office, her fist poised to rap on the doorframe to get my attention. And she’s got my attention. In that skirt—yes, holy crap, she has my attention. ❞ Needless to say, listening to this was better than listening to nothing at all. The highlight? Definitely Goldy (best character tbh). Other than that, I don’t know what else to say lol. I’m still on a mission to find a Freida book that smacks me right in the face and proves that my predictability skill (which is def just trust issues) is garbage.🕵🏻‍♀️ ˚₊ ⟢┊pre-read 🖇️┊⊹࣪⋆ I’m editing a booksta arc post, so what better way to do it than to pair it with listening to an audiobook? Also, I’ve been trying to get into audiobooks for a while so I hope this makes me want to continue doing it!🎧✨

another annoyingly stupid book by frito mcflurry. but at least it wasn’t offensively bad like the teacher. and the one part that was like ‘ahh yes! I, as a high school secretary, would love to suddenly warn you about a girl who went to this school 15 years ago including full names of other students involved in her rumors, random man on the phone!’ LMFAO LIKE ???? read ‘claire, darling’ for a much better version of this story.

** spoiler alert ** I’ve read all of the Stephanie plum books and there are parts of them I love. I really can’t stand how Stephanie is constantly cheating on joe with Ranger. She has been leading these two men on for way to long. And she knows it. She even said in this book she doesn’t want to be a slut by cheating but the last time I checked making out and staying the night with a man that isn’t ur boyfriend is cheating. Why is this ok? The end of this book made me so mad. She has lead joe on for years and was going to break his heart because ranger proposed to her. I don’t like people that cheat and I don’t like how this book condones it. What happened to honesty and trust? Joe probably wouldn’t want anything to do with her if he really knew what she does with Ranger.

I loved this series in the early days. Then I lost track quite a few years ago, and I thought it would be fun to jump back in and see what was new in Stephanie Plum's life. Turns out nothing is new. Nothing at all. We STILL have a love triangle with Stephanie, Morelli, and Ranger. Seriously, WTF? Stephanie is committed to Morelli, except when she isn't because she's lusting after and making out with Ranger. Apparently Morelli has zero self-respect, since he's been enduring this triangle for many years. And Stephanie hasn't gotten over her hormonal teenager phase, because she can't control herself. Over the course of 30 books, there has been virtually no character growth. The snarky quips I found entertaining in early books took over the story here. The constant immature dialogue grated on me. The mystery itself is formulaic. I didn't care who did what or why. I won't be revisiting Stephanie Plum, but I do hope she grows up and sorts out her relationship status. *Thanks to Macmillan Audio for the free download.*

I think it is time for this series to come to an end. Predictable and not funny anymore. She had decided to marry Morelli a few books back but didn’t work out now Ranger. It’s getting old. Just don’t care for it anymore. It is a shame.

Well, I think it is way past time to end my relationship with Stephanie Plum books. As a loyal Stephanie fan I have read them all. The first several books were side splitting funny after that not so much. At 30 books it is long overdo to make a choice between Joe and Ranger. If Janet is looking to end this series then have her choose handsome but predictable Joe. Choosing Ranger can move Janet’s characters in a different direction full of interesting possible scenarios and spicy romance! Just my opinion. As a suggestion, if you have become as bored as I have with Stephanie Plum try checking out Jana Deleon’s Miss Fortune series. So enjoyable!

I picked this book because it was available on Libby when I needed something ASAP, not knowing it was the 30th book in the series. Oops! Not for me, but enjoyable enough to finish.

I swear for the past five books I’ve asked myself why I continue to read them. They are so formulaic at this point and they stopped being funny at least 10 books ago. I really think this is my last one. I don’t even care what happens with Ranger and Morelli, because I know what’s going to happen, nothing. I wish Janet would put this series to bed and focus on some of her other series or even write some new books. Some of my favorite books that she’s written have been her standalone books.

Honestly got bored with all the twists and turns then repeats of the twists that 3/4 way through I gave it up because frankly at that point I didn't care 🙃

This book was ridiculous with so many characters it was hard to keep them straight. I’ve read so many books from this author but I found myself shaking my head while listening to this book, wondering why I was finishing it.

Most good authors will usually bring the reader along and establish each character threading them expertly in the story. I've trusted good authors to eventually tie the characters together somewhere just before or by half of the book. I had a difficult time following the characters and their involvement in this book. Even the summary in the last chapters left me wanting. This is a good author. He is authoring at least 2 books annually. I needed a roster to keep track of all the people and where they fit in this story. Hopefully "The 6:20 Man", his next book will be back to form.

While the Camino books are generally recognized as pleasant diversions from the Grisham Legal Factory, this volume is even more of a piffle than the others. There isn't a shred of surprise in any events that take place, and apart from the character of Lovely, there isn't a single person worth caring about. Just a big enh, as we wait for the next one to roll off the assembly line.

This book features some of the worst writing I've read from John Grisham (who I usually like), particularly in the beginning. The story focuses on Dark Isle, a now uninhabited island off the coast of Florida that became a colony of escaped slaves from mostly Georgia in the early 1800's. Lovely Jackson's ancestor survives a storm while on board a slave ship and, after the ship sinks, washes up on shore. The colony lasts for about 100 years and in 1950, the final two residents, Lovely and her mother, leave for the mainland. Fast forward to many years later. When a real estate developer seeks to obtain ownership of the abandoned Dark Isle, the locals of Camino Island fight and recruit Lovely to pursue the title to the island, which she has rarely visited in the past 30 years due to her age. The book reads like a piece of non-fiction, with, as I said before, some really bad writing at times. The story had very little tension and things turn out the way you might expect. None of the characters are particularly interesting, nor do they have anything interesting to say. The courtroom scenes lacked any surprise or demonstrations of good lawyering.

I became a fan of Grisham's narratives with his release of A Time to Kill and then went on to read The Firm, The Pelican Brief and countless others. Known for twisty legal thrillers, high expectations were doused while making my way through this tedious, predictable story. In my humble, 'outlier' opinion, John has lots his 'mojo' in spite of the publishers who pressure him for material. How we know this is by use of an ordinary plot, lackluster characters and lack of high velocity suspense. The greedy developer wanting to steal property rights from an innocent resident and offering to buy them out has been done countless times by others, so why would we find this special? Adding slavery and a struggling author to the mix doesn't help much nor does the the tedious pace of the story. Put simply, this is yet another disappointment from one of the highest visibility authors in publishing. And while many may disagree, we must remember that writing is art and individual tastes vary. I've read better debut novels from unknown authors..Enough said.

1.5 stars rounded up to 2 because the characters in the series are so good. My least favorite in the Camino Series by far... not easy to categorize; thriller - no, mystery - nope, courtroom drama - maybe a tiny bit, supernatural - meh.

Really disappointed in about half of the book,? Action pretty good. Plot interesting. All that Trumper crap and Fox News stuff made me skip a large portion of the book. Appreciate the different opinions of authors but the obvious crapping and anger in the book outside of the story line was almost too much to bear. The other books did not go so far overboard. Perhaps the author had a long streaming session of right wing nut cakes while he was writing certain sections of this one... Honestly I have enjoyed this series, but this one makes me think about abandoning the next one.

The first title in this series was great, very promising. But the recent entries have taken an unfortunate turn downward. James Reese has become the titular 2 dimensional hero. He is a master of everything (flying, one-on-one combat, a master sniper and on and on). The threats never feel like they could succeed because no matter what James Reese is the best, everyone calls him the best at everything and he thinks of everything is always a step ahead of his pray and is a force that cannot be stoped by the villain. It never feels like the villain can win, the threat simply never feels real. He is a hero and the child of a hero who’s only vulnerability is that they serve a country that betrays them. Frankly it gets old and reads more like conspiracy theory and gun porn than a spy thriller more often than not. Don’t get me wrong, I understand and am saddened by the unfulfilled commitments to those that have served and I’m not anti gun. But there needs to be more to a protagonist and plot than a hero that can’t be defeated and has no weaknesses, one that can only be betrayed. No one is that perfect and our government isn’t that singularly incompetent and/or evil. Its oversimplification and an insult to the reader. Jack Carr has obvious talent and the series has potential which is why I keep at it. I hope it improves and that some of my observations are considered. Keep at it please Jack, I know you have a bright future.

I want to give this series 5 stars but I just cannot bring myself to do it. The action is fantastic. The only reason I give it 2 stars. The dialogue is horrendous and monotone. It’s unconvincing and repetitive. The conversations never feel authentic or organic. It reminds me of listening to an 8 yr old play with GI Joes, and pretending a Barbie (Katie) is Joe’s lady love. Now to the plots within the series leading to this book: get on with it. The best parts of these books (aside from The Terminal List #1) could be written in 200 pages. There’s far too much filler in these chapters. Historical contexts that have nothing to do with Reece’s struggle to find peace or closure, thus nothing to do with the mission moving forward. I sometimes feel like I’m Jim Halpert reading the script to Threat Level Midnight. I think my harsh criticism comes from watching the Amazon adaptation of the first book. I just can’t get passed that. The description of Katie in the book to the actress who played her is too far off to get past it in the follow up books. Too much of the book was changed for the show and not in a good way. People have praised the show for being “anti-woke” but those of us who read the book and became fans of the series, quickly realized how “P.C.” the show was made versus the book. I’m going to give the 6th book a shot in the hopes of redemption. My fingers are crossed the series gets back to the action packed plot similar to what we saw in book #1. But if it continues on this same path, the series may end right there for me.

The descriptions of the equipment are reminiscent of the satirical descriptions of suits and watches in “American Psycho,” but they’re not satirical, they’re described so that the white, christofascist man reading the book has spank bank material. Spoiler: so James Reece gets a nice hotel room. Does he ever get a nice hotel room when he’s “on the hunt?” So why did t that tip off the bad guy? Then he hops into the car of the guy following him and points a gun but doesn’t kill the guy. This doesn’t tip off the bad guy that Reece has a new weapon? So then Reece supposedly sits in his hotel room for four days after acquiring a new weapon. Wouldn’t a sniper go shoot a new weapon system to sight it in if he was going to kill the bad guy with this weapon? So then we get a mirror of the bad guy using his cell phone as a decoy for Reece to shoot but bad guy doesn’t realize Reece’s cell phone in a hotel room for four days wasn’t a decoy?! That section was badly written. Every section was badly written but that one really was.

This book was so hard to really get into. Between the previous one that was clearly based on the pandemic and this one being centered around AI they are just topics I don’t want to read about in fiction because they are too real of things that we have or are dealing with.

this was one of those books where you read for a couple minutes, but it’s so boring it feels like it's been hours, so you give up

the way this took me so long to finish because i kept getting bored and putting it down 🥱 i love twngo, it’s one of my favorites but this one wasn’t it for me sadly and this was one of my most anticipated reads. tears. 😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭 it feels like nash’s character completely changed in this? and i get wanting to create some depth but it feels like a NEW CHARACTER?? and lina.. personality where? idk they both annoyed me. and this is like 600 pages and FOR WHAT. i loved seeing everyone at knockemout tho, that slayed. my 2 stars are for that and for the sloane + lucian CRUMBSSS.

There is boredom and then there is this book. It's not a bad book and maybe it's just a me issue, but it just didn't hit. I did not loved book 1, but atleast I liked it and it was enjoyable and entertaining and the characters had personality but this book just had... nothing. “Whenever you’re close, everything is better. The closer you are, the easier I breathe, the less I feel like life is just a never-ending pour of lemon juice into an open wound that won’t heal. You take away the dark, the cold. And you remind me what it’s like to want to be here.” A tortured hero meets the “I don't ever do realtionship” girl and then they decided to fix each other. Nash and Lina are more like side-character material. Lina was badass but boring. Nash was your tortured and broody hero of small town but he was just as boring as Lina. They were good together but it was just insta-love and I am not a big fan of this trope. Nash saw her one day and he came alive after feeling numb for months. It was weird. Give me sparks. Give me emotional intimacy and not some bullshit about how she is different because she makes him feel... something and makes his dick work. They did fixed each other in the end with the explosive sex though so, I guess it's a win-win situation. “God help me. I wanted to give it to her. Wanted to cut myself open and let the pain, the cold bleed out so she could fill me up with fire and put me back together again.” At first, Nash and Lina decided to be in a friends with benefits relationship because Lina had hots for Nash and Nash's dick came alive when she's near him so, they decided to do friends with benefits thing but then they also never did the deed. They were sleeping together in the same bed, dry humping but tried to keep it simple and platonic for 60% of this book. If Lucy was going to give us slow-burn which I am a huge fan of, then why did she decided to insert the friends with benefits trope? It was useless. Nash and Lina had their moments but I didn't felt a thing. They just were... there. “This is my life. You are the only thing in my entire existence that makes me feel like I’ve got a shot at finding my way back.” The mystery and suspense in this book was so unnecessary. This book was mostly about Lina and Nash solving some mystery about some Duncan guy and whoever he was because I seriously don't remember a thing. I just flipped pages after pages. The ending was good because it ended with Knox and Naomi's wedding which was perfect. This book could've been atleast 100 to 150 pages short. There were just useless and boring fillers in this book except the Sloane and Lucian's moments. I am seriously going feral over these two and they should just hate fuck and get me out of this misery. I am so excited for their book and I already know it's going to be my favourite in this series. “You have a date?” Naomi shouted the question loud enough that all the men turned and stared at us. Lucian looked like he was about to set the world on fire with his dark smolder. “Thanks, mega mouth,” Sloane muttered. “Yes. I have a date.” “A date or a hookup?” I asked at normal volume. Lucian’s hand closed into a fist, crushing his to-go cup and exploding coffee everywhere. ——————— Pls tell me its better than book 1 🥲

omg this was such a slog to get through. thank god for audiobooks. I couldn’t think of anything worse than having to physically read this book. After the VERY PROMISING first book, I was so ready to devour this. Unfortunately it felt so flat for me. I think the biggest problem was that the main male character Nash is lowkey not desirable, annoying, forceful???? apart from having a great ass… he doesn’t have many redeeming traits. He’s just a straight man who won’t take no for an answer. GROSS. NEXT!!!!! In book one, Knox was a hard guy with a soft centre, Nash is just an asshole that is demanding and erratic and indecisive. Lina is also a little rogue but I didn’t care about that as much. In book one, my heart was racing when we got to the end and everything came to a peak, in this book I was falling asleep. I also generally felt that the crime/underlying storyline just wasn’t as prominent in this book. Which would have been fine if the romance was incredible but I mean…..he fingered her in a restaurant…….?? Sticking it out for book 3 in the hopes it gets better lol

These two characters are perfect for each other seeing as how equally annoying they both are

Apologies, but this book ranks as my least favorite in the series, proving to be a tedious experience with its extensive pages and agonizingly slow pacing. I found myself pleading with the chapters, urging them to "cut to the chase and finish" as if the book possessed magical powers to conclude on its own. The ordeal was truly torturous for me, particularly as I'm not a big fan of insta-love executions. While I don't object to the passionate exploration of romance, the heat dissipated quickly amidst the dullness, failing to set the pages on fire. Here's to hoping that future books in the series won't require toothpicks to keep my eyes open during the reading experience, as was unfortunately the case with this one.

I know, I know. Everyone loves Ann Patchett, just as everyone in this novel loves Joe and Sebastian and Lara and Ken and Maisie and the farm. Also Joe and Lara's three daughters, and the dog, and the grandmother. Also cherry pie. But a pile of comfy pillows only makes a nice place to read a good novel; it does not make an actual good novel. What happened to Ann Patchett's spice? To the rivalry and ambition and cunning and pain of her great novels like "Commonwealth," "The Dutch House," and"The Magician's Assistant"? In a word, this book is boring. Here's the plot, such as it is: As Covid spreads across the US in 2020, Joe and Lara are quarantining with their three grown daughters on the Michigan cherry farm that's been in Joe's family for generations. Without ordinary entertainment, this becomes a good time (supposedly) for Lara to tell the girls the story of her long-ago summer romance with Peter Duke, who later became a famous actor. That's the first problem: Since the daughters have spent their lifetimes repeatedly hearing that story and picking apart all the bits -- the eldest, Emily, is convinced that Duke is actually her father-- what's left for Lara to tell them? In order for this phony structure to work, someone has to constantly be saying: "I can't believe I never asked you that before." But the worse problem is that everyone is soooo loving and understanding. Joe isn't jealous of the focus on Duke. Lara doesn't regret giving up the lights and glory of her own acting career or the potential of sharing Duke's. The sisters exhibit no sibling rivalry. No one argues or disagrees, except occasionally in cute and minor ways. The sole narrative tension is whether they'll get all the cherries harvested in time. True, there's a good plot twist a bit more than halfway through, plus a few more twists after that (several of them eminently foreseeable and one totally unbelievable). But that's a long time to ask the reader to maintain interest. I didn't.

Rare occasion where the audiobook is better than the text Yep, scandalous I know, but I am going to share my disappointments about a book set largely in Michigan. Buckle up. During the pandemic, mother Laura/Lara sits down with her three adult daughters, sharing glimpses of the one summer Lara dated Peter Duke, a now famous movie star. The framing of this story is enormously too heavy. There is a now and then timeline, but the book spends too much time on the present timeline. The tone is a bit nauseating, a mixture of extreme sugary sweet with a melancholy sadness of regret and nostalgia for times past. And, the ending, although unexpected, seemed abrupt and dissatisfying. What happened to Pallace? Hasn’t Ann Patchett heard of Josephine Baker? On a bright note, the audiobook narrator, Meryl Streep, gave a wonderous performance! The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent): Hardcover Text – $30 (A signed copy from The Strand in New York) Audiobook – Free through Libby 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango

I can’t believe I’m going to write this but this book was so boring. I just couldn’t get into it. I’m not a big fan of theater so I feel like this wasn’t going to speak to me and was hoping I’d be proven wrong. I wasn’t. What also caused dissonance was the fact that Meryl Streep narrates it (beautifully) and I kept getting her mixed up with the character! Maybe another season I’ll try again as I love Ann Patchett.

DNF at 66%. The parts about cherry-picking had some charm, but I just hated the reminiscing about acting. It felt as though the main character was in some version of the same play maybe half-a-dozen times (though it was probably three or four), as well as acting in a film, commercials, and a sitcom. We learn nothing about her time on the sitcom or filming the commercials and precious little about her time on the film. Her years in the theater were largely spent on cigarettes, alcohol, and a boyfriend who went on to become famous. He smoked and drank, and became famous that's all I learned about him, other than his name. Like most of the novel's characters, he lacked distinguishing traits and was incredibly dull. However, the main character's three daughters are fascinated with him and want to keep hearing more about him because for some reason they haven't already heard a ton about this famous, super-boring guy their mom used to date. Whyyyyy... didn't I stop reading sooner?

I tried ya'll! I really did. About twenty percent in and I keep seeing managing director, actor, this that and the other. I felt no movement, and I wasn't vested enough to hear about her long story only to wait for the connections to her daughters. Reading long prose with no conversation is really like running a never ending marathon, and I’m too tired… I wish I didn't, but I'm gonna close this one...

It may have had its moments but mostly I was bored.

Once upon a time the perfect family talks of the play Our Town and picks an abundance of cherries. The end.

If Meryl Streep narrating this novel can't make it interesting for me, then nothing can. I was honestly very much bored listening to the story and the best thing about the audiobook was hearing Streep read the novel. I frankly didn't care about the characters or anything about Duke. Also, Joe was kind of too okay with the Duke thing? I can't say I had high expectations for this book but I always enjoy a good audiobook of a family drama. However, there wasn't much drama in the present, only the story centering on one person from the past. I wasn't invested in the plot at any point in this audiobook. I should've finished it already but I just couldn't bring myself to hit the play button. Many loved Tom Lake, however. And Meryl Streep is the narrator. I honestly don't like saying it's me probably, not the book. It's not me, it's just not for me. Statistically speaking given the feedback though, you'll probably end up liking the novel.

I am abandoning book. I have been greatly entertained by many previous books in this series and I hate to give up on Gabriel Allon... But I must for now. Disappointed.

Story needs more Not enough story. We don't need a rehash of election 2020. And its afternath. Makes the book trite. Better than vatican intrigue

This was disappointing. I have enjoyed other books about Gabriel Allon, the spymaster for Israel, but this one was almost a DNF. Parts were simply not believable; other parts felt like they were pasted in. This reads like the last of a series.

The Daniel Silva works featuring Gabriel Allon are usually a joy to read. In addition to a masterfully designed plot and crackling suspense, the books offer much more. There is Historical information, there are Travelogues, lovingly detailed bits about art and music. Usually there are even enticing passages about food and wine that stir the readers senses. For much of The CELLIST this wonderful formula was repeated. We were treated to the reappearance of many of the Series most memorable characters and to a riveting story. However, the final portion of the book ( I understand Mr Silva has said he rewrote the ending), veered off into being like one of the shrill and boring Cable News “ Talking Heads” panels full of self virtuous, sanctimonious and biased analysis of the news and political scene. Mr Silva should have spared his fans of the Series his ramblings and left his wildly speculative diatribe to a New York Times Op-Ed piece. Such poorly connected logic was way beneath the mind of Gabriel Allon. The author spins his rationale for all this in his “Afterword “ but that too is a partisan cherry picking of facts to buttress a weak attempt at Virtue Signaling. All that made this ( indeed it has been a trend lately in the series) a disappointing effort to say the least

So many conflicting thoughts on this one. Silva concedes that he re-wrote much of the book in light of the 2020 election, transition, and events of January 6 (2021, of course). Since there isn't much middle ground as to how one views that period and those events, my guess is most folks will either appreciate it or be incensed by it. (For example, if you're a Q follower, you believe the election was "stolen," and you consider the community of January 6 "tourists" to be freedom fighters committed to preserving (their admittedly self-serving vision) of the Republic, I expect you'll be personally insulted by much of the book. If you fall into this category, I'd strongly encourage you to skip this one.) What's more difficult to assess is, say, you perceive the election was valid and you believe that those who stormed the Capitol belong in jail, then the issue is whether the book strikes too close to home or whether the reason you read Silva (and this type of stuff) generally, is for an escape, in which case, the book is as depressing as reading the newspaper each morning, so it's not as much fun as it might have been. If not, you might find the rapid pivot and "historical fiction" aspects hugely entertaining. For me, the error (mine, not the author's) lies in continuing to read this series during the pandemic/quarantine, when I don't spend the kind of time I normally would in steel tubes (planes & trains) and hotels. I got hooked on the series as a travel serial, the kind of thing I could read when trapped in place, often jet lagged, and, frankly, killing time. And I particularly enjoyed the action in countries and cities where I'd spent a fair amount of time ... and even the DC/Langley stuff is in my neighborhood. (But, in particular, it was fun reading one of the Vatican-based books while briefly working in Rome.) Sadly, I've found the later books - read in the comfort of my home - disappointing. While I concede I find the level of (canned) repetition frustrating, I can't even put my finger on it - they just haven't really worked for me. Are money laundering and political destabilization less entertaining than Middle Eastern murder and mayhem? I dunno. But this one dragged for me.... Hopefully, by the time the next one comes out, I'll be back on the road again.

** spoiler alert ** Ok, this one has me scratching my head. I chose to read this piece of nonsense based on the myriad 5-star reviews on Amazon—I’m talking HUNDREDS. Now there are two reasons this novel may have so much positive feedback. First, it could be that there are hundreds of readers who don’t often step beyond this author’s normal genre (of which this book did not belong) and are simply ride-or-die fans. Second, it could be that I’ve gone round the twist and am missing the value. I’m betting on the former. The writing here is, admittedly, pretty amazing. Character development and plot movement, as well as the establishment of tone, is all done masterfully. What is ludicrous, however, is the plot itself. **SPOILER ALERT AHEAD** Verity is a well-known and well liked author with a huge fan base. She and her husband lose their young twin girls some months apart in separate tragedies, then Verity herself is in a car accident. The accident leaves her in a semi-vegetative state, unable to move or communicate. Her husband seeks to hire an author to finish the last three books his wife had promised as part of a series of nine. In steps Lowen, a talented author in her own right, though certainly not as famous as Verity. She travels to the couple’s home, where Verity is under constant care (fed, diapered, etc.), in order to look over the woman’s notes in preparation for the writing Lowen has been commissioned to complete. Whilst rummaging through Verity’s office, and falling in love with Verity’s husband, Lowen discovers a manuscript that is supposedly an autobiography written by Verity before her accident. It is beyond disturbing and paints the now comatose author as a raging psychopath who despised her twins, feeling only raging jealousy at the attention they garner from their father. So far so good, right? Here’s where it all goes to hell. VERITY IS FAKING HER INJURIES. Really? Doctors and nurses, specialists in their respective fields, can’t tell SHE IS FAKING IT?? For MONTHS? She has been cleaned, turned and fed and NO ONE KNEW? Additionally, we are to believe that she wrote the most disturbing things about herself and her children and labeled the manuscript an autobiography as a WRITING EXERCISE? What woman writes that she tried to abort her own children with a coat hanger as part of an exercise?? I could go on and on but I think you get the picture. Absurd is the only word that adequately conveys the entire premise. I wish someone, anyone, would have said to this author, “hey, you’re damn good, but this story just doesn’t make an iota of sense.” I’m left wishing back the hours it took me to read this insanely ridiculous drivel. Two stars for the obvious talent, but nless you are a die-hard fan of this writer, I’d skip this one altogether.

** UNPOPULAR OPINION This is the second novel that I've read by the author. I'm not really familiar with her writing or style, but I was seeing many 4-5 star ratings on this book and it was a "thriller" so that was enough to push me to give it a try. There are many, many high reviews for the book so I'm not here to dissuade anyone from reading it. It just wasn't a good fit for me. I read hundreds of thriller/mysteries and love the genre. I've read darker novels and enjoyed them, but this one gave me an uncomfortable feeling that it is hard to express. Was it because it involved the characters children? Maybe. Was it the graphic sex scenes? May have contributed Was it the improbable plot? I don't usually have an issue with this if I'm entertained. I wasn't. I can't explain more without giving spoilers. Again, this novel didn't work for me. If you decide to read it, you may enjoy it like so many others. Just my opinion. I wish I could unread it.

Um no. This ain’t it chief. Also that ending?? NO. I feel like the high ratings and amazing reviews for this book are mostly people who already love CoHo's books and this is their, 'dip of the toe' moment, for them in the 'thriller' genre lol.

this is not a romance or a thriller, this is a lifetime movie script

this is not what i would call... good reading the romance finalists for the 2019 goodreads choice awards

Although I really like Hoover's plotting for the most part, I am not the biggest fan of her writing style. I enjoyed her foray into suspense. There are some good twists here that really propel the plot forward and kept my interest throughout. I'm just not a fan of the immense amount of gratuitous sex in her books. I get to the point where I just skim through those parts to find the true story. And using the children in the way the characters/author uses the children totally turned my stomach. So much of this book is completely implausible, but it makes this psychological thriller darker and even more disturbing. I can't write more because I don't want to give anything away. I'm obviously in the minority because most people think this book is amazing. I thought it was ok, but I think the author and I don't really mesh with our styles overall.

Quick summary: Trash with a Twist. This was a definite departure from the regular Hoover fare. It came off rather raunchy and YA for me. No depth to this which is ok if a thriller is delivering a thrill. But, this was lacking on so many levels- with the exception of the sexual one. The writing- oh so crass- how many times can you use the word “cock” and “dick” in a paragraph, a chapter, a book?!? I know what you were doing here Hoover, but it was making me twitch. Another one knocked off my physical shelf but I was tempted to kick it in the trash. The only saving grace that enabled me to give this a 2 in good conscience was an unseen twist. I only finished this as I was getting the squeeze from my daughter who thought this was so creepy. I told her to read Stephen King. Hoover obviously has a following for this to be rated a 4.37. Just not the following I follow. 2**

I normally give a quick star review and move on, but I think The Paper Palace needs a fuller review. First, I don’t think this is a zero star book, but it is pretty darn close. Next, I understand that it is a first novel for the author, but it’s a real mess. Someone should have kicked it back and said, “Nope! Try again.” Maybe a second attempt would have helped, maybe not… who knows. One example of the mess I refer to is the timeline. In this book there was a dual timeline and this dual time line was not handle well, as a matter of fact it was so confusing I frequently could not keep track of where we where in the timeline. At one point the main character Elle says, “But that was 20 years ago.” You could have knocked me over with a feather, I would have said that incident just happened. It jumps around so much within chapters that it is really quite difficult to keep straight. Further, I am really not sure how this book ended up with the “Reese” stamp of approval, my only thought there is that someone summarized it in a very positive way and she said, “Ok!” Reese I hope you won’t let another like this stinker get through again. OK… At this point you’re thinking, “He’s clearly not a fan of this book (you are quite correct) so why did he give it a 2 star review?” Well, let me explain. The book/story/writing I am giving a 1 star review and recommending that you look elsewhere for your next reading fix… this is not the book you’re looking for. But I did give it a 1.5 star review because after a while I started to get a perverse kind of pleasure from reading this weirdly written 386 page book (more on perverse pleasure in a minute) and lastly my own personal rule says that if I give something a half point rating, I have to round up, hence 1.5 is rounded up and you get my 2 star review. OK… so what about this “perverse pleasure” thing? Well, she’s got no real writing style that you can speak of, but she’s got some weird ticks/quirks that she kinda harps on repeatedly. For example, she really write some weird awkward sentences… (1) “I know the radiation has already gotten through the tear in my body’s Hazmat.” (2) “He doesn’t have a brain below the waist.” (3) “They are the sorts of parents I have only read about in books. Tweedy and kind. I can’t understand how they raised such a horrible cow.” (4) “Jonas watches as I stroke Peter’s skin.” Is “stroke” the right word for applying sunscreen? (5) “Wipe crumps of soil off the butt of my jean shorts.” (6) “Our illicit proximity thrills through me.” (7) “Thin rulers of gray light stripe my bedspread… “ (8) “Do you suppose this is where the marital bed was?” That’s a very common question for a 12 year old boy to ask, right? (9) “My hair smells of bonfire smoke and ketchup.” Ketchup? No explanation provided. (10) “All of a sudden his body slumps, as if the sharp blade of discovery has de-boned him.” (11) My mother’s cure for all woes: “If you’re feeling depressed, organize your underwear drawer.” (12) “My voice teeth against teeth.” What does that even mean???? (13) “There’s something about a white cat that revolts me - a ratlike porn-y quality.” What??? (14) “Hummingbirds drinking flower nectar with their needle-beaks” Awkward much? (15) “An egg-yolk sun rises out of the dense tree line like a hot air balloon” Make up your mind… egg yolk or hot air balloon. And there are many more… these are but a few of the gems. Next, the author seems to be overly interested in pee, peeing and piss in general. There are so many references to pee, plot points involving pee and people peeing in general. OK… I get it, people pee, but there is so much of it in this book… why??!! What is the point? Was there a point? Here are a few examples I noted… there are many more I promise you… (1) “Tears have dried in piss-thin icicles on my cheeks.” Piss-thin icicles? Is that a thing??? (2) “Mouse piss or the slow drip drip of their afterbirth.“ SIDE NOTE: There are also MULTIPLE references to mouse afterbirth in this book. I am thinking that mouse afterbirth must be extremely tiny… how does it drip drip? I don’t think I have ever seen a mouse afterbirth in my 51 years on this earth, yet our main character refers to it at least twice in two different sections of the book. And again I ask WHY??? Just trying to gross us out for some reason? (3) “I hope you explained to your young man that we don’t flush for pee.” (4) “Peeing on the beach sitting down is even better than peeing in the shower standing up.” Really? WTF? How is the relevant? (5) “I only need to pee, but I’m tempted to take a shit in the toilet just to make a point.” What point can be made this way? How will the person in question know you’ve even done this? (6) “I have no choice but to sit down and pee with Gina two feet away, underpants around my ankles… “ There’s more, but I didn’t note it all down (yes, there’s even a “meet cute” scene where our main character pees in the street in front of her future husband shortly after they meet. How romantic! 💦) She also likes to name drop unusual product names for no apparent reason… (1) Leica camera (2) Hu-Kwu tea (3) Metrecal (4) Rothman cigarettes (5) Linguiça (6) Lanz Nightgowns (7) Medaglia d'Oro Italian Roast Espresso Instant Coffee (8) Sea Monkeys She loves WASP’y character names. (1) Wallace (2) Eleanor (3) Dixon (4) Whitman (5) Jonas (6) Conrad (7) Nanette (8) Austin And speaking of characters, there’s not a character in the entire book you can bond with or even like very much. Both of the romantic interests (Jonas & Peter) are DUDS. And finally after 386 pages there’s also an ambiguous ending which I won’t reveal here. So, if you’ve read this far, please take my word for it and don’t bother renting a room for even a single day in this shabby Paper Palace… the accommodations are “piss poor,” the staff won’t get you anywhere worth going and you will be lost in double quick time. PS - There’s so much more that is wrong with this book, but this review is getting really long and I am trying not to give away plot points and spoilers, so I will wrap it up here and let you make your own decision about reading it. Final word: Don’t believe the 5-star reviews.

Just incredibly disappointed at the marketing for this book given the relentless and graphic depictions of all forms of abuse

⭐️ ⭐️ Look, messiness sells. I get it. Family drama, lies, unbegotten love, the traumatic impact of violence. All of that does something to tantalize our insatiable intrigue. Often, it’s that misshapen morality that gives a book its authenticity. But that’s because it’s there to serve a purpose. In this book, much of it feels gratuitous, and unnecessary. I did not enjoy my time with this novel. I wanted it to go somewhere it never did. I wanted to feel the untamable pull between two people whose lives were meant to be intertwined. I wanted to root for them to satisfy their lifelong pursuit in a way that felt salacious but enriching. None of that happened. I wanted to get out of the flashbacks, and into the present, which I found much more interesting, but then when it did, I found it to be weighed down by its aimless misery. This whole book felt like it reveled in chaos, and left me feeling downtrodden and devoid of interest.

Gahh i hate hate love triangles. I read the description but it’s been a while since I read a story featuring a love triangle so I didn’t think much of it. I also assumed Peter wouldn’t be portrayed in a positive light. But he was. So this is a trope i do not enjoy. If you don’t love triangles, go ahead. Almost all of my GR friends who read it enjoyed it. But if you don’t like love triangles regardless of the genre, then this book isn’t worth your time. I started reading this book considering it’s adult fiction and maybe now that my reading taste matured (a bit), I can see the story in a different light. I didn’t. I truly still can’t like books where the MC isn’t sure who’s the person she loves… The writing was beautiful though. So it really depends on what you like/dislike. Just make sure to read a bit about the story before you start, there are several triggers in this book after all.

I did not like THE PAPER PALACE. Beautiful cover, atmospheric writing yet the story was soooooooo slow (even though various author blurbs on the back boasted a "pageturner") and the characters lacked communication with each other so badly that it was a train wreck from beginning to end. 50-something Elle, her husband, Peter, kids and her mother are at the family cabin aka The Paper Palace near the lake and for the next 24 hours the reader learns of Elle's past - her childhood, her mother's men, the family secrets (trigger warnings - abuse, incest, several deaths) - all this woven into Elle's present where she has slept the night before with her longtime (and married) friend, Jonas. The back and forth timeline with her past, given by the date, and the current day, given by the hour, was so wordy and I felt myself wanting to only tiptoe in the present - to find out what would happen to Elle and Jonas, if anything, after their built-up-over-their-lifetime passion for each other. I get really annoyed with over-hyped books and how they suck me in and make me read them! This was another that failed me. What a disappointment. Yet Reese Witherspoon picked it for her bookclub and now this author is laughing all the way to the bank ... aside from the lush cover, it's quite a depressing story and the ending .... yep, a doozy. It just leaves you there.

Let me just say that this book was not meant for me. I wasn’t impressed by the writing and I found the storyline and its structure to be pretentious and confusing. The dialogues were very disappointing and I was bored the whole time. Fortunately this book is small (84k words) and the chapters are not too long. As if someone else wrote it, chapter 30 was my favourite one, where I asked why couldn’t have been like that throughout the book? It was a moment of great lucidity and that was what I was expecting from this author. Anyways, there are plenty of twists that I’m sure other readers will rave about it. A warning for those who can’t stand death of a pet. In chapter 33 a dog is killed. Although there was no suffering, I know that some readers will want to skip it. Happy reading everyone!

A woman is witnessed leaving the scene of an unthinkable crime. A man has just been found murdered on a house boat and left for dead. Who killed Daniel? Sounds like a simple plot, right? Nope, not this one! A Slow Fire Burning is Paula Hawkins’ third thriller and truly a slow burn. I loved The Woman on the Train, but DNF’d Into the Water, so I was curious as to which direction I would land with this one. Unfortunately, this book felt overly complicated and contained way too many characters and sub plots. I found it very difficult to connect with any of the characters and even more challenging to follow all of the threads. If I wasn’t reviewing this book for the publisher, I am not sure that I would have finished it. I am starting to wonder if Paula Hawkins will be able to follow the success of The Girl on the Train with another stand out thriller. However, I am keeping my fingers crossed that her next book is a five star read! 2.5/5 stars rounded down Thank you to NetGalley and Penguin Group Riverhead for my gifted copy in exchange for an honest review.

I really wanted to like this book as I loved the Girl on the Train, but sadly there was nothing about this I liked in the least. I usually love books that have multiple unlikable characters and POV's but it just didn't seem to work here. How all the characters intertwined seemed far-fetched and the writing seemed choppy, chapters did not flow well at all. The book within the book (seems there are a ton of these recently) also didn't do much for me and felt it was unnecessary. I really don't have much more to say on it :( Random thought: There was no need to throw in the dog backstory, totally not needed

I am one who really enjoyed The Girl on the Train . (Even though that and Gone Girl started a whole thing of having the word Girl in every other domestic suspense/mystery title going forward. Or woman, wife, lady, dame…you get my point. I don’t think there’s really one with dame. Yet…) And I liked but didn’t love the author’s second book. One of the things I struggled with in that one happened again in this one and I found myself not as able to get past that this time. I’ll start with that. So here we go: ❌ Too many characters. In her second book, this was also the case but by the halfway point I had everyone straight in my head and was invested in them all enough to care. In this one, it took about the same amount of time for me to get up to speed. But unlike the second one, the halfway point is where my interest started waning and this multitude of characters I was supposed to care about didn’t help. ❌ With this huge cast of characters, came multiple POV. And within those POV, things would go from present to past. Then within this there was a novel within a novel that one of the characters wrote. That was also connected to another character’s backstory. Maybe it was my mood but it just felt like a lot of work and I got tired. Actually I’m tired just explaining it. 😂 ❌ The plot. I think this author writes really well. The first half I was confused but engaged. I thought it was all building up to something really big. But when I got to the end I kind of felt like, “That’s it? All this convoluted, tangled drama and this is the conclusion?” 🤷🏻‍♀️ ❌ There’s a good chance I will forget absolutely everything about this book in a day. So yeah. This wasn’t the book for me. I felt cranky at the end and a little bummed that I hadn’t just abandoned it. I can’t even make myself get on my computer and add gifs. Maybe later. I’ll try whatever she writes next but I won’t be afraid to DNF. Thank you and goodnight.

This is Paula Hawkins third novel. The first one – “The Girl on the Train” was a runaway bestseller and a suspenseful, tense, and mesmerizing read. The second one – “Into the Water” – was a lesser quality follow-up that had too many points-of-view, discombobulating the complex story. This one – “A Slow Fire is Burning” – unfortunately leans more towards the weaknesses of her second book rather than the simple strengths of her first one. “A Slow Fire Burning Fire” starts off with the murder of a young man, Daniel Sutherland, whose body is discovered in a London houseboat. When the investigation begins, there are several potential suspects, including: Laura Kilbride - a troubled young lady with social challenges, who had a questionable one-night-stand with Daniel and was last seen leaving his houseboat the night previous to his murder. Carla Myerson – Daniel’s aunt, dealing not only with Daniel’s death, she is still recovering from the recent death of Daniel’s own mother and her sister. Theo Myerson – Carla’s ex-husband, who still shares an on and off relationship with her, is struggling with his writing career and jealousies. Miriam Lewis - a nosy neighbor who has a houseboat close to Daniel’s and seems to know a lot about him, as well as Laura’s troubled past and Theo’s writing sources too. Each of these four had their own personal connections to the victim and the secrets that included. Could one of them been harboring thoughts of revenge? Could that person be capable of killing? As the title suggests, is it possible that one those fires slowly burning has exploded in an act of madness and murder? When I was reading this book, it didn’t take me long to realize that it really felt like I was reading a Shari Lapena suburban mystery rather than the Paul Hawkins untrustworthy narrator point-of-view style that she so creatively developed in his first outing. I realize that this avenue of thought will not sit well with some readers and I understand that. It is not my intent to criticize any author or their works. However, having read all of Lapena’s novels, as well as Hawkins, this was a Lapena book in all of the key elements. Characters that were weak, flawed, and detached from reality as they try to overcome the negative influence of prior traumas. Plotting that involved a current murder mystery while moving back and forth in time to fill in back stories and secrets that each primary character is carrying. And the kicker that really makes it a Lapena product is that none of the characters (except for maybe Irene) are likeable. Not at all. They are strange and full of dark idiosyncrasies that make them interesting, but not sympathetic. Almost the whole time I was reading this book, I kept thinking is this Lapena writing or Hawkins? Or is it Hawkins writing a tribute to Lapena? I am sorry, but I couldn’t help it. Now, the real question after that becomes, was it good? For me, the answer is a bit yes, but mostly no. Yes, in that I liked how Hawkins moved back and forth between the various characters, as well as mixing in their past to link everything together. Most of the time she pulled this off in a smooth and somewhat seamless manner that delivered an additional depth to the various plotlines and character behaviors. However, I found the inserts of Theo’s mystery novel between the chapters to be distracting and annoying. Maybe that’s me, but I didn’t find them helpful. It felt like they were included to increase the page count beyond the 300 -page mark. No, for the primary reasons that I already stated (making me feel like I was reading a Lapena book). I wasn’t as interested as I wanted to be in watching each of the characters suffer psychological self-breakdowns, mostly driven by their own weaknesses and stupidity. I also found myself conflicted in that Hawkins had a lot going on with each of her characters, and at times it made the novel strong and interesting. However, at other times, it came across as a bit messy and convoluted in the delivery. I almost needed a scorecard to keep up with the activities. I understand that the current trend of psychological mysteries focuses on untrusty character viewpoints and building up to big twists and surprises at the end. Those can be incredibly hard to conceive and deliver in an exceptional manner. It takes superb plotting in which the clues, red herrings, and critical information is doled out slowly at key moments throughout as the author builds to a big and shocking climax. Characters must be fleshed out enough to be interesting and captivating, carrying secrets and demonstrating dark behaviors. Anyone who can pull that off successfully has my full respect. Hawkins uses her title to create multiple storylines that examine people dealing with real and personal problems, creating a slow burning fire within them, building in fury throughout the book, and finally combusting at the end in tragic and revealing ways. However, as well as it may have been conceived and constructed, Hawkins falls short on the execution and delivery. The first 200 pages take a long time to get going, and then the last 100 pages didn’t really provide an emotional payoff. Again, maybe it’s me, but I not only figured out who the killer was early in the book, I also nailed the reason for him/her committing the murder. Even with all that Hawkins had going on, it still felt predictable. My primary struggles were the same that I have with Lapena; although the characters are interesting, they are not sympathetic or empathetic in almost every way. There is no one to cheer for, no one to really draw on and emotionally care about and invest my attention on. It’s like flipping through the channels and hitting on an old Jerry Springer episode where the guests are so unrelatable that you aren’t rally invested in their outcomes. That’s the same here. Interesting, obnoxious, and dysfunctional in a trashy way, but not necessarily memorable. Overall, this was not bad, but not as good as it could have been either. I wanted to like it. I truly did. But the truth is, it just didn’t provide the level of excitement that I was hoping for as I plodded through it, hoping it would get better. It just felt like it could have been better, as if Hawkins was trying to do too much and it showed at times, and not relying enough on what her own strengths really are. Here’s to hoping for a better outcome next time…

I get what the author was trying to do with this book… I guess.. but it was a no from me 🤷🏻‍♀️ I thought the main character was so obnoxious and frustrating and I really don’t understand the glowing reviews. Did I miss something? 😅 Part 2 of this book takes such a surprising turn, but like.. not in a good way. It just felt kind of ridiculous to me 😬

** spoiler alert ** I will preface this review by saying thank you to NetGalley and Random House for an advanced copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. I will also preface this review by sharing that Jodi Picoult has been one of my favorite authors since I was a girl. I read this book in two days. Much like her other books, Picoult is a great storyteller. However, I read the book with a scowl and found myself not enjoying the content throughout. Going in, I knew this was a book about the COVID-19 pandemic, and found myself curious by the premise and reading about Diana, the MC, going to the Galapagos Islands without her boyfriend as he worked on the frontlines at a hospital during the height of the pandemic. This book did not come with any content warnings from the author which is a huge disservice. Of course, Picoult's books always covers heavy topics, and I knew it would be tough going in given the subject, but to write a pandemic fiction when people have lost loved ones or who have suffered because of the virus (we are still in the pandemic, Jodi), and not have a note precede the book, is just bizarre to me. I will say that if you are easily triggered or have lost a loved one during COVID, do not read this book. If you have experience with mental health issues or PTSD, do not read this book. Other warnings include: self-harm, death, death of loved ones, suicidal thoughts, suicide ideation. I am still mulling over if I am even comfortable with Picoult profiting off of a global pandemic which is still very real for folks around the world. I almost feel like this book was too soon. I appreciated the accuracy and her ability to encourage vaccinations and masks and to take the virus seriously, but I found that the plot and execution of the book itself took away from that. SPOILERS ahead ---- This is where I get a little angry. Let's talk about the plot twist. Turns out Diana was not in the Galapagos. She was under a ventilator dying of COVID and hallucinated the entire thing. Add one psychological trauma to another. Honestly, I read the plot twist and almost stopped. This book was unfair and borderline abusive. During my reading experience, I was triggered by the content. Not to mention Picoult also creates a 14-year-old girl named Beatriz in the Galapagos who self-harms and has suicidal thoughts. Diana spends a large chunk of her time in the islands forming a close bond and helping the girl heal. To then learn that Beatriz wasn't real? I felt seen for my mental illness and then erased in one page. I grieved with Diana when she discovered she wasn't real. Were these character elements really necessary? Why do this? I don't think I can forgive Picoult for that. I understand these are all fictional characters. But there was too much grief, too much loss, too much everything in this book. Picoult really missed the mark with this one.

2.5 stars Rating this book is tricky. I knew that Picoult has a new book so I was excited to read it. However, I didn't read the description. I was surprised when I discovered that it's set during covid-19. I am not in a mental state that is ready to read about books set in the pandemic. Therefore, it took me longer than expected to finish it and I was bored throughout the first part. The second part was better but still, this story didn't mean much to me. I certainly learned new things from this book, particularly the second part. This book would probably age well but at the moment, I prefer to not read anything covid-19 related because yes, life is somewhat back to normal (to some extent) but I'm still not ready. Please also note that my low rating is also because the story/plot/characters didn't interest me much since I know it would be unfair if I solely rated it 2 stars because I don't want to read about covid.

I’m super disappointed in Jodi Picoult. She’s always been one of my favorite authors but after this book, I’m not feeling the same. I’ve always loved how she took a controversial issue and told it from multiple perspectives. Well this story was about Covid and it was told from ONE point of view only. It felt like watching the mainstream news parrot out their agenda, a political one and she even criticized “anti-maskers” and advocates of medical freedom. I’m sadly shaking my head over here. 👎🏼👎🏼👎🏼

I haven't had a lot of experience reading Jodi Picoult but the ones I remember had characters faced with a choice like The Pact or The Storyteller. I would find myself looking at two sides of an issues and see the pros and cons of both. In this story Diana works for Sotheby's and wants a promotion by the time she is 30 and marry her long time boyfriend, Finn, who is a surgical resident. They are planning a trip to the Galapagos and then COVID hits. Rather than lose money he encourages her to go alone. I found it improbable that a doctor with an idea of what was going to happen would send the person he loves thousands of miles away. When she lands on Isabela people are leaving because it is the last ferry out and the island is on lock down so she can turn around and go home but she doesn't. She says that she is the type of person who hates going to eat out alone or go to a movie because she wants to share everything but she choses to stay on a locked down island with little access to the outside world and she doesn't speak the language. I laughed out loud when she ran out of books on her Kindle!! She is taken in by an older woman and befriends her grandson, Gabriel, and his daughter, Beatriz. Things I didn't like: (1) Kitomi Ito and her husband, Sam, is a very thinly disguised John and Yoko. (2) Let's throw in a bunch of Spanish phrases and not explain them because the author must think we all speak Spanish. (3) There was a bit of politics thrown in and digs at the handling of the pandemic. I am on the same side as she is but maybe I don't want to know the political leaning of the author and perhaps it is just too soon and to raw to relive the beginning of the pandemic again. We are still wearing masks and people are still getting sick and the memories of wiping down the groceries and not leaving the house for weeks at a time, getting 3 months to a gallon of gas is still too fresh. (4) I didn't like the twist. It pissed me off. Other than that the writing is good. She really brings to life the island of Isabela and the wild life, the volcanos although I didn't feel a big draw to Gabriel and Beatriz. I would like to thank Netgalley and Random House Ballantine for providing me with this book.

Jodi Picoult’s upcoming novel Wish You Were Here takes place in March of 2020. Diana works in the art auction world and is on track to have the life she’s always dreamed of. She’s found love with her boyfriend Finn, a surgical resident in NYC, and feels so sure he’s going to propose on their upcoming trip to the Galápagos Islands. But when COVID-19 hits the US, it’s all hands on deck at the hospital, and Finn needs to stay in New York. He convinces Diana to go without him, but upon arrival with the islands shutting down, finds she’s made a mistake. Stranded until borders reopen, Diana has to learn to forge her own way, but will she be the same person when she returns? I apologize in advance to the Jodi Picoult die-hards out there, but yikes… this was not it. Quite frankly, I found the main character Diana to be incredibly selfish and unfocused on anything but what she wants at any given moment. Finn was a saint for dealing with her, on top of already being exhausted from taking care of COVID patients everyday. In a world where this pandemic is still very much a part of our everyday lives, the lack of regard for anyone but herself made Diana absolutely insufferable to me. I enjoy books with unlikable characters, but they need to be self aware. Diana didn’t think she had done anything wrong, and it just made me hate her. There is a huge twist about 55% through that just frustrated and annoyed me, but I can’t say more without huge spoilers. I definitely think this is a book you can skip, even if you love Jodi’s other books. Thanks to @netgalley and Ballantine Books for the eARC. Wish You Were Here will be published November 30, 2021.

The theme of the book is corruption in the Catholic Church, especially in the papal bureaucracy – the Curia. I would have found it enlightening to read the Author’s Note, which is absent of spoilers, before reading the story. Protagonist Gabriel Allon’s ties to Israel and the Mossad are in the past. Now he is an Italian art restorer and teacher, and a retired spy operative, who has maintained relationships with many of his past colleagues, but his primary relationships are with his family and the Pope. Having read all the Gabriel Allon books as they were introduced, I found An Inside Job formulaic. The story was only mildly engaging and a little predictable; it was a quick read. I enjoyed the art history education. To reunite with an old friend, I will continue to borrow Daniel Silva’s books from the library as they are published, but the thrill is gone. I read the entire book, but I was glad to reach the end.

** spoiler alert ** As much as I love Daniel Silva’s Gabriel Allon books, the plots and the characters become more of a sketch than a finished painting. All the characters, including Gabriel are starting to feel like 2 dimensional cardboard cutouts. There is no longer any motivation for anything Gabriel does other than art theft. Why? In the first dozen books the art took second place to Gabriel’s working for the Mossad, I mean the office. Since taking over as director and then retiring, the series seems to be losing its reason to exist. Even Chiara, who is supposed to be the love of his life is a line drawing without depth or shading. The children are personality-less afterthoughts. Plus the characters returning from the non-spy part of Gabriel’s life are boring and at best 2 dimensional. Not even sure there are two dimensions to most of them. The only reason I had a shred of who these people are is because I’ve read all the prior books. Had this been the first Silva book I’d picked up, it would have been the last. Plus I really miss the quiet girl who limps (and why), the man with eyes like glacial ice, the nondescript man who you would never notice on the street and the woman who had childbearing hips. Will I read the next book (if there is a next book)? Probably, but more out of habit than an expectation of the quality of the first part of the series.

This was one of my least favorite in a wonderful series that probably needs to end. Allon used to be an international man of mystery who fought terrorists and exposed corruption in governments. Now he pursues art thieves as a retiree. Not a great book and somewhat slow in build up without a real solid payoff in the end. Silva used to be sharp, but this effort was extremely dull.

Sad to say this will likely be my last Daniel Silva book. I have been hoping he would stop inserting his TDS in his books. I understand he has a right to his views but I read for escape and enjoyment

I’m done Wanted to give Silva another chance after he delved far too deeply into pandemic and election politics in his last book. My mistake. An Inside Job is a tired and suspenseful recycling of characters and storylines that once had energy and excitement. No longer.

Have always enjoyed the Allon series books. While this one is well written, I dislike when an author injects current politics into the story as if they believe they can influence the reader to their point of view.

Silva has become formulaic I used to enjoy Silvia’s books but the past several have become entirely formulaic in plot, character and a bit too much unnecessary padding. I’m done until he finds some fresh subject matter.

Unfortunately Daniel Silva has lost his majic for me. I loved all of his books up to the last two including this one. Too many characters - hard to follow who’s who. All about the Vatican & art. Gabriel Alon does not really play that big of a part. Sorry but I think this will be my last Silva

I am sure there are a lot of people out there who absolutely loved this book, but it is definitely not for me. The only reason I finished it is because it was a book club book. It received two stars because I liked the Pope!

I have always loved the Gabriel Allon series- read them all - but this last one proved very underwhelming, and devoid of excitement. Such a missed opportunity, again, to have integrated current Middle East geopolitics into the book. It’s as if Silva is trying to erase Allon’s link to Israel and the secret service….

Fun to read, but a newly elected pope that has devoted is life to bring the church to the people, knows the best restaurant in Rome, best food, best wines, only once he has dinner at his place, warmed up left over food, Great story telling Lost Rafaello, homicides, but Silva's political beliefs (woke) got in and that kills the book for me. No more from this author

Another Entry Showing How This Once Great Series Has Lost Its Edge! With An Inside Job, Silva delivers yet another polished entry in the Gabriel Allon series — but also another highly formulaic and somewhat stale reminder of how far the books have drifted from what made them compelling in the first place; especially in the last four books. Early Allon novels crackled with urgency: morally complex geopolitics, genuine tradecraft, emotional stakes rooted in Gabriel’s past, and a constant sense of danger. Here, that tension is mostly muted. The plot leans heavily on the now-familiar formula — assemble the elite team, follow cultured breadcrumbs through Europe, resolve the crisis with near-effortless precision. The unpredictability and raw edge that once defined the series have been replaced by a smoother, safer, much more predictable rhythm. Further, Gabriel himself has evolved from a haunted, conflicted intelligence operative into something closer to an untouchable master problem-solver. The vulnerability and moral weight that once gave his victories meaning, and which caused his personal life to be so conflicted, are largely absent. Without that friction, the story reads more like a well-produced procedural than a high-stakes thriller. Silva remains a skilled craftsman, and the novel is readable; but also one that becomes forgettable right after finishing it. For a reader such as myself who has read all 25 books in this series, I’ve become beyond disappointed with how the series has stepped away from the very qualities — grit, risk, emotional depth — that made it a standout in modern espionage fiction. As I said in previous reviews, it’s time for Silva to let Allon REALLY retire and for himself to step outside of the Comfort Zone he’s been in for much too long and create a new series with new, fresh characters and new, fresh plots. Since I just learned that Silva has a new Gabriel Allon book due out on July 14th, titled Ransom, my hope for a new series is dashed. I guess it’s understandable why Silva won’t do this, at least any time soon, since the series is too much of a “cash cow” for him to give it up.

A political diatribe masquerading as thriller fiction. Coulnd't finish it. The other 19 Gabriel Allon stories were all excellent.

Silva, whom I used to really like, is phoning it in. From the GR rating, I can see I'm the only one who thinks so. Here, Allon is vacationing in Venice when the Vatican calls for his assistance again. The current Pope has died from his third heart attack in six months; obviously that's suspicious. Naturally, they call the head of Israeli Intelligence to investigate. That's the job of Israeli Intelligence, to investigate, pro bono, unlikely crimes that have nothing to do with Israel, right? But wait: it does have something to do with Israel. Turns out the Pope died right after finding a [Roman] document from the time of Christ, Pontius Pilate's confession. Yay! This will expose anti-Semitism as the product of a Vatican/Roman spin campaign--they blamed the Jews, and really, it was always the Romans who killed Christ. This is the interesting point in the book--does all anti-Semitism grow from the Christian notion that Jewish leaders induced the Romans to kill Christ? Perhaps it does. But a 2,000 year-old revelation isn't going to change that. So the Allon investigation goes in the usual, invented-by-a-six-year-old way. They look for a conspiracy, and immediately find it. The hack the phone of a conspirator, and know everything: who's in on it, how much money they were paid, where it comes from, what the goals are. A twenty-seven-year-old hacker, living in her parent's basement, could defeat the forces of evil if it were this easy. The conspirators have bought the votes of a bunch of cardinals to fix the election of the next Pope. Now that Allon knows all, he can destroy the conspiracy. Come on, Silva, really. The bad guys went from Cardinal to Cardinal and said, "Pssst. Wanna make some major cash? Here's who you vote for, next time there's a conclave." Let's say that would work a few times. Let's say, with unlimited funds, you could buy a bunch of cardinals. Did they have a 100% success rate? Because if they asked just one cardinal who refused, just one cardinal who was not willing to betray the church, his faith, his God, and his principles, then he blows the whistle and the scheme collapses. Which brings me to my joke headline from a month ago, when the real Pope was visiting Baghdad: 'Pope takes opportunity in Baghdad to issue fatwa against U.S. plaintiff's bar.' The book is plodding, uninspiring, unworthy. Even the prose is lazy: lots and lots of telling, where Allon and others allegedly feel emotions, but we don't see them. And his dialogue might as well all be from the same character: it's all in the same style. Silva's style of dialogue: 'I finished it." "Finished what?" "The book." "How was it?" "It had its moments." "Such as?" "I liked the ending." And so on. EVERY CHARACTER speaks evasively, as though the author had paid him to avoid revealing any information as long as possible. This is not tension-building; this is lame.

Off Course In The Order Silva drifts from international thriller to a thinly veiled political treatise. Espionage operations and action scenes lack the depth of previous Gabriel Allon adventures. Having read every Silva novel, The Order is the only one that was time wasted. It reads more like a NY Times opinion piece than spy thriller.

Predictable I have read all of Silva's books, many several times. His later novels have become too predictable and uninspiring. The Order was more of a chore to read, rather than a joy to read.

2.75! I love Freida's books, not all of them are masterpieces but I enjoy them a lot, they get me out of my slump and have me hooked but this one was such a frustrating read. I feel like Freida writes really well she know show to grip the readers, draw them in and keep them over there. It's like you can't stop, you will sacrifice your sleep, your studies, your hobbies, everything just to know more and the 'One more chapter' feeling with her books is so real because it's always one more chapter until you are eventually done with the books and that is one of the things about the boyfriend that I liked. It had an attractive writing style but I think Freida always fumbles when it comes to her characters, Millie and Nina were borderline annoying but Sydney Shaw made them look so much better. this book followed two pov's one in past about Tom and one set in the present following Sydney. Sydney was the most obnoxious fmc ever written to this date, I have never met such a dumb character!! like Idk how she survived even a single page. Her throughout the whole book is basically just figuring out why she cant find a man and why she shouldn't be jealous of her friends love life and then it slowly transitions into meeting a hot guy being suspicious of him, morphing into being conflicted between two guys, which then finally turned into Sydney thinking that she ate but made the most dumbest decisions leading to the last few chapters. She's so self absorbed and she does not change one bit throughout the books,. She was literally like a cardboard piece and I feel like character development was found dead when it came to her. I feel like her character was not well fit for this story, she was so inconsistent!! She would want to find her bestie's murderer but also forgets about it the moment a hot guy does something that a human being does and it made me so furious but also I feel like it was simultaneously a good thing because Sydney was so dumb that if she took everything in her own hands I would have thrown my phone on the wall and would have bald spots because I could not bear one more chapter of her trying to figure out who the killer was. I wasn't this interested in her story. The past point of view is where I had most of my concentration, it follows the pov of Tom who's trying to get this girl Daisy to fall in love with her and I was pretty hooked when it came to that because it had raised stakes and had me questioning things which was totally absent in the present pov, It had a more mysterious nature which I was expecting throughout the whole book. I feel like this pov definitely made me doubt a lot of things and I feel like it serves its purpose well!! This part was the saving grace of the book. (which helped me not dnf it) While the past pov was more interesting the character wasnt really :/ why were they trying so hard to shady and psychotic, honestly it was so eye roll worthy, She tried to make them so weird and Tom half of the time was deciding whether slug was his friend or not lmao. I wasn't that frustrated with his character as much as I was with Sydney but it wasn't exactly the best either. The plot overall was fine and the plot twist was the only things that I did not predict I was shooketh when it came to that because the way the story was building up I had no idea that was happening it did a whole 180 on my theories. I would say the past pov was more stronger because it had me raising questions like How does it connect to the main story and wanting to kknow what happened next and Sydneys plot line made me want to throw this book in a dumpster. It was okay with a good plot twist. I would say the after the twist, I think three or four chapters were left and they were very underwhelming and diluted. It felt like an episode of You mixed with real housewives of beverly hills and very diluted and all the high that twist put us through quickly faded away. The prologue and the epilogue are things that she aces while the prologue was really good and wild the Epilogue was the most eye roll worthy epilogue of the century, I could have lived easily without having read that. Waste of pages, waste of trees. Overall, I love her books and i've enjoyed all of them, even this but her characters seem to be growing more erratic one book after the other but I know this wont stop me from reading more of her books, I'll be lined up whenever shes releasing her next book! ___ Well time to say goodbye to my sleep schedule. (So happy I got an audiobook because exams are killing me) ___ I take a nap meanwhile Frieda Mcfadden: Here you go another book that would probably not let you sleep...

In the words of Forest Gump… STUPID IS AS STUPID DOES *pulls sleeves back, cracks knuckles* Ok lets go… Ms McFadden has come out with her fourth release of this year with The Boyfriend. In this book we are following dimwit Sydney who just wants to find Mr Right and settle down. She goes on a date with a guy she’s been speaking to on a dating website and realises she has been catfished when he turns out to be a creepy little sod. When said sod starts behaving aggressively towards Sydney she is rescued by a charming mystery man and thinks she has finally found her match. Is Sydney about to get her happily ever after!???.... 😒😒🙄🙄🙄 Our main character Sydney is one of the most idiotic characters I have had to suffer reading through. The boys in Dumb and Dumber don’t even come close to just how stupid Sydney is. So because we are going through this story in her narrative, we have to ignore the obvious and go round and round in mundane circles. In Sydney’s eyes every Red Flag was frankly Beige! Sydney and co are all caricature characters. There is not a single character development, and we don’t get to know anything else about them than what we barely already know. I had to stomach through the first 50% of the book with Freida talking about the most pointless things such as: Flabby arms/ Sleeveless dresses, Sydney being a bleeder, women over 34 and their fertility and of course Turtles... etc… The book is told in dual POVs with Sydney and a guy named Tom. Tom’s storyline is told in the past when he was 16 years old. He has a crush on a girl named Daisy Driscoll, who he really wants to be with, but he also wants to squeeze the life out of her, because you know he has a fetish for harming people and seeing blood. Oh and he really hates his dad. I WONDER HOW THESE TWO POVS ARE CONNECTED… 😒😒😒 Anyway, the story only really picks up after the 50% mark, but don’t get too excited because we still have deal with Sydney’s annoying ass and moronic inner thoughts. In true Freida fashion her mind games are activated, and I must admit that I did not see the “big” plot twist coming, but all the other ones were painfully obvious. Speaking of the major plot twist it is very, very, VERY dumb and of course with any Freida book suspension of disbelief is HIGHLY REQUIRED! The ending was so dense and dull, I had to fling my kindle, put myself in a corner and have a serious word with myself as to why I keep letting Freida do this to me. Then the epilogue… no words. Unfortunately, The Boyfriend is not a winner for me, but I will say it was more palatable than the Housemaid is Watching. My main issue is that nothing and no one’s actions made sense. Consequences and common sense was not a factor in this book. Extreme things would happen and then just be swept under the rug. Besides the ‘big twist’, the book was very mild and produced more eye rolls than I can possibly count. For a quick mindless read/ listen and to laugh at the brainlessness of a bunch of characters then you can give this book a go. Freida I will keep hoping and praying that we will get back to how we once were. I will see you in 2025 for The Crash 😭😭😭 THE END. 2.5 ⭐ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ⋆｡°✩pre read⋆｡°✩ ITSSSSS TIIIIIIIIMEEEEEEE!🤩🤩 The devil works hard But Freida McFadden works harder! Fingers Crossed this one delivers!🤞🏾🤍❤️🤍

Alternative title: The Boyfriend And His Airhead Girlfriend

i trust dating apps about as much as i trust that i’m gonna be shocked by a good freida plot twist.🥰 now, if you’ll excuse me, i’m gonna let my flabby arms live their best life in my finest sleeveless dress. i’d stay and bleed out a thoughtful review, but I’m just gonna turtle my way out of here. Or should I say… bug out? 𝘱.𝘴. 𝘪𝘧 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘭𝘪𝘬𝘦𝘥 𝘰𝘳 𝘦𝘯𝘫𝘰𝘺𝘦𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴; 𝘪’𝘮 𝘩𝘢𝘱𝘱𝘺 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘺𝘰𝘶! 𝘪𝘵 𝘸𝘢𝘴𝘯’𝘵 𝘮𝘺 𝘢𝘣𝘴𝘰𝘭𝘶𝘵𝘦 𝘧𝘢𝘷𝘰𝘳𝘪𝘵𝘦 𝘣𝘶𝘵 𝘢𝘭𝘴𝘰 𝘸𝘢𝘴𝘯’𝘵 𝘮𝘺 𝘭𝘦𝘢𝘴𝘵 𝘧𝘢𝘷𝘰𝘳𝘪𝘵𝘦.

2.5 stars spoilers are marked!! as always, this is MY OPINION!! i've always loved freida's books, but honestly they're getting a bit old. every female main lead is so stupid and gullible right up until the very end where they suddenly turn smart and super human and defeat the villain. it's getting so boring. this book is exactly that. sydney shaw... can you please rub together your 2 brain cells???? the way i was PISSED with her throughout the entire book 💀💀. her main concern, and honestly her whole personality, was trying to find the love of her life who's good in bed, hot, and sweet, (view spoiler) the plot in this book is yawn worthy. basically nothing happens until the last maybe 15-20% of the book, which i've noticed is something that happens in all of freida's books. essentially, the whole plot of this book is sydney trying to find the love of her life on an online dating app. overall, was this book bad? yes. will i still read everything freida is going to come out with? yes. if you're looking for something super quick and entertaining, you can always count on her and i love her for that 🫶 MAJOR SPOILERS START HERE!!!!! (view spoiler)

2 stars because that ending was not satisfying and the story was so boring.

⭑ ⭑ ⭒ ⭒ ⭒ 2.3 stars “THE END Did you enjoy reading The Boyfriend?” NO I FUCKING DIDN’T. PUT THE PEN DOWN FREIDA😭‼️

2/5 ⭐️ - I expected so much more from this book. It was one of my most anticipated reads and it left me wanting so much more. The writing felt very plain and I typically love her books, but this one fell flat. - I was surprised by the little twist at the end! Didn’t see it coming which is always a great way to end a book. - This story wasn’t very thrilling throughout and the big build up was at the end. Wish we had gotten little sprinkles throughout the story more. The main character made lots of silly choices. Loved the teacher by this author, but the other two books released this year weren’t my favorite.

read this in a day but at what cost

one thing about miss mcfadden here is she is guaranteed to write the worst characters and annoying plot lines of all time while keeping the book investing and so easily bingeable. i gotta respect that hustle

2.5 stars. Going to become a little more brutally honest about my reviews & bring out my inner Simon Cowell. This book was easy to read however there was too much going on from the past/present POVs. Yes the twist was cool and unexpected which I did like but this book was overhyped to me. Too many characters that were introduced that didn’t have much depth to them. I didn’t get attached to any the way I did with the Housemaid.

This was not my favorite Nicholas Sparks book by far, and I've read most of them. There are two separate storylines that had no connection until the very end of the book. Both storylines dragged out longer than necessary and I was very disappointed by the "twist" at the end connecting the stories. There was also a lot of repetition in the book. Colby remarks how thin and beautiful Morgan is a little too often, and in the Beverly storyline, there's only so many times you need to tell me she's making a sandwich, soaking beans, or painting the kitchen yellow because it is a horrible orange color.

I am such a fan of this author, but sometimes his books are either amazing or they can be hard to connect with. Sadly the latter was the case for me and this book. The beginning was a bit slow to start. This is told from two different POV but not in alternating chapters. It’s grouped by parts and trying to figure out how each part fits with one another was a bit hard to understand. It felt like two different stories that didn’t belong, but this is the author's MO. He’s a storyteller of characters with a damaged past and the slow reveal of his stories is what keeps the reader hooked. Initially I didn't understand where the author was going and how Beverly and Colby’s world intertwined and unfortunately I think that was my downfall for this book. The short chapters made this a fast read and kept my attention, but I had a hard time understanding the story as a whole. As individuals, I really enjoyed Colby and Beverly’s story, but trying to understand how their worlds collided didn’t make sense. Their narratives also threw me off with one being first person while the other was in third person. I feel that if the author took Beverly and Colby’s story’s and made two separate books it would have been the moving story I was hoping for. Though I didn’t connect with this book, I do see how this can resonate with other readers better than it did with me. Thank you to Random House and NetGalley for this ARC

I'm not the biggest fan of his.. He's very hit or miss for me.. He's written some beautiful stories and some that a trash.. I bought this because his last book was good. Here's what I enjoyed. - So the book is told POVs of Colby and Beverly. Beverly is a young mother on the run with her small son, looking for refuge. She finds herself in a small town and begins the work of starting a new life for her and Tommie, her son. This Story was more compelling and much interesting, When It was Bev's story I couldn't stop listen. What I didn't like - Colby and Morgan's story was incredibly boring and just pedestrian I felt.. - One of my friends asked how his new book was and these are my exact words.. Nicholas Sparks is like that annoying friend that talks too much. You want to shake him and say "Just fucking spit it out already. - Thank god I had a audio book, because this was so boring..

I love Nicholas sparks earlier stuff but this was a huge miss for me. We start off learning about Colby, a struggling musician who took over his family’s farm after his grandfathers death. After a gig on the beach, Colby meets Morgan. Young but confident, Morgan also dreams of making it in music. She has found some fame already by gaining a following on TikTok. They instantly bond over song writing and their love of country music. Colby and Morgan’s love story was all well and fine but then we switch to Beverlys POV. Beverly is running away, with her son Tommie, from an abusive ex husband. How does Beverly have anything to do with Colby? Well.. it’s a doozy. I guessed it pretty early on but you find out about 80% of the way in. This story was well written, as Sparks is a great writer and I think he tried something different here sort of making it one part thriller and one part love story, but to me he didn’t execute. Thank you netgalley for this arc.

August book club book!

Oh this book…I had to control my laughter at how corny the writing of this book was. I give it 2 stars solely for the story of Beverly and how Sparks weaved that into the ending. All in all, this book was predictable, incredibly cheesy, & a bore…about on par for Sparks. Also found myself rolling my eyes at the use of his repetitive description of women’s beauty: “small, petite, skinny”. I’m also 99% sure I’m completely over authors shoving all of the excitement into the last 70 pages. I beg of you, make the entire book interesting instead

My least favorite Sparks book. This one really didn't work for me.

#1 House of Earth and Blood — 3.5 stars WHAT IN THE NAME OF CROSSOVER INSANITY SATANS TIT IS THIS😩 ✷ to Hel with me banking on this book to be better than the previous installment cause this was a downgrade. i was bored through most of it, and finishing it had felt like a chore. ✷ although... i feel like this was dull in a way that the next book would get good and exciting again since the stakes are higher now. but who knows, we’ll probably have to wait another two years to find out. should i quit while im ahead? ✷ (spoiler) i had guessed that Day was Lidia, but that last chapter i really did not see coming. when i said “i needed SJM to pull a Rhysand,” i didnt mean LITERALLY. 💀 does that mean Bryce is in Velaris now? ✷ we’ve managed to go without any “mates” business in book 1, but now so many of them (couple/pairing plot twists) were dropped like bombs in this book. the romance was done very poorly. how did SJM go from Aelin/Rowan, Elide/Lorcan, and Feyre/Rhys to this crap? ✷ (spoiler) Ruhn & Lidia, i didnt hate the idea of them, but wow the instalove had me wanting to barf. 🙄 though now that they know each others true identity, maybe there’ll be more tension between them in book 3. ✷ Bryce & Hunt seriously? am i the only one who couldnt feel the connection/passion between them? theyre better off as friends. also, the smut. from none (book 1) to... how many scenes in this book? idk what to say. and they werent that titillating either. ✷ im so disappointed Aidas didnt even make an appearance in this book. he was mentioned and impersonated, but no signs of the Prince of the Chasm. :( would it be foolish to hold out hope for him & Bryce? especially after what happened with Bryce & Hunt. ✷ idk if its me no longer being a teenager who adored SJMs books, but so far im finding this series is even worse than TOG & ACOTAR. especially, the writing and the romance. (read as an audiobook)

2★ “𝘿𝙚𝙖𝙩𝙝 𝙞𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙤𝙣𝙡𝙮 𝙫𝙞𝙘𝙩𝙤𝙧 𝙞𝙣 𝙬𝙖𝙧.” Wow, that quote hit me, especially with everything going on in the (real) world right now. Okay, moving on.. These 800 pages worth of trash do not deserve any more of my time, so I’m not writing an elaborate review. The only reason this is a 2 star read and not 1 is chapter 78. This chapter got spoiled for me btw, and still managed to be the only remotely good part of the book. Seriously, this was the most boring shit I have ever read, and the fact that it was this long?? Goodfuckingbye, I'm actually mad that I wasted my time on this. I can’t name one positive thing about this piece of crap (except chapter 78). I’m contemplating throwing it in the ocean, or maybe I’ll let my worst enemy read it :) Sorry for all this negativity! I hope you all have a wonderful day <3

✩ 2.4 stars ✩ What to Expect: ➼ Found Family ➼ Looking for a Cure ➼ Forbidden Love ➼ War/Combat ➼ Touch Her & Die ➼ Repetitive/Full of Filler ➼ Dragons, Wyverns, & Gryphons ➼ Cliffhanger Ending ➼ Third Person POV I’m sick to death of this book, so let’s just get this over with. I will never understand how so many people are rating this 5 stars. If I hadn’t read Iron Flame, I might have bumped this up to 3 stars, but at this point Rebecca has written an unbelievable amount of filler and so much of this book felt completely unnecessary. Fourth Wing was a good book. It definitely wasn’t my favorite book, but it was a promising start to a new series. I thought the intimate scenes were too mature for how immature their relationship felt and I would have preferred a little more slow burn, but if it had been a trilogy, I would have been totally on board. Sadly though, that was not to be. Rebecca chose the money over the integrity of her writing and I honestly can’t hate her for that, but it has definitely had a negative impact on the story. She’s had to contrive multiple reasons for Xaden & Violet not to be together and as a result, I’ve completely lost interest in their relationship. In Iron Flame it was a ridiculous amount of miscommunication and repetitive arguments. In Onyx Storm it was his Venin status and his role as a Professor at her school. 🙄 All of it was made up BS to make up for the fact that they got together WAY too early on for this to be a 5 book series. Then we have the incredibly repetitive 527 page plot of Onyx Storm that resulted in almost NOTHING. Violet is so adamant that she be in charge and demands that they take a specific course of action that amounts to nothing more than a COMPLETE waste of time. Just a big dragonback road trip with her pals that convinced literally no one to support their cause and got people killed along the way. The beginning was SO info dumpy and there were WAY too many places and characters. I’m seeing tons of people talking about Ridoc being so dreamy and funny but I couldn’t tell you a single thing he did or said the entire book. The writing was so bogged down by extraneous details that I think my brain just kind of shut off some of the time. Of course Rebecca had to end on a cliffhanger with a bunch of vague details she’s gonna tell us amount to answers we “already know.” I’m tired of her trying to peddle her poor writing as Easter Eggs. Not even the dragons held any interest for me in Onyx Storm and they were the stars of the previous books in my opinion. Andarna acted like a sullen teenager and Tairn didn’t have nearly enough grumpy lines (or enough lines in general). The craziest thing about all these 5 star reviews is that almost everyone I know in real life has had a difficult time finishing this book or has said that they feel they need to reread it to fully understand the plot. If this is you, I just want to say that it’s NOT you, it’s the book. If you loved this book, I’m happy for you, but I do not understand. xx ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ Pre-read: There’s a really twisted part of me that wants Violet to end up with Dain just to watch the whole internet implode. Muahaha 😜🤣 Finally diving in! I hope it’s not as confusing as people are saying it is because I definitely did NOT do a reread. I’d need to be paid to reread Iron Flame. 😅

My toxic trait is being unable to dnf series.

★★☆☆☆ 2/5 “Some of us just want to fuck with your feelings, not burn your house to the ground.” ✎ (❁ᴗ͈ˬᴗ͈) ༉ Note : This review contains major plot spoilers. Please read at your own risk. I strongly advise you to not read this review if you haven't read the book and are planning to. Onyx Storm is the third installment of five in The Empyrean series. It picks up a time after the ending of Iron Flame, and follows Violet through her tumultuous journey. I most definitely went into this book with expectations higher than I should've, especially considering nearly every single one of them was met with utter disappointment. I will not be breaking down the characters and instead will make this one lengthy review because I have a lot of opinions, many of them not amazing. Let's get started. Just to preface one more time—there are spoilers in this review for both characters and plot. Please do not read if you plan to read the book on your own time, are reading it now, or plan to read it in the future. : ̗̀➛ My Review Rants “You named a kitten Broccoli?” “No one really wants broccoli, but it's good for you, so seems fitting to me.” To start off this review, let's start with the pacing of this book—which was atrocious. Iron Flame ended with one of the most interesting plotlines we could have received in this series, and this book just didn't hold that plotline up well enough. We jump into this one with an already established time jump, and then another following it, with unsubstantial information on what is happening in the world or to Xaden. We spent far too long of the beginning of this book still at Basgiath dealing with political issues that genuinely made no sense. It honestly felt as if Basgiath's higher chain of command wanted to cause an inner war outside of the venin already hunting them down over. . . fliers. Over people who quite literally saved their asses. We spent around 15% of this book following Violet fighting to choose her own hand-selected team for a top priority mission—find Andarna's family, the seventh dragon breed. Only, she never gets to choose her own team. She is put under the command of a man she hates and in a team she cannot trust. Sure, it happens. But we spent so long in the book following Violet argue to get her own team only for this entire team to die in less than a chapter in the most overly dramatic, nonsensical way you would almost think we were reading about toddlers drawing on the walls with crayons than military trained soldiers. And then after 20% of the book focusing on this, now Violet gets to handpick her team. Seems a bit redundant to spend so much time with Violet fighting for this just to have it resolved in less than a chapter, doesn't it? Then the only part of the book that I enjoyed—traveling to the other countries. This was roughly another 40% of the book and was genuinely the most interesting part of it. I may be the only one who feels this way, but if this is going to be a 5-book series, I would've preferred this book focusing on this travel only the entire time because it was NOT fleshed out enough. Violet finally gets her team together - herself, Xaden, Cat, Garrick, Ridoc, Trager, Maren, Dain, and the crown prince, Halden (who is eventually changed out for Aaric). Mission: find the irid dragons, Andarna's family, and also learn more from Violet's father, Asher. Except everything her father leaves is cryptid and annoyingly tedious to deal with. It gives us the feeling of learning more about him, the way he lived and loved, and the travels he went on. Except we don't actually learn that much about him or who he was before passing away. Then we learn more about Violet's childhood, how she was nearly dedicated to a temple of Dunne and is why she has partially silver hair. But a lot of this knowledge is so sporadic and not nearly as delved or fleshed into because we are given no time to explore it in this book before moving on. We are basically dripfed information in small, not at all appealing ways. And then of course, they find the irids and sail back to Navarre, only for everything to go to complete shit and the end of the book is rushed together in the most nonsensical, messy way possible and leaving us with the most tedious ending ever. But before we delve to the overall issue I have with the ending; I want to focus a bit more on the plot. The plot was, from an overall perspective, really interesting. The execution for it was horrible and took all of the intrigue and mystery and excitement out and replaced it with melodramatic Xaden, an unrealistically delusional Violet, and smut scenes that were far too cringey to enjoy the intimacy. The writing and dialogue for the smut scenes gives me secondhand embarrassment. But also, why was so much of the plot overshadowed by Xaden constantly going, "I'm dangerous", "you shouldn't be near me", "don't let me touch you", "I'm going to turn full venin one day, and you have to be the one to kill me" but then doing the complete opposite by sleeping in the same bed as her, getting enraged that everyone wants them to NOT sleep together because of his venin situation, chasing her down to make out with her, telling her he needs her and can't live without her, then shutting her out again and running away. It was the most elementary, "I like you! Circle YES or NO if you like me too!" crap I've read in this series yet. They had concepts of an understanding of what Xaden is becoming and had absolutely no awareness to their situation or repercussions because all they care about is having sex. Not to mention the stupid ass professor situation. Since when have you guys EVER followed the Code of Conduct? And suddenly Violet wants to follow the rules, saying they should be upheld because every cadet follows them? You literally left Basgiath for Poromiel. You have no loyalty to them anymore. How ridiculous. I do feel the focus on Andarna's emotional stability was interesting, one of the more enjoyable parts of the book, but it wasn't fleshed out enough. We should have gotten to know more about her emotional wellbeing, her mental state after being rejected by her family beyond just - oh, Andarna is sad. She is heartbroken. She isn't talking to anyone. Like yeah, of course she isn't?! Can Violet please stop thirsting after Xaden for five minutes so we can focus on other characters in this series?! There was so much going on in this book and none of them were executed well. Political upheaval in Basgiath, the irids, finding a cure for Xaden, Violet's father's books, Violet's childhood, Xaden's mother (which, why was she so important while they were there, but then never mentioned again by any characters afterwards? This was a HUGE deal?! Especially after finding out that their people CONTRACT marriages for creating heirs then they LEAVE? This was so interesting!), Theophanie, fixing the wards, Xaden getting his title and Tyrrendor back, and then the final war at the end. All of these plot points and yet none of them were fleshed out in this book at all. The political unrest between Navarre and Poromiel was childish, the irids were so underwhelming (but also, proud of them for having standards and not sinking to their knees to worship Violet), the entire Xaden is a venin plotline was done horrifically, Violet's father and her childhood both deserved to be more fleshed out, Xaden's feelings toward his mother and her country deserved to be more fleshed out after they returned to Basgiath, Theopanie had absolutely no weight to her until the ending before she was killed off when she was finally an interesting villain of the book (seriously, the entire "turn venin so I can be your mentor" plotline with Theopanie was stupid), and the final battle at the end was so cartoonishly bad that just even thinking about it or the fact that I stayed up until 1AM to read it just enrages me. The entire final battle felt like I was watching an episode of Tom & Jerry, but I would've been more entertained by the cat and mouse duo than I was by this. The fake out with Mira was stupid, Theopanie was textbook villain—overpowered, talks in monologues that get her killed, has no depth to her, Violet and Tairn getting stuck under nets was humiliatingly dumb (at least Tairn would agree too!), Sgaeyl and Xaden getting stuck under nets was just ridiculous (why would you dumb down the two strongest characters in the series? Come on, Rebecca), and I cannot express enough how completely and utterly absurd the cliffhanger was with Xaden going 99% venin (his only remaining humanity being his love for Violet), and Violet being awoken to learn she is officially married to Xaden, but her memories were wiped by Imogen. I'm so sorry to anyone who enjoyed this ending, but I found it so outlandishly asinine that I sit here now in front of my PC wondering how this was even chosen as the books final cliffhanger or was written with a straight face going, "Yeah! That's it! That's the perfect ending to this book!". We went through a battle that they shouldn't have even won, where Mira should've stayed dead, where we lost a more interesting character like Quinn, all for Xaden to get his cartoon villain transformation and get married to Violet?????? The entire dynamic between Xaden and Violet was just, “Stop it, Xaden! Stop!! Look at me, okay? Just look at me! This isn’t you, Xaden. This isn’t my Xaden!” and that’s kind of sad lol. I could not feel any sort of sympathy or intrigue for either of them given their situation. I also believe there was just way too much dialogue in this book. Every single paragraph had dialogue, which took away from the chance to build on the world, the environments, or develop the plot—all of which were lost in the book. Instead, we seemed to be required to know every single thought of every character, because no one would stop talking. I'm not a hater of this series, I genuinely love the first book, was so-so with Iron Flame, but this one just takes the cake. How am I to take this series seriously after that ending, or the many plotlines that were never fleshed out enough to make me feel attached to this world or its characters? The only enjoyment I had in this book was when Ridoc was around. He is seriously the only character in this series who I adore and want to read this book for, and he's the only one with any major sort of development. He is so funny, so real, and I honestly relate to him a lot. Being looked down on because you are funny and others diminishing your value outside of just being "that funny guy" is so infuriating. Ridoc is treated so horribly by his friends in this book constantly being overlooked or having his value or level of skills with his signet brought into question simply because he cracks jokes all the time. He deserves better. I will also say that I did love Sawyer's comeback. To see him struggle with himself so much and be ashamed of his situation to the point he feared opening up to his dragon, Sliseag, in fear he would be a disappointment was so saddening. He worked so hard to get back on two-feet and fly again with the others, even when they all doubted him—yes, I'm looking at you, Rhiannon. You should've been a better leader and friend to him. We got sneak peeks into other POV's at the end of this book. Rhiannon, Imogen, and Xaden POV's. If this isn't the case in the next book, if we don't get more POV's then I genuinely cannot see the next two in this series being worthwhile reads. This entire series is ruining itself by being stuck in Violet's POV where she has all of two full thoughts: have sex with Xaden, find a cure for Xaden. That's it. She has gone from being a character who's POV was interesting to be in because she had so much to learn of not only herself, but everyone and everything around her including managing dragons. Now she is just an always-horny, overly dramatic, angry character that makes me want to rip my hair out because she has no development anymore. Nothing. : ̗̀➛ Final Thoughts I gave this three stars from the get-go when I finished at 1AM. I changed it. 2/5 stars is more fitting, and even then, I am tempted to give it one. The only reason why I give this 2 stars is because Ridoc deserves a star of his own for being the best character in this book, and because I enjoyed the plotline of being in the other countries despite the fact that Rebecca could not execute a plotline in this series properly even if she tried. And the writing for this book was juvenile at best, it felt far worse than the first two books. Disappointing read. “My power, my body, my soul—it's all yours.” : ̗̀➛ Series Reviews Check out my reviews for the other books in this series: Fourth Wing : Book 1 Iron Flame : Book 2 Onyx Storm : Book 3

2.5 STARS for the book, 0 STARS for the psychotic behavior of the fandom this week. Her nickname is actually "Violence" because that's the only thing you feel when you're trapped in her head for 700+ pages. ___________________________ After the cliffhanger at the end of Iron Flame, this was such a missed opportunity to insert pining and angst and genuine romance into the story. Instead, they're just deeply in lust with each other the entire time. Any conflict is irrelevant because whether it makes sense or not, Violet and Xaden are going to do whatever they feel like whenever they feel like. Everyone around them better stay out of the way and hope they aren't collateral damage. In the eloquent words of Xaden Riorson: "Damn. Just... damn." (Is this the super-hot banter everyone is losing their minds over? 🤨 Please.) I'll concede that Onyx Storm was edited better than Iron Flame. But it still read as though the author combed through BookTok comments and was inserting random things she thought the fans might like. It's the trope Olympics and Rebecca Yarros is going for gold 🥇 The plot has been wrung out like a wet rag to last 5 books, and I fear the characters have as much depth as a glass of water. Tairn provides a thread of common sense and Ridoc some much-needed comic relief, but the rest can all become venin and I couldn't care less. Everything and nothing happened the entire book. Such a shame because this series is a great concept. (Who doesn't love a dragon school?) Unfortunately, it continues to be executed poorly. **SPOILER** The ending was so predictable and repeatedly alluded to throughout the book. As far as Xaden's note "It's yours now." that everyone is asking about—I interpreted this as a reference to Tyrrendor which she would now be duchess of through marriage. We've seen this plot point before... (High Lady of the Night Court, anyone?)

sooo i didn’t hate this but i didn’t love it either 🤷🏻‍♀️ it kinda felt boring a lot of the time and like not that much actually happened to move along the story - 2.5 stars. rtc (maybe lol) ꒰ pre-read. ꒱ went to my first ever midnight book release for this so now at 12:30am it’s time to read 🤭 i didn’t do a reread so let’s see how much i remember 🤪 i hope it doesn’t disappoint 🤞🏻

This book just reminds me of the saying: this meeting could have been an email. In other words, these books could have been a well-done duology. Well, before criticizing, I should say that I’m sorry if my opinion goes against so many people who keep overhyping this saga. Many unfollowed me during my updates, and that’s fine by me—everyone has their own opinion. Let’s get to it: this whole thing is a mess. A disaster. Take a character that sparks general excitement (Xaden) and slap so much overhype on him that he already feels like an over-chewed mango pit. No more flavor. Meh. These books are a money grab. Just like Netflix shows that stretch out for a million unnecessary seasons, Fourth Wing is the Stranger Things of books. The first one was a delight. Super lovable characters. But right there, a huge mistake was made—the biggest screw-up this author pulled: killing Liam. Ever since that, my reader boner went soft and never got back up. The second book was a mess. Holy shit, just thinking about it gives me a headache. Super long and unnecessary. Xaden went from hot to complete idiot. Violet? Even worse—went from a ragdoll to an idiot. They argued over everything, even a fart. The third one... started like crap. A bunch of random people with no introduction and a messy text. I thought I was drunk. Then it got better—actually surprised me! And then it went back to crap. Xaden COMPLETELY changed his personality, probably because he was possessed by a demon. Suddenly, he's babygirl. And Violet? OUT OF NOWHERE, she’s a strong leader. OUT OF NOWHERE, they stop fighting (gotta love that cheap fan service after the backlash, right, Rebecca?). Not to mention they repeated the same damn phrase so many times I almost shoved three fingers up my ass and took off flying. Two stars is a compliment. Before you ask: no, I’m not DNF-ing. Even though I think this writing is cringe as hell, I STILL want to read some kind of resolution in this mess. (Three books in, and no one knows shit about Violet’s dad) Sorry if you disagree. Xoxo, now I’m off to read something that actually worth my time.

Do they pay for 5 star reviews?

A waste of time I’ve been a Grisham fan for decades and I can hardly believe he wrote this book. He either had a ghost writer or just “phoned it in.” The writing is awful, the characters are one dimensional, and the story is unbelievably bad. Sociopathic serial killer judge who, of course, is so brilliant that he’s stayed out of trouble for over 20 years while he seeks revenge on people who have wronged him. And don’t even get me started on the ending. Give me a break. I couldn’t decide whether to give it one star or two. Don’t waste your time.

This book is a big disappointment. Glad it was a library loan.

the best part was josh and aly

So this is what true disappointment feels like😪 Sadly this did not live up to my expectations and my expectations were not even that high. I wanted to laugh and giggle and just have a good time. Alas, a good time was not had by me😭 I said I didn't care about a deep plot, but at least have a plot. There was barely anything going on here and it was just boring. I usually speed through audiobooks but this took me several days to finish because I just did not care about the book😭 TRUST ME I AM SO SAD TO SAY THIS I WANTED TO LOVE THIS BOOK😭😭😭😭 This book lacked the spark Lights Out had. Lights Out was funny and the characters really shined, but here everything was just blah. Lauren and Nico did nothing for me, their spice was hot yeah but that's about it. The second chance did not "second chance" enough for me. They had barely dated for like 2 weeks when they were younger and Nico just maintained his obsession for 10+ years later? Why? You barely knew each other smh. If the author had built upon their past a bit more, maybe some cute flashbacks to make their romance more believable, it would have been SO MUCH BETTER. (at least for me) Also, WHERE WAS THE BIKE CONTENT?? WHY DIDN'T SHE PANDER TO OUR DELUSIONAL BIKER FANTASIES😭😭😭😭???????? Teddy Hamilton thank you for blessing my ears but where was the accent???? Pre-read: I'm expecting lots of laughs and pure entertainment. I don't want a deep plot, I JUST WANT TO VIBE WITH TEDDY HAMILTON IN MY EARS🥵

I was… wildly disappointed 🥲 I’m a bit regretful to have even used my audible credit on this. I pre ordered and immediately started once i woke up… only plus side was Teddy Hamilton narrating. This was nOOOTHING like lights out- and not in the good way. I missed the way Josh made the book laughable but also cute/sexy. I missed the actual connection- I missed the cats lol This just- it did not hit. How disappointing 😔 I wanted this so bad I’ve been impatiently waiting and this books smut did not do it for me- it actually felt a bit cringy. I feel like Navessa tried too hard here because of how lights out took off. Idk… no plot which can sometimes be good, but there was nothing that brought me in. 1.5 rounded to 2 stars.

Damn dude. I was promised (maybe just by the cover) a motorcycle boy and got a piss-poor mafia boy instead. It gave a mix of Neon Gods and try-hard, lands-short mafia romance. Lauren is a moron. Nico is just not charming at all. Where's the bike stuff outside of just saying he looks hot in gear? Why even put a helmet on the cover? Teddy Hamilton also did a pretty sub-par read- an accent is mentioned a couple of times by the FMC but one was not provided at all. None of the kinks do it for me but that is not factored into my rating. Not here to yuck yums but it was a part of why there wasn't very much connection. It's a major let down for me. But certainly has to be someone's fave. Boo.

No. Nope. Absolutely not! I tried—I really did—but this relationship dynamic just didn’t work for me at all! Junior was downright insufferable, and honestly, I couldn’t stand him. He’s arrogant, emotionally volatile, and so far from the kind of dark romance hero I can root for. After being swept away by the spicy yet unexpectedly sweet chemistry between Aly and Josh in the first book, I had high hopes for this sequel. Unfortunately, Nico (a.k.a. Junior) and Laureen’s relationship was nothing short of toxic and exhausting. Their connection wasn’t even hot—it just felt chaotic, immature, and frankly, a little uncomfortable. Like some other readers, I’ll admit the only reason I’m giving this more than one star is because of the cameos from Josh and Aly, who remain the shining lights of this series. Their presence brought some much-needed charm and balance to an otherwise frustrating read. It pains me to give this just two stars, especially since the first book had such promise, and this one even landed on the New York Times Best Seller list! I really wanted to love it—but the characters, the dynamics, and the overwhelming toxicity just didn’t do it for me. Here’s hoping the final book in the trilogy brings back that spark—with less psychological warfare and more of the emotionally complex, steamy love story that hooked me in the beginning. medium.com instagram facebook

"𝘐 𝘸𝘢𝘯𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘸𝘰𝘮𝘢𝘯, 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘐 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘢 𝘮𝘢𝘯 𝘸𝘩𝘰 𝘢𝘭𝘸𝘢𝘺𝘴 𝘨𝘰𝘵 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘯𝘵𝘦𝘥." This book felt strange to me from the very beginning. This was my first time reading this kind of dark romance, and I felt uncomfortable from the first pages… and honestly, probably until the very end 😬 I’m used to MMCs in dark romance being possessive, obsessive, and absolutely not okay with sharing their partner with anyone else—and that’s simply not what happened here. Because of that, the entire experience felt off and unfamiliar in a way I didn’t enjoy ❤️ To be completely honest, I preferred the first book. Its beginning was dark but in a twisted, funny way—it actually made me laugh. This one? I was frowning the whole time 😐 I didn’t like Junior at all. His constant excuse of “my father” made me roll my eyes every single time 🙄🔥 He knew all of his father’s secrets—so why didn’t he use even one of them against him? He could’ve pressured him easily, especially since Nico, despite everything, clearly cares about his son. Threatening to walk away would’ve worked. And what he did to Lauren during their teenage years? Absolutely unforgivable. It was cruel, and I hated that she was the one judged while he faced no real consequences. What made it even worse was when he said he didn’t actually ruin her life because she’s now living a happy, comfortable life. That made him even more awful in my eyes. Being okay now doesn’t erase what she went through back then—she herself said he destroyed her life I didn’t like Lauren either. How can you forgive someone after ten years just because there’s still spark and attraction? Does everything really depend on desire? Can we forgive anyone just because they excite us? 😶 Her story also felt extremely incomplete and lacked depth. I’ve studied topics like voyeurism and exhibitionism, and there are so many complex, sensitive backstories that help you understand characters on a deeper level. That was actually one of the reasons I wanted to read this book—and why I pushed myself not to DNF it. Unfortunately, none of that depth was explored here. I wanted so much more backstory for both Junior and Lauren. Everything stayed shallow. Nothing really stood out except what happened at the Velvet Club 🎭 Even their relationship wasn’t convincing. As teenagers, they were together for only two weeks, which made it hard for me to even see this as a second-chance romance. Honestly, I didn’t realize it was second chance until I started writing this review. I also don’t understand why Junior considered her “special” or was obsessed with her before the fireworks night—or why that led him to stalk her for ten years 👀 Oh—and one more thing: what was the plan Junior told Josh about? 😅 I kept waiting for something big, something clever… and nothing happened. I had high expectations, and the disappointment was real. That said, I didn’t realize how much I missed Josh, Ally, and their cats until they appeared again 🐾❤️ I’m now genuinely excited for Tyler’s book and really hope it’s full of tension and actual plot—not just unconventional sexual dynamics ✨ I also hope we get more books about the Trocci brothers, especially Alec, Greg, and Stefan 👀 Overall, This book wasn’t for me. It made me uncomfortable, emotionally disconnected, and frustrated more than anything else. I wanted depth, accountability, and a convincing emotional bond—but what I got felt shallow and underdeveloped. I’m still invested in the series, but this installment was a letdown for me 😔❤️ ╰┈➤ˎˊ˗ 𝐏𝐫𝐞-𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐝🩸 CW: Cam work + Sex work + Mafia & organized crime + Blackmail + Coercion + Religion + Blood + Violence + Gore (brief) + Graphic sex (including multi-partner) + Breath play + Primal play + Fear play + Voyeurism + Exhibitionism + Bondage + Light BDSM + Stalking. I have no idea what I’m about to get myself into… and that alone is terrifying 😬❤️

★★ ⤷ 🎯 ꒰ mild spoilers ꒱ ⤷ 💐 ꒰ big spoiler warned before ꒱ ⤷ 💘 ꒰ hate ranting + swearing ꒱ ⤷ ⭐ ꒰ 2 stars ꒱ ‧₊ ˚ ⊹ ࣭ ⭑ . ₊ ⊹ . ₊๋ ‧₊ ˚ ⊹ ࣭ ⭑ . ₊ ⊹ . ₊๋ ‧₊ ˚ ⊹ ࣭ ⭑ . ₊ ⊹ . ₊๋ okay what was that. ✋ genuinely i want my time back because what. the. fuck. was that ?? first off thanks to the beautiful josie and liv for reading this with me - you both made this bad book way better because i could read it with you. જ⁀➴ 💗 ˖ ݁𖥔 ݁˖ ⤷ read josie's her gorgeous review here ˖ ݁𖥔 ݁˖ ⤷ see liv's rating here the first one was rlly good, i don't know what happened with this one. 😭 i really really didn't like it. ᯓ✿ ₊˚ ✧ ‿︵ 🖤 𝖓𝖎𝖈𝖔 / 𝖏𝖚𝖓𝖎𝖔𝖗 🖤 ︵‿ ✧ ₊˚ i hated him. i absolutely hate this man. he was egotistical, evil and stupid. he was so full of himself and he blamed everything on his dad and he was so controlling in the worst way. ᯓ✿ ₊˚ ✧ ‿︵ ❤️ 𝖑𝖆𝖚𝖗𝖊𝖓 / 𝖑𝖔 ❤️ ︵‿ ✧ ₊˚ so, nico was awful. but lauren completely loved it and followed him around like a fucking dog. she fell for every single decent, normal-men-should-do-this thing he did. ᯓ✿ ₊˚ ✧ ‿︵ ✅ 𝖕𝖔𝖘𝖎𝖙𝖎𝖛𝖊𝖘 ✅ ︵‿ ✧ ₊˚ ✓ when aly and josh were mentioned ✓ the spice was pretty good (mostly) ᯓ✿ ₊˚ ✧ ‿︵ ❌ 𝖓𝖊𝖌𝖆𝖙𝖎𝖛𝖊𝖘 ❌ ︵‿ ✧ ₊˚ okay, this part is going to be long. ✗ the characters ✗ how nico wrecked lauren's life when she was a teen ✗ nico would not apologise ✗ nico was egotistic and slightly misogynistic ✗ lauren fell for him and his stupid ways ✗ lauren followed him like a dog ✗ the stalking / tracking ᯓ✿ first : this is the supposed meet cute 💀 ˋ°•*⁀➷ "we went to the same church ... our church had its annual fundraiser ... I wasn't expecting him to drag me into the shadows and kiss me ... junior spun me round, slipped his hands into my shorts, and got me off while the fireworks exploded overhead." EXCUJE ME ?? what in the hell is that meet cute. more like sexual assault 💀💀 mind you, he slams her into walls 𝙢𝙪𝙡𝙩𝙞𝙥𝙡𝙚 times during this book. ᯓ✿ second : junior ruined her life and acted like it was all fine ˋ°•*⁀➷ "you ruined her fucking life." "no, i didn't. i thought so too, at first, but she's fine now. lives in some fancy neighbourhood and pulls in nearly as much cash as we do. EXCUJE ME ?? JUST BECAUSE SHE HAS A GOOD LIFE 𝙧𝙞𝙜𝙝𝙩 𝙣𝙤𝙬 DOESN'T MEAN YOU DIDN'T WRECK HER LIFE AND LEAVE HER IN A REALLY BAD PLACE FOR AGES. MIND YOU - she was 𝙗𝙪𝙡𝙡𝙞𝙚𝙙, she was 𝙗𝙚𝙩𝙧𝙖𝙮𝙚𝙙, and she had to then 𝙢𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙖𝙬𝙖𝙮. ˋ°•*⁀➷ "sorry isn't good enough. i lost all my friends. people thought i was crazy. i had to change schools junior." EXACTLY - SAYING SORRY ISN'T GONNA CUT IT. oh, but when he tells her that he like beat up the principal and sent a girl to juvie she was all like 𝘰𝘩, 𝘫𝘶𝘯𝘪𝘰𝘳 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘢𝘳𝘦 𝘴𝘰 𝘴𝘸𝘦𝘦𝘵 𝘐 𝘤𝘢𝘯'𝘵 𝘣𝘦𝘭𝘪𝘦𝘷𝘦 𝘺𝘰𝘩 𝘥𝘪𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘮𝘦 🤭🤭 EW NO. ᯓ✿ third : the "oh i loved her so much i broke up with her and wrecked her life" ˋ°•*⁀➷ "i cared about her so much that i'd broken both our hearts to jeep her safe." EW, EW, EW. if you really loved her 𝙨𝙤𝙤 𝙢𝙪𝙘𝙝 then you prob wouldn't have betrayed her, broken ber heart, got rid of all her friends, and make her be bullied so much she had to move away ? bro - that is 𝙣𝙤𝙩 love. i fucking hate that trope. UGH. ᯓ✿ fourth : um he stalked her THIS MAN PUT TRACKERS ON HER AND WALKED AROUND HER NEIGHBOURHOOD AND WAS THE FIRST AND BEST SUBSCRIBER ON HER ACCOUNT WHERE SHE DID STRIP TEASES AND FINGER-FUCKED HERSELF IN FRONT OF A CAMERA TO HER SUBS. like that's 𝙬𝙖𝙮 𝙘𝙧𝙚𝙚𝙥𝙮. but of course she forgave his. because oh, he just cared about her so so much. 🥺 ˋ°•*⁀➷ "like he was trying to protect his fair maiden from afar." FAIR MAIDEN FROM AFAR MY ASS. and also he took her high school diary and he would read it. 𝙖𝙨 𝙖 𝙜𝙧𝙤𝙬𝙣 𝙢𝙖𝙣. 💀 ᯓ✿ fifth : him and his egotistical friends ˋ°•*⁀➷ "alphas never apologise" ~ one of his friends, vinny ALPHAS NEVER APOLOGISE. WHAT THE FUCK YOU GUYS ARE NOT ALPHAS YOU ARE JUST FUCKING IDIOTS WHO TRY AND CONTROL WOMEN AND YOU GO AROUND KILLING PEOPLE. THAT'S SO STUPID WHY ARE YOU SO FULL OF YOURSELVES. ˋ°•*⁀➷ "goddamn, this fucking temper of mine. goddamn this pride, i was too used to getting my way. too used to bouncing when things started to feel serious or the women i slept with started to make demands. aw, poor baby with his pride and big temper and ego. the thing is he's complaining about it - but it's his fault ?? STOP PRETENDING IT'S NOT. oh, and as always she fell for that. ˋ°•*⁀➷ "I couldn't bring myself to hurt junior right now, not after the way he'd groveled. that couldn't have been easy for a man like him, with so much pride and ego. and yet he'd done it. for me. aw, the big egotistical man did the 𝙗𝙖𝙨𝙞𝙘, 𝙙𝙚𝙘𝙚𝙣𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 and said sorry for ruining your life 🥺🥺 aw, and it's so hard with his pride 🥺 that's so sweet, he's the best 🥺🥺 EW. FUCKING HELL I HATE HIM. ᯓ✿ sixth : random but this they fucked in a church and she said she'd never felt closer to god. UMM WHAT. ᯓ✿ seventh : just some of the language ˋ°•*⁀➷ "and then we'd probably have full-blown p-in-the-v sex." UMM WHO SAYS THAT. 👀 ᯓ✿ ‼️SPOILERS NOW‼️ eighth : he yelled at her that he killed her dad because he was mad, even though he didn't kill her dad AGAIN, WHO DOES THAT ?? 💀 ᯓ✿ anyways, thanks for reading. 🤗 ‧₊ ˚ ⊹ ࣭ ⭑ . ₊ ⊹ . ₊๋ ‧₊ ˚ ⊹ ࣭ ⭑ . ₊ ⊹ . ₊๋ ‧₊ ˚ ⊹ ࣭ ⭑ . ₊ ⊹ . ₊๋ | 👀 ᡣ𐭩 ⊹ ࣪ 𝖕𝖗𝖊-𝖗𝖊𝖆𝖉 buddy read with my girls 🫂 ⊹ ࣪ ⤷ the beautiful liv ⊹ ࣪ ⤷ the gorgeous josie we're all looking forward to it sm after the first one !! praying it's good 🌷🤞

⌗┆ 2 stars 🪿₊ ˚! ⌗┆overall thoughts ₊ ˚! ᢉ𐭩 beware this is lowkey a hate review i went into caught up open minded since i knew it would be different than lights out…however this was a little tooo different. it lacked the charm that made me enjoy lights out. no funny characters, mmc who didnt even like being in the mafia, and PURE LUST 🫩 not once did i actually believe in these characters. their relationship is built on a sexual foundation. we were told TIME AND TIME AGAIN how much lauren loved junior when they were teens….but they literally JUST hooked up, or at least thats all we were told of their relationship then. AND THEN they meet again under sexual circumstances 🫩🫩 i think the biggest disappointment was the FALSE promise of a biker mmc 😔 literally saw him maybe a handful of times on a bike. i was sooo excited just to be let down 🕳️🤸. So if i cant get a good romantic relationship maybe i can get a good platonic one??? right? WRONG 😓 taylor, laurens best friend, was so painfully millennial and 1-dimensional. They seemed like good friends, but i couldn’t stand taylor. I hate being so negative in my reviews but like…my favorite part was the josh and aly cameo ☹️☹️ dont get me wrong, i guess its not AWFULL i was just very critical while reading for some reason

I have more chemistry with my left toe than these two

I have been a fan of Michael Connelly for many, many years. I have enjoyed Harry Bosch and have read every single book in his series. I've also read all of the spin off series. We all knew that Harry was getting older and realistically there was going to be a limit to how much longer his character was going to be able to continue. So, I thought the teaming up with Renee Ballard was a smart idea. Unfortunately, this is another author who has made the decision to insert the woke politics of today and certain views on masks, the vaccine, defund the police and BLM into the story. I lost count of how many times "masks" were mentioned. Either being put on, taken off, describing the masks by color - even the people who chose not to wear one. It was so often and at times, so very not relevant to whatever was happening on the page. It does truly pull the reader out of the story. The inclusion of the "hate Trump" graffiti, the January "insurrection", the BLM "protestors” (rioters) and many, many other similar events just seemed superfluous and wasn't really necessary for the story. I'm not sure why it was needed- especially since this entire series has been a police procedural series that have centered on the actions and cases of a cop and the LAPD. Besides that, I have grown to really like Harry. Harry Bosch was a cop. He devoted his entire life to the LAPD and was already screwed enough by them. Now, we have the police department shown in an even more horrible light. Who knows, maybe the LAPD is completely corrupt, but it seems to take everything that Harry worked for and believed in and throw it back in our face. Anyway, that is neither here nor there. That was just an observation. I didn't find the plot and the story itself up to what we have come to expect from Mr. Connelly. I didn't finish the last page with a feeling of accomplishment on the part of the protagonists. I really felt just...sad. There is enough going on in the real world today that I don't want to come away from a book feeling even worse. I'm hoping this was just a one off and that we can get back to what made the series great in the first place. If not, it might be time to say goodbye to this series. But...I truly hope not.

2.5⭐ This latest Ballard/Bosch mystery is a return to form for Connelly, whose previous Lincoln Lawyer book 'The Law of Innocence' was a hot mess. While still not one of his best novels, this one's fast paced and brings at least a few new ideas to the table. In the aftermath of the Black Lives Matter demonstrations, Connelly depicts an LAPD in the midst of a mass dereliction of duty. Stung by public distrust and calls to "defund the police" the cops respond by essentially refusing to enforce the law, doing only the minimum required to keep up appearances. Connelly also suggests that the BLM protests bankrupted the police force ( which, with an annual budget of $3.14 billion, stretches credibility just a bit). What he's doing is creating a world where the only effective cops are rogue cops ( I.e Bosch and Ballard), who ignore the rules in order to achieve justice- yes, that tired old schtick. But, hey, it's more exciting than showing police plodding along, patiently doing their jobs ( which is how crimes are actually solved). Renee Ballard, clearly in this novel the heir apparent to the venerable Harry Bosch, is flying solo on two big cases: a New Year's Eve murder rigged to look like an accident; and a series of vicious sexual assaults by a duo of rapists dubbed the 'Midnight Men'. Circumstances lead her to the only man she can trust ( again), Bosch. I have to acknowledge that for this book Connelly has toned down his annoying product placement style endorsements, mentioning only a couple of restaurants/ stores/ coffee shops etc. That was an ongoing irritant, for me. So, not high art, certainly, but a decent enough thriller to pass the time.

Not His Best! I've never given Mr. Connelly only two stars before. I love any novel about Bosch, and have anxiously awaited this one. I just don't like Ballard at all. She thinks she's the only decent cop. She should take a look at herself. She plays by her own rules, but condemns others for it. I almost didn't finish this one. That's a first for me. I'd like to see more Haller and Bosch!

usually enjoyed his stories I believe the writer put in the story on his opinions regarding covid vaccine and insight into what happened inside the police situations.

I would define this book as an unfinished work: it has a very good pace for 90% of its plot, but then the ending is really liquidated in a few non-believable pages. What a pity. The author had really done a good job of describing the characters and places, and the plot also has a complex and articulated development, so that the reader really expects a surprise ending, or an adrenaline-pumping, suspenseful ending; and instead, nothing. A real disappointment, for which I give 2 stars without any remorse. Who knows what happened to Connelly, maybe he contracted the Stephen King syndrome, i.e. the disease for which after a certain limit you write only to make money and not because you have something to say… The two protagonists are Bosch and Ballard, so they should be almost a guarantee, but the do-gooders that permeate the book's ending are really out of place. A book to forget.

My what an apt title The Dark Hours indeed reading this horrible horse shit. A second swing and a miss by Connelly after Fair Warning--which was another apropo title since he told me and I still made the mistake of reading it. When old white authors go "woke" who you going to call? Ghost of good writers? Woke busters? I am being kind when I say this book is a pile of horse dung. The interior jacket misleads the reader into thinking this is a joint collaboration between Bosch and Ballard - it is not AT ALL. This is all Renee Ballard at her worst. Going full Don Quixote against the evil horrible white cops she is forced to work with and everyone else that does not appreciate all her woke efforts to right the wrongs of the L A P D. Bosch is completely emasculated in this book and does not even resemble a former shadow of the formidable character Connelly crafted over dozens of books and thirty years. He has to be driven to his death jab appointment by Ballard who flashes her badge and says this is my appointment. Total nonsense when again and again she rails against anyone else who abuses their position as a police officer. This is the end of a thirty year road for me with Connelly, rather unfortunate because when he was writing real crime fiction he was outstanding. This is total tripe, do yourself a favor and save your Andrew Jackson ($20). Fortunately I flipped this turd like a big mac on ebay.

I have a HUGE problem with this book. It's not a Harry Bosch book, it's a Renee Ballard book. I read this book believing it was a HB book. It was like ordering a cheese/mushroom pizza and the pizza arrives with plenty of cheese and 1 mushroom. This book is a RB book. It's all about Renee, Harry is like a bad Xmas ornament hidden on the back of the tree. I wish Mr. Connelly would have said it's a RB book with a few visits from Harry. On it's own it's an okay book. I enjoyed the first three books about RB but I was so looking forward to a Harry book and then realized I was catfished. This book is really about getting us hooked on Renee and using Harry as the hook. It's not a bad book and I finished it in 2 days but I really wanted a book where Harry is the star and not a side kick to stand outside the car. It's an easy read and I didn't buy the ending but oh well.

It seems that now that Connelly has made it big in Hollywood, he needs to tow the line and bow to the powers of political correctness and the agenda of our media and some politicians. The whole “preaching” with the Covid masks, vaccination agenda, Ballard supporting the rioters just turned me off. Is this what authors have to do now to be published? It seems so. This is the second author this month that I will not read again until I read the reviews. I borrowed the audio version from my library and am thankful I didn’t spend money on this book. I couldn’t wait until it finished.

This book was problematic in so many ways, but I think it was supposed to be so I won't judge it on that. I love CoHo so much and I wanted to love this book, but it wasn't for me. I just didn't enjoy it. It was captivating and kept my attention 100%, but I found myself not connecting and not really liking any of the characters. I was frustrated more often than not and I think a lot of it is just my reading tastes changing some over the years. Had I read this when it first came out I think I would have enjoyed it much more. I can definitely see why people would love this one, and I truly think I'm in the minority of not liking it. I get what Hoover was trying to do with it, but unfortunately it just didn't work for me. Audio book source: Audible Story Rating: 2 stars Narrators: Emma Hudson, Ryan Gray & Max Thomas Narration Rating: 4 stars Genre: Contemporary (romance, maybe?) Length: 13h 4m

I thought I was in for a very dark and twisted read but it was more on the ridiculous side imo. Sloan is in a difficult situation and made the decision to be with her manipulating and abusive boyfriend Asa, she feels she has no other choices since she is not able to pay for her brother’s care at the facility and Asa offered to do it. One day, in class, she meets Carter, they flirt together and legit instantly fall in love. Little does she know she’ll be spending alot of time with Carter afterward since he’s a undercover cop. (And a crappy one at that.) There is really nothing else to say after that, nothing interesting or intriguing happens, just two grown men obsessing over the same girl, only difference is one is literally crazy obsess with her. Obviously Carter and Sloan « Try » to stay apart but just cant, the book will let you know every chance it gets how much Carter is better and the complete opposite of Asa. I thought maybe the investigation would be interesting but no, even at the end it proves to be totally useless, it just seemed like a filler to justify the forced proximity between Sloan and Carter. Oh my, this guy was NOT a good undercover cop, id be scared for my life if I had to work with him. The characters especially Sloan and Carter felt underdeveloped. Sloan is suppose to be strong and the « no one like her » type and yet she cries every 2 pages I was scare she might run out of tears,she felt pretty basic to me. The same goes for Carter, he is the typical CoHo’s boy character. Asa is no better but do feel more complexed than the other two. Also really didnt like how Colleen portrayed mental illness in her book, it seemed all over the place and under researched. 1.5⭐️

i had to delete some comments because people are mad at me that i didn't like this lol. this novel was a highly anticipated one for me, and i PERSONALLY was disappointed. this book has a plot, i never said otherwise. my contention with this was the romance and their development. around chapter two, his dick was hard and she was wet and unable to function?? if you are going to have the characters get together after the fifty % mark, i PERSONALLY would like to see some tension and character interactions that have meaning. their thoughts were about fucking each other in every position and on every surface. the MMC—enzo, is engaged to the FMC—venesa's cousin. while this makes for an engaging story, the entirety of this is filled with weird sexual innuendo's and weird possessive beef with every female character. this narrative usage is not something i PERSONALLY enjoy in romance stories, especially since hexed was really long. this also has nothing to do with the author, as i like and respect emily. my og review : i mean this with zero disrespect. however, making an entire novel about superficial attraction and lust, are not quality traits to move a plot. in addition, there is too much other woman drama that is superfluous.

.⋆˚⁀➷ 2★ this was soooo boring + shallow. i hate insta-love but i still kinda enjoyed venesa×enzo's moments together. i did not care about anything else though. -forbidden romance ( cousin's fiance so expect cheating and a ton of ow drama) -little mermaid inspired (the easter eggs from the little mermaid were fun to find, ngl) 🎧 the audiobook is excellent. the narrators did a great job!! ┍━━━━━⋆⭒˚.⋆☁️⋆.˚⭒⋆━┑ never after series: [i] hooked - 3★ [ii] scarred - 4★ [iii] wretched - 3★ [iv] twisted - tbr [v] crossed - dnf [vi] hexed - 2★ ┕━⋆⭒˚.⋆☁️⋆.˚⭒⋆━━━━━┙ ⋆⭒˚.⋆ ⌞pre~read⌝⋆.˚⭒⋆ buddy read with kat ! emily books are hit or miss for me. i dnf'd the last book in this series sooo i hope i enjoy this one more *fingers crossed*

🚫 Not Picking Up Another Emily McIntire I think after this, I am not picking up another Emily McIntire book again. It just doesn’t cut it for me. The plot is underwhelming, the twists obvious, and the downfalls handmade by the MCs’ idiotic decisions. This series had so much potential, especially with the “villain gets an HEA” concept, but it fell flat. Same problems in book 1 and 6. Which tells me: not much improvement has been made. 1️⃣ Flat Origins & Missed Potential While the plot tries to give the “villain” their HEA, and I actually liked that the villain remains a villain but more nuanced, the execution just isn’t there. Instead of truly delving into origin stories, we only get a couple of mentions and that one convenient story that somehow ties everything together. But even then, those elements aren’t used to their full emotional potential. And listen: this is not a short book. It had the space. It just didn’t use it.🤷🏻‍♀️ Enzo’s background? Explored, but too lightly. Aside from one tiny mention near the climax, it barely mattered. 2️⃣ Smut for “Fuck’s” Sake I’m a smut girlie. I love spice. But I like it to make sense. Here? It was mostly cringe. • Enzo having sex with Aria while thinking of Venesa. • V having a sex dream. • The brewing tension between them wasted except for one scene. There was substance to build on. But instead we got five (?) sex scenes back-to-back, which was just exhausting. And don’t even get me started on the male narrator in the audiobook. 😬 He made the cringe ten times worse. 3️⃣ Dumb Decisions on Repeat The MCs constantly act like fools. Venesa does the exact same reckless thing multiple times, gets in trouble each time, and still repeats it, until the final pinnacle moment where, honestly, she deserved what happened. Enzo wasn’t much better. For a mafia world, these characters had zero street smarts. Yes, you can be trusting, but not blind. Yes, you can be relaxed, but not when your life literally depends on anticipating threats. The lack of basic logic? Maddening.🤡 4️⃣ Rushed & Box-Checking I do appreciate the attempt at authenticity by pulling in as many elements from the original fairytales as possible. But here, it felt rushed, like a checklist being ticked off rather than integrated meaningfully. Some resolutions happened way too fast, losing all their impact. 🎧 Audiobook Ick Factor I’m no expert on US accents, but the drift was so obvious. Whatever tilt the narrator started with, it quickly faded, only popping back on certain words like “sugar” and “sweetheart.” And again: the male narrator gave me the absolute biggest icks, especially in the smut scenes. Trust me, even at 2x speed, it wasn’t fast enough to escape the cringe. 😒 Goodbye Flat. Underwhelming. Predictable. Not actually fun. This series could’ve been so much more… but it wasn’t. Thank you Makayla for choosing this for my 25 books from 25 friends for 2025. -- Pre-read: I might as well throw myself to the sharks and see if I survive this...🧜‍♀️

This was actually going to be my favorite out of the series, until the ending that felt really flat and rushed. Seriously, what a disappointment.

** spoiler alert ** Okay first off I liked the Ginny & Georgia vibes I got from the audiobook. I also liked when she said these things… “You can’t ever count on a man but you can always count on the poison that will ☠️ him or whatever that saying is.” “In my experience it’s better when men can’t talk anyways.” “If there’s one thing a man can do it’s disappoint you.” But I cringed at the amount of times she talked about being loved out loud. It was also a no go for me with the cheating which isn’t always a dealbreaker for me in books buuuuut here we are. Enzo cannot keep claiming he’s “not a cheater” while actively cheating. And add on to the fact that at the time he was cheating he thought his fiancé had saved his life?!!!! Double cretin.

I really wanted to like this, but I didn’t

I LOVE Agent Pendergast, have read every single book..... what on earth happened??? No spoilers here. SOOOO disappointed in the left hand turn the book took. Yes, he's always dealt with the strange...but come on guys. Not happy!!

** spoiler alert ** I have been a Preston and Childs fan since the beginning with Relic. Have always found their research, plot, characterization impeccable. However, Bloodless is disappointing in plot and characters . This novel is something out of a bad horror movie. I found it to be uninteresting and not the caliber of writing I have come to expect and enjoy. The new narrator was unable to bring out the voices of Pendergast and Constance . Poorly performed.

A great disappointment I absolutely adore the adventures of Special Agent Pendergast. I have followed the series with delight. This is the first Special Agent Pendergast book that I really did not like. I am highly disappointed. I have enjoyed Mr Childs and Mr Preston and their many books. Please gentlemen remember who Special Agent Pendergast is and how special he and his friends are and the fantastic adventures they have experienced.

WHAT DID I JUST READ?! The first half of this book was great. Engaging and interesting, I was really enjoying the science aspect that was developing. But then. Oh but then we find out who the killer actually is - my head nearly exploded and not in a good way. After the disappointing reveal I just to come to an acceptance thinking things would come together in the end but nope. I just kept loosing interest and while I finished, I feel like I barely heard the last 1/4. Someone recommended this book to me, I had only read the 1st in the series (which is loved) but she swore I could read this as a stand alone and not go back to catch up. While reading the rest of the series wouldn't have helped the awkward plot, I wonder if being more invested in the characters could have made up for it.

I don't know what happened here. Normally I adore everything P&C write but this was lame. It started out intriguingly, what with the D.B. Cooper gambit. Then the setting in Savannah, a city of great charm and beauty, was really interesting. But as the story unfolded it became very silly. The whole SciFi thing was over the top. Mostly, it appears to be a setup to spin off a new series featuring Constance Greene. The spin off featuring Nora Kelly has been very good with the solid plotting and adventure I associate with P&G. And, Pendergast always makes a special appearance at the end to tie things up. I'm not sure if I like that. He can be seen as a guardian angel figure or as someone who doubts the ultimate competency of the female characters. Can't make up my mind. Anyway, this was not one of their better efforts, in my opinion.

The worst of the series by far. I was utterly disappointed. It is so disjointed and unsatisfying. A suspension of disbelief has always been needed in this series. That's not a bad thing at all. I loved the fantastical elements of Relic, Cabinet of Curiosities, etc. But they've always been backed up by fantastical pseudoscience that you know makes no sense but could totally fool someone. This one just glosses over things and pulls random things together in ways that feel awkward. I was too often left with that irritating feeling of, "well that makes no sense" or "how the hell would so-and-so have know this?" or "this just feels really dumb." If you've read the previous 19 books then sure, give it a read. I didn't hate it but it was no where near what I typically expect from this series.

When you are 20 books into a series, there is a lot of grace because when you reacquaint yourself with the characters you remember back on the great adventures you have had with them. But this is two in a row now for 2 star installments. You won't get much more grace from me Mr. Thor.

This was a big disappointment. There are a few very brief scenes of intense action, surrounded by not much. This is one of those thrillers I usually enjoy, with a scary plan by nefarious bad guys to do something world-shatteringly dreadful. This book has the same, but written in a way that removes any feeling of urgency, and that lacks the build-up and momentum that usually make thrillers compelling.

I usually devour the new Brad Thor thriller each time one comes out, but I was disappointed in this one. Scot Harvath is one of my favorite characters/protagonists but he seemed so shallow in this book. While there were hints of a great plot , they all fizzled out . The book just seemed unfinished. It was almost like reading an outline of what the book was going to be. I did love the locale of the novel and the supporting characters were very good. I will look forward to the next Scot Harvath in hopes it is more like the ones where I fell in love with the man and his mission.

i have read better from Thor. Shallow geopolitics as always Chinese are smart and bad , Russians are bullies. too many side stories to fill pages. not good enough.

I really like the character, Scott Harvath! Always have! The author has run our of imagination. The last 2-3 books have been slow, lack imagination and are hard to read.

Generally I really like Scot Harvath novels but this and the previous book, Near Dark, have been disappointments for me. For this book, I felt more effort was made describing meals and scenery than action sequences. I found the action sequences quite perfunctory too. It was a very easy read but I was hoping for more.

Not Brad Thor's best effort

At times I wasn’t sure if he was writing a thriller or a bodice buster. Very disappointed.

Epic DadWank stuff this, once I stopped being frustrated with all the boomer proselytizing and leant into the silly stuff it was quite fun. Not sure the story was all that interesting, but the guide to Norway was enlightening. There have been 20 of these books? Not sure I can manage that much mediocrity, despite the attraction of more descriptions of white American superspy using survivalist tips and only the best gadgets

This was the first book that I’ve read by Thor, and was expecting a page turning thriller. Unfortunately, it felt like I was reading a book authored by someone who was under a deadline to get something, anything turned in. The characters were underdeveloped and incredibly two dimensional. It really seemed like the author had no interest in making anything about the characters or plot seem interesting or fully developed. Not sure I’ll pick up anymore of Mr. Thor’s book after this one.

The book has much of Mr. Thor's usual excellent character development but the plot is really substandard. Some others have said it is Harvath on vacation and I would have to agree. I expect a lot more from this normally excellent author.

This was The worst Harvath book of the series. It was entirely too trite, neat, and easy. There was very little depth to this story. Hopefully Brad Thor gets back on his game for the next one.

Harvath seems like a loose cannon Slow plot development leaves you wondering why Harvath is running around killing people before he even knows what is happening.

What happened??? Not the same writer! I LOVE Brad Thor books and have read every single one. This book was not even close to what he has written. I normally devour these books in 1-2 days. This has taken me weeks to finish. Nothing was the same in the writing at all. Sorry. It pains me to write such a review.

Not Brad Thor’s best work.

Kristin Hannah novels are so hit and miss for me. For instance, I absolutely loved Night Road...it's probably one of my all-time favorite books. Yet, I really fecking hated the The Nightingale. And here's why... Every time I read Hannah's historical fiction, I end up feeling as though she researches like a mad woman, jots down every tragedy she can find during that time period, and then destroys her main character by making her suffer through every. single. calamity. It's too much. This book was so horribly depressing and was so full of misery and death (animals included...it was bad, friends), that I couldn't wait for it to end. I didn't care for any of the characters and felt zero enjoyment while reading this. Yes, it was well-written, and yes, Ms. Hannah knows how to ratchet up the tension...but man, balance is a good thing. The constant, over-the-top darkness was overwhelming. The conclusion was completely predictable and emotionally manipulative. I knew I was supposed to break down into devastated tears, but instead, I just let out a huge sigh and rolled my eyes. Does that count? I think I just need to stick to her contemporary books and skip the historical options. I have found myself wondering if this book had been released at a different time, instead of a immediately following a worldwide pandemic and financial devastation for so many, if I might have liked it more. It's possible. Right now, it simply doesn't "play nicely" with my state of mind, and really, timing is everything. I'm once again in the minority here, so just go ahead and read it...you know you want to. TRIGGER WARNING: CONSTANT ANIMAL SUFFERING AND DEATH 2.5 stars Available February 2, 2021 Despite my less than enthusiastic review, I'd like to thank NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for my review copy.

2 Disappointing Stars Emotionally manipulative and pushing of personal political agendas. Wow - well, this author got me with The Great Alone which was my top fave book of 2020. After that, I read The Nightingale, which was also good, though I personally did not like the ending. This however.....?!?!?!? I don't even know where to start. I knew going in that the book was about The Great Depression, so I wasn't expecting rainbows and sunshine. But, my God woman, this is the most depressing book I've ever read in my life. It is just one sad tragic thing after another. And some of it (just as I felt with The Nightingale) felt like sad and tragic for the sake of sad and tragic. I'm totally fine with a sad book, if that is where the story and the plot went naturally. But this? Like, how many terrible things can happen to one family? To one person? I don't even know what the message is here... be brave...or don't, whatever, because it's all doom and gloom in the end anyway? *shrugs* It was TOO MUCH! This book needs some BALANCE. I really cannot fathom how so many people are gushing over this book, but to each their own. It was so depressing and seriously a chore to get through. When so many terrible things happen to the characters in a story, I pretty much just check out mentally and emotionally. And that is what happened here. I didn't cry at the end. I wasn't sad. I was just go glad it was over and ready to move on with my life. And the political agenda pushing that came about in the last quarter? That was the nail in the coffin for me. I cannot stand when any kind of artist does this, even if the agenda you are pushing is my own. A historical fiction book should not be a political platform. Not what I signed up for. The worst book I’ve read all year. Sadly, I doubt I will ever read this author again. I will say, I am in the VAST minority here so take my review with a grain of salt. Just know that this is NOT an easy read.

y'all I was so bored I'm almost angry

This is probably my least favorite book that I have read by this author so far. You know how they say writers should show, not tell. This was an example of the author not showing, but just telling. There was such a lack of emotion behind the writing. I felt like I was reading a chronological timeline, not an actual story. There were a few moments where it seemed good, but they were so short lived. I honestly ended up skimming a lot of this, because around page 100 I decided I was over it. Also, this book is depressing and not in a ‘wow this book made me feel so many emotions’. It was like that point of depression where you are completely numb to all emotions? Is that what she was trying to convey? I don’t know, but I personally did not enjoy it. My friends kept telling me to read this one, but I am not gonna trust them to pick books anymore. 😂 I also LOVED some of this author’s other books especially The Women, so I am not being a hater. I literally just did not like this book.

This read like an early draft, just the crime aspects before she went back and added the usual side characters for fun and flavor. While I also don't like it when she has every side character make an appearance when it doesn't add anything, this was just boring. The crimes were even boring. One thing I enjoyed about this series was how some of the characters showed growth and change over time. Mavis went from singing in creepy bars to a star to meeting Leonardo to having a baby. She's really changed. Peabody has grown a little, but most of her growth has been in her relationship with McNabb. Mostly she has remained Eve's silly sidekick. Although Eve and Roark did have their usual stupid fight, they otherwise seem to be growing less than the other characters. But no one seemed the grow or change in this book. This one felt phoned in.

I finished listening through the audiobook a couple of hours ago, and still feel like crying. But this time the tears are not from actually emoting along with any characters, or from frustration from having to leave them and wait for the next book. This time I fell like crying because Diana Gabaldon has somehow managed to kill the series for me. For so many years, I loved this series. Most of the characters were relatable, even some of the antagonists (but Stephen Bonnet was always a bit of a cartoon, his psychology was never quite credible). Some of the characters were harder to like, but by the end of the last book, I was cheering hard for Brianna and Roger, who had finally become full people, good and bad, with strong drivers. And then, after an interminable wait, I return to Fraser's Ridge to find minutiae, biblethumping and nothing really happening at all except people travelling all over the place. It feels a bit like Diana saw most of the family gathered and rebuilding their society after several difficult experiences, and then thought: "Can't have that, they might develop as characters through actually interacting, let's throw these ones over here, those over there, and, hm, add a bunch around here. Oh, wasn't I supposed to bring some answers? Well, never mind, I will just remove some of the science and replace it with woo-woo, and give religion the main role in this book!" I wonder if it is possible to love this book if you are not religious? In my case, it made my tendency towards strongly disliking religiosity much stronger, and I doubt that I will be able to ever re-read this book, the way I have with all the previous 8. And where did the guts go? Why push so hard for Agnes and Fanny to go down the traditional route after having given much more exciting alternatives in an earlier case? Why put Lord John back into the same old predicament and kill off one of the more interesting characters in that horrible way instead of showing some personal growth and ability to actually share deep emotions despite the society frowning upon it? Why plopping out babies all over the place, including one to a woman whose heart should have struggled with a pregnancy and birth instead of magically just bearing all of that without any issues, whatsoever? Oh, and if a child does not fit in here, why just drop them in somewhere else and never deal with any of the deep scars such uprooting can lead to? Everything just seem so superficial, so virtuous and so obvious that it never became possible to believe in any of the threatening events. They all travel through war and weather without negative consequences, including some suspiciously easy smuggling, and equally suspicious intercultural understanding and tolerance all over the place, including sitting through three different religious services back to back (recounted in sooooo much detail!) and no problems whatsoever in marrying people of different faiths. Even the great event that we FINALLY get to in the end becomes boring, because anyone with a brain could predict exactly what would be the result after all that foreshadowing! I might read the tenth book, but will definitely not seek it out! After this book, I don't really care what happens to Roger (barf!), Brianna (boooooooring!), Mandy (annoying as hell), Fergus (who no longer has any personality, apparently), Marsali (who is actually reduced to a baby-machine), Ian (who no longer has personality, either, just saintly patience and goodwill to all), Jamie (who has become insufferable in his preaching and "perfection"), Claire (who is apparently now almighty, and at the same time flat and completely uninteresting, how the hell did such a snappish woman become tame?) or even William (who is just a still angsty teenager spewing privilege, yet always right about everything now). The only characters I still feel able to read about are Jemmy and Jenny, whose names are so similar, but still have a little bit of spark left. And I am kinda eager to see the end of the slave who acted so honorably through an entire life, yet in this book became a total villain for no reason. Sigh!

2 stars = Meh. Intriguing enough to finish, but not enough to like it. But war’s war, Sassenach. Honor only makes it a bit easier to live wi’ yourself, afterward. I have read over 9,000 pages in Gabaldon’s Outlander series. In previous books I have found her to be a phenomenal storyteller that brings historical fiction to life with vivid characters. This amount of reading time spent with the same characters has led to my loving and caring for them. And that is the only reason I suffered through this hot mess of disappointment. If I had not come into this book already being invested in the characters, there is no possible way I would have finished the book. For the first 700-ish pages, nothing of interest or significance happens. It’s page after page of hanging out around the homestead, learning in graphic detail how bodies decompose along with every single other random tidbit Gabaldon has ever researched being forced into the story. But after slogging through a measly 700 superfluous pages, things actually started to happen and the story finally became interesting. The ending was heartfelt and strong, and absorbing enough to rope me in for the next installment, though my expectations will be very low going into the rumored finale. I suspect that with the huge success of the series (both print and TV), that Gabaldon is being given free reign as though she can do no wrong, with very little editing, if any, being applied to her bloated project of self-indulgence. This is the 9th full length novel and by far the weakest. This book falls massively short of the quality from most of the earlier books. Know going into this one, that you will be waiting until the back 20% of the book for the story to begin, and that all throughout you must suffer boredom from random tidbits which are crammed into the story for no apparent reason other than to show off the author's research abilities. Children seem to multiply every few chapters to the point that I felt I was reading a book about a dozen kids, which is not a book I would ever select knowingly. Gabaldon normally excels with realistic dialogue but the kids' blabbering was annoying and endless. I have no idea, but I would suspect she has recently become a grandparent or something because the intensive focus on babies, children, and the joys of having as large of a family as possible was constant and cheesy enough to belong to Hallmark. As another disillusionment bonus, she jumped the shark with this one. I can buy time travel through standing stones, but I am not able to suspend disbelief enough for all the hokey magic miracles that suddenly appear, or multiple characters developing telepathic abilities out of nowhere. In addition to being historical fiction, sci-fi, and romance, I suppose this is a fantasy series as well now. I also did not appreciate Roger’s character, the once interesting historian turned now dull minister, being hollowed out into a bland caricature, destroying his appeal to the point that no one would notice if he never appeared in a book again. I can only recommend this one to hardcore Outlander fans, and fellow masochists. If you want to continue the series without suffering heavy disappointment, just start reading at page 700 or so. Nothing of great significance would be lost. ------------------------------------------- First Sentence: There was a stone under my right buttock, but I didn’t want to move. Favorite Quote: “So you don’t think the sins of the fathers should be visited upon the children?” Grey sighed, pressing his shoulders against the chair to ease the stiffness in his back. “If they were, I should think humanity would have ceased to exist by now, pressed back into the earth by the accumulated weight of inherited evil.”

Ugh. This was a SLOG. Diana desperately needs an editor who will take a firm hand with her. The audiobook is 49 -1/2 hours long and there are maybe 6 hours worth of notable action in it. If you are a fan of "low Scottish noises," raised eyebrows, descriptions of hair "sparking in the (sun or fire - dealer's choice) light," the phrase "warm weight," commentary on the cold, and long journeys wherein not much happens, then this is the book for you. Hours of those gems in which you can wallow to your heart's content. I also find it incredible that the extended Fraser clan seems to run into people they know no matter how far afield they range. I guess there were only about 300 -400 people living on the East coast of America during that time period. It has been 7 long years since the last book so I must confess that I forgot a great deal of the fine detail of the previous entries in this series. The first - maybe - 15%+ of this book re-hashes events that took place in past books, not just the previous one. Weirdly, the endless gabbing about those things doesn't actually provide enough (or the right kind of) detail to remind the reader what happened and WHY it might be germane to events in this book. Believe me, there are all kinds of characters who crop up to do things to our main cast for reasons that I have long since forgotten or with motivations that are murky to begin with. More specific reminders would not have gone amiss. There were a number of tangents that just seemed pointless. I am not going to spoil anyone's read by detailing them, but they should be apparent once you wade through this morass of a book. I am giving two stars because the insight into day-to-day life during that era is interesting and seems to be well researched. But I would rather have a compelling storyline that moves events forward rather than a minute inventory of the contents of Claire's pie safe and root cellar and a rapturous (and repeated) detailing of Jamie's body hair. I recall being aggravated with DG's last entry in this series for the reasons outlined above. Sadly, those frustrations have only grown.

A letter to Diana Gabaldon: Outlander is my favorite romance story. I will read ANYTHING involving Jamie and Claire, which is why I read the entirety of this book. Oh Diana, what happened? Your first 3 books were perfection—real story goals filled with incredible characters. But there is something important missing in your later books, this one in particular: story. Your readers, like me, will read whatever you give us because we are so in love with Jamie and Claire, but the salt has lost its savor. I miss the book-length story arcs instead of these small, episodic events that feel more like a poorly designed TV show than an actual novel. It all feels so… cyclical. How many of the same kinds of skirmishes do we need to see over and over again before we have had enough? There were maybe four or five moments in this giant book where I whooped with excitement. The rest was a chore because I felt no forward momentum in the story. It was sloggish. Hard to care about most of the characters. Yes, I will read the last book. But please let it be the last. I can’t do this much longer. In my opinion, books 4-10 should have only been two books. A five-book series, not 10 books, would have been supreme. That being said, it was nice to see Jamie and Claire again.

Huge disappointment exacerbated by a ridiculously long wait and botched publication - "pre-orders" sold in 2019 still have not all been delivered. This story is just way past its prime - much like its unfortunate companion TV series. High expectations but it doesn't deliver. It's mostly a meandering rehash of tired repeat plot points and a bunch of new characters who nobody is particularly interested in. At this point a reader wants answers to mysteries which have dragged on for years and thousands of pages unresolved - meaningful interaction between the core characters - and what you get instead are nonsensical plot twists with illogical reappearances (Ulysses??), a bunch of stuff about new characters who are irrelevant to the main plot, glaring editorial errors, long journeys which separate the primary family for the majority of the book and a lot of drama associated with Jamie Fraser supposedly nearing death as predicted (not unlike the predicted house fire before) when you know very well that he will not die in this book by the author's own advance admission. It's been a 7 year wait and William, Jamie & LJG have no interactions at all. The hunt for gold has apparently been replaced by an abolitionist traveler bent on "changing history" to end slavery. And all kinds of loose ends (old and new) still have not been tied up. Largely a road to nowhere but more time waiting for a next installment which may never come and money to be spent on it.

I’d give this 2.5 starts. This was not so much a novel as a series of novellas that were randomly strung together. There was no plot to this book, just some stories. I am a huge fan, most of the time, but this one just didn’t do it for me. You had to have detailed knowledge/remembrance of the last book, which I did not so it was painful reading the first quarter of this book. There was no time frame between some of the “stories” so it was tough to know how long things were really happening. And to top it off she finishes with a cliffhanger of two characters who really were the most interesting in this book. How many years are we going to have to wait this time???

Rarely do I not finish a book. Especially one that I have waited for. This is one of those books that I'm putting on the shelf until I have nothing at all left to read. Far to many faux pas and inconsistencies Ones that I just cant get over that add to the non-existent plot to the book. Maybe I will enjoy it later. For now...nah

FILLER I don’t remember ever being so disappointed in an installment of a series before. I did not think this book moved very far the story lines opened in the previous. LOTS of glimpses into daily life on the ridge and contrived situations, but very, very little substance. Feels like the real story I wanted to read began literally on the last page, with the cliffhanger that really started on book 8. This one was just filler. Makes me not want to purchase book 10 until someone else does and determines whether open questions are actually answered. My trust as a reader has actually been somewhat lost. Yikes.

** spoiler alert ** Alternate title: the one where William travels around colonial America collecting people with relative ease. Alternate title 2: the one where Claire can heal everyone with magic so there are no stakes to injury of our main characters.

Well I know I’m going to be in the minority here and may incur the wrath of die-hard James Patterson fans, but this was not a good read. There were three consecutive story lines running, none of which had anything to do with each other. A common device used in many genres, but….. As each one only constituted a part of the overall book, they all felt as if they were dealt with very superficially, and at least two of them were concluded in a way which had nothing to do with the efforts and skills of the main characters. Even in the main murder story, Boxer basically gets handed the answer on a plate with about twenty pages to go. The cyber crime thread failed to interest me at all, but each of the three could have made a much better book in their own right, with the opportunity to get some really interesting mileage out of each. The court case theme in particular could have been gritty and intense but completely fizzled out. And the closing two chapters with their ‘well, aren’t we just the most gosh-darnedest nice people you could ever hope to meet’ ending was just a bit saccharine for me. This felt as if it been written for television- no need for quality wordcraft that pulls you in to the story and won’t let you leave. I loved Patterson’s early Alex Cross novels - they were books I did struggle to put down, and also enjoyed the early Women’s Murder Club books. And ‘The Girl in the Castle’, a fairly recent release, was also very good. But this disappointed.

I was SO disappointed in this book. It felt so rushed. Given the fact it’s the 24th book in the series I am not totally surprised, but I loved all the other books. This one just didn’t do it for me, I thought all the cases weren’t exciting, not once was I hooked… and I feel the blurb of this book was a complete lie. Women’s murder club is a great series but this was a major let down.

This is the last James Patterson book I will ever be reading or reviewing. Patterson, along with his many co-authors, has become dully repetitive and lacking the page-turning compulsion they once had. Thank you NetGalley and the publishers for this offering.

I really like this series, The Women's Murder Club (obviously if I'm on book 24, lol). However, this one is not great. There are three different storylines and two of them abruptly end with no real explanation. Not great writing.

Ehhh very much underwhelming. Three different, unrelated story lines. So the back and forth between all three was a bit annoying. Joe’s story had me glazed over; it wasn’t interesting at all. Very much “fill in the gap” to increase the page numbers. Lots of fluff. Yuki’s story was interesting but thought it ended abruptly and fell flat at the end. The main story with Lindsay was interesting but very predictable.

2 dear family-friends consulted on this book, and the book features some namesake characters. Beyond this touching fact, this book is horrible. Cannot believe there are 23 other books in the series. Also, TW:Incest???

Very bland and constantly lost my attention.

I love loved every book in the woman’s murder club series. However, I think this one was just too cliché. It wasn’t complicated and I had to force myself to read it to be able to finish it.

I’m Done with this Series I hope this is the end of this series. I really like the characters, but I am getting tired of the writing. There were there story lines that were confusing and wrapped up too quickly. The mystery and hunt at the end wrapped in about 35 pages. I may have said this before, but this is my last Women’s Murder Club book that I’ll read.

Worse one so far in my opinion, These books are normally an easy read and palate cleanse between other novels. 3 story lines 2 of which were pointless and the “Main” story line following Lindsey seemed meh. Honestly think this one has finished the series for me

I went into this without having read the original fanfic, and that makes all the difference. If you’re coming in clean, here’s what you need to know: Plot (2/5) The premise is strong, but the execution is bloated. At nearly 950 pages, the story drowns itself in filler and repetitive setups. The middle 500 pages could have been cut in half without losing anything. Worldbuilding / Setting (3/5) Dense, but confusing. Names, places, and history are dropped with the assumption that you already know them. Without that scaffolding, it’s disorienting — especially with no map. You’ll know where characters are, but rarely feel grounded in why it matters. Characters (1.5/5) The side cast is flat, often little more than names. The female lead is reactive and defined by what others do to her, not her own choices. The male lead is compelling as a morally gray archetype, but one character can’t carry a 950-page book. Pacing (2/5) Painfully uneven. Long stretches of unnecessary exposition and backstory on people who don’t even matter grind momentum to a halt. Action and reveals are crammed into the final 200 pages, leaving the bulk of the book feeling like a slog. Writing (4/5) The prose itself is solid — clear and competent. Structurally, though, it needed a much tighter edit to truly stand as its own book rather than leaning on a fanfic’s bones. Emotional Impact (2/5) This is marketed as devastatingly dark, but in truth it only feels that way for about 75 pages. Yes, there are a few jaw-dropping “what the fuck” moments, and yes, some trigger warnings apply. But overall it reads more as human, harsh, and realistic than unrelentingly dark. Without pre-loaded emotional attachment to these characters, the impact feels muted. Enjoyment (2/5) By the end, I was glad I read it once but will never recommend it. The length, lack of grounding, and absence of earned emotional connection made it a chore more than an experience. Final verdict: The writing isn’t bad. The book is bad. There’s a difference. If you read the original, you may map your feelings onto this and love it. If you didn’t, prepare for a confusing, bloated, emotionally flat slog. For me, it was a survival read, not a five-star obsession.

BLEH Where’s the petition I can sign to prevent more fanfics from getting traditionally published?

2.5 underwhelming ⭐️⭐️ I was literally fighting for my life reading this book, I really tried, I just don’t understand how this book can invoke such strong feelings, in so many? And I want to understand. I was bored most of the time. Time of death: page 600/1040. I know this story means so much to so many,❤️and I had so much goodwill towards this book when I started reading it. I suspect the severe overhype, ruined this for me, I was told it would break my heart, that it was dark, but it just wasn’t. Part 1. Helena wakes up in a tube thing, with amnesia. She is sent to Kaine who’s magic can probe her brain for lost memories. They are on different sides of the war. Part 2. 4 years earlier Helena and Kaine work together, he as a spy for the resistance. That is it, 600 pages in. The rest is world building and magic systems. The info dump that happens here, is running for a world record and it was on my behalf, and it kept coming. Keeping me informed, slowed the experience down significantly. I was told a lot, and not shown much. It was like my brain was put in a vice made of information, so it couldn’t do anything on its own. The author did a good job, but I had major issues: 1/ The MC’s are benefiting from preexisting love from Manacled. 600 pages in I still don’t feel their connection. I don’t know what her relationship to Luc is? There are a lot of characters that are still vague to me. At this point in any book I should be invested right? If you loved Manacled, you already love them, but this book didn’t connect the dots for me. 2/ The timelines/ memory lapses and time jumps, all happening during a massive info dump, and while world building is happening, compromises my connection to the characters. Editing could have helped here. 3/ It’s very repetitive and way too long. 4/ if I read a book expecting to be “broken”, you better break me. 💔 The only thing this book made me feel was felt detached and bored. Don’t promise to break me if you can’t! Should you read it? No, it’s definitely going on my literary Ambien shelf. Small spoiler: P.S. This book did NOT romantasize SA. She has amnesia and doesn’t remember him. They are both forced to procreate to keep her safe. P.P.S. This is a book about war, it’s not a romance and it’s not a romantacy.

Would you betray your own community for a $3 million movie deal? Anyway. This is a cash grab and you can't convince me otherwise. The author did it for the love of the game and that game is $$$. (Lbr, can you blame them?) 1.5 stars. TL;DR SUPER COOL magical concepts (it's actually not all that cool if you read/watch a lot of fantasy but whatever I'm a slut for necromancy) wasted on a romance between a character assassinated Hermione and a bad boy sociopath with mommy and daddy issues. Also includes filler worldbuilding. I can't believe I'm saying this, but the fanfic had heart. If you were (are? ew) a fan of the original IP, we all knew who the characters were. We knew their relationships to each other. We knew the world and its rich history. (I feel disgusted for writing this paragraph so if you want to unfriend/unfollow me, feel free.) I'm not even a Dramione fan but somehow I managed to feel something for the characters being thrown into a fucked up Handmaid's Tale-esque world. (Sidenote: I DNF Manacled because the rape scenes were gratuitous to the point where it read like rape porn. The entire thing was also too long and drawn out. Also, look how they massacred my girl. Unforgivable.) Alchemised is just a lackluster shadow of the fanfic. While the alchemy, vivimancy, necrothralls, whatever were really cool (and the only reason why this isn't a 1 star read), the entire thing read like a hollow shell, devoid of any life or feeling. Since the author had to kinda sorta mostly separate Alchemised from the HP IP, the worldbuilding felt like it took a backseat from the romance. The world didn't feel lived in at all. Paladian history and politics are just thrown at you willy nilly and felt like filler. More than half the time, these facts weren't even all that important. Hell, even Temu Voldemort felt like a filler character. (The subplot with his arm sent me into orbit.) He's supposed to be the mastermind behind the Undying and everything bad, but who gives a shit because this is a romantasy and this is a story about Hermione and Draco and nobody else. You're not here for a dark fantasy novel with romance as a subplot. The romance is literally the main character. I actually wish we got a prequel where the world and the characters are established in a natural way and not built all haphazard like this one. I wanted to feel some type of way for Helena, Draco, the Eternal Flame, Harry, Lila, whoever. (I also feel icky for saying this, but I'll be honest, it'd help A LOT with worldbuilding and identifying with the characters and their goals.) But then again, that's asking too much out of a romantasy novel. So instead, they're all just there existing like stock characters and NPCs and Shein versions of Harry and Ginny and the Order of the Phoenix and they're all annoying and they make Helena cry and tremble and hyperventilate all the time and I couldn't give a shit if they won or lost the war because these motherfuckers sound like a goddamn religious cult. It's giving magical Mormons with how they act and think and breathe. A LOT of the book is centered on the romance. The summary is just a huge diversion to market this in the fantasy genre. Every fan and stan won't stop saying that it's a dark fantasy with a romantic subplot. Babes, just admit it's a romantasy. It literally follows romance genre conventions and story beats. (Is this a spoiler alert?) Shelve this next to Fourth Wing and ACOTAR and call it a day. In conclusion, I'm a fucking dumbass for thinking that this would be a fully revamped version of Manacled with the fanfic as just the bare bones of the story, and not literally a copy paste version with the serial numbers from HP and The Handmaid's Tale filed off. Other than the "worldbuilding," it's literally the same thing. Find a download of Manacled, compare and contrast, and you'll see what I mean. If you want to save money, read that instead. Whichever one you choose, you'll still experience ALL the abuse, the rape, and the trauma. If you're a fan of trauma porn, then this is the book to read. Number of times Helena and co.: Shook? 363 (includes head shaking) Trembled? 108 Gasped? 91 Cried? 40 Sobbed? 33 Shuddered? 31 Couldn't breathe? Too many to count

An adventure thriller from Mr. Baldacci will always be exciting and somewhat fanciful, but this one was over the top. The story did not merely strain suspension of disbelief - it left suspension in the dust and kept on running. Private jets, limitless bank accounts, hordes of faceless bad men with limitless weaponry (who never manage to hit anything) being gunned down with even more limitless weaponry conveniently discovered by our leads (who never miss) - all of these elements took the story more into Marvel Comics territory than adventure thriller. In addition to straining norms of the genre, the book introduces a random and colossally implausible plot element at midstream. This plot element takes over the story. Rather than subplots arising and resolving within the framework of the primary conflict, this subplot supplants the primary conflict and runs away with the book. The narrative feels disjointed. I love a fun thriller and do not demand precise realism. At some point, however, a story can become so ridiculous and random that it loses interest. This one did.

FBI agent Atlee Pine’s search for her sister Mercy comes full circle in the 4th book in this series. While the action is fierce, there is a lot of repetition here, as the background of the series is told many times over, which really drags the book down. The secondary story also seemed unnecessary, and further slows the book.

Well, it just wasn't for me. The plot was extremely unlikely, the characters were predictable caricatures and the dialogues were cartoon-like, trying to be funny but not. Luckily, it was a quick read but that is the only good thing about it.

This was my 1st Harlan Coben novel and I hate to say I was not impressed. It was pretty boring, flat, and uneventful for a thriller. I did enjoy Wilde and his complexities, would have loved for this to have been more about him than the lackluster plot.

This is, by far, my least favorite Coben book that I have read. It’s unfortunate, but even your favorite authors can write a dud.

The Boy from the Woods’ is the first Harlan Coben novel that I’ve read. Obviously, I’ve heard plenty about this crime writer – 70 million books sold worldwide - and so was curious to see whether or not I would become a fan or continue to pass him by in the future. It’s the latter. Many praise Coben’s plots, his characterisation and the way in which he highlights topical issues. However, whilst he’s a fluent enough writer who can take his readers down blind alleys and weave in a good number of sub-plots, his characterisation is more comic book than psychologically convincing. The eponymous hero of this tale is named ‘Wilde’ – he emerges from the woods as a child, having become civilised and socialised through his secret friendship with a lawyer’s son of similar age and learning how to read through watching television in the houses of occupants at work – as if! Now a pretty normal adult (how did that happen?), albeit with super-human tracking powers, a techie wizard and a penchant for the woods, Wilde becomes involved in looking for two missing teenagers. If you like extremely far-fetched, then you may enjoy this novel. However, even putting this fantasy superman character to one side, I found it difficult to believe in most of the others. Kidnapped bully Crash and his super rich parents are no more than caricatures; abused Naomi is given the role of victim and thereafter vanishes and, whilst television personality lawyer Hester’s one-liners are amusing enough, her burgeoning relationship with police officer Oren does little to transform her into a plausible woman. I enjoy crime fiction as much as the next person but, in order to be convinced, I need to read of incidents and people that feel real rather than from the land of James Bond. My thanks to NetGalley and Random House UK, Cornerstone for a copy of this novel in exchange for a fair review.

I’ve read and enjoyed Coben’s Myron Bolitar and domestic drama books for years, and I don't really know what to say here. Nothing drew me deeply into the read or particularly kept my interest as is usual with a Coben book. Neither the characters nor the plot were remarkable or memorable. I had to force myself to keep reading, thinking it would get better. It didn’t. Even the usually great last twist at the end was weak. I’m not even sure I believe Coben really wrote this lazy half-effort. Truly disappointing read.

am i MISSING something fr this was so boring 😴 and try hard i cannot deal

Having read all the Eve Dallas series, I found this one to be boring and kept skipping through pages. It just didn’t have the usual thrills. Like other reviews, it felt off and flat to me.

Early morning dispatch alerts Zillionaire husband picking her outfit and serving breakfast Endless commuters at dawn and dusk Hair and outfit descriptions longer than some crime scenes Serial murders unfolding right under the police’s noses Police helpless without the rich consultant’s magic touch Amateur criminal taken down with Oscar-level drama Good cop, bad cop routine where the criminal flies off the handle and spills every secret. Yes, this is this book, not some earlier installment. Honestly, I could copy-paste this review for the past ten books, and it would still fit. Finished it anyway, so 2 stars instead of 1

Poor fan fiction This is the first time I’ve been disappointed in an Eve Dallas book. It really seemed like a poorly writing fan fiction rather than the excellent story telling we are used to. Too many preachy soliloquies. Not enough kick ass Eve. I’ve been rereading the previous books so the contrast is stark.

This Review ✍️ Blog 📖 Twitter 🐦 Instagram 📷 This is gonna be a rant review because despite having low expectations, it still managed to disappoint me. Let me quote my friend Jonathan who said “Ooh, sounds like Player 2 was most definitely not ready.” I think book 1 was definitely a much better book despite me growing as a reader and a reviewer and having read the 2 books with 600 books in between. I don’t like it when series get extended, because let’s be honest as we all know it is usually just an excuse to milk some extra money from an already successful franchise. The author tried something new with his Armada novel which was not a big hit so as most authors do he came back to expand his already established world. And there is a good reason why I don’t like those extensions; They are not planned so the author has to come up with something new and try to make things from book 1 sound like foreshadowing when it is not ruining both books in the process instead of only the new book and that was the case here. I am gonna stat with the writing which I did not find anything special with. It was not bad that I wanted to DNF the book but it was bad when it came to puns, when it came to women in general and when it tried to be preachy! I will touch more on this later in the review. Also the book suffered from telling rather than showing specially at the beginning when it was slow and we just had to take everything for granted. The characters were a hot mess, I liked the main characters in the first book, I liked that Wade was a smart underdog who worked very hard to achieve his dreams. In this book Wade is an A-hole! He is abusing the power and wealth he has, he is mean to his friends and I felt that he was stupid when it came to solving the riddles. I was like who is this person and where is Wade from book 1?! Also the cloak that he had was OP and we had to be continuously reminded how it can basically do everything! Wade’s friends who are good people where kind of shown as stupid specially Artemis. The plot continues after the ending of book 1 and out of nowhere we have new riddles and an adventure to ensue. I thought it basically tried to mimic the events of book 1 and it did so except that it did it worse. I did not feel the characters were in any danger and there was no competition like in book 1. The references honestly felt forced in this book and I did not get most of them to be honest. The book sounded preachy and all-inclusive in a modern since of way. The main character had to tell us that he had tried sex in all forms and in all genders and that he doesn’t care about gender (kind of). When he goes through the memories of Kira and is using her body, what do you think the first thing he notices? Yup, her boobs *Face palm* I also had Kira’s boobs, and her hips, lips, fingertips—all of it. Then the book criticizes Tolkien at some point for having white characters as the good guys and dark ones as villains. And I don’t know what the point was there because a whole adventure in middle earth follows that! Was it trying to make both supporters and critics happy? I don’t know! I just felt it was awkward! Summary: This book succeeded in disappointing me although I had low expectations. The writing felt weak, the characters went through a developmental regression and everything else felt forced. I think it is game over for me with this series!

In this sequel the 'High Five' are living the good life when their virtual universe is hijacked, and not only do they have to go on another quest, they have to defeat the dark side of Halliday and save the world. It was great returning to these characters that I have a soft spot for, but it felt like Cline wanted to repeat the success of the first book by pretty much duplicating it; what he and his publishers failed to grasp, in my opinion, was that it was its novelty and unpredictability that made the book so awesome, something that this sequel is in serious lack of! 5 out of 12. 2022 read

We could have had RP1 duplicated almost entirely and I would have happily enjoyed the ride. But that's not what we got. RP1 is about a dedicated, passionate boy questing in a MMORPG on crack and making friends with a motley crew along the way. RP2 (the sequel no one asked for) is about (view spoiler) Wade without the contest to give him purpose is a selfish and self-righteous, obnoxious and off-putting whiner and it was all I could do to get through the first 40% of the book which is essentially The Wade Show as he isolates himself and alienates every person in his life. It's depressing. Most characters are unrecognizable from the first book, each "challenge" is sloppily written and conveniently solved by some member of Wade's posse who happens to have exactly the right expertise. THANK GOODNESS. The fact that this seven step quest takes 12 hours to complete when RP1's three step quest took approximately a year to complete after the first key is found is another issue entirely. And then it ends with (view spoiler) All that talk at the end of RP1 of using our newly won billions to save Earth is forgotten. Also, we spend multiple chapters on a Prince themed planet. I'm at a loss. - - - - - - - - - - - - Pre-reading thoughts: Please don’t ruin this for me, Ernest.

1.5 rounded up. This was so disappointing! I loved Ready Player One and was looking forward to see where the story would go next. It didn’t really go anywhere. It was very similar to the first book. Only this time there are seven items instead of three. And Wade became an annoying character instead of one you wanted to root for. The villain is a joke. And there is just too much of someone getting saved just in the nick of time. Will not be reading this again.

Wishlist | Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Ko-fi #1 Ready Player One - ★★★★★ #2 Ready Player Two - ★★ When I first found out that there is a sequel called Ready Player Two by Ernest Cline, I was so excited! But I was also doubtful whether it would live up to the hype. Writing this review was a bit hard for me, considering how much I loved the first book, but here we go. Synopsis: Days after Oasis founder James Halliday’s contest, Wade Watts makes a discovery that changes everything. Hidden within Halliday’s vault, waiting for his heir to find, lies a technological advancement that will once again change the world and make the Oasis a thousand times more wondrous, and addictive, than even Wade dreamed possible. With it comes a new riddle and a new quest. A last Easter egg from Halliday, hinting at a mysterious prize. And an unexpected, impossibly powerful, and dangerous new rival awaits, one who will kill millions to get what he wants. Wade’s life and the future of the Oasis are again at stake, but this time the fate of humanity also hangs in the balance. My Thoughts: Everyone my age remembers where they were and what they were doing when they read Ready Player One. I remember I was listening to the audiobook, wonderfully narrated by Wil Wheaton. It was the first audiobook I ever listened to, and I loved everything about it. The plot, the Oasis, the easter egg contest, the 80’s references. And for me, Ready Player One ended perfectly. Wade won the contest, and everything was fine. So you can imagine my surprise and excitement when I heart that there is a sequel coming. Of course I was excited! But I was doubtful at the same time. A little bit afraid that this new book wouldn’t live up to my expectations. Ready Player Two starts very soon after the first book ends, and Wade and his friends uncover a new set of technology, where people can now feel and touch things in the Oasis. But something goes wrong and a villain appears. Only this time, the stakes are very high. People’s lives are in danger. And Wade and his friends must go onto another quest, gathering seven stones, to save everyone! The quest element was basically the same as the easter egg contest. Except this time, there were different puzzles and the stakes were higher, with a very tight deadline. I was not impressed at this part at all, and not even the 80’s references could help anymore. Some of the quests went on and on, making me fall asleep on my hardcover book a couple of times. And then, some of them were completed in two pages or less, not given any attention. Then we had our main hero, Wade, who I started to despise. The Wade I knew from the first book suddenly turned into this rich douchebag that had a God complex. He definitely forgot where he started, and how humble he used to be. He does change a bit in the end, but I gave up on him way before that happened, so I didn’t care. To be fair, the second part of the book wasn’t that bad, which is why I gave this review an extra star. I loved the final battle, and I’ll be honest, I might even watch that second movie, just to see that scene in action. But let’s be honest. Ready Player One ended as it ended, and it didn’t need a second book. If feels as if everyone involved in the first book and movie loved the revenue, and decided to milk it as long as it is popular. Because we all love the idea of the Oasis and will keep reading things that feature it. And that’s what gives me the ick. There is no easy way to say this. When people would ask me about sci-fi recommendations, I would instantly say: “You have to read Ready Player One by Ernest Cline!”. Now, when people ask me the same, I say this: “Ready Player One is amazing! But don’t read the second book. It’s not worth it.”

Ernest, oh dear Ernest, what have you done, I said, WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?! I'm so upset right now that I don't even want to write some long, in-depth review of "Ready player two". Mostly because it... sucks. There. I've said it. And I mean it. At the moment Ready Player Two is my prime contender for a dubious "Disappointment of the year" achievement. And since it's more or less only three weeks left in this terrible, horrendous, piece of shit of a year left, it is quite unlikely that any other book will take the gold in this category. So... Why? Oh, I am tempted, so very much much tempted to simply scream out loud "because fuck you, that's why" and finish my review with it, but nevertheless, here's some key nah's: • First of all, Ready Player One was more or less a perfect standalone novel, and writing a sequel when everything got wrapped up so neatly always would have been a challenge. And Cline failed this challenge without even starting RPT, because, as I've mentioned before, he wrapped everything up in RPO. • Second, besides the opening 20% and the final 10% of the book, the remaining bulk of some 70% reminds me a disheveled collection of trivia. The writing also borders on fan fiction. And while in RPO there also had been quite a lot of trivia, it was very concentrated and had a role of a plot-driver. You know, looking up Hallidays' favorite bands, movies, games. In RPT the trivia is, alas, degraded to a plot filler instead of driver. It mostly is unnecessary, over-abundant and generally pissed me off. • Third is timeline and plot pace. Imagine a situation where you have an hour left until you, more or less, well, die unless you solve a riddle that you have not yet even found. What do you do? I guess, you hurry. What does Wade and Aech and Art3mis do? They bicker, they fangirl, they engage in monologues about the aforementioned trivia. Basically, what Cline did here was setting up a timetable and then failing to execute something he setup by himself. It reminds me those B action movies of the 80's: there's a bomb, there's 20 seconds on the timer, and the hero runs around, beats the crap outta the villain, saves the girl and radios for an extraction. All of it during that 20 seconds. • Four, is both strange in-world ethics and behavioral patterns(people just don't act that way EARL, Ernest) and even more strange (and lame!) villain. Again, no spoilers here, but villain's actions were utterly unlikely and unbelievable. I'm really, really disappointed to say that, but I've got bored a lot during this book, and the distinction between the levels of fun in RPO and RPT are so huge... If you absolutely must, then go ahead and read it, but beware! You have been warned. 2*.

Ahhh what to say.. I am a huge fan of the first book. I loved the pop culture references, I loved the plot and I loved the way it felt like I was simultaneously travelling backwards and forwards in time. It allowed for wistful reminiscing and also the anticipation of world changing technological advances. In RP1 it was all about the possibilities. Now Wade and the audience has to deal with the actual consequences of these four kids getting absolutely everything they ever wanted in terms of fame, money and resources and, whilst it’s probably spot on, it is not entertaining or fun. RP2 picks up shortly after the events of the first book. Wade is given a new piece of technology, an immersion helmet that allows people to plug into Oasis like never before granting them complete access to the brain’s responses. It lets people record the events they experience in real life like surfing a big wave, having sex or jumping out of a plane and then sell them to other users to relive. It turns the act of drinking a health potion from lifting one’s arm towards one’s mouth to actually feeling a liquid slide down your throat. It’s basically mainlining the Oasis and when made almost freely available, it turns the world into even bigger drug addicts, drives Samantha away from Wade and shows the world he really is a douche bag. It means this is not a fun adventure book but an overbearing one about regret, mistakes and consequences. One of the reasons this didn’t work is that it reads like a poorly written apology to the people who pointed out the many reasons why Wade is not a great character. Cline spends the first 150 pages telling us all the ways Wade has changed and grown as a character, how many idiotic choices he made in the first book and how he is more worldly and wise now and should get a second chance. Sadly his efforts to seem more inclusive and aware clash with his use of the word ‘boobies’ and his assertion that he has tried all the sex ‘straight, gay and non-binary’ show just how ill prepared he is for the world outside his own circle. There are countless more examples on Twitter. The plot is another Easter Egg Hunt and he is facing off against the advanced A.I. left behind behind by James Halliday who has decided he wants to stick around. More Cline apologies follow with the revelation that Halliday was actually an obsessive stalker, deeply troubled and actually more Hannibal Lector than Walt Disney. He doesn’t eat people but he will steal your brain. Ready Player Two is the sequel we didn’t need. At times it feels like an attempt to simply cash in on the hype created by the original movie. At other times, like when Wade and his friends battle six versions of Prince and it goes from being an impossible task to a ‘I don’t know how we won’ moment in the space of a paragraph, it seems like Cline had some fun ideas that were just poorly executed. I cannot see how anyone who was a fan of RP1 could resist picking this book up which is a shame as it really does sour part of the whole experience. 2/5 This review was originally published at www.areadingmachine.com

The fun adventure that Ready Player One is gone. I enjoyed the social issues about the future of the planet (which can similarly be noticed in our current society), but other than that, it was drawn out by a now unlikable Wade. The ideas were there, but the execution just fell flat for me.

Ugh. I really, really did not want to start 2021 with a negative review. However, my first book of 2020 was a 5 star read, and look where that got us. Anyway, stay tuned while I process my disappointment. Review to follow...

all of the characters are kind of awful. i can appreciate that their motivations are complicated but there wasn’t a good guy in this book, at all. and that’s fine but also i didn’t feel that the moral quandaries that were presented were all that complicated. what’s the point of it all lmao

Death has not appreciably slowed Michael Crichton’s publication schedule. Since he passed away in 2008, several of his manuscripts caught in the amber of time have been zapped to life and set free to stomp around the world alongside “The Andromeda Strain,” “Jurassic Park,” “Congo” and his many other best-selling novels. Still, one story that Crichton had worked on for 20 years remained dormant on his hard drive. In a recent statement, Crichton’s wife, Sherri, described discovering the unfinished draft: “When I came to the abrupt end, it was the ultimate cliffhanger — though, for the first time, not one that Michael had meticulously planned.” This fragment might never have seen the rising sun, but when enough money is involved, life finds a way. So now, trailing thunderous clouds of publicity, the summer’s ultimate literary mashup arrives June 3: “Eruption,” a Crichton manuscript completed by James Patterson. As author partnerships go, this is Godzilla’s head grafted onto King Kong’s body. Of course, Hollywood is already buzzing around it, and why not? Together, these two authors — or their brands — have sold an estimated 675 million copies, one for every year since the Neoproterozoic era. “Eruption” opens with a prologue set in Hawaii at the Hilo Botanical Gardens. Rachel, a park biologist, “just couldn’t believe her eyes”: Three banyan trees have died and turned black. “Rachel had never seen or read about anything like this. . . . This was something else. Something dark, maybe even dangerous.” An old friend tells her, “Don’t panic,” but “she was scared.” This is an opening sure to leave amateur gardeners on the edge of their Adirondack chairs. The rest of us will have to take it on faith that even greater horrors than a few withered trees lie ahead. Sure enough, nine years later, when the action picks up again, 36-year-old John “Mac” MacGregor hears a deep rumbling and feels the beach shaking. As director of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, Mac understands what that means. “He’d always known this day would come.” Steam is already wafting up from the top of Mauna Loa, the planet’s biggest active volcano, a colossus that rises almost six miles off the ocean floor. “The eruption was only.... To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

Struggled to finish. Shallow writing, cliched to the hilt. A quick scan of reviews tells me I’m in the minority for sure. Not a fan. Maybe will work better as a movie?

Yikes Really badly written, Michael Crichton would be rolling in his grave. Someone needs to explain how his name was even pasted to this truly awful thing. Do not waste your money on this disaster of a book

What a weak ending. I know Patterson finished this book for Crichton but this really didn’t feel like a Crichton book. But it was fun to visit something with Crichtons name on it. Maybe I expected too much.

A crap book. A book written by Patterson based (according to him) on notes and various writings that Crichton had put aside for this book before dying and that he then didn't have time to complete. A book that has NOTHING of Crichton's style, neither the style, nor the plot, nor the suspense, nor the scientific knowledge that Crichton always put into his books. Both the style and the superficiality of the book are in fact completely attributable to those of Patterson, who usually writes "waiting room" books, to be read when you have nothing better to do. In this book the plot is truly inconsistent: four hundred pages waiting for something to happen and instead nothing happens, until the ending, which is very rushed and predictable. The characters are very banal and it is hard to even remember their names, they are so evanescent. The dialogues are absurd and very predictable. And finally, the ending is absolutely banal and improbable.Really a bad book. Two stars, but maybe one would have been enough.

If you had a room filled with monkeys, gave them all typewriters, and handed them a banana for every page they completed - this is the book you would get. Eruption is the literary equivalent of the Sharknado movies. It is such a train wreck, that you can’t look away. In this book, everyone is stupid and all the action is cliched. This may have been a Michael Crichton idea, but it certainly is not a Michael Crichton novel. I give it two stars simply because I finished it. But man it was bad.

A slightly below average Michael Crichton science-heavy plot with the terrible characterization and clichés of James Patterson on top. It's slop, pure and simple

A hot mess. Eruption is purportedly written by Michael Crichton, who died over fifteen years ago, and James Patterson, for years now more of a marketing brand than an author, known for churning out books with his name on the cover but with someone else doing the actual, you know, writing. This means that who is ultimately responsible for this literary travesty may never be discovered. The book reads like a direct-to-SciFi Channel late-night schlockfest, filled with one-dimensional characters (the brilliant scientist, the gruff military man, the rich asshole, the female love interest who (view spoiler)), cringey dialogue, and to top it off, (view spoiler) So why two stars? At least I learned a few words of Hawaiian along the way. A hui hao.

TL; DR* — This book is a hot pile of...lava. Don't waste your time. Longer version: Listen, this story is not good, or notably original. In fact, it feels notably derivative of Crichton's own earlier (and much better) work, alongside beloved and/or played out volcano (and adjacent disaster) stories like "Dante's Peak," "Volcano" (aka Tommy Lee Jones' most notable cinematic turd), and at least three Dan Brown books. Based on the acknowledgments and the ridiculous(ly condescending and juvenile) Hawaiian (language) used within the story, it's pretty clear neither author spent any real time with indigenous Hawaiians. In fact, per the acknowledgments, Patterson's "expert on Hawaii" is based in Alaska. [Crichton gets a pass because he's been dead since 2008. Patterson gets no passes.] I feel for Crichton's wife, truly; she was left with literal file cabinets of Crichton's half-baked stories, and she's also entirely biased (as she should be) assuming that any of them are worth pulling out of said drawers and bringing into the world without Crichton still here to shepherd them the way he originally envisioned. Not all ideas are good ideas, and you know what? That's more than okay. *What I should have done instead of reading all 426 pages. Sometimes I'm entirely too optimistic for my own good. [1 star for the magic that Hawaii will always be, even when old white men can't do it (or offer up) any justice + 1 star for Jenny = 2 stars, ultimately swallowed up by a molten river of bad storytelling.]

The great Michael Crichton is likely turning over in his grave due to the hackery demonstrated by this completion of his unfinished novel, “Eruption”. The magnificent Crichton surely had a great theme and outline for this book. However, if James Patterson is really the one who finished the late Crichton’s work, Patterson did his former colleague a great disservice. The characters are so flat, stereotypical and uninteresting, it is hard to mourn for any of them as, one by one, many fall victim to an erupting volcano. The dialogue is so hokey, I had to keep from groaning out loud as I read. And, of course, the obligatory salutes to the Obama and Biden administrations—something lawyers for New York publishing houses must surely shove into every author’s contract nowadays—makes one gag. (Shut up, keep your politics out of our summer beach reads, and do your job of JUST ENTERTAINING US.) One has to believe Patterson pawned this whole project off on one of his lesser ghost writers. Poor Mrs. Crichton did her late husband a disservice trusting another writer with Michael’s legacy.

Now thankfully dropped from the Booker at shortlist stage The Mirror and the Light, and its over-hyped reception, encapsulates everything that is rotten with the state of much of British literary fiction (some wonderful independent publishers aside): - a blind spot to the development of the novel in the 20th century and a fixation with the 19th century form (perhaps as it marked the highpoint of English literature) as if Kafka, Joyce, Musil, Woolf, Bernhard, Marquez etc had never written; - an obsession with celebrity authors and a lack of editing of big names - there is no excuse for a novel 904 pages long, particularly one so syrupy and overwritten; - in an industry crying out for diversity of voices, review columns dominated by a member of the literary establishment writing a novel set in England's royal past, rather than its present; - with small publishers going to the wall, Mantel's publisher spaffing a large sum against the walls of Tower Bridge to publicise a novel that doesn't need it. Author M. John Harrison said in a 2012 interview: A good ground rule for writing in any genre is: start with a form, then undermine its confidence in itself. Ask what it's afraid of, what it's trying to hide – then write that. Mantel's mantra seems to be the opposite, adhering timidly to the confines of historical fiction with its spurious emphasis on historical fidelity. The first part of this novel, Wolf Hall, was published in 2009. Since then authors such as Claire-Louise Bennett, Anna Burns, Akwaeke Emezi, Eimear McBride, Isabel Waidner, Vesna Main, Valeria Luiselli, Ali Smith, Will Eaves, Derek Owusu, Gabriel Josipovici, Bernadine Evaristo, Colum McCann, Lucy Ellmann, Helen Oyeyemi, Rachel Cusk, Deborah Levy, Max Porter and Sara Baume and others have stretched the very boundaries of the English language novel. And Hilary Mantel’s response is simply to write a continuation of the same book. I can see why that is good for sales, but it doesn’t deserve literary accolades. Sally Rooney for boomers.

I'm sorry to say that this book dragged on for me. I loved Bring Up the Bodies, but this book seemed overly-long and did not hold the same tension. I was not compelled to continue reading; I felt like conversations and descriptions went on forever and I could not focus after a while. I love history and I've read a lot of nonfiction about Henry VIII, but this was just... dull. Mantel's writing can be very poignant and stirring, but something about it just didn't work for me in this final book.

Although I enjoyed the first two in the series, I felt that this book was extremely tedious and hard work. It is very long, and there’s actually not a lot that happens. All the machinations get tiresome, the characterizations seem to depend on your understanding of history vs solid content in the book. The forays into the past are very indulgent and break the flow. This is a very important time in Britain, and all the events seem merely transactional vs any real reflection about or passion for the laws that are being put in place and their impact. Everything is very hohum. It’s Wednesday and I’m attending the burning of a heretic who has the same personal views as me. It’s Thursday and we are bantering in my household and sniggering about one of the dukes, and then I’m back reliving my life as a child. It’s Friday and I am now an earl! So tedious.

You know that person? The one who doesn't like what everyone else seems to love? There has to be someone in the outlier club and this time it is me. I was highly anticipating this book after reading all the praise from readers whose tastes usually align with my own. Unfortunately, I should have DNF'd this one when very early in the book, my eyes glazed over and I began skimming pages and pages of descriptive writing. The author is a nature writer and those sections were undoubtably well-written. But I don’t care for overly descriptive writing. And then there's poetry. I skipped over those as well. Everything other reviewers say they enjoyed were things I intensely disliked. I struggled with believability. I won't list them all, but the implausibility of every single plot point was something I couldn’t get past. To make things worse, romance is not a genre I enjoy and the romance in this book had a very YA feel to it. Finally, I found the use of dialect distracting to read and often in the same paragraph a character would switch from local dialect to proper English. Sometimes my love of the story or the strength of the writing is enough for me to ignore implausibility and move past a few things I don't like. This wasn't one of those times. Recommended for readers who enjoy long, descriptive nature writing, and those who have no trouble suspending disbelief. If I had known these things before starting this book I would have skipped it, so perhaps my review will help other readers like me. * Thanks to Edelweiss for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review

"Marsh is not swamp." Unfortunately, I am in the minority that didn't fall in love with this book. The sadness was too over the top, the writing too flowery, the plot was a bit haphazard, the Amanda Hamilton poems sprinkled here and there made me roll my eyes more often than not, and the ending didn't feel true to the character at all. Reading it was easy enough, and I was interested, but I felt sadness and anger more than anything. To be honest, I'm still a little irked about it all. So let me elaborate. The sadness permeated the book from the beginning, but the fancy writing, as well as the continuous personification of the marsh, constantly clashed with the emotion we were supposed to be feeling. It was like the tone of the book and the actual printed words simply didn't mesh. The conflicting signals made it hard for me to concentrate on and absorb the descriptions of the marsh. As far as the plot goes, it jumped back and forth in time, and it wasn't necessarily in order. At first it jumped between Kya's childhood, and the discovery of the body, and stayed in chronological order for a while, but then the timeline switch would become wherever the author felt like going at the moment. I'm not a big fan of jumping back and forth, but when it's done right, it doesn't take away from the story. This was not one of those times. The poems were incessant and always by the same made-up poet. I would've enjoyed poetry here and there by different people, but the poetry in this case was underwhelming and unwanted. Then the ending was such complete bullshit, it aggravated me. It felt completely wrong and left a lot of unanswered questions. The only things I actually liked about this were the characters of Kya and Tate, and learning about the marsh. There are tons of people who loved it, but I have to say that I wouldn't really recommend it. I don't regret reading it, but I didn't enjoy it either. However, if you like reading sad books, want your time scrambled, or don't have a long reading list, go ahead and read it. If you are like me, and that's not your cup of tea, I would have to advise you to pass on this one. "Way out yonder, where the crawdads sing."

Maybe 2-1/2 stars? By the time she is seven years old in 1952, Kya’s entire family -- two older sisters, two brothers, even her Ma -- have left, one by one, until Kya is living nearly alone in the North Carolina beach marsh, with only her Pa for company. When she’s ten, he leaves, too. But Kya stays, a true Marsh Girl and naturalist at heart. Derided by most of the local town for being “filthy” and “weird,” Kya gets just enough love and strength from Jumpin’, a black man who works on the pier; Jumpin’s wife Mabel; and a boy named Tate to keep her going despite her losses. Meanwhile, in 1969, local golden boy Chase Andrews has fallen to his death. Or was he pushed? And how does his story tie into Kya’s? Unpopular Opinion Time Here. I must have read this book wrong, because it has a 4.53 average rating here on GR. But what a disappointment. My friend Holly said this book gave her whiplash, and while I’m not sure it made my neck ache equally badly, it sure does have an identity crisis. It’s a sweet, heartbreaking, yet uplifting story about a lonely, abandoned child who’s been rejected by nearly everyone for no good reasons, and how she manages to bring herself up and find some success and contentment despite the long odds against her. It’s also a story of marshlands, and the creatures that inhabit them, and the seasonal shifts and movements measuring the passing of time, year in and year out. (I would have liked to read more of that story; there’s a sort-of conservation message in here but it’s pretty subtle.) And then there’s also an episode of Law & Order: 1970, or CSI: Outer Banks, following a typical murder procedural and trial format, woven in between the chapters about Kya growing up. And not, IMO, woven in very well. It’s an ugly square in a clashing color with lumpy edges that warp the entire rest of the fabric out of shape. But again, obviously I just read this all wrong, because this book was the number one best-selling hardcover in the Boston area last week. Maybe this book and I would have gotten off on a better foot if I hadn’t found the title slightly problematic from the get-go -- I’ve hung out with plenty of crayfish, and none of them sing*. The title phrase is explained as something Kya’s Ma said to mean the edge of nowhere, but it still seems to be something the author made up, not an actual thing anyone really ever says. Or, maybe this book and I were just never meant to be together. I found the whole thing to be a bit of an unbelievable fairy tale. Tate teaches Kya to read when she’s 14, and it takes, like, a minute. The next thing you know, Kya is reading heavy, scholarly tomes about the marsh and all the creatures she sees there, and becomes an expert. She goes from talking like her parents to speaking perfect English: she speaks like most people write, not how they talk. (Ugh, all the dialogue in this book is just awful, not just from Kya, but from everyone. It’s all stilted, awkward, and unnatural. I cringed every time anyone opened their mouth. And the written duplication of the local accent was just painful.) Kya also teaches herself to paint expertly, and I never stopped wondering how this moneyless child could afford all those art supplies when she could barely afford food, or soap. (Maybe it’s addressed in the story, but I missed it?) Also, the very badly done third-person omniscient POV drove me nuts. Kya is the main character, and the story is mostly told in close third-person POV through her eyes and experiences. But every so often, when it feels like it, it randomly jumps into some other character’s head for a few sentences before hopping back into Kya’s. This was jarring and didn’t add much to the story except to make sure the reader knew every male character thought Kya was beautiful and magnetic. It didn’t help that I’ve read books similar to this before. It’s slightly reminiscent of both Island of the Blue Dolphins and A Girl of the Limberlost. Then the ending made me throw the book across the room. First, (view spoiler) Second, (view spoiler) The thing that bothers me most is, this could have been such a good story if it were just better written, tighter and more focused. I didn’t need to know every single detail of Kya’s life from age 7 to age 24. And the ending (and the entire story), would have been much more interesting to me if it had actually explored the question of “What kind of morality does a person develop when she has to raise herself, and use wild animals as her guides?” There’s a little bit of this, but not nearly enough, and it’s almost entirely applied to the “romance” portions of the story. The second twist is presented as (view spoiler) There’s this beautiful speech where one character asks, “Did we reject Kya because she was weird and distant? Or did she become weird and distant because we rejected her?”, and that should have been left alone as the capstone of this story. Instead, for me, it was completely ruined. I think the biggest problem for me is what Alan says: [The author] violates her own structure in order to create a surprise ending. That means we don't really know Kya, have never really known her. Owens sacrifices narrative logic and emotional honesty for plot device. (Warning: Alan's review is a Big Fat Spoiler, so don't look at it unless you've finished the book.) But hey, almost everybody else loves this book, while I am obviously writing this review from inside a trash can on Sesame Street. So do not let my grouchiness dissuade anyone from picking this up. Kelly and Shelby, please keep speaking to me. :-) ------------------------------------------------ * Siren Sarah’s Extremely Talented and Occasionally Murderous Crustaceans excepted! But if you hear them singing … run. If you still can.

Not up to par! Not very interesting and convoluted plot. Dialogue was inferior and weak protagonist. SPOILER ALERT no way bad guy torturer, rapist, murderer should have been allowed to live. Comparing him to Wernher von Braun is ludicrous and irritating. Worst Mitch Rapp book ever, only gave it 2 stars cause it’s Mitch Rapp.

I’ve read every book in the Mitch Rapp series. There are a lot of hits and a few misses. This was a complete miss. Hopefully a fresh author will breathe some new life into the series even though Mills did do an overall decent job with it.

By far the worst of the series. It felt forced and phoned in. Hopefully the series takes off under Bentley.

I’ve read them all. This one feels phoned in. No tension. Extreme predictability. Yawn.

Infuriating and exhausting as fahk. Nick Radcliffe meets Nina Swann, a widow who tragically and unexpectedly lost her husband. Nick is exactly what Nina needs to help her heal and move on. Nina’s daughter, Ash, is suspicious of Nick from the start. He’s too perfect, too good to be true. And Ash has lots of time on her hands to dig around. Martha is a successful business owner running her flower shop and married to the love of her life, Alistair. But, as Alistair’s job takes him away from home more and more, Martha starts to feel that something isn’t right. They don’t realize it yet, but they’re all headed down the same twisted, insane path. Listen lol. I’ve read one book by Lisa Jewel prior to this one years ago, and I don’t even remember it, so this is like my first one. I didn’t DNF we have that going for us, but damn did I want to several times. I truly don’t understand this being considered a thriller? It wasn’t thrilling nor twisty. It was 384 pages of a sociopathic liar getting over on dumb ass women. If you have even been in a questionable toxic relationship in your day, you’ve read this story before lol. This story had more characters than all 8 seasons of A Game of Thrones. I kid you not! It didn’t feel necessary and it felt sloppily done. It’s like all the characters are there to confuse you, and they did at first and I had to use way too much brain power than I care to with a thriller, so I found that I was often waiting for something to happen. A “come on already” feeling that I just wished this guy would shut the fuck up and carry on. Gaslighting, word salad and utter bullshit fill these pages and I loathed the main character. I’m sure I’m supposed to, however it made for an unpleasant and chore of a read. I’m not sure if the dialogue was character specific or if it’s Jewel’s style, but the repetitive nature sent me straight up a wall. I didn’t laugh, I didn’t gasp, I wasn’t shocked. My hope was that Jewel would pull off some kind of epic ending to make the first 380 pages more tolerable, but no. The ending felt rushed and anticlimactic. If you typically enjoy Lisa Jewel novels, I’d give it a try, maybe she’s just not an author for me. Expected Release Date - 06/24/25 Many thanks to NetGalley and Atria Books for the complementary advanced digital copy. All thoughts are my own. 💐 ✴︎a˚｡⋆ Connect with me on Instagram ˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹

My Reviews Can Also Be Found On: The Book Review Crew Blog This book tries too hard and is bogged down by typical tropes and underdeveloped characters, especially the female ones. This book just made me angry. Three stupidly weak women (view spoiler) This narrative was very underwhelming in my opinion. The premise and execution falter. The plot felt formulaic and was not surprising at all. This mysterious man with secrets trope is getting old. Jewell is much better than this, and I am so disappointed. The male's manipulations and the way the women weakly respond are tired and overdone. This is such a cliche. Jewell's style of writing is her strength, and is engaging as usual here. But the toxic relationships and the paranoia of the female leads feel repetitive. If you're a big fan of the author, you might enjoy this, but I have read many of her other works that put this to shame. You want Jewell at her best, check out her The Family Upstairs Series . This one promises more than it delivers and was a missed opportunity, to say the least. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for the ARC.

⭐️ ⭐️ Am I to believe that these strong, and otherwise capable women, repeatedly fall victim to this man’s okidoke? I don’t buy it for a single second. I can summarize this book very concisely. Ahem (clears throat) here it goes… Man lives multiple lives, with multiple women. Man uses women for financial gain, but mostly just to satisfy sociopathic urges. Man exhibits extremely shady behavior. Women confront man. Man makes terrible excuse and women somehow buy it (again and again and again). Women dig deeper into man to uncover incriminating information (over and over and over again). Women still don’t believe. Woman’s daughter has to step in and be the adult, but is repeatedly (and I mean repeatedly) ignored and diminished. Women finally realize he’s bad, and set out for revenge. Twist, surprise, end. I can’t tell you the ending because that’s literally the only thing in the entire book I had slightly positive feelings towards. The number of women in this book that were made to be naive, mush-brained, mealy-mouthed, incompetent fools was infuriating. I don’t know how any woman, or any slightly enlightened man, could read this book and not be enraged. I wanted to throw my Kindle across the room. I wish I didn’t let this book in…

Don’t Let Him In by Lisa Jewell narrated by multiple narrators was her worst book ever, there were too many characters to keep in my head then got confused as to what was going on, the characters were unlikeable especially Nick Radcliffe a sociopath who sucked gullible women & children so he could get their 💰money& live the high life I just wanted to scream 🙀 to the point of getting so livid with this whole prose. I just will vent about this book NO I didn’t like anything about this book I just wanted it to end… nearly DNFED it was too long the multiple narrators made everything worse listening wise maybe Jewell is losing her mojo my opinion this was just one nightmare of an audio will I 🎧 listen to another Jewell book 📖 I am not sure at all!! 2 forgettable stars ⭐️⭐️

Genuine love builds over time – when it explodes overnight, it’s often a red flag, not a fairytale! Ash’s mum’s new boyfriend, Nick Radcliffe, is handsome, charming, and charismatic. He says and does all the right things. But is he too good to be true? Martha’s husband Alistair has been a dream come true. But lately he’s changed, he’s secretive, disappears for days on end, and when he returns, his explanations for where he’s been don’t ring true. Is Alistair having an affair? Guess I’m the lone wolf on this one, and you know what a big fan of Lisa Jewell I am, Don’t Let Him In is my tenth read by this talented author, and I’m sad to say… my least favourite. More drama than thriller, boring to read, predictable, and the promised twists weren’t any great surprise. Including Martha’s story arc and the flashbacks beginning three years beforehand meant there was a lot of repetition. And did there have to be so many characters, several of which had nothing to do with anything. Thankfully it was a quick read otherwise I probably would’ve dnfed. I appreciated that it did highlight emotional and psychological red flags to watch out for in relationships – love bombing, cognitive dissonance, and gas lighting - as any novel that promotes and spreads awareness and education regarding these manipulative tactics used by one romantic partner to exert control over another is a good thing. Don’t Let Him In was one of my most anticipated reads of 2025, so maybe my expectations were too high. Oh well, you can’t win ‘em. One book that didn’t work for me out of nine that did is hardly going to put me off reading her next.

I was really disappointed that this book didn't work for me; perhaps I had too high of expectations considering all the hype. This is my first book by this author and I was in the mood for a dark, mindless twisty thriller and I thought those were her trademark. But if you are a fan of this author or want to read about psychopathic men whom you love to hate getting their comeuppance, this book will probably appeal more to you than it did to me. I had even geared myself up for multiple points of view based on other reviews, which usually doesn't bother me if they're distinctive. I read a lot of fantasy where that's common. But for the way it was handled in this, there were so many points of view, stolen identities, and time jumps, that it quickly became difficult to follow instead of making me hang on the edge of my seat. After a breakdown in which she was obsessed with her boss, Ash is floundering at home having a quarter-life crisis. I did find her to be the most compelling character in the book and my interest in her story kept me reading. Her father dies young and suddenly, and a year later her mom starts dating a mysterious, suave man who seems too good to be true. As Ash begins obsessively investigating, she learns that her instincts are correct and this con man is hiding other wives and children. But will his victims ever get justice? You know almost right away what his big con is, as he is one of the points of view. The mystery is in whether his victims will get justice. I was supposed to loathe him and I just felt indifferent about him. He was boring, predictable and so obviously fake that I couldn't believe anyone would fall for his schemes. It was refreshing that he targeted middle aged widows and divorcees instead of much younger women, but also infuriating, because I found these middle aged women to be dull, insipid and vain. Since I'm 43 I prefer reading about female rage and strong middle aged women, not women who fall to pieces at the attention of the first available man because they've hit the age of invisibility. I want more representation of smart, badass middle aged women experiencing their second chapters. I also didn't see the twisty thriller aspect that everyone is talking about; I found it hard to read about a villain that I found tedious. As a thriller I just found this boring and a slightly different twist on the formula. It became so convoluted that I found it almost forgettable. So sadly this was not for me. Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher for the advance review copy. I am leaving this review voluntarily.

God. I wanted to like this one so bad. I was curious about the sister and ugh she annoyed me so much. Full review shortly. Omg I feel so bad lmao. This book got pushed from rotation all last week due to my chaotic schedule with moving. I’m not settled, but the toughest challenge is behind me now. Starting this one for real this time in the morning! 🤸🏻‍♀️ *Clears throat*... why no, I wasn't the biggest fan of book 1 but I'm curious about Genevieve. Maybe I'll appreciate her more than Ophelia and Blackwell. 💜Fake Relationship ☠️Masquerade Ball 💜Italian Estate Setting ☠️MMC is a Seven Cursed Sibling 💜Shadow MMC ☠️Sunshine FMC 💜Deadly Game ☠️Hide & Seek 💜Shadow Fox Familiar ☠️Spicy x Ruthless April 8, 2025 Release Date. Book 1 review ˋ°•*⁀➷ ★ ₊ ˚ Phantasma Review ‧₊˚✧༉‧₊˚. ⋆✴︎˚｡⋆ Connect with me on Instagram ˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹

ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ㅤ✦ . ⁺ . 2.6 - 2.9 ☆ . ⁺ . ✦ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ˋ°•*⁀➷ㅤmight contain spoilers ❗ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ Please believe me when I say that I did try, and I genuinely hoped I would get to like this book. After how incredibly suitable Phantasma felt for me when I read it, I did hope that this book wouldn't disappoint and instead would keep those elite Victorian-Gothic vibes that I enjoyed so much while reading the first book in this series (I was even more shocked to find out this is a series because WASN'T THIS SUPPOSED TO BE A DUOLOGY??). But, sadly, I really found myself bored with the plot, frustrated with the low exploiting of a really intriguing idea and completely disconnected from what I considered to be some very uninteresting characters. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ “Then she did the only other thing she could think of: she bit him. In the ass.” ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ short summary ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ Enchantra by Kaylie Smith sets the stage with all the right fantasy drama: a cursed palace, deadly magical games, and a reluctant heroine, Genevieve Grimm, who finds herself roped into a fake marriage with the infuriatingly broody Rowin Silver—to survive the game without being eliminated. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ Sounds spicy, right? Unfortunately, the romance falls flat. Despite the forced proximity and fake dating setup, Genevieve and Rowin have about as much chemistry as two damp scrolls. Their relationship feels more like a plot device than something to root for. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ The book teases a fascinating family magic legacy that could've added serious depth, but it stays frustratingly surface-level. Enchantra has cool ideas, for sure—it just doesn’t fully enchant. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ honest thoughts ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ I have only one genuine questions: what even happened with the plot and the idea of this book? Maybe this just didn't really work out for me, because I saw quite a lot of people enjoying the book and even praising it, but I could not enjoy the constant lack of direction in this book whatsoever. It felt like a repeating cycle of uninteresting events, despite the potential being there, that sometimes got added some smut here and there. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ Also, I didn't really understand why the author chose to repeat the entire plot idea of the first book, and here I am referring to the trials trope, but offered it such little attention in comparison to the first novel. What I did appreciate for Phantasma was the quite incredible attention to details and descriptions offered for each of the trials; they were full of gore and, therefore, shocking for the reader, they were intriguing, and they were inventive. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ However, for this book, I often found myself entirely forgetting that, theoretically, this book was also focusing on some kind of trials. I was so caught up in the repetitive interactions between the main characters, which lacked in both chemistry and depth, that I couldn't even truly focus on the rest of the book. Not to mention that I was literally way more intrigued and captivated by the rest of the Silver family members than I was by the main characters.... ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ And while I mentioned the characters' interactions, I will also make sure to specify that this had to be probably one of the worst romantic plots I've ever read about. I knew, since this was also seen in Phantasma, that the romance will most probably be some sort of insta-lust so my expectations were correctly set for it. What I did not expect, however, was for the romance to feel this lacklustre. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ Maybe I just couldn't really vibe with either Genevieve and Rowin, not like I instantly did with Blackwell and Ophelia, and this is why I found myself rather cringing at their interactions and their progress; but I couldn't feel ANYTHING while reading about them. And while both love stories start pretty similarly, I feel like Blackwell and Ophelia had some sort of depth to their feelings towards the end of the book, which is something that entirely lacked between Genevieve and Rowin. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ The only genuine good thing about this book, for me, was the idea that was behind the plot of the book. I loved every single aspect of it, and despite it not being entirely used to its own potential, I have to praise the author for the immaculate vibes behind it. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ The ending of the book felt both rushed and underwhelming. I know the author probably tried to only set the premises for the following book, but one thing I hate the most in series is when authors act like they are only writing books just to fill some plot and prepare the readers for what is coming next. I am one of those people that consider all books in a series need to be offered the same level of attention, and each should have a suitable and perfect ending. Failing to do so and rushing a book just to prepare the reader for the next one is driving me insane. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ characters ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍I was so disappointed with these characters that I feel like I don't even want to talk about them, but I will still try to offer at least SOME of my ideas regarding them. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ✠ Genevieve - If I am being entirely honest, I didn't really like her character that much in the first book either, but I really hoped that, considering I enjoyed the first book, I will actually come to like this one as well. I also hoped there would be some sort of growth and development to her character and that I would actually come to like her. None of these things happened. There was literally little to no development to her character, and I started this book disliking her and ended it by hating her. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍✠ Rowin - This is the first time when I am reading a book, and I am getting more intrigued by some random secondary character than the MMC...I have nothing to say about this man because there was absolutely nothing interesting about him apart from some randoms "she's mine thrown from time to time to everyone in a growl and some hugely unexplored shadows that he possesses. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ✠ Grave, Covin, Sevin, Ellin - Now THESE are the characters I really needed justice for. I was so captivated by them and so intrigued by their story that I usually found myself looking forward to another of their appearances. This family had some rather intriguing potential candidates for interesting men, yet the most boring one was picked to be MMC. Even Ellin was more interesting as a female character than Genevieve, and I was rooting for their friendship to grow and bloom more than I was looking forward to the supposedly romantic interactions between the MCs. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ should you read this? ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍Probably, if you also read Phantasma you should read this book. I kept seeing a lot of people who loved it, and, therefore, maybe there was just something wrong with me with regard to this book. I think the thing that affected my opinion about this novel the most was my inability to get attached or to relate to any of the main characters. While I found small parts of me in Ophelia, I was completely annoyed by Genevieve as a character, and, therefore, this is maybe what caused such a loss of interest for me in this story. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍I want to clarify that I went into this book with the correct expectations, especially after reading Phantasma; so I picked this up only because I truly wanted to continue this story and to relive that pretty amazing and vivid Gothic imagery that Phantasma offered. However, sadly, I did not feel the same level of intrigue while reading this second book, and not even the pretty acceptable idea behind the plot and the quite interesting descriptions could make me entirely like this book. ⊹₊┈ㆍ┈ㆍ┈ㆍ✿ㆍ┈ㆍ┈ㆍ┈₊⊹ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ᯓ ✿ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍pre-reading ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⪼ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ started ┆27-May-2025┆ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⤿ my ever-growing physical TBR that I kept ignoring for months is breathing down my neck, so I urgently need to take care of it. And I am starting with this one!

✩✩/5 [New review as old one was accidentally deleted] I wasn’t a big fan of Phantasma but I wanted to give Genevieve’s story a chance. This was similar to the first book in terms of plot/setting with gothic mansion and trials. The hunt sounded promising but was lackluster. The games consisted of characters hiding and waiting in rooms. It was unimaginative, boring and low stakes. I had no connection to the characters or romance. I feel this book focuses too much on the spice and ticking off tropes. If you want smut and don't really care about anything else you might enjoy this more than me.

so i feel a bit conflicted on this book as i didnt hate it by any means but im also not sure i liked it very much???? there was just enough random things through out that kept me interested enough in continuing to read this one. now ill start by saying that i didnt have the highest of expectations as phantasma was fun, i wasnt in love with it but at least it was FUN. enchantra had its moments of fun, i thought it started off pretty strong. i was giggling over gens first meeting with rowin, i loved how sassy she was and how he literally just could not be bothered but as we progressed towards the games that was where my interest in both the storyline and our main couple fell off and i found myself caring more about a fox and rowins siblings more than them 🤦🏼‍♀️ i think that the games are completely why i found myself becoming disinterested in our couple because well, they were boring. i kind of expected more from this “hunt” that this family has been trapped into doing for YEARS on end however every game was just hiding in a room until the timer ran out. the siblings for having done this for so long kind of sucked at it? and the lack of magic using was certainly a weird choice to me because it left zero reason for gen to even randomly have power except for getting her inside enchantra gates???? there was exactly one time where we got to see her use her magic and honestly it was a pretty cool thing she did, just for it to never be expanded upon lolol. i wanted more magic, more fighting and running just SOMETHING other than chillin in a room. at the very least if the games weren’t going to be as thrilling and anxiety inducing as phantasmas was make the down time something fun with the main couple?? all in all i cared more about the silver family’s plot lines than i did the one we were currently in. all of the siblings had personality and random things going on that made me want to know more about them. where as gen kinda turned out to just be a massive brat and rowin was just kinda there with his shadows and piercings lol, they had no other personality traits. i didnt find myself caring about these two again until the very end, i like how the story was wrapped up, it was very sweet to me. i think that this book had a lot of potential had things been a bit more fleshed out, there was a lot of emphasis placed on things to further continue this series which is great and those things do sound intriguing BUT not great when its taking away from why were here in the first place which is gen and rowin.

Mmmmm, this book needs some serious editing, there are a lot of repetitions and lengthy unnecessary detours while the resolutive chapters feel too much rushed and riddled with exasperating cliffhangers. But of course nothing is as exasperating as the tiresome "will they/won't they" between the two main protagonists, which has reached a ridiculous level. Strike is now dissecting his feeling with more pedantry than a teenage girl and Robin is behaving painfully obtuse. I think 7 books are more than enough to tease a possible relationship between the two and I would have been happier without the umpteenth cliffhanger ending. Finally, Rowling is showing some unusual interest in pruriginous details, like: how many times the same pornographic photos need to be described in detail? The authors keeps going back to these with lengthy descriptions but the final explanation of why they are relevant is quite flimsy. I would have really appreciated a more explanatory epilogue instead of such a long and boring middle part.

…No one wants to read a 1000 page book. No one can even hold a 1000 page book! So many recent “bestsellers” are good ideas turned into vanity projects by their authors. A novel needs to be amazing to begin to justify that length. Sadly, this one isn’t. By the time that I had read the first hundred pages or so, I was already exhausted by the numerous characters and slow pace of the storyline. So I made the decision to skip to the last three hundred pages. And guess what? I don’t feel as if I missed much. Those last chapters were easy to follow and repetitive enough that gaps in the story were soon filled. (Robin becomes the damsel in distress, Strike worries about her and a bunch of new characters come and go) The ending was so disappointing. Rowling had let things run so far afield that she needed several chapters simply to justify the ending that she then rushed to put through. I was a huge fan of the Strike series but this may have proved to be too much.

I know I am in the minority, but perhaps because I am not a fan of quest books, this one didn’t live up to the hype for me. I say that having absolutely loved Rules of Civility and A Gentleman in Moscow. So I eagerly awaited receiving my copy, and I read it through to completion. I didn’t find the characters likable or the plot plausible. It meandered through irrelevant and illogical anecdotes. By the end, I didn’t care what happened to any of them. It also made maneuvering across the country and navigating NYC seem extremely uncomplicated and easy for 1954. All you needed was a Howard Johnson’s map. And it was incredibly easy to find people you were looking for. At times I wondered if this really was a myth or fantasy. The writing, as would be expected, was terrific, but other than for that, I don’t know anyone for whom I could recommend this book. Now that I think about it, people who had read advance copies just told me to read it. They never told me why I would enjoy it.

This highway needs repairs... Get ready for a bumpy read! Ugh I wanted to like this one so much but Towles just flooded this book with an obscene amount of classic stories that will have you asking are we there yet? Did anyone else think this could’ve been written as a YA novel? The book starts off in 1954 with Emmett, who has just been released from prison in Nebraska. He goes home to find that his father has passed away so it’s just him and his younger brother Billy. Billy is a wide-eyed, naive character that would say “oh geez mister” in an old film while wearing a newsboy cap. You are either going to love him or want to punch him in the face. The schtick got old for me. They are about to take the Lincoln Highway to find their mother in California when Duchess and Woolly show up and crash their party. They’ve just escaped prison and they convince Billy and Emmet to change their plans to go after Woolly’s family’s money. This is NOT a road trip adventure, most of the book takes place in NYC with Duchess tracking down his dad, Emmett tracking down Duchess and Billy telling strangers classic tales. There is so much rambling you will feel like you’re on the most boring road trip of your life. The whole setup of the book was never actualized and you never quite know where you are headed. I get that you want an adventure to take twists and turns but the detours in this one left me looking for the exit.

What a disappointment! Having loved Rules of Civility and A Gentleman in Moscow, I was prepared to be awed by Towles' third novel. Instead I was beyond bored and a number of times ready to give up on the 576 page saga. But this is Amor Towles, I kept telling myself - I can't quit! An adventure/road trip extravaganza, the story is told through the eyes of several characters, the main ones being 18 year old Emmett, newly released from a reform school and his precocious 8 year old brother, Billy. Their father has recently died, their mother left them years ago, their farm has been repossessed, and as far as Emmett can figure, there is no reason for them to stay in Nebraska. He has grand plans to drive to California to carry out his idea to make his fortune by buying old houses, fixing them up and then flipping them. But before he can put his plan in action, trouble arrives in the form of two fellas he was in reform school with - the smooth tongued Duchess and the sweet, vulnerable Woolly. They need Emmett to help them with a scheme of their own - reclaim a fortune hidden in the Adirondack family home of Woolly's. And thus begins a tedious, long winded, torturous tale, full of back story, packed with numerous colorful characters, some dangerous, some kindly, some humorous, all with a tale to tell. And tell them, Towles does. On and on and on. I imagine I will be in the minority about this novel. But a book of this length should deliver more than just a great sense of relief upon finishing it.

While I loved A Gentleman in Moscow, I just could not get into this book no matter how hard I tried.

While I've always enjoyed Baldacci, this 'pitch' missed the plate by a long shot..plots about white attorneys defending innocent black men accused of killing white folks in the South isn't unique nor is the zealous overuse of hatred in the community. With the current division in the country, I'm not a fan of reading books that emphasize it regardless of time period. Walt Mosley does a far better job in The Right Mistake: The Further Philosophical Investigations of Socrates Fortlow which takes place in L.A. in '64 when racism was at a peak. Regardless, writing is art and individual tastes vary..

Thank you NetGalley,Grand Central Publishing and author David Baldacci for the opportunity to read the ebook,A Calamity of Souls. I had a hard time getting through this novel. Too much Civil Rights History that’s been written about in many other novels. Maybe a younger reader new to Baldacci would enjoy it more. I have read ALL of his past novels and liked 95% of them to date. The hatred shown to blacks was too overwhelming for me,even knowing it to be accurate for the South during that time period and even somewhat even today in 2024.

Ugh. I’ve read this story before. I want the Baldacci I can’t wait to read back.

Being honest, I lost interest at about chapter 36 so I "fast forwarded" to chapter 86 for the conclusion. I get the purpose of this book, but it was overly preachy. I wouldn't give this a reread, even to see what I missed in the middle 50 chapters (though I know it was preachy-preach drivel).

Alright, so I hated a good majority of this book. I couldn’t get past more than a few pages without the urge to reach for my phone. But then the impossible happened, after a while, I couldn’t stop reading. I guess it got a lot better? Or maybe I just needed to keep turning the page to understand what the hell was going on. I think overall I still didn’t like this book all that much, but I’ll talk about the things I liked first. The cast of characters were all reprehensible, though I really liked this aspect as it added to this intense paranoid and claustrophobic atmosphere (not reinventing the wheel, but captivating all the same) to an otherwise simple mystery/thriller. Overall, the book’s fascinating writing style shines as an absolute standout. An example of this is that there are several pov’s, but each one had a distinct voice and I never lost track who I was following. And most importantly… I really liked the ending. Got to love a good ending! Unfortunately the book’s three-page a chapter average and endless tiny fake-out mysteries made it so there were far more misses than hits. There’s just so much that didn’t work for me in this book. This might be reading too far into it, but one character’s sexuality is used as one of the books many plot twists. To me, it felt like this reveal was supposed to be a real *gasp... gotcha* moment, like we’re supposed to be scandalized by the sudden news. When I got to this chapter I was just like, “okay… and?” The whole thing didn’t really sit right with me. Though what really bothered me was that a lot of the chapters ended in cheap mini cliff-hangers. And I can handle a well written one, but basically each chapter would end like, “a man was walking toward me, and I saw a glint of light as he reached into his pocket! Oh no! He has a knife and he’s going to attack me!” end chapter. Then, the next chapter will be all, “Oh it was just his phone ha ha, guess I’m just a little on edge!” So, it’s this set-up and set-up and set-up without any satisfying answers! These kinds of things always make me feel like a idiot for even getting invested in the first place. I was seriously done with the whole thing by the half-way point. I'm not a fan of when mysteries can't think of anything better than the equivalent of “cat jump scares” in horror flicks; all the tension without the proper payoff. All in all, this is a well written novel with a sound message that falls short when it comes to the flawed and frustrating presentation.

Plot: ★☆☆☆☆ Characters: ★☆☆☆☆ Writing: ★★★☆☆ Concept: ★★★★☆ Vibes (can't explain this one, you just feel it): ★★☆☆☆ I'm sorry to say, this was just not the book for me. Note: As I sit here writing this displeased review, I want to let you, on the other end of the internet, know that I'm not discouraging reading this book. But I think it sometimes helps to know what you're getting into before you start a book. If it sounds like your thing, go for it. After all, this is just one person's thoughts. Weird thing I didn't care for #1: Bisexuality is used as a "surprising" plot point. I don't know how else to describe it without spoiling part of the story, which I won't do. But I don't see how this major plot point could possibly be "mysterious" unless you've never heard of bisexual people. Alas, I have. And 200-some pages of drawing out this "mystery"? Really? Weird thing I didn't care for #2: I had pretty much every mystery worked out long before it was revealed. Which may be a me problem. But I never do that. Either way, I wasn't very surprised, which left me a little disappointed. Weird thing I didn't care for #3: I didn't really feel invested in any of the characters. It wasn't that they weren't well written; it's just none of them resonated with me. Weird thing I didn't care for #4: Every plot point is sex-related. I kid you not. No part of this story, mysterious or otherwise, exists without being deeply entrenched in something having to do with sex. Honestly, it gets a tad bit boring and repetitive by the halfway mark. As a counterpoint, I want to say that I do enjoy Lucy Foley's writing style. That is far from being one of my issues. I think she has a unique and interesting voice. I would gladly read something of hers if there was different content, so no complaints there! I'm sorry, Lucy. I really did want to enjoy this. But I hope it finds its way to all the right people, even if that doesn't include me. My Blog | My Books | Instagram

I wish I could say "C'est Magnifique!" to this book but I can't. Lucy Foley's "The Paris Apartment" simply lacked the suspense, sizzle, and excitement that I was seeking. First and foremost, I am being kind when I say that this book was very, very, very slow burn. When the main protagonist arrives at her brother's Paris apartment, it seemed to take her forever to determine that her brother's absence might indicate that something was amiss. I also felt the author's characterizations were superficial. The book simply featured too many characters for any depth. This 12.5-hour audiobook easily could have been 7.5 hours. This was a full-cast audiobook (my favorite!) and all of the narrators did a superb job. Sadly, my favorite part of the book was the author's acknowledgments at the end of the book. The author seemed very sincere and I liked the way she graciously thanked everyone. It's too bad that I could not give this author's book a higher rating. I received this audiobook from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.

It was like AI wrote this book in the style of Richard Osman. The characters were flat, the mystery was uninteresting and it was lacking humour.

** spoiler alert ** Really disappointed. Almost no Chris and Donna. Far too much boring Joanna. She is not interesting. Only bossy. Seriously, no more Joanna please. Connie is ok in small portions. I missed the gang working together. Ibrahim made a new friend in the book before this one. But he never pops up in this one. Too many sidetracks. I really like the other books, but this one wasn’t up there with them.

5 stars until this one I understand Elizabeth is grieving, but she’s a shell of what she was in the previous books and contributes, nothing to the mystery. For some reason, the mysteries and woven through throughout this book sort of felt as if they fell flat at the end. But I can live with one disappointment out of five! Here’s hoping the next one is the best one yet.

The Impossible Fortune by Richard Osman I have become a bit of a gawping fan of Richard Osman’s Thursday Murder Club series. What is not to love in a murder series about a bunch of cheerful septuagenarians at an England old age home who solve murders to keep themselves busy? The lightness of tone, the sparkles of humour and the canny observations about life in general make for a spritzy weekend reading. Having read all of his books so far and watched the lovely movie based on the debut novel, I was only eager for more. So when I came to know that his latest was in store, I queued up to procure it. As I sank my teeth into the latest escapades of the jolly geriatrics that comprise the Thursday Murder Club however, I found the whole business moving along at the pace of an elderly aunt describing her knitting, with the occasional knitting needle pokes to the listener to keep one from nodding off entirely. It has its moments of charm, wit and wisdom. However, one gets the distinct feeling that the author is getting tired of his own characters. Or perhaps he was under severe time pressure to churn out yet another episode so as to not leave the loyal reader frothing in the mouth for their next fix? The murder spirals into a bit of a misunderstanding than a blood-curdler and the impossible fortune turns out to be a damp squib. I couldn’t shake the feeling that the plot had gone off like a lukewarm soufflé - rising valiantly at first, then collapsing into a sort of amiable mush best left for the dog. Avoid. Now to find some Listerine and look for something tastier to read to get rid of the filthy after taste of the pig’s breakfast that is The Impossible Fortune

Ugh This one really jumped the shark for me. I think maybe I'm done with this book series, I found this one super annoying to read.

i want to read about millie being a badass till she turns 80. i dont care update: this review aged like milk. i don't want to read about millie anymore.

—— 2.5 ✰ stars. 'But it's hard to ever get rid of somebody when they live right next door to you.' This review is completely spoiler free. ⇢ ˗ˏˋ 𝚐𝚎𝚗𝚎𝚛𝚊𝚕 𝚝𝚑𝚘𝚞𝚐𝚑𝚝𝚜࿐ྂ Let's see, can authors stop trying to stretch something that is successful? Because this is what happens. This book has been completely unnecessary, in my opinion it does not contribute anything new to Millie's story, the only thing it achieves is to stain the good memory I have of the first book, because that is where the story should have ended. Not even the crazy plot twists could save this. I can't talk about the plot of this book since it would be a spoiler, I'll just say that it takes place 11 years after the end of the second book, that Millie moves to another neighborhood and that the neighbors are all weird as hell. And that's as far as I can say. Like all Freida McFaden books, quick and easy writing, very short chapters that make the book literally fly by, I finished it in just a few hours, I only stopped to sleep and have breakfast hahaha, but that doesn't mean the book is good. Would I recommend this book? No. I would recommend reading the first one and staying there. But I would recommend ANY book by the author in case of a slump or pallet cleanser, because the truth is that they fulfill the function that in my opinion they have, to entertain. ೃ⁀➷ 𝓹𝓻𝓮 𝓻𝓮𝓿𝓲𝓮𝔀: 12/06: completely unnecessary, short review to come 11/06: HAPPY RELEASE DAY!! I’m a bit scared bc I feel she might be stretching this too much BUT!! Here we go 💅🏻🙂‍↕️ nov 20: [ this is gonna be released in June/July 2024!! ] EXCUSE ME WHY I DIDNT KNEW THIS 👀. A THIRD BOOK???? Everything Freida writes I’m reading bitch.

To be really honest, I'm super hard on Freida's books. It's not that I necessarily dislike her books. I've actually read quite a few of them, and rated them fairly. I like that they're quick, fast paced and usually pretty entertaining. But I've been reading thrillers for a very long time and I just feel like her books barely tow the line for me. This book. Lol. Omg. I feel like, with what the population of New York is - I'm supposed to believe the twist at the end? Moreover, the other twist? Come on. What a let down and lack of imagination. The entirety of the first half of the book is like : boring, boring, boring, snooze, boring. The second half is like: Yeah, because I believe any of this shite? 🙄

double it and give it to the next person

i fear this was not only predictable.. but boring 💀

★ 2.5 stars Yaaass girl, give us nothing 👏🏻 On today's episode of ‘what stupid shit is Millie is doing now’ 🫴🏼 the answer is literally nothing. I have no idea why we were forced to sit through her POV when she really had nothing to do with the action and she just watched. Millie is still as oblivious as ever. This is painfully boring, it didn't pick up until nearly 60% in and by that point I just didn't care. It wasn't even close to being rational. This formula is overdone, she needs to give it a rest. The first book was great, the second was okay but this was just unnecessary. “The third in a series usually isn’t that great, so it’s not his fault.”

2.4⭐️ ….well…that was underwhelming? I think the unsuspecting villain story can only have so much shock factor the third time it’s done? Also this story just didn’t make sense when you consider the first two books. Like this was NOT the Millie and Enzo we know. They were whiny and annoying and very much just a mid couple 😕 I can’t review this properly without adding spoilers. Just know it’s a bit of a disappointment. Especially with Martha the housemaid? Like…that’s it? UGH. I need a new mystery to get me going asap! ————————————————————————- I have no self control so reading this book now when I haven’t finished my other read… Millie girl, PLEASE act like you have some sense in this one.

1.5 ⭐️ ooooof miss Freida what was that?!?! I really think she’s trying to write her books too fast. I am a fan of her earlier works, but lately I just feel like they are slacking so much. This was soooo slow and boring up until about half way. Then once part 2 hit, I called the major twist and I was right. I feel like she follows the same writing style in every book too and nothing surprises me anymore. Also Freida why are we copying a popular thriller book AGAIN?! She’s used this format before too in another book. Millie is still dumb as bricks lol. Also whyyyyyy are we having Enzo talk in broken English when he’s lived in the US for 20 years?! So cringy I couldn’t get past that The reveals after the major one were just mehhhh. The epilogue which is supposed to be wild was also just mehhhh. So many details are in there for no reason at all. This is a book full of plot holes 🤨 If I had to hear Millie talk about how much hotter Enzo is than her one more time I was gonna throw the kindle Nah hard pass on this one and she may no longer be a fav author of mine 😅😅😅😅

Seems like the third book tried to clean house but ended up sweeping the excitement under the rug instead! Unfortunately, this book is the weakest of the trilogy. The story lacks compelling elements, and the twists don’t pack the same punch. While the plot has its darker corners, there’s enough humor peppered in to keep things sparkling, and discovering references like pomegranate juice and the turtle felt like unearthing Easter eggs from Freida McFadden’s other books. “The Housemaid Is Watching” may not sweep you off your feet, but it’s still an enjoyable read, especially if you’re invested in the characters and their journey. The twists might not whip your head back, but they’ll at least raise an eyebrow. And fear not—the mop can stay in the closet; there won’t be a fourth spill.

Writing a review after 4 days of finishing the book and I don't remember half of the things, I think that says enough. The first book was amazing, ate it all up. The second one was also not bad and I enjoyed it. This one...made me want to pull my hair out. Millie was SO ANNOYING. And everything was becoming so repetitive. Usually in a series we expect character development, Millie went through the opposite. She had such inferior complex, it made me want to scream at her. Grow up. Someone said she had a very small house and suddenly she starts wondering if she made a mistake buying the house she was head over heels for in the beginning. Enzo was cute and a very big green flag in the beginning but he also started to annoy me later on. And that neighbor (whatever her name was I forgot) - she seemed like a high school mean girl bully, I just wanted her to shut up. Ugh this book was just bad. Don't recommend 👎 Giving it 2 stars because the writing was easy to read and at least it had me hooked.

Here are some wonderful moments from the book: -the neighbor has her kid on a leash?!? - Millie says: ‘whatever a math fair is’. Even I get what it is, but Millie has a daughter who won a medal and doesn’t know what it is? - ‘Sunscreen is supposed to protect you from cancer or something like that’ And on and on it went with innate descriptions and a very unlikely plot. Also funny that in the housemaid’s tale the main character is called Millie and in Nita prose it’s Molly.

2.5/5 ⭐️ - This book didn’t feel thrilling at all until about chapter 50 which is over 200 pages into the story. The pacing picked up towards the end and I couldn’t put it down, but by that point the story was almost over. - I didn’t guess the ending of this book which I loved, but it kind of came out of nowhere. I wish there had been a little more buildup as to why the book ended the way that it did. - Love this authors writing, but this one just didn’t do it for me. Excited for their next release in October!

As someone who LOVED the first two Housemaid novels, this one unfortunately missed the mark for me. I tried to temper my expectations, but Freida even hints later in this book that it will disappoint! “The third one is good too, but it’s not my favorite. The third in a series usually isn’t that great.” The Housemaid Is Watching didn’t even have to be part of the Housemaid series, but I worry McFadden felt pressured to make this a trilogy. These characters should have different names and been part of an original story, as they completely changed from the first two books and made dumb decisions. There are fun nods and tie-ins to the other books, but some end up feeling forced. While McFadden still manages to write in a way that keeps you reading and entertained, too much of this book is spent on the Accardi family dynamic. It was fun seeing how Millie and Enzo navigate their family for a bit, but it overstays its welcome and becomes filler. Speaking of families, has Freida stepped outside the writing room to see her own? She’s been pumping out books faster than Catholic bunnies can pump out kids. It’s affecting the quality of her writing tremendously, but I suppose we’re all still reading them and making her money 🤷🏼‍♂️ Spoilers Ahead! If you’ve already read the book or just want to be part of my virtual sounding board for complaints, continue below… Last Warning! …aiight, here’s what bothered me. Once again, Freida changes previous events for the sake of a “plot twist.” In the prologue, the voice at the door (Millie) calls out “Hello?”, but when it happens in the actual chapters, she instead calls out for Enzo or Suzette. Come on Freida, that’s just lazy writing. Enzo wanted to help Martha escape, but refused to tell Millie about it? Bruh, this is what you did together for YEARS. Why would she be mad about it? Characters acting completely out-of-character bothered me tremendously. They ruined my boy Enzo! Also, the LEAST interesting character turned out to be the villain? Heck, I can’t even remember his name. Let’s just call him “Shirt.” The reveal of Shirt wasn’t surprising in the slightest, and the reveal felt completely out of left field. First, he just seems like a cuckhold with no personality. Surprise! He’s a pervert who… likes to watch a kid play with toys? His dialogue and interactions were either overly-vanilla or unrealistically creepy, like an AI-generated child predator. He was more of a plot device than a repulsive monster (which would have been more compelling!) After Millie finds out that Ada stabbed Shirt in the gut, she realizes this doesn’t match with his throat being slit. She just assumes, “Oh yeah, I guess my 12-year-old must have done that too, and just didn’t mention it.” AND THEN SHE NEVER BRINGS IT UP AGAIN??? If you liked the first two Housemaid books, I recommend you stop there and enjoy it. If you’re a Freida completionist like me, go in with low expectations.

Too bad Millie isn’t a housemaid anymore, she’d be handy at cleaning up the hot garbage that is this book. As a fan of the other 2 books in this series this one falls flat and feels completely unnecessary. Could have been a standalone story in another universe that didn’t involve Millie. McFadden even has a line in the book that acknowledges the third of a series is never the best.

** spoiler alert ** At the end of the this review I think I was being REALLLY NICE I need to stop sugarcoating things, this book was TRASHHHH. I’m sorry LOL That ending was so lackluster I’m surprised this book was written by my girl freida… Literally it took me at LEAST 100 pages in to even somewhat get into it. I was just thinking this is going to turn into to some pedo guy next door who “was such a nice guy” AND GUESS WHAT?! I was right… 🥴 it was just alll so predictable and I never say that about her books ever… was this book rushed? I think so. She made millie into this very unlikeable person for half the book, who was wishy washy the ENTIRE time. She Never stuck up for herself EVER. She literally let both women degrade and belittle her and just never said anything. I’m sorry you can murder people but can’t stick up for yourself? Honestly the only reason I’m giving this 2 ⭐️ is because it did keep me entertained but I was just so put off by that ending… it was just overall okay. Nothing to rave about.

So the first two thirds of the book were so good that I thought I might have a 5 star book when I finished. The last third was so bad that I feel like it was written by someone workshopping their first story. Freshman year of college. Not only was it totally rushed after a certain point (don’t want to have any spoilers ) but it had such ridiculous things going on that I am not even fully sure what happened. Things I still don’t get: Boxer goes to Vegas for roughly 24 hours yet her husband and child meet her at the SF airport and act like it’s been weeks. I would have said it is just not how I would behave or think BUT they add how they buy the kid a t-shirt at the gift shop. Their home airport of SF not even from Vegas where she was. And buy the neighbor a hoodie? From their home gift shop?! After 24 hour trip?! When describing a scene with Yuki (she’s the ADA) who is about to give closing arguments, it says she “practiced closing arguments with and gives names of her bossand second chair and then says “and her husband, Jackson Brady.” Brady is a prominent character in all the books and it’s known throughout the series that they are married. The sentence almost reads as if the character needed to be reminded who she was married to. The last sentence of the book they share a group hug. I mean you are trying to tell me that there’s a serial killer who says he’s worse than Ted Bundy and throw in (within minutes of supposedly seeing/reading how horrible it all is) a group hug? Was Barney not available to sing and perform with them? So disappointing. I might have to give up my membership to the Women’s Murder Club.

Let me be honest up front. I read most of James Patterson’s books and have for several years. Some might ask why and that’s another whole discussion best saved for another day. I have really enjoyed some, liked some, and didn’t really care for others. On a personal level, I must admit that his Women’s Murder Club series – focused on the professional and personal lives of four women in San Francisco - has been hit and miss over the last couple of years with more weak outings than not. This year’s outing - “21st Birthday”- starts off with Cindy Thomas (reporter) and Lindsey Boxer (detective) being contacted by a frantic and out-of-control woman whose daughter and baby granddaughter have gone missing. To make matters worse, she is pointing her finger at her son-in-law, who has a history of violent confrontations with others. While Lindsey tries to find the missing mom and daughter, Cindy investigates the story from behind the scenes. Then things get worse when a body is discovered, and Claire Washburn’s autopsy leads her to suggest that there is a serial killer running loose… Then more murders occur and we are off and running with another Women’s Club Murder mystery… In addition, to the primary plot, there are several other sub-plots going on that involve all of the members of the Women’s Murder Club. Medical Examiner, Claire Washburn, is returning to work as she tries to recover from lung cancer. Jackson Brady, Lindsey’s boss and Yuki’s husband, has decided to stay in his Chief of Homicide role and the newly announced Chief of Police is Charlie Clapper, the former director of the SFPD forensics unit, is being promoted. Clapper views his Chief role as being an “Enforcer” and a stickler to the rules, which causes immediate problems for Lindsey. This is a bit less busy than the last “Women’s Murder Club” novel, which moved between too many storylines at full bore breakneck speed. However, it is just as messy in several ways and I have some real mixed emotions about this outing. Let me start with the things that I liked. There were a few of them. I liked Patterson and Paetro focusing on a major “A” plotline with a couple of “B” storyline developments with the recurring characters. Each of the primary characters had a focused arc that provided development and that I liked. The twists and turns were less predictable than usual and that was nice. And now for the bad news. There were some things that I didn’t like… And unfortunately, they were really key to enjoying the book. The first 100 – 150 pages were interesting and the primary murder mystery started off with promise and potential, but after page 200 it was pretty much downhill until the end. The evidence for the arrested potential killer was so weak, and then went the story moved into a courtroom case, suddenly the writers enhanced it just enough to provide doubt in the reader’s mind. By then it was too late. Patterson may be trying to provide courtroom drama but he is so far from the level of John Grisham and Michael Connelly. It all just felt forced. I kept asking myself how many times is Suki going to be thrown into courtroom drama involving the case of the decade or century? It’s becoming worn tread. As much as I wanted to enjoy it, the last half of the book unraveled. There was a lot of back and forth between two suspects and by the time you got to the big reveal at the end, the payoff petered out in such a disappointing and forced manner. It was like a writer with an outline forgot to fill in the details when writing the manuscript. By the time ending was delivered, I actually felt bad about the outcome, but not for the right reasons. I had no emotional involvement in the ending and was left so disconnected to how everything was supposed to connect together in the end. I just couldn’t buy the square pegs being forced in to the round holes structurally. The story had plot and movement, but lacked motivation, explanation, connection, and heart. This reminded me about how to successfully read Patterson. I think that one of the keys to enjoying Patterson is not to think too hard about his book when you’re reading it. Don’t think about if it’s realistic, whether the clues really connect and make sense, or look for strong quality writing. At its heart, Patterson novels are meant to be escapist mind candy. Like a movie matinee with popcorn. Like summer beach and weekend couch reading. Sometimes good and sometimes not so good. Nothing more and nothing less. My overall rating is 2.5 out of 5 stars. I think that last half-a-star is being kind to this up and down, schizophrenic series.

** spoiler alert ** I’ve read all of the books in this series (and many other Pattersons) and they seem to be getting worse by the book. This was speedy enough, but the ending was appalling. Rushed, muddled, and hugely unsatisfactory. Worst for me was that through the whole of the first half of the book, it was obvious there wasn’t enough evidence that Lucas was the killer. They still convicted him, but there were no recriminations for Boxer or her team who effectively ruined a man’s life, before he took it in prison. Perhaps this is a commentary on police procedures and the justice system in the US? I don’t know. Either way, the book ends terribly and it is the last of this series, and probably Patterson’s, that I will ever read.

It all starts with a woman confronting Cindy Thomas in her office at the San Francisco Chronicle. The woman is certain that something bad has happened to her daughter and granddaughter, and her son-in-law is to blame. She wants Cindy to write stories about it and post about it on her blog, but Cindy quickly turns the woman over to her friend, San Francisco detective Lindsay Boxer, who pushes the police to start an investigation and make it a priority. Sadly, it isn’t long before a dead body turns up. Will Lindsay and the rest of the Women’s Murder Club figure out what is really happening? Usually with this series, I complain about the characters having plotlines that rarely if ever intersect. Here, I was thrilled to see that the characters, including Claire and Yuki, are working together on one case, and they all get their moments to shine. While the characters are a bit thin, we did like them all and care enough to keep reading. The plot is compelling with twists that intrigue. However, the authors can’t land it. I get what we are supposed to think happened, but in the rush to wrap things up after the final twist, we don’t get a major plot point from earlier in the book explained. Meanwhile, the editing was sloppy, including students at a high school being in class on a Saturday, missing days, and Lindsay being in two places at once near the end of the book. This reads more like a first draft that needed an editor to help polish it up instead of a finished novel. Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.

I know James Patterson novels aren't "the great American novel" but mostly they are comfortable, dependable stories that fit a pattern, and are a "soft" read for me when i need to relax. This novel -- 21st Birthday -- was soooo awful, in writing, pacing, plotting and just plain enjoyment (or lack thereof) that I wanted to put it down several times and forget it. Oh well, finished it and will soon forget it (too bad I cant get back my time spent reading this).

** spoiler alert ** Soooooo … this book was sooooo good starting out that I couldn’t put it down. About 120-150 pages in, it started going downhill. It felt rushed. There was too much going on, too many characters involved to the point I was struggling to keep up with who was who, and their purpose in this book. I enjoyed that the chapters were short but I still have so many questions … I didn’t read about anyone’s birthday so the title is very misleading to me. Which Burk did it … Lucas or Evan … like whose truth is the real truth? This was my first James Patterson read … maybe I need to read all of the Women’s Murder Club and revisit this one.

Have to say I am finding James Patterson's books boring and predictable. They started out good. I think he tries to put too many out in a year's time and is not paying attention to his subjects or characters any more. He has 15 more books coming out from July 13 to the end of 2021. Maybe that's overdoing it?

I have read the whole series and this one was very disappointing. Very sloppy ending. Perhaps Patterson thought it would be a cliffhanger for the subsequent books. But I did not like the way the ending was handled

What ? This novel for almost 400 pages was a decent read, with the reader left guessing throughout. However, without revealing anything, the ending was very disappointing, leaving me with too many unanswered questions.

In a word: Unsatisfying update no. 1 24 hours after finishing and I'm already dropping this down to 2.5⭐ update no. 2 I heard you loud and clear in the comments that you want the review now instead of later. Because it's 1 AM and tomorrow 5 of my bookish friends are coming to spend the weekend at my place, I'm going to post some of my raw notes because I don't want to leave you hanging. The plan is to come back on Monday and edit these into something easier to read lol. Don't expect these to be in an order that makes sense. There will be loads of spelling errors, ya just gotta deal until I can edit. With that said, SPOILERS FROM HERE ON OUT . . . Fury The fact that all we “used” was her ability to pilot a helicopter is an embarrassment. Not to mention that this series was supposed to be about female friendships. We just, do away with fury and juniper altogether in this book. Stupid. Also, Fury literally makes a scoff about how all she’s doing is playing babysitter and I was like UH YEAH. THE FUCK? Jesiba There should have been breadcrumbs. We should have seen her interact with SOMEONE who knows Appolion *ahem, Aidas* and had her trash talk him. Then we’d be like what’s her beef? Book of breathings/library of parthos big old plot hole. Disappointing. reunion between Bryce and Hunt one of the things that made me SO ANGRYYYYYY like in the moment I was walking around saying “the fuck??? Wait WHAT???” I don’t see Pete for 24 hours and I will leap into that man’s arms. You’re telling me that *mates* who’ve been tortured and never knew if they’d find their way back to one another were going to like the fucking Ocean Queen stop them from falling into each other’s arms??? You cannot tell me they shouldn’t have been sobbing together. bullshit. Lack of character dev. I was surprised by this. I expected the book to at least take place over the course of a month, not like, a week. I get we don’t tend to change as humans thaaaaat much over a week but it's historically been something I appreciate that in her writing and we got none of it. Silene / Princes of Hel info dumps I could go on and on here, but in essence, it’s bloody infuriating that there were people who knew everything all along and never guided or drop-fed that info to us over the three books. “You weren’t ready” I WANTED TO THROW MY PHONE what a cop-out. Secondly, by sharing all this info all at once, the reader doesn’t get to chew on any of it, the think about what it means. We’re just hanging on for dear life trying to take it all in. It’s like someone tossing us a ball… versus having a cannon full of tennis balls shot at you all at once General messiness/she bit off more than she could chew When I’m over here wishing that she’d kill some characters off, just so that we could have some emotional impact AND narrow the field, we’ve got a big problem. I think about Chekov’s Gun all the time when I’m reading… the rule in writing that if you include an element, you should use it by the book’s conclusion. And she just… doesn’t. I’ve never been more convinced than I am now after HoFaS that SJM doesn’t actually have some crisp master plan. She just leaves a fuck-tonne of Chekov’s Guns lying around, and picks them up willy nilly when it sort of works in a future book. That’s why it feels so messy, plot-hole-y, and just kind of ??? the (anti)climax the whole final fight scene was anticlimactic, it never felt like anyone was actually in danger, and legit in all caps I was fuuuuuuming about the bringing her back to life. Nah. I’m fucking sick of it. Death is there for a reason. Get rid of it and you have NO stakes. Which makes all your hard work trying to get the reader to be worried about the character’s wellbeing null and void Other things that made me real mad: •⁠ ⁠what was the point in the viper queen getting a private fight between Sigrid and Ithan???? •⁠ ⁠⁠SIGRID. are you fucking kidding me all of that round and round in circles and FOR WHAT. •⁠ ⁠⁠Ithan choosing to try to bring Sigrid back from the dead (reaper form) instead of focusing on what’s ACTUALLY important aka THE FIGHT OF THEIR LIFE WITH THE BIG BAD????? •⁠ ⁠⁠Bryce opening the coffin. why she acting like a dumb bitch? I literally wrote down: “????? Girl why so reckless” •⁠ ⁠⁠over promising and under-delivering: don’t make it seem like we’re going to get any face time with the acotar crew only to give us two of them •⁠ ⁠⁠The parasite is something they should have learned in the previous book. And it should have been DIFFICULT and CHALLENGING and NERVE WRACKING for them to try and produce an anti-dote right under their noses. Get fucked that NO ONE in the scientific community in this urban fantasy has noticed •⁠ ⁠⁠can anything crystal be a gate? Like shit just doesn’t line up. •⁠ ⁠⁠"Surrounded by a fire that even Tharion’s water could not extinguish” to that I wrote: Pokemon says otherwise •⁠ ⁠⁠RUHN SHOOTING LIDIA. for so many reasons. They’re supposed to heal quickly, so which is it?? She’s spent over a decade in an abusive relationship with Pollux, so because he walked with her sons for a bit they’re just fine with it? Nahhhh fuck that. They shouldn’t have ended up back together by the end of this book and we should have gotten him making ALL the amends, her fighting with herself to learn how to trust him again, etc in the next book. THATS the character growth I want to see. ughhhhhh I’m still so mad lol. •⁠ ⁠⁠all that nonsense about to join or not join the blades… and she can simply summon the void herself??? Lastly, and possibly most hilariously something that didn’t really matter but spoke to how inconsistent SJM was with her own established rules: WHY DID IT TAKE RHYS 80 YEARS TO GET TO THE HOUSE OF WIND? TWIIIIIIIICE? He has literally winnowed just outside the wards and flown inside in a matter of seconds/like, a minute. He does it when Nesta is stuck in that nightmare in ACOSF. and TWICE we get oooooo he’s coming. look at that encroaching darkness. ooooo you better go. (proceeds to have a long, heartfelt goodbye with mom hugs) *closes portal before he ever arrives* bsffr.

The weakest conclusion to an SJM series by far. This book was one big deus ex machina clusterfuck. But I think most fans will overlook the huge issues in this book because we get to see some old favourite characters. Let's start off with the good parts: - Lidia Cervos 🧎🏻‍♀️🧎🏻‍♀️🧎🏻‍♀️Few characters had any agency in this book. Lidia was one of the few people who actually made a difference in this book. She really stole the show from Bryce and Hunt. - In the same vein as Lidia, Nesta lit up every scene she was in. Every scene she was in, I only noticed her. She really carried every part of the story she touched and she is so fun. - And obviously the entire Prythian part because those characters are elite. Loved the lore drop we got. - There was a particular scene with a few characters waving at each other that broke my heart. Now on to the bad: - Welcome to the Bryce Quinlan Show, where I spent 50% of the book asking myself "Why are Tharion/Flynn/Declan/Sathia/Hunt/Ruhn even in this scene??". So much of this book involved Bryce and Co. going somewhere to do something. But they all could have been Bryce's solo missions because it literally would not have made a difference if her companions weren't there. I think this was made particularly evident because there were 3 or 4 times where Bryce had to relay stuff she had done in the previous chapters to her group of friends. Because her friends weren't doing anything. The side characters felt soooo unnecessary in so many points in this book. - Another note on Bryce, she has some smart moments in the book but so much of her dominance is because she is The Chosen One. Everything she gains is because she is related to XYZ and has ABC in her blood. It makes it really hard to root for her because she didn't have to earn anything. - As I already mentioned in HOSAB, Bryce is only interesting in the context of Danika. By herself, she isn't that particularly interesting or someone I would root for. I think the strongest part about her was her friendship to Danika. This is particularly evident when anything happens between Hunt and Bryce. They just don't have that much chemistry tbh. I really wish this series had been about Bryce and Danika. Hunt really felt like a side piece. I really dgaf about this man. - I can't believe I had to read about Hunt going commando because his d**k is too big to fit into his underwear. I actually wanted to gouge my eyes out. 🤢😵‍💫😵 Also Hunt and Bryce getting handsy while their friends were fighting for their lives? Why were Ruhn and Lidia trying to get it on while their friends were literally right beside them in the cave? The most unnecessary scenes that were added just so this book can be spicy. - Ithan LOLOLOL. If you look up "filler character" he would be the #1 offender. He actually didn't do anything in this book for the first 70% and then he suddenly just have everything happen to him. His rise in power was the most eye-rolling experience because he doesn't deserve any of this. - Tharion sorry babes I wish I had skipped every scene you were in. I actually do not give a fck about this man. Suddenly Sathia appears. What did she even add to the story? Tharion and Ithan were the two most ridiculous characters in this book. I'm actually so mad both of them got so much "screen time". But Tharion might get the "Nesta" treatment because it is clear his story isn't over. - In true SJM fashion, we get the "We could have told you all of this in Book 1 but you weren't ready so we are just going to explain everything now". I'm so sick and tired of important information being gatekept for the sake of having a plot. - I want SO MUCH MORE grovelling between Ruhn and Lidia. I wanted the angst and yearning and the hurt x comfort. They are by far the best couple in this series. - LOOOL COOPER. Why did we focus so much on Sophie and Emilie in book 2 for them to basically not matter at all. - Sigrid and Ariadne felt like loose ends. Perhaps they will be important in future books but they took up too much time in this book for them to not matter much at the end. - OK, so book 1 had that big dramatic massacre, which really got my hopes up that SJM would actually commit to some gruesome ends for some of her main characters. SYKE! I'm so tired of none of the characters actually being in danger. - Hypaxia exists to be a deus ex machina. Her and Jesiba's sole purpose in the series is to get people out of a pickle. They literally didn't serve any other purpose. - Also where were Juniper and Fury? They were completely neglected except for one scene. - While writing this, I just remembered I haven't even mentioned Baxian. That just shows how insignificant he was in every scene he was in. He just gets lumped in with Hunt and Co. - The Harpy comes back for her to get KO'd in 0.2 seconds? - Hypaxia defeats a certain character very quickly. It felt so out of left field and rushed. Overall, this book felt sloppy.

2 stars- one for Nesta and one for Azriel, the rest of this book was a shit show.

Go girl, give us nothing!

** spoiler alert ** IM FINALLY FREE First thing first, thanks Krysta💚 for buddy reading with me. Mostly thank you for listening to me complain. This is my least favorite book by SJM. I think I overhyped this book in my head so I was disappointed when I read this. I’m going to make this review short Me reading this book the entire time.. 💛Bryce was insufferable 💛Bryce & Hunts reunion was underwhelming. 💛Hunt was tortured and Bryce thought that was a good time to act like a B. 💛I didn’t feel connected at all to the characters 💛There was no character development 💛The storyline was flat. 💛The multiple mid-chapter choppy pov gave me whiplash and I hated it. 💛Ruhn and Lidia romance was holding this book together but they were robbed of page time. 💛The crossover??? 🙄🙄 supposedly there’s gonna to be a CC4? The House Of Many Waters. We shall see where this takes us. House of Earth and Blood 4.5 Stars House of Sky and Breath 3 Stars House of Flame and Shadows 2 Stars

Alright. Now that I’ve taken an hour to stare at my ceiling and be depressed (that the book is over, that it was so terrible) I’m finally ready to write a review. I’ll demarcate the sections containing spoilers so if you haven’t read yet, you can skip those parts. Here goes. I am so sad to report this, but it feels like Maasverse is going the way of the MCU. Dragged down by its own lore, sagging under its own weight, CC3 was ultimately….. forgettable. All of the problems that I had with CC2 carried through into CC3. There were several plotlines that felt completely unnecessary to the overall arc of the story and only served to bloat the page count. Entire chapters were devoted to the sort of expository lore-building that I thought we were done with after CC1. Once I reached the halfway point of the book, I started skimming through chapters that felt irrelevant. For a book that promised to be so climactic and exciting, I should NOT have been able to do that without missing critical information, but every conversation and storyline began to blur together and feel exactly the same. I hate to say it, but too much of the time reading this, I was………… bored. The beating heart of CC1 was Bryce & Danika’s friendship. It formed an emotional throughline that made the ending, when Bryce made the Drop and Lehabah sacrificed herself, so impactful. That same emotional heft felt completely missing from CC3. I also thought it was missing from CC2, but there was such a dramatic payoff at the end of the book (“Hello, Bryce Quinlan. My name is Rhysand”) that I was willing to look past that. Now, after another book too heavy on lore and interweaving plotlines and too light on genuine character development outside of power level-ups, I feel my attachment to these characters fading, which is SUCH a disappointment. Finally, the third act of the book became so overwrought with RIDICULOUS plotholes and leaps of logic that it almost felt unreadable. There was no underpinning logic to keep the story rooted in a sense of reality, or a sense that there were rules at all. I feel like this is more a problem of editing than writing. It’s the editor’s job to question the logic of the world that the writer has created - to make sure the magic system and rules are airtight, so that it feels real. Based on the number of typos I caught while reading, I think this thing was barely edited at all. What a colossal disappointment. ******** SPOILERS BELOW************ Okay, if you’ve read the whole book then you’re probably thinking the same thing I am….. WHERE TF IS AELIN?! HOW COME WE ONLY GOT TWO SECONDS IN PRYTHIAN??? Maybe it’s on all of us for thinking this was going to be a full-blooded crossover, but I am SO disappointed by how little time we got with the ACOTAR characters!!! And the majority of that time, with Nesta and Bryce in the tunnels, was repetitive to the point of being boring. After such a COLOSSAL cliffhanger at the end of CC2, I cannot believe this is all we got. Now we wait another 2-3 years for ACOTAR 6…… Sarah, if you’re reading this, please fire your editor. I cannot go through this disappointment again.

Sarah: “death is always lingering, always around” Also Sarah: doesn’t have the balls to kill any relevant characters, brings people back to life, spends 850 pages retconning (which means retroactive continuity - introducing new information that was never even talked about before just to fit whatever lazy plot she wants to make it work here) her own universes and the worst part is that she did this to BOTH SERIES I LOVE. ACOTAR lore that never existed is all of a sudden a thing just because she decided to attempt his stupid crossover that ended up being the most boring thing. I wanted Feyre and Bryce, not fucking Nesta and Bryce, they’re not equivalent to one another. Feyre and Bryce are. Sarah also loves to mention how dangerous everyone and everything is but never does anything with it and basically ruins my excitement and love for this series in a single book. Don’t get it twisted, it pains me to write this. Crescent City was very loved by me. But none of these characters are recognizable anymore, it was nearly impossible to care about their motivations and goals because none of them were clear enough and I think she wrote this book in a NyQuil induced hangover.

2.5 stars rounded down to 2, as I think it's more 2 stars than 3, and this is coming from someone who gave the first book 4 stars and the second book 2 stars. After the end of book 2, I had my doubts. The start of this book wasn't as bad as I thought it was gonna be which is great news, but I unfortunately think the author is getting incredibly lazy in world-building and characters. Don't tell me someone is using their "power" and feeling the "light" without telling us more, but we are asked to believe that the fights are epic and the characters are strong without SHOWING US those things. And Bryce being a glorified flashlight is not a good enough answer. A lacklustre entry in the Crescent City series. If you want more of my thoughts, I made a video binge-reading all 3 Crescent City books so far filled with spoilers on YouTube: https://youtu.be/-ERnPrCIMWU

First of all I need to say that before I wrote this review, I slept on it, I meditated and took several deep breaths. WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK? I believe this book is an insult to us readers and fans of previous series by this author, let me explain: there is nothing good about the fmc besides her looks which the author makes sure we get to read a description every now and then, portraying being “thick” like if it was a “condition” to either get glorified or victimized. We are more than looks. I get what she was trying with Bryce “joking irreverent” actitud but it got out control, she became a spoiled brat child like with not respect whatsoever for anybody, not even her fucking mate and that is probably the worst. On top of that she is the perfect Mary Sue, there is nothing she can’t accomplish, without a day of training or learning process she knows how to manipulate every single weapon/power/ability and don’t get me started with the powers up, at some point I thought even Rhys himself will appear and give her his own powers and court rights just for the sake of the plot and Bryce superiority to everything. It’s the most flat and empty fmc I’ve ever read and I know it was intended to empower us and represent us as something else than a “damsel in distress waiting for charming prince to rescue us” but it failed. It’s a character that doesn’t go through a developmental growth or character building process and when she actually does something serious you can’t believe her. I can stay here and write an essay about everything that is wrong with Bryce and I will never finished so I will move along to the book structure. It was a mess, it lack of sense and was very predictable. So annoying being in the middle of what it seemed like an important pov only to be interrupted with another pov that wasn’t even relevant to the story and I know she likes to use that resource of suspense to keep you interested but again, she and the whole team of what it seemed to be nonexistent editors FAILED. Lots of problems had magical solutions and by magical I mean out of nowhere, very convenient and nonsensical, characters forget suddenly how to winnow/teleport or someone will develop an ability needed at the moment out thin air. IT WAS ABSURD THE WHOLE TIME. And like in previous books of this series, the amount of filler was unbelievable. Those 816 pages could have been 300 if she wanted to but I guess her plan was for us to suffer. Again, I know that the whole empowerment feminism was the big point of this book but nerf’ing and humiliating those male characters only to make the females (Bryce, only Bryce) look better was totally unnecessary. I didn’t wanted to read about them sulking and crying, having existential crisis through the whole book, especially Hunt, the worst MMC that ever existed and that takes me to that couple. Bryce and Hunt don’t have chemistry, you can’t feel the love in any way or shape, at least, her love for him is almost nonexistent. While hunt was going through the worst time ever, the only thing keeping him alive was her, she was thinking about intergalactic gardening, like wtf? Only once I remember reading her replying with an “I love you too” because most of the time she didn’t even bother answering that to him. She controls him however she wants and he is not allowed to say anything back at her, he can’t even deal with his fucking trauma because she “needs him whole”. Bullshit. The smut is cringy and disappointed as ever 💔 The only thing that kept me reading this book, willing me to finish it was Lidia and the few glimpses of my people of Prythian, the last one being so disappointed I almost cried, I still can’t believe that Mary Sue could trick a 500 yo Fae warrior, the best spy and punisher of the night court, that’s something I will never forgive Sarah J. Mass for. Even The mask was nerf’ed, became a toy capable of doing everything Bryce wanted to because why no? There is nothing she can’t do 🙄. The ending was forced and full of holes, I hope this is the last book of this series. Complete chaos, lack of sense and with more fillers than Naruto. DO NOT READ, it’s fucking shit. PD: try to refused or debate any of my points, try to prove me wrong. You won’t be able to.

SIGH... Listen, I have given Holly Gibney more than a fair shot. I have read every one of her books, and I even like her a good 55% of the time, which is much more generous than most King fans. To be honest, I went into Holly (2023) with low expectations and left surprisingly satisfied, so much so that it led me to be genuinely excited for Never Flinch. Unfortunately, that excitement was misled because wooooof was this a stinker. This one is split into three narratives, and all three were disappointing and absolute slogs to work through. By the time I was halfway through this, I was forcing myself to read each and every chapter, and it was taking LOTS of willpower to stay off my phone and actually focus up. Storyline #1: The Surrogate Jury Murders. This one is my favorite of the lot, but even then, I was a little dissatisfied. Trig is an interesting villain, I enjoyed his AA pathos and motivations, but even an interesting killer couldn't make this snoozer of a cat and mouse game lively. There's really not much to even say here; Trig just kills a bunch of people and gets away with it 99% of the time until the very end when he goes off his rocker. I also felt like his whole grand finale was rushed and relied a bit too much on coincidences and guesswork. Storyline #2: Kate McKay and her stalker. UGHHHHH. I was worried when the description for this story mentioned a feminist speaker needing protection, but then I told myself, "It will be ok, we all know King is super liberal and will handle this well." NOPE. While he goes out of his way to make it clear that her politics are correct, he makes the frustrating decision to make her an overbearing boss from hell who is absolutely dreadful. Very mixed messaging when we are constantly told she is an inspirational hero, but then she is only ever portrayed as an absolute bitch. What's the message here? And don't even get me STARTED on her stalker... at a certain point early in this story my heart dropped because I guessed what might be going on with this villain, and once I was proven correct I was SO ANGRY. Between Kate and her stalker, this whole plot line certainly had a heavy right wing spin on it that really, REALLY yucked me out... Storyline #3: Barbara and Sista Bessie. JESUS CHRIST, CAN BARBARA BE ANYMORE PERFECT? I actually didn't *HATE* her poetry plotline in Holly (2023), though I did understand the complaints of her character being too precious and precocious, but in this book it is just absolutely insufferable. Of course a famous soul singer read Barbara's poetry, and of course she is a fan and invites her to come to rehearsal, and of course Barbara is just soooo talented and impeccable at singing and songwriting that she ends up joining the show and becoming a certified soul queen. Give me a fucking break. These chapters are the least frequent, but boy are they the worst of the bunch, and that's saying something with how much the Kate McKay plotline pissed me off. I am sooo over Jerome and Barbara Robinson, AKA the most perfect and wonderful human beings ever to exist who are good at everything they try and have never once made mistakes in their beautiful, flawless lives. And don't even get me started on 77 year old white man Stephen King trying to write two black women becoming friends, hanging out, and making music together, good grief. There is no one on this planet that wanted to like this book more than me, so believe me when I say I am disappointed.

Too much focus on politics and covid that it took away from the story. :( Not a fan of this one.

This book is poopy. Check out my review here: https://youtu.be/oQtvIq2cVEc?si=mhuKc...

Holly Gibney is back. She is tired of hunting down missing jewelry and ready to try her hand at being a bodyguard. Will she be enough to stop a whole mess of crap, or will one of the many elements take her out? We get it dude, you are passionate about politics. But all of us who are in the trenches of dealing with the relentless day-to-day of life as we currently know it, use reading as an escape. I do not want to read a book that takes the news cycle vomit I do my best to avoid and shoves it back into my face disguised as a story. I wanted some bad guys and/or creatures doing bad things. I wanted the hero plus kickass sidekicks investigating the bad things. I wanted a touch of supernatural if available. I did not want politics. BUT…with all that said, I could have put up with it if the rest of the book was good. It was not. I needed new characters that I could give a shit about, or existing favorites that weren’t so nerfed. Holly should have been better than how she was written. The same with Barbara and Jerome. I needed at least one of them to outshine the bloated cast of extra characters. I needed a main story that popped. I didn’t want or need all the subplots that were crammed into this book. They took from the main and made it so far-fetched that I lost interest and just wanted it over with. “You have to push through to the bitter end. No flinching, no turning away.” I did it, I pushed through. I did not flinch, but I did cringe. Two stars to the worst King book I have ever read.

So...yet another Holly Gibney novel. Yay. Or, whatever. With this, the seventh (and my god, I hope final) appearance of Holly Gibney in a Stephen King story, I can officially say I'm really, truly, sick and tired of this character and her world. Yeah, yeah, I know. Shut up, Mr. Crankypants. She was interesting in MR. MERCEDES. I'll give you that. But each subsequent appearance dimmed my like for her just a little more. And HOLLY seemed to remove anything that was fun about her. I will say, this novel seemed to bring back some of the quirks that had been tamped down, but still, it's not enough to save this book. King's note at the end lets us know this book had a difficult birth, and I can see why. It's got a huge cast of characters, two full, novel-length stories going on at the same time that get coincidentally—but not very neatly—shoehorned together toward the end. King says his wife Tabitha read the first draft and her comment was, "You can do better." She's not wrong, and I stand by her statement with this final draft. He can—and has—done much better. Hell, he's done better with Holly, specifically in the "If It Bleeds" novella. Anyway, overall, this is an overly-complicated story of one man turning into a serial killer and another LGBTQ character stalking someone for...reasons. Along the way, King has commentary on alcoholism, on addiction in the broader sense, on abortion rights, women's rights, religion, the Right and the Left, and the acceptance (or not) of non-cisgendered people... ...as well as those two main storylines. To be honest, I'm shocked this isn't one of King's trademark 900-page, four pound doorstop novels with all that going on, but thank god it's not, because he busts out some arguments too often already (the ex-alcoholic, soon-to-be-serial-killer who keeps ruminating on how he's getting addicted to killing). There's just...too much happening in this book and, unfortunately, very little of it is truly engaging. A solid three-quarters of the way through this story, I remember thinking that this is, at best, one of those books that everyone reads because the author has become the hot topic on Tik Tok for a week, but their next book bombs because everyone that read this one realized it wasn't that good in the first place. It's an average book from an author who never used to write average books, and that saddens me. The new King book used to be an event. It used to be a "first thing in the morning trip to the bookstore, then hide from everyone until the book is read" event. But unfortunately, this one's got all the hallmarks of a 2020s King story...characters "beat feet" and wear "gimme caps" and spout sayings that are at least forty years out of date. They reference things like Roy Rogers and his horse Trigger, and music that was popular in the Sixties. And honestly? I wouldn't care anything about that, if King was setting his books in the Sixties or Seventies...but now? The only people who talk like that? Who use those expressions and callbacks? They're characters in a King novel. The only sections I truly enjoyed in this novel were the Barbara/Sista Bessie scenes, because—likely due to his Rock Bottom Remainders experiences—King brings the music and the stage antics alive. It's the one plotline in the book that I felt like King didn't have to think or plot, but just flow. I wish the rest of the book had that flow. Anyway, here's hoping King's scratched his mystery/Holly itch enough (as well as his fantasy itch) and gives us a story that makes us flinch. Because, like the title, with this one I never flinched, but I did wince on more than one occasion.

Dissappointed This book is a collage of under developed characters and events. It portrays an unrealistic assembly of childlike gangs, it tells of unbelievable government resources and it expects an educated readership to swallow the poorly explained and supported plot. The book demeans the author who, in most cases has written interesting, clever and entertaining stories.

Great story until the author decides to act like a MSNBC host and interject some of their off base opinions on what is going on in this country. Cut out that nonsense and the story was excellent.

Boring and predictable. The author could have left off the first 3/4 of the book, for all it contributed to the plot. Too many characters to keep track of and all of them underdeveloped. I usually enjoy his books, but this one was just painful to get through.

All the makings of a great book - suspense, intrigue, great characters, so enjoyable - then boom….. 12/24/65. Come on, Baldacci! Really?

I love Baldacci books and based on the reviews was excited to read. BUT Not one of his best. I was disappointed and had to force myself to finish and only did because it was Baldacci. Very slow reading, very little plot development and in general, not much going on. Not his usual flair.

Boo! Could you be more cliche. I don’t even know if I can finish

This book is one of Baldacci’s worst books ever written. The plot is quite ridiculous. This way too far fetched to be taken seriously and if you really step back and take a look at the entire plot, it has more holes then Swiss cheese. I was very disappointed because I am a big fan. Every book can’t be a home run, but I would consider this one a strike out.

The Travis Devine character and story line has devolved into a cliche. The first book was excellent, the second was pretty good with a good premise. This book was terrible; just filled with cliches and stereotypes. The character deserves better and so do we as readers. Mr. Baldacci should be embarrassed for putting this out.

Slow The book is wordy. And frankly boring. Pickup near the end. Baldacci is usually is better than this. Maybe next time.

Not up to par for Baldacci. Story line was ridiculous. Characters were soft and lacked credibility. I went right to the last few chapters and did not miss a beat. Sorry David

This was exhausting

I’ve enjoyed all the Amos Decker books. Up till now. This was a mess. Probably the most convoluted, implausible story I have read in a long time. It was like throwing a Scooby-Doo mystery and an x-Files episode into a blender then pouring it out. Why does success (previous books in series) always end up with mediocrity after a few years?

Trainwreck I have read and loved all the memory man books. I can't believe David Baldacci even wrote this. It is a hot mess. Convoluted ridiculous plot which makes no sense. But the worst thing is that Amos Decker has been turned into a cutout character with none of his original personality and appeal. Don't waste your money.

This book is a rambling mess. There are probably supposed to be twists and turns but no... we have people just wandering around doing stupidly ridiculous things, while having info and concerns that are completely unbelieveable. I know by the end, we should care about the three high school friends now united again, but meh. There are storylines (the old tracker) that are never finished or (Caroline's mom) make no sense. People know things in chapter Q that they dont discover until chapter R and the big ending scene really bothered me for the weirdest reason. Liz switches to past tense. I loved you. LOVED, not love, while in conversation regarding said love and why they should be together. A friend commented that it felt like a very young inexperienced write had authored this one and I hate to think that. So many writers are farming out their stuff that it makes me sad.

I think the author was struggling to write this one. His stories are usually on the edge of the believable but this one just jumped all the way over. It doesnt really build mystery and the solutions to the problems at hand are just kind of magically wrapped up.

This is the first Jack Reacher book I have been really disappointed with. Some previous novels were better than others, but this one comes in stone last in my view. First off, there are completely implausible story lines. There have always been some far fetched ideas but for this one there were several I just could not swallow no matter how hard I tried. And plot holes. Reacher manages to open a mobile phone with face recognition using a bad guy's face, but then can only use it until it locks again. Is he so technically challenged that he can't even try and disable or change the face recognition? I know he is supposed to be 'old school' but he was never a complete moron before. Then there are the issues with Reacher's character. Multiple times he just wants to walk away, but decides not to. One of Reacher's best features for me was his inability to walk away from injustice. More than once in this one, after committing, he considers retreat. Reacher? Were previous books written in the Reacher 1st person narrative? I need to re-read some older ones to see if this was always the style, but even it it was it feels strange in this one. Like an imposter is reading his line. Every year I count down the months and days to the next Reacher novel. If this is the standard going forward I may have reached the end of the Reacher line, and that will be as disappointing as anything I have experienced in my reading life before.

Started out fine and then very repetitious and disjointed describing structures, tunnels, etc., over and over which the author(s) seemed to be "filling in the blocks". Made no sense at all and almost did not finish the book. Very boring and dull. I venture to say this is the last of Reacher and the Child bros for me and hope the TV version is better than the past few books were.

I've been a Reacher fan ever since reading KILLING FLOOR several years ago. Since then, I have read all of the Reacher novels but after reading BLUE MOON a couple of years ago, I really felt the series was dead. And when I heard Lee Child was handing off the writing to his brother, Andrew, I pretty much decided not to continue reading these. But then, the new TV series on Amazon came along which I really enjoyed so I decided to read the first book written with Andrew, THE SENTINEL, and I did enjoy that one. But this next one in the series was only so-so at best and at some points was outright boring! How could that be for a Reacher novel? The novel started out good with Reacher meeting a woman named Michaela Fenton on the outskirts of an Arizona border town who appeared to have crashed into a tree in her jeep. But she was actually awaiting some dangerous people who may have information that would lead to her brother who had been missing. Her brother apparently was mixed up with a very nasty group who may be building bombs for terrorists. But is her brother alive or dead? Of course Reacher gets involved in helping her which leads to some dire consequences as usual. But was this a usual Reacher novel? It contained the typical short sentences and descriptions. But these seemed to go on endlessly with Reacher talking in the first person describing endless rooms and buildings...most of which was very hard to follow. Then the plot about the terrorist and what was really happening just seemed overblown and tedious. I would not rate this as the worst in the series (that still belongs to BLUE MOON in my opinion) but it was close to the bottom. Now I'm not sure if I'll bother with the next novel when it is published later this year. I'll be more interested in seeing season two of the TV series!

I hesitated before reading Better Off Dead, the latest Jack Reacher novel, and the second written by Lee Child and his brother Andrew Child (AKA Andrew Grant). I received an ARC of the bo0k courtesy of NetGalley and publisher Delacorte Press. I have thoroughly enjoyed the first 24 novels in the series, so why the hesitation? I truly disliked The Sentinel, the 25th in the series, and the first written in collaboration with his brother. I almost abandoned the book midway, but, out of loyalty to the series, I didn't. The book lacked the tension, energy and pacing of the earlier books. It meandered through the plot. However, as a loyal reader, I wanted to give the collaboration a second chance. In Better Off Dead, Reacher, after stopping to help a young woman who seemingly crashed her Jeep into a tree, finds himself facing the wrong end of a gun. Learning that she had set a trap for men who may have kidnapped her brother, Reacher agrees to help her. This leads Reacher into a complicated plot involving foreign revolutionaries and sympathizers, bombmakers, and a plot to unleash poisonous gas in American cities. Sounds exciting, right? It does, but unfortunately, in this case, it isn't.

The most mediocre of the series so far. I can’t quite tell whether or not Carr is paid by the companies mentioned in these books or if he’s simply friendly with them, but giving brand name and model number for every accessory gets repetitive. A shame. The clear self insert in the chapter that mentions a character “writing a negative review of an Ex Seals novel” was, at best, corny. In general, the book was “fine”. The ending was unfortunately too fast paced and.. somehow eerily similar to the last book, while also being a borderline carbon copy of the ending of the first book/beginning of the second book. Hopefully a second read will change my score…

To say I'm disappointed would be an understatement. I have enjoyed the Terminal List series to this point, but this one book may change what I am reading this time next year. Will TL #7 get a chance? Yes, probably. But I won't be afraid to set it back down and never finish it either. The overall story is a good one. It's pretty typical in this genre where the hero wins, with a certain amount of loss sprinkled in just to keep it from being totally unrealistic. However, the way the story is told (writing style) is where this book fails miserably. If this were Jack's first book, I would send an email and make the suggestion that maybe having an exhaustive list of South African authors isn't necessary to the movement of the plot. Maybe I would make the suggest that the reader doesn't need to know, or particularly care about every feature and catalog descriptor for every firearm listed. You know, unless the character actually uses one of them and it's something special, or experimental. However, all too often, the flow of reading gets bogged down by details that just don't matter. In business, I describe this as the "why?" factor. Why am I doing this? Does this make sense from a monetary return factor? Or am I doing this because I don't know any better and this is how I think everyone else does it? The same holds true with writing. Do I need to copy/paste the Wikipedia listing for South African writers through the years in its entirety? Or can I just put two or three and get my point across without having my reader skip ahead 2 paragraphs. Do I need a 3-4 page description of China's foreign policy without a word of dialog that pertains to the current event of the book? Will they play a factor in the overall outcome of the story? If the answer is no, then leave them out. Just plain disappointing for a book I was looking forward to.

My problem with this book is with a tiny bit more effort, I feel it easily could have gone from a 2/5 to a 4/5 pushing a 5/5. I am debating if this will be my last read in the Terminal List series should another be released. The latest in the series has not lived up to the magic that was book 1. However, if you like the majority of the terminal list books, you will probably also enjoy this one. Before I am too critical, I really like Reece, the Hastings, Liz, and all the characters that Carr has created. I feel Carr is trying to make Reece an "Americana James Bond" and has definitely accomplished that. Warning: spoilers ahead but here are my main complaints with the book. The biggest issue with this book is how the plot line is revealed to the protagonist. (view spoiler) Not only is this a poor way for the protagonist to uncover the plot, but we have to read the same bad guy plotline twice. There could have been a million different ways to sprinkle clues for our protag to slowly reveal the gravity of the situation. Instead, it was handled very poorly. Another complaint is with (view spoiler) This is a bit of a minor complaint, but if you are going to kill off people or a person. Make the reader sympathetic to the person who is killed off. (view spoiler) The book should have ended just a bit sooner imo.(view spoiler) Lists should not be in these books. Carr has done this in pretty much every book so far, but I am going to keep complaining about it. We get lists of like 15 fashion brands, hotels, authors, etc etc. The average reader probably knows what you mean when you say "The character is in a fashion district surrounded by brand-name stores". We do not have to be told a list of brands to emphasize this. And finally, it is probably best to leave politics out of the book. I know Carr likes to mimic real-life and current events, but everything is looked at with a very distinct bias. Not only will this date the books in 5-10 years, but it is an easy way to alienate half your potential readers.

Not his best work I loved this series up until now. Jack Carr incorporates way too much far right conspiracy theory rhetoric into the story that it really detracts away from the tale he is trying to tell. Also, what is with all the high-end brand names being thrown around. Most of which your everyday reader has never heard of and will never be able to afford. Finally, he skips around too much that it is hard to determine what the neck is actually happening, such as how did the rocket actually get blocked from launching? Mr. Carr has the makings of a good series and book, but all the above make it hard to follow

Out of respect for Mr. Carr, I will not go in depth into this review. It’s a far fetched plot, recycled from the lest few novels, predictable, and I do not recommend this one sadly.

Wasn’t expecting much but this book really tried it all. It felt a little ridiculous. Overly technical military jargon, US vs china, one man to stop world war 3 with the help of his AI super computer friend…

When are the bad guys gonna learn? You don’t mess with James Reece and you especially don’t mess with his family and friends. That said, this book met expectations… which were not high. I’m cooling off on my Jack Carr enthusiasm.

In the Acknowledgments for State of Terror, Louise Penny, reminiscing about the writing process with fellow author Hillary Clinton, recalls at times having “literally lost the plot.” Though this comment is an aside expressed with humor, the sentiment describes the novel for me. The bombing episode that opens State of Terror is taut, dramatic, compelling, a page-turner. I cared about the characters and was anxious to know the outcome of the three bombs that had been planted. The book’s beginning is well done, and the authors are fully in control of their tale. Portions of the rest of the novel are a sharp contrast. The authors lose control of the story with multiple characters, multiple motivations, and multiple storylines, all vying for attention. At times, the story lines tend to compete, not integrate. At the book’s conclusion, the tying together of loose ends, a coda of sorts, has a lot to explain with twist reversal after twist reversal as the authors finally sort the bad characters from the good. With all this back and forth, I no longer cared. I found myself saying, “Hey, whatever!” As the book progresses from orderly at the beginning to wandering at the end, it feels like the authors just put something on paper, then punted on the necessary work of editing, consolidating, and focusing their story. I’m just guessing what happened during the writing process, but I do know what impression the book gave me. The novel feels unfinished, a collection of competing ideas, a story beyond the authors’ control. What about the credibility of the plot? Some political thrillers are vividly realistic and believable. Some are so absurd, they are good fun; the authors are enjoying themselves, and the reader willingly goes along for the ride. State of Terror fits neither of these categories. The novel is both wildly unbelievable and serious, a combination that led me to be distracted, even annoyed. You might conclude I didn’t care for State of Terror, but that’s an incomplete judgment. As noted, I appreciated and enjoyed the beginning. Maybe the authors should have quit there before they lost control of the plot and wandered into the absurd. Maybe I should have stopped reading. By continuing, I discovered there’s a good novella here, but not a satisfying novel.

It pains me to say I had to DNF this at the 33% mark because Louise Penny is my favorite author, the one whose books I'd take to a desert island with me. But this reads like the fan fiction for Hillary Clinton that it is. A plucky middle-aged woman is subject to micro and macro aggressions from men who underestimate her intelligence as secretary of state while she tries to clean up the mess caused to national security and ally relationships after four years with a "deranged" president. This could be a fine plot, but it felt to me like it was trying too hard to score political points instead of telling a story. There wasn't a word in the first couple hundred pages that I couldn't have predicted almost verbatim — except for when "madam secretary" asks a general if Israel has nuclear weapons because she genuinely doesn't know. Really? That just makes her seem ignorant and unqualified. The language itself is clumsy, and the multiple asides to praise the sacrifices of our men and women in uniform felt like Clinton is still on the campaign trail. My wife actually gave up after 15 minutes of the audio version because she thought the narrator (Joan Allen) was reading it weirdly — no, it was the way these words were written that they simply can't be read aloud like normal human dialogue.

They didn’t expect the book to be about Biden When Hils and Penny wrote this novel, they never expected the description of America would not be Trump’s, but Biden’s mess. It was almost amusing to read. Penny’s story telling was obvious, as was Hilary’s bitterness. I guess I would be bitter if I lost to Trump, as Trump must feel the same losing to Biden. The tragerdy was America lost the whole thing.

|| 2.0 stars || Well, damn. This was incredibly disappointing... I don’t even really know where to start with this review, because I feel like I have so many complaints. First and foremost, let’s start with one of the book’s most glaring issues: the writing was genuinely bad. It’s as plain and simple as that. This whole thing dragged like crazy and I was just so bored most of the time. Not only that, the writing was also painfully shallow. Nothing and no one had depth: all of the characters were completely one-dimensional and the plot failed to be interesting or engaging in any way. Speaking of the characters, let’s go on with my complaints by talking about our failure of a main character. I don’t know what happened to Violet between this one and the previous book, but I don’t recognize her whatsoever. She used to be the perfect balance of kind and bad-ass with a clever and sharp mind to boot! But now this girl we all knew and loved disappeared completely and instead we got this whiny, insecure idiot without a single rational thought going on inside that annoying brain of hers. I suddenly couldn’t stand her anymore! Same goes for Xaden: he suffered from major character assassination as well. He used to be strong, smart, mysterious, intriguing, and swoony as hell, but that was all gone now. Xaden turned into the most flat character ever, and he had no depth whatsoever. He truly felt like a robot to me, and I lost all interest in him. He is gone for most of the book, and at first I really missed his presence, but after a while, I was just bored every time he came on page, because I knew he would be the same repetitive and annoying character he was during all his other scenes, so I kind of didn’t care anymore if he was gone or not. The fact that both Violet and Xaden turned into insufferable characters is probably a big reason as to why their romance was terrible in this book too. First of all, after the end of the first book I needed to get some groveling from Xaden, but did we get that here? No. Not even for a second. Xaden wasn’t sorry, he wasn’t regretful, he wasn’t trying to earn back Violet’s trust. No. He didn’t do anything. He didn’t even fight for Violet to forgive him. He was just... waiting. Not lifting a single finger to get back the woman he supposedly loves. He was so cocky in knowing that Violet would crawl back to him anyway that he refused to do anything to speed up the process. He just waited. And I guess he was right, because our spine-less heroine did indeed take him back without getting anything in return: no promises, no trust. Just nothing. Which obviously leads to a very unhealthy relationship between them where they don’t trust each other and in which they refuse to communicate. EVER. All they do is be horny and have sex, but they never actually talk anymore. They don’t confide in each other and neither do they let themselves fully open up to the other. Their entire relationship was just shallow, boring and irritating. I no longer liked anything about it. And then we even got some goddamn other woman drama, and my patience just vanished! I hated it. Now, when it comes to the side characters I don’t even know where to begin, because I feel like none of them were written well or with any depth to them. It’s like the author could never seem to focus on more than a few characters at the same time, so whenever she wanted to pay attention to one side character, all the other side characters just fell away. For example: at the beginning of this book we have quite a lot of focus on Imogen, and I was really seeing some amazing progress between her and Violet. I thought I saw the start of a beautiful friendship forming between them. But then, the moment Rhiannon started coming back into the fold (after being ignored in the first part), Imogen completely fell away again and her relationship with Violet never picked up. It’s like the author couldn’t handle Violet having more than one close female friend; she couldn’t focus on both at the same time. And therefore, neither Imogen or Rhiannon ever truly felt like friends to Violet because they were often suddenly ignored in her inner monologue or in the story. They were more like decoration, like tools to further the story along. Thus, none of Violet’s friends ever feel like real characters on their own.. I loved the dragons in the first book; they were my favourite part of the entire book. But now, I couldn’t care less. Tairn used to be this sassy, grumpy dad-type, but now he was just a flat, monotone character with no real personality. Everything he said was repetitive, and his entire character just seemed way too simple and lacking any sort of depth. When it came to Andarna, I genuinely think her entire character was butchered. She used to be this cute and precious little baby, and now she turned into someone annoying, bitchy and arrogant without any meaningful connection to Violet. She was like an entitled teenager, and there’s a reason why nobody likes those. Of course, there were also other characters of whom I was really looking forward to seeing their story develop, but I didn’t get anything remotely satisfying when it came to them. Liam’s sister was only in a few scenes and in most of them she was just flat-out exasperating; everything about her character was anti-climactic. More importantly however, I feel like Dain just got completely ignored during this entire book. He used to be Violet’s best friend for such a long time and after it is revealed he didn’t even really do anything to betray her, Violet doesn’t remotely seem to care?? She doesn’t think about him and she doesn’t give him the time of day... she sort of forgives him but not really?? It was so weakly developed and I honestly expected more. It was, once again, very anti-climactic. Long story short, the only reason I somewhat enjoyed this book, and why I even finished it, is because I still felt a semblance of attachment to the story and these characters after book one, but even that wasn’t enough to keep me engaged for long enough. I couldn’t help but skim near the end of this book, because I was just so bored. I genuinely didn’t care anymore, and this book was just way too long for no reason. All in all, this was one big disappointment to me. 'The Empyrean' series: 1. Fourth Wing - 4.5 stars 2. Iron Flame - 2.0 stars 3. Onyx Storm - 2.5 stars

so this is what they meant when they said "fast fashion books" rushed, lazy, just carbon-copies the blueprint of book 1 in the series... but doesn't work.

glad this is my last book of 2024 because we can only go up from here in 2025

I don’t remember signing up for 600+ pages of miscommunication and gaslighting? 🤠 if you don’t like rants, buckle up. this was easily the biggest disappointment of the year for me. I don’t understand how an author can go from writing a captivating world with a fun magic system, an incredible enemies to lovers dynamic, & well-written, fleshed out characters… to completely dismantling every aspect of that in a single book. I can not stress enough how painful this was to get through. I was tempted several times to dnf and simply pretend it doesn’t exist. the main characters in this were absolutely infuriating. they both became the worst possible versions of themselves and it made their relationship completely insufferable. they went from being one of my favorite book couples, to me not caring whether they even lived to see the end of the book. the entire story was so rushed through that I was getting whiplash. the plot of this one book could’ve been spread across the next three books. she needs to slow down the story, because rushing through the plot devalues everything. throwing in plot twists every other chapter for shock value does not make a book better, especially considering most of these plot twists were clearly not planned out. it just feels exhausting. rebecca yarros needs to seriously reevaluate her long-term plan if she wants to restore the integrity of this series (if possible at this rate). the remaining 3 books need to be properly researched, thoroughly thought out, and most importantly: NOT rushed for the sake of popularity. and it probably wouldn’t hurt to fire whoever her editor is (if said editor exists) two stars for a three star read. yes, i’m knocking an additional star off for this being my most highly anticipated read for the back half of the year, and then it having the absolute audacity to be one of the worst books i’ve ever read.

If you stan this book, look away, because I am going to be blunt in my criticism. I don't care to dance around my feelings. -There is some stuff in this book I enjoyed. I like seeing Xaden being open with his feelings, I like the dragons, and I like all the moments of camaraderie between the characters and their dragons -This book suffers second book syndrome, with far less plot points than the first book, but I think I still liked it more. It wasn't great, but it was original, which I cannot say for Fourth Wing -Fourth Wing was not high fantasy. This book tries to be, but not enough world building and overarching plot details had been set up enough prior to the 60% mark of this book, so when the plot does pick up it is incredibly messing and poorly paced. Essentially, there are too many new characters and plot twists in this book. If you are going to write a 5 book series you need to map it out so you don't lose readers. -On that note, this does not need to be a 5 book series. There isn't enough content for 5 books to be properly paced and engaging. Make it a trilogy. -Violet went from being not like other girls in a quirky way in the first book, to not like other girls in an overpowered way in this book. Rebecca Yarros constantly has characters remarking on how strong and smart she is. It doesn't help that Violet spends this whole book sulking and pushing people away. You can have a powerful and burdened main character who is still interesting to read about. Look at Aelin. But following Violet's inner monologue is a nuisance. -The excessive fighting, secret holding, and jealousy between Violet and Xaden is contrived and unnecessary. Sure, it somewhat pays off with the final twist, but romantic leads don't have to wait until the last book of the series to stop fighting and get together. Again, I'll point to Throne of Glass. Rowan and Aelin get together and don't fight after Heir of Fire. If your writing is strong, you can have strong characters work together and still be overwhelmed by a threat. You don't have to awkwardly force them apart. -Two strong women fighting and slut shaming each other over a man is not an interesting plot point -The writing quality is real bad. I'm talking pacing, diction, grammar, the use of exposition, prose, propose behind story beats, the inconsistent tone... Get this woman an editor. -The fantasy writing is alright, but by god, the politics are all over the place. -I liked that Rebecca Yarros didn't do what some authors (Sarah J Maas) do and write in fan service. There was a lot of hate from fans for Dain and Violet's mom. Rebecca Yarros (view spoiler) However, she did do some serious fan service with the way she wrote Xaden, and it got old fast. Every scene he is in he's dramatically telling Violet how he would die for her. I know everyone talks about how much they loves tropes and phrases like this, but when it's repeated so may times it becomes inauthentic. One final message, since posting my initial review for this book and Fourth Wing, I have received some aggressive direct messages. At the end of the day, I don't care what books you like. I study English, and while writing can be criticized and analyzed, when it comes down to it, art is subjective and taste is personal. If you love this series, that is okay. All I really care about is that as the world falls apart, and people in power show their indifference to other people's struggles, you think critically about who you monetarily support. On that note, if you like this story and dragons, but don't want to support Rebecca Yarros, here are some dragon book recommendations: - The Last Namsara - The Priory of the Orange Tree - Seraphina - Eragon - The Girl Who Fell Beneath the Sea - Six Crimson Cranes - The Shadow of the Gods - Damsel - Damsel (same title, different book) - Song of Silver, Flame Like Night - House of Dragons - So Let Them Burn - The Color of Dragons - Fear the Flames

insert that one Abby Lee Miller clip — boring !! yawning !!! sloppy !!! lazy !!!! not joking when i say at least 200 pages could have been cut, there are typos everywhere (look at the dedication page 😬), and overall, it just doesn’t feel like it was properly edited. also that plot twist??? Dorian did it better (but then again RY is a SJM wannabe so i cant be shocked). probs wont continue the series.

** spoiler alert ** I didn't hate it. But I'd been eagerly awaiting it and was so excited when I finally got it today. I even told my cat as I powered on my Kindle that this is one series that never disappoints. But I was a little disappointed and unsatisfied. I think my issue is more a personal thing than a complaint about the author. I've always read these for the mystery/suspense, and just tolerated the romantic/sexy parts (is skipping them tolerating?) The mystery in this story is solved immediately, which would have been fine if it had been an appetizer to a main mystery for the book. But no, there really wasn't any mystery or suspense. We know the criminal and it didn't feel like anything really interesting happened - like a movie that's just one long chase scene. Probably this novel would have been better as a novella or short story as the point of it just seemed to be exploring some of Roarke's past. I do like the relationships Dallas has with everyone (Roarke but also Peabody, Summerset, her detectives. Though with Mira and Dennis it gets annoying). I think the annoyance factor relates to something another reviewer mentioned - Robb tends to make some characters paragons, if not of perfection, but of competence. Unbelievable degrees of competence. Roarke is accomplished at everything at all times. Mira is practically a mind reader. Some things just stuck out and irritated like a hang nail. Like the times when characters made the same observations in the same words and it's favorably remarked upon by another character. Having the same conclusions from the same facts is believable but it's just weird they're using the exact same phrases. Usually I don't notice those little irritations. I enjoy the characters and I like that it's set in the future with futuristic stuff while not emphasizing it to the extent of being sci-fi like. But without the mystery and suspense, everything else fell flat for me. I'm still looking forward to the next book though. Hopefully the move away from mystery/suspense isn't going to be a permanent move.

Series: In Death, #51 Romantic Suspense / Futuristic / Murder Mystery This time Lt. Eve Dallas has to investigate and catch someone from her husband's dangerous past. Someone from the shadows who want to target anyone who matters to Roarke... I've read lots of In Death books; some really enjoyable and gripping, some just meh and boring. This story has no real mystery to solve as it is revealed early on who the culprit is, so the book is mostly Eve, Roarke & Co trying to catch him. Have to say that this time Eve got on my nerves. She's in a stressful situation I get it, but her rudeness and reactions were often offputting. I'm sorry but displaced aggression is big NO for me! Also all that swearing (I don't remember Eve and Roarke swearing so much in earlier books!). Flaws make characters interesting but not all kind of flaws are cute! This story should have been full of danger and I should be anxiously waiting what happen next because Roarke and Eve are targeted by someone who had killed more than 400 people...instead it felt kinda lame and flat... Too much repetition. Too much minute detail (detailed description what someone wears, hairstyles, or that the protagonist take a shower and dry, etc start to sound like a filler after a while). Very little action, the characters felt flat, not much development. Please show, don't just tell. Not bad story but it was just okay.

2.5⭐️ If you love Atlas individually or Lily and Atlas as a couple, this is the book for you, you’d love this. However, I don’t feel like a sequel was necessary. The ending in It Ends with Us was perfect! It left us to imagine our own ending for Lily and it was realistic! This book was strictly written for Booktok. This doesn’t happen in real life. Women don’t always have a Prince Charming waiting for them after they escape an abusive relationship. This is why these idiots on TikTok are romanticizing this shit, thinking this is some kind of love triangle. Ryle is clearly still ill and it shows in this book?? CAN WE TALK ABOUT THE FUCKING GASLIGHTING HE TRIED TO DO TO LILY? ”You won’t leave her with me overnight, but you’ll drop her off somewhere else when you want to get fucked? Great parenting, Lily.” “You disappoint me Lily.” “ I was happier before I met you.” HOW DARE PEOPLE DEFEND THIS FUCKER? BECAUSE OF HIS TRAUMA? HE KILLED HIS BROTHER AND HAS BEEN BLAMING HIS ANGER ON THAT SHIT EVER SINCE. HE THREW HER DOWN THE STAIRS. HE SLAPPED HER FOR LAUGHING. HE BIT HER. THEN PATCHED HER UP LIKE A CABBAGE PATCH DOLL. OMG. DID NO ONE NOT FIND IT DISTURBING THAT THIS MAN WAS A SURGEON? AFTER HE HURT HER, SHE DIDN’T EVEN HAVE TO GO TO THE HOSPITAL, HE IS THE HOSPITAL. THAT IS SO SCARY. FUCK YOU RYLE AND FUCK WHOEVER IS OBSESSED WITH YOUR TOXIC ASS. So clearly, When I read It Ends with Us, I didn’t care about the romance or Atlas as an individual. Atlas is very likable, but it wasn’t about that for me. I was more invested in Lily’s healing process and her story, I still felt that way going into this book. I truly just wanted to read this to see if Ryle would end up in fucking prison. I wanted to see if he was still wreaking havoc. Maybe I thought in this book, Ryle would acknowledge he’s a fucking monster and he’d watch Lily flourish happily from the sidelines. I couldn’t wait for the moment Lily stood up to him, that’s all I was looking forward to. I was only emotional for those parts specifically, I really don’t care about Atlas and Lily y’all. Theo making fun of Atlas was funny, I actually loved that because THE KEEP SWIMMING LINE WAS CORNY AS SHIT I DON’T CARE “We finally reached the beach, my little whale.” LMFAOOOO I wasn’t fond of the diary entries to Ellen in the first book and I especially didn’t like them here. It was cute when she was younger, but we’re grown folks now Lily. Ellen is not reading that shit, cut it out. Anyway, this was mid. Lily was too damn kind. Call me bitter, but if it were me, I’d leave Ryle to rot in hell and not let that man anywhere near my child. ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ My review before reading this: Few more days, it ends with us isnt my fav by her, but I’m pretty excited to read this!

2.5 stars Well this was useless. It Starts With Us in a nutshell: 15% of this book is a retelling of the first one through Lily's creepy letters to Ellen. Literally reused, word for word scenes. Was Colleen tryna reach a word count or smth? 35% is the vandalisation/(view spoiler) subplot which I desperately wished was Ryle's doing💀 imagine grown ass Ryle writing "ass whole" and "fuck u Atlass" as petty revenge. Because y'all know he is a wife beater with a sense of humour... Ryle after another day of abusing and manipulating: You disappoint me Lily. This is the opening line his drunk ass choose to text after having lily in a chokehold💀 why is he so extra My biggest highlight of the whole read is TJ saying this😭 Also Ryle three paragraphs later: have fun fucking the homeless guy. Can y'all believe it took them THIS long to send that man to therapy? Anyway, the tiny bit of 5% is Ryle being Ryle.....clearly🡹💀 and the other 45% is Lily and Atlas's dry ass hehe romance. The first book was good for what it was. A story about domestic violence and abusive relationships. Ryle was the spine, without his character there would be nothing except another boring coho romance. Which is essentially what this book was. I will admit, I thought the (view spoiler) plotline was interesting, but it wasn't nearly enough to keep my attention until the end. It Ends With Us had a purpose, a meaning, a story to tell. This didn't.

I miss the person I was when I hadn't read this yet

it’s 2022 why are we still writing letters to ellen degeneres

This really was a fanservice, huh? Reading the few lines of the acknowledgement, booktokers must be gushing over this. Congratulations on this new power you hold over authors, booktok. Pat yourselves on the back booktokers you did it! You are now creating books. Anyways, this was everything i feared from the moment i read that "rough draft" and the blurb. Every romance has a conflict. Here the only conflict was Ryle. (Who was more entertaining than the actual romance). And that was what i gathered from all pre-published talks of the book. And fangirls people had the audacity to tell me to "calm down it's not written yet" "you don't even know if that is written in the book".....what do you all have to say about it now, huh??????? . . What's the purpose of this "romance"? The relationship progression? What's the point of development when they are already in love from the beginning. Wanna know what i think after reading this? (ik you don't) i don't believe Lily and Atlas would even be in a relationship if they didn't had a history. If they met as strangers now, i still do not think they would be together. . . The fact that Lily needed therapy and not even a single person suggested it -even in passing- is beyond me. The fact that it took them this long to suggest Ryle "anger management classes" like they weren't sure if that was necessary??? I'm not even going to touch the topic of her not reporting/suing Ryle. Idfc. All i gathered is that they ended because of the child and she would only report because of the child. (And i don't wanna comment on that except that High five to me for swearing off children forever!) I was contented with the ending of IEWU and this sequel made me irritated. . . Ah! Atlas, i didn't get the appeal from IEWU of this man like the way people were all over him. Because all we knew about him was from the time he was a teenager. And bits of him as an adult. And I'm supposed to love him already? Puh-lease. I liked him just fine here. Atleast more than Lily. Though it feels like his character was written in a way that comes off as being too hard to be perfect. He was so perfect that he even felt spineless at times. . . Do we have to talk about Lily still writing to Ellen? I feel like sane people are already aware where the problem lies. . . Anyway, I'm extremely glad sad to say that this is where CoHo and i part ways. . . TL;DR: IEWU was better off as a standalone. ISWU is nothing but a fanservice. This book isn't just adored by Booktok. It is created by booktok. Because of booktok. Thus, it is meant for booktok. Bland and mediocre at best. The only reason I'm giving it 2 stars is because of Theo and Josh –(two new teen characters) Ciao!

2 ‘generous’ stars “It is my wish for you to be my fish.” If a guy said this to me on my wedding day, I’d be running in the opposite direction. Atlas Corrigan is the definition of a guy who does the bare minimum for you but expects to be your world just because he would drive five miles to give you a hug, says corny things, and takes relationship advice from a 12-year-old. Remind me again why Bookstagram thinks he’s the best book boyfriend. Here’s an unpopular opinion about this book—Marshall and Allyssa are the only good thing in it. Period.

If only the girl who read IEWU 6 years ago knew that there would be more Lily & Atlas content to come after reading the line "You can stop swimming now, Lily. We finally reached the shore." 🥹 What I liked: I'm just so happy that Lily & Atlas are finally happy TOGETHER. It's something that they deserved so much and I'm glad that I got to witness even a sliver of their lives together. What bothered me: #1: It's an HEA epilogue novel with the HEA at the very end This book needed to start with them moving in together and continue from there. I didn't need Ryle in every other chapter. I thought we would get one big mushy gooey HEA novel filled with boring life moments. My wish was that ISWU had "Some Kind of Perfect" by KBR vibes... You know what I mean, right? No plot, just boring life moments made beautiful by two characters we know and love. Lily & Atlas moving in together, cooking together, vacationing together, planning a wedding, their honeymoon, Emerson's first steps/words, Lily and Atlas raising Emerson together. Sure, Ryle could have been sprinkled in there every once in a while, but here's the thing: If CoHo took the opportunity to write Lily & Atlas' extended HEA, then why start right where the other book picked up? Just skip a year or two and then give us glimpses of their lives for I dunno, the next 5-10 years? Isn't that what we wanted? (Maybe that's just what I wanted) #2: The scum of the Earth, Ryle It is very rare that I would ever say "no" to an epilogue novel. I am always here to learn more about the lives that my fave fictional characters are living, so that I can live vicariously through them. But I don't think that ISWU delivered on the "much lighter experience" that CoHo promised in the Author's Note at the start of the book. I completely understand why Ryle was in the book (the shit stain is Emerson's father, so he can't just disappear) but making him appear as MUCH and as OFTEN as he did in this book, along with the fact that he was still emotionally and physically abusive towards Lily bothered me. It is not an issue in and of itself, because I fully acknowledge that this man is still present in their lives & he will always be the piece of shit that he is, but why did CoHo have to have him in every second chapter of what was supposed to be the HEA epilogue novel that delivers a "much lighter experience" than IEWU? Continued abuse, to me, doesn't feel very light. #3: Lily's constant reminders that she has a "good support system" Does Lily have a good support system, or is CoHo just too far down the rabbit hole to give her one? Why are Lily's only real friends her abuser's sister and her abuser's best friend? Why couldn't she have gained maybe 1 more genuine friend by the end of this book? Lily definitely has a better support system than her mother had (which is to say: none), but something will always bother me about Allysa and Marshall. #4: The name Rylee Okay, this may be just me but if I found out that I named my child after an abuser, I would run so fast to get the necessary papers to change it, you'd think I was the Flash. (That baby is 1 year old, she just barely knows her name, they still have time) #5: The writing CoHo's writing has always been super easy to get into. So easy that you can pick up and finish one of her books in a day. This book, however, felt... like not a very good fanfic. Atlas got me blushing and tearing up once or twice, but even his big romantic speech at the end felt like it was missing something. Update: Sorry, I had to bring down my rating to 2.5⭐️, just because the more I think about it, the more useless this book feels to me.... 👀 ________________ Original review: SCREAMING, CRYING, THROWING UP 😭 Am I in the right mental state to revisit IEWU but in Atlas' POV? Nope, but I'll eat this book up regardless.

I had a dream: I’d have closed the book, faced the computer and told the world I'd made a mistake. Something like “I'm sorry for having judged a book by its author, I had few expectations but now I see what you all see”. But… this was actually pretty embarrassing. It amuses me that the author has written this book especially for her fans so it's natural that she wants them to have a perfect experience, but: if you have just read It Ends With Us like me - I read it a couple of months ago -, then this book is half made of things we already knew and it's actually boring to keep reading the same stuff over and over; on the other hand, if you have read It Ends With Us years ago, you wouldn't understand a single thing because there are too less information about the previous book. At this point I just think that we’re not a tough audience, it’s her who’s a bad writer. I loved It Ends With Us. It had a meaning. It had a purpose. It had a future to look for. It Starts With Us is a good example of why sometimes books don't need a sequel. It makes me infuriated because all the expectations I had over Lily and Atlas were just wiped out. After all, some middle scholar wanted a stupid sequel. In my mind I can't even understand how these two could be the same Lily and Atlas from the previous book: every time they talk to each other I hope they would talk about something that's not how much they love and saved each other but, apparently, they don't have any other subject. The author tried so badly to make them look like a couple of teenagers falling in love, diminishing at the same time what they've gone through before. And don't make me even start with Ryle. What exactly was Lily thinking? An abuser will always be an abuser, it doesn't make any sense that at the end of the first book she's all relaxed about sharing a daughter with him and now, all of a sudden, he's forced into our imagination as the big villain of the story, as he was always been. It Ends With Us was more complex, and this is why it became so popular: CoHo never said “Ryle is the bad guy, Atlas is the good one, now enjoy”. And this is also not the story of how to survive an abuser, since Lily still hasn’t reported him. How can you sleep well at night thinking one day you'll have to leave your daughter with him, knowing what he has done to you? Also, sorry to break your dreams, but the whole one-day-we’ll-all-gonna-be-friends promise is a utopia. I wouldn't be surprised if, instead, Ryle would take his daughter to South America and Lily will never see him again. And you know how I know that? Because I live in the real world, the scary world in which the news is full of stories like this one, and not in a fucking fairy tale. I would love to keep talking about the letters, the poorly written sex scenes, and the lack of characters that were always there once and none to be found now, but I have better things to do. I'm not a hater, I still want to read other books by CoHo, but I’d also like authors to stop caring about everything their fans say. The reason we like stories is that they come from the mind of someone we don't usually know. We trust the process until the book is in our hands and then we can judge that, and perhaps the author can also explain why he/she chose to do this instead of that. But it's their idea. It lives inside of them until they're ready to put it on paper. It's like a child: the moment they’re out in the world you're full of joy and pride for what they became. And it's because of you. So how can you be proud of something you haven't come up with? How can you be happy when in fact you're an impostor? ↠ 2 stars

Unfortunately I did not hate this book.

Another disappointment. There's a new narrator who does an excellent job & an interesting plot, but it's just ridiculous. Lettie, the youngest & least experienced agent is given control of an operation & far more experienced agents in a ridiculous series of gun fights & detective work that would make even a Hollywood thriller writer groan. Sandford has had a great run. Over 30 novels in a series that regularly got 3 & 4 stars from me, but he's apparently run the series out & hasn't quit while ahead. That's a shame. I see he has another book in the Prey series out with another planned after that. I'm not sure if I'll bother to read them.

Love John Sanford and this new series starring Letty Davenport is promising with a strong female protagonist. However, while the plot started off with a great premise, it began to drag half way through. Due to dry and boring details - and very little action- the pacing slowed, and so did this reader’s interest. With tighter editing and deleting extraneous details, the momentum could have better propelled the storyline along. Thanks to NetGalley for a digitalmARC in exchange for an honest and unbiased review.

Not Liking this series I much prefer the Virgil Flowers and Lucas Davenport series. As a character Letty is too intense and and almost like a psychopath. Don't think I will read anymore of this series. I've read a the other J. Sanford books and enjoyed them.

I hate it when you look forward to a book and then it disappoints. I literally lost count of how many times I rolled my eyes

Okay, I’m sorry, but big yikes! 😬 Was the ghostwriter a 5th grader? I loved reading about Rose’s rise to fame, but damn. This book was WEAK. It almost seemed like the authors didn’t want to write over a certain number of pages, so they just crammed everything into the last 5%. I don’t know, man. I was entertained but like I said… 5th grade writing. The book’s opening sucked me in, while the ending just plain sucked.

** spoiler alert ** I want to preface this with the fact that I love Dolly Parton and most media that she puts out -- I love her energy, what she stands for, and the things she chooses to do with her fame. That being said, this book suffers from "too much" syndrome. Or "James Patterson" syndrome. There is so much set up constantly throughout the novel, such as Rose being sex trafficked, abused, neglected, and homeless. While on the run from a group of people she was being trafficked by, she finds herself in Nashville and instantly starts up a new career as a Country singer and immediately makes it big. She meets these wonderful people, she goes on this journey... and then the climax of the book happens, and quite literally nothing is resolved. Let me count the ways this disappointed me. 1.) Nothing ever happens to the people who literally sold Rose. Nothing. She's saved by Ethan and then that's the end. 2.) Patterson made it a point to have one of Rose's younger sisters climb into his car to tell him where to find Rose. These younger sisters are facing the same problems that Rose herself faced--abuse, physical and mental, along with neglect from a violent father. You know what happens to them? Nothing. They are never mentioned again. (Meanwhile, Ruthanna has a mansion worthy of fitting an entire orphanage, mind you.) 3.) Nothing with Ruthanna and Jack. No development. Just a glimpse at these two people who could have been an amazing side cast. 4.) Similarly, nothing came out of the people who helped Rose record her music. Just nothing. They are never mentioned. I understand she was always supposed to be a solo singer, but leaving out the people who you spent hours making a rapport with seems incredibly shitty to me. Especially when Rose needed these kinds of friends, these kind of friendships! 5.) How old is Ethan?????? What war did he fight in??? Rose is 25. Is he like 50? Was this a fake war? He clearly wasn't in the reserves. 6.) Nobody grows. Everyone is left essentially the same as they started. There was almost no point in reading the book at all! I get that this is supposed to have me suspending my disbelief, that this is a 1-in-an-infinity chance, but WHAT? Someone achieves superstar status in the matter of a year or two and you're telling me everyone is the same exact as they started? But now Ethan and Rose have each other, so that's supposed to wrap it all up? lol. Incredibly lazy, not even sequel worth, because I never got the chance to care about anybody! 7.) The climax of the book is where it all goes downhill. Gotta wrap it up in America's Greatest Writer's Bow! Slap it on the stacks! Who cares about quality anymore, right? Just gotta pump out another bestseller. Well, congrats, James Patt, you made it, but you're a real pain in the ass for everyone else. 8.) I'm mad at James Patterson for ruining one of the things I was most excited about this year. I wanted so much to love this. I can read corny, campy shit, but not something without a semblance of effort. Find it in yourself to do better, JP.

** spoiler alert ** The GOOD: Dolly Parton released and album with all the songs included in the book. The lyrics can be found at the end of the book. Dolly Parton contributed some of her personal experience in the industry in the book. Listening to her was the best part of the audiobook 🎧. Reese Witherspoon’s production company bought the options to make the movie out do the book. Knowing what she’s done for Liane Moriarity, the movie will be MUCH BETTER THAN THE BOOK, especially with Dolly starring as her own character, Ruthann Ryder. 2.5 🌟 Rounded Down THE BAD: 1. Essentially it’s the basics of a screenplay. Lots of closed captioned writing for useless information that detracts from the pace of the novel and the plot itself. 2. It’s about 200 pages too long. The action doesn’t begin until 3/4 way in (WHY?!?!?!??) and listening to the fist 8 hours is torturous. I take that back. The fist chapter is action and then there’s no real action until the end. 3. The plot is 💯 predictable like a Lifetime/Hallmark movie. There’s not enough chemistry between the characters. The backstories of AnnieLee and Ethan are given so late in the book. You don’t care enough about them and I can understand why people would give up on this book altogether. 4. AnnieLee is a strong, fierce, fearless firecracker and then all of a sudden she’s not. Her IDOL, Ruthanna, takes care of her and then she leaves her. Not once, not twice but multiple times. Nobody is that stupid in the business. 5. The crap with the sleazy manager/promoter had its place but to expect the reader to believe that he sent people after AnnieLee is laughable. She didn’t sign with him. 6. Portaying everyone in NY as rude is like saying everyone in Nashville is a dumb country hick. Both are UNTRUE. It is unnecessary. 7. The writing is basic. It’s impossible to believe Patterson wrote it himself. It’s my personal opinion that his collaborators flesh out a story and an underling is given the outline and basic writing fills in the blanks. It’s disappointing because this could have been such an action packed, story rooting for AnnieLee as her star rises to succeed in music, fall in love and create solid friendships. It’s more like a scene by scene breakdown 🤷🏻‍♀️. 8. SPOILER ALERT (even tho you clicked on this to read it knowingly): The book is called Run, ROSE, Run … why is it shocking that AnnieLee is Rose? It’s obvious to the most casual observer … you gave it away in the title. 9. There’s a lot plot point repetition to keep the book going. Believe it or not, I recommend the book. Read it, don’t listen to it. Time will pass much faster and you can listen to the album along the way. Not expecting much from the book will lead to enjoying this book so much more than I did. 2.5 stars ⭐️ rounded down. The movie will be fun to watch!

Forgive me Dolly, for I have sinned*. *disliked Run Rose Run. This was my first James Patterson novel ever and I absolutely hated it. Predictable, formulaic, and 200 pages too long. As a librarian, though, I do see the merit in books like Patterson's — his short chapters and entertaining storylines akin to Lifetime television capture readers and I can't diss that. The Dolly Parton feature was admittedly *chef's kiss*, too.

The problem with this book is that Myron and team never get close to solving the mystery. It’s like author hit the word count and then just ended it dramatically but then had to mansplain the killers story for us.

Although this will be Book 12 in the series, it’s the first Myron Bolitar book for me. Having read Coben’s standalone stories and really enjoyed them, I thought this would appeal. Unfortunately it was not to my taste. I will definitely be in the minority here, as I know what a huge following this series has, but to me it seemed extremely repetitive, with the same explanations given over and over. When the plot was moving along it was well written and I did enjoy the humour, though not the sarcasm, and I especially liked Win, but that didn’t carry the story, and I found it a bit of a slog at times. I think a tighter edit is needed to get rid of all the filler. Back to the standalones for me! Thank you NetGalley and Random House.

Did you ever go to a party where you know all of the guests, all of your favorite foods and drinks are served, but yet you still leave unsatisfied? I was looking forward to reading Think Twice because it was Harlan Coben's first book in his Myron Bolitar series in two years. I opened up to its first chapter and there was Myron with his best friend/business partner, Win who I was happy to read once again. The story'sset-up where a persumed dead client of Myron and Win's, Greg Norman, isn't only discovered alive, but connected to a double homicide guarantees Coben's trademark of page turning plot twists and turns will be at the end of each chapter. Later, my dissapointment started just about halfway through the book started when the pop culture banter between Myron and Win became stale and tired to read. The references about Yvonne Craig who played "Batgirl" in the 60's has been ongoing in the series needs to be put to rest, because now its nothing more then filler material. Most off putting to me was Coben's sudden shift to a darker tone in its last few chapters. Coben proved he is capable of writing darker and edgier thrillers in his previous books such as "Fool Me Once" or "The Woods," but here it comes off as if he took two different types of Thrillers then slapped them together into one book. I'm not sorry that I read Think Twice, because I enjoyed catching up with Myron, Win, and the rest of their crew. I just hope that our next get together will be more fun and less of disappointment.

Myron Bolitar and Win Lockwood are back for the 12th book in the Myron Bolitar series. Steven Weber narrates the audiobook. I have doubts Harlan Coben actually wrote this. Hopefully the new series is better than this drawn out, far-fetched read. The ending was so disappointing and un-Winlike. 2/5

Interesting premise, but the writing was very uneven and repetitive. Even Coben seemed to get bored with the story by the end, providing a "condensed summary" to wrap things up. Far from being his best work, it felt like he may have had someone else write it for him. Ultimately disappointing…and the most interesting aspect of the story was left untold.

Yikes. I did not like this one and I really wanted to. I have always put Jack Reacher up there along side Travis Mcgee (one of my favorite series), a selfless champion to victims of fraud, theft and worse. Travis was never brass or arrogant. That’s how Jack Reacher started out in his earlier books. Not so much anymore. The opening chapter of this book has nothing to do with the plot. The first chapter only sets up the character Jack Reacher. This is gratuitous violence where it didn’t need to be. And…and Reacher kept the money from the bad guy that belonged to the victims he was helping. In this book Jack Reacher is brusque and arrogant—cocksure. Granted there is a fine line between arrogant and confident and in this book, Jack reaches far across that line. I liked him better as a reluctant hero.

This is the first Reacher that I gave up on. Two books ago was bad... the last book Blue Moon, got right back on track. But this one feels wrong. Reacher’s dialog felt unnatural, stilted and way over the top. It did not sound like Reacher, but like someone pretending to be him. There was a flippant quality that came across more inciting than Reacher’s former cold calculating calm style of speaking. It felt like a thin transparent copy of the character I’ve enjoyed for so long. I’ll give the next one a go, but I hope this isn’t indicative of the transition to Reacher’s new handler.

I have thoroughly enjoyed all previous Reacher books and I even liked the movies. I didnt understand what people didnt like about the last two books - I thought they were great. But today is a sad day for Jack Reacher fans. With the franchise being taken over by Andrew Child, this new book reads more like bad fan fiction than an actual Reacher novel. When Kyle Mills took over Vince Flynn's Mitch Rapp series, the transition was flawless. Andrew should call up Kyle Mills and ask how not to turn a character into a cardboard cutout of himself. As many have mentioned, we get a much more chatty Reacher which would be OK, but the writing....is...just...awful. On page 33 we get: “Three against one. Not the kind of odds to worry Reacher. But Reacher was not their target. That was clear.” and on the VERY next page we get: “It was four against one, now. Maybe five or six against one if they had a mobile backup. Not the kind of odds to bother Reacher. But Reacher was not their target.” Ya we get it already...sheesh. Plenty more examples to choose from but I couldnt stand it and DNF at 25% because I was too irritated to continue. Theres plenty of other action series out there, so I will be moving on. RIP Jack Reacher.

In Andrew Child's hands Jack Reacher has become annoyingly sarcastic, condescending and jerk-like, and comes soaked in a bloodlust unknown during his original creators tenure. The lifeless prose I prayed would awaken turned out to be stillborn- with tedious mansplaining filling up at least half the book's length in place of, you know......plot. Ugh... Blurg... Dang it!!! I used to get a big ol' satisfied smile on my face at the end of most Reacher novels. Sadly, it seems those days have passed. Time to pour out a little liquor, yo. Guess we all gotta go someday...... 2 Sad Sack Stars

I’m not against change, but this is not the real Jack Reacher. This is is a chatty guy in a story who just happens to be named Jack Reacher.

The phenomenally popular Reacher series has undergone a soft reboot as Lee Child starts to handover the baton to younger brother Andrew. It's fair to say that the series just like the character has felt tired for sometime, there's quite a telling quote during the authors Q&A at the back of the book that states there will always be Reacher books all the time readers want more - I have found myself getting the latest releases mainly out of habit and nostalgia for the brilliant earlier entries that I loved reading in my 20's. It's clear that Jack has been reinvigorated and has now become a more chatty provocative drifter though still displaying the same characteristics of wanting to help the little guy out. There's a 16 year age gap between Lee and Andrew and that certainly showed in how the series star now seems to act. There's even an attempt to modernise both Jack and the series, his been handed a mobile phone and the latest foil concerns a cyber attack in a small town just outside Nashville. I wonder if most of the plot ideas were infact Andrew's input and the use of present day politics are going to influence his plans for the series from this point on. It's going to be intresting to see how the long term fans are going to take to thes5 tweaks. The transition over the next couple of books are going to be interesting.

This was the most disappointing book that I have read all year. I have always enjoyed the Jack Reacher series but this one will be the last that I read. Lee Child is handing the series over to his brother and he will continue to write the books. This book was about a man who the whole town turned against. He was the IT person and was dealing with ransonware on the town’s computers. There were Russians and Nazis in the book.

I swear, the only thing Lee Child actually contributed to this book was the use of his character Jack Reacher. Other than that it seems to me that it was written by his son. Now the writing, in and of itself, is not bad. It's the plot that didn't get my heart racing and keep me up at night. I never feared for Reacher because he was always bad ass in every scene with the bad guys. In short, this book is not like the previous Jack Reacher books I had read and loved. It's a travesty. Oh, and dialogue was clunky often. Like someone, usually Reacher, would be in conversion, usually with a bad guy, and one would go off on a long monologue where the other person I guess just stood there and waited for their turn to talk like they were performing a stage drama. So fake. In real life the other person would cut in and say something, especially when Reacher was insulting them. I gave it two stars because I actually read the whole thing. I only give one star ratings to books I give up on part way through (and I wish that were the case with this book, that I had given up on it and not wasted my time reading the rest). If you are a die hard Reacher fan then just pretend this book does not exist. Do not waste your time! Oh, and if you check the day I started to read and the day I finished you'll find quite a gap. This book was so blah that I actually put it aside and read another book and finished that book before going back to this one! There had never been a Reacher book before that I felt like putting down to read something else. Ever. Until now. God help us all.

As a devote Reacher fan, I suppose I had to read the latest Reacher book. This is the first joint effort between Lee Child and his brother and it is quite clear that the style is fairly different, with Reacher being quite chatty here! To be honest, I did not really like the last 2 Reacher books, it was quite obvious that the author was getting a bit tired/bored/whatever of them and to be honest, they were quite bad. This final book, started off quite good actually and for a moment , about 1/3 of the way through, I thought that this is it - we are back to the good-old Reacher books that gripped the interest from the first page to the very end. Well, I couldn't be more wrong; about half-way through the book, I lost all interest in the story, the ending was..meh.. with no twists or interesting developments..just plain boring. I don't know if I will bother to continue reading if any new Reacher books get published in the future on the basis of this one...

I've always enjoyed Lee Child's books, even the less memorable titles. This isn't good. At all. It has flashes of his style here and there, but it's obviously not him writing it. Characters are poorly fleshed out and lack any other motivation than to hand Reacher information and opportunities and are otherwise just... there... hanging around while Reacher travels from location to location ticking off a list of Reacher tropes and talking. A lot. Which is odd. And annoying. It reads like a half decent fan fiction, I guess, so fingers crossed the next one clicks for Andrew.

2.3/5 I enter this into the 'thriller' category of my GR bookshelf with great hesitation, because honestly, this one was boring. This is only my third Reacher novel (After Killing Floor which was decent, and Gone Tomorrow which was excellent) and it is by far the worst one. First of all, the plot was clearly ripped from sensationalist headlines and Facebook comments. Russian interference in the electoral system of America, white supremacists, all that ridiculous shit. Two years after publication and this book has already dated itself rather poorly. On top of that, this book is one big scavenger hunt for a boring computer database with two boring sidekicks and a Jack Reacher who seems to have emerged from a cheesier pizza than usual here, spouting all these silly macho lines like he's just come off a Batman or Clint Eastwood binge. From what I've gathered from the movies and the admittedly few Reacher novels I've read, these stories around the titular character have and always will be ridiculously contrived, convoluted, and silly. But there are ways of making those kinds of stories work. Child has already proven that with me at least twice now with the aforementioned installments, and his wide fanbase sure seems to think so, too. I found his previous work in the series ridiculous but entertaining. Hell, they're ridiculously entertaining. But this... this was bad. I'm not sure how much Andrew Child actually wrote in this thing, but I feel like he shouldn't shoulder all the blame for this stinker. The Sentinel is an uninteresting journey to find a macguffin with no character development or stakes that feel genuinely threatening. All the villains in this are stupid and uninteresting. This is the kind of nonsense I can't force myself to enjoy. The writing was like normal Child dialed to 11, with too many staccato sentences. It was the literary equivalent of a Michael Bay film, where everything is done like it's some big, exciting moment. Staccato sentences are generally effective (and most often used) for fight scenes, faster-paced sequences--not the whole novel. It gets tedious then, and that's what The Sentinel is, unfortunately. Tedious.

God, it was such a waste of time. The book spent so much time on unnecessary details. Just give me the good content. It should have had more scenes of Anna's pregnancy journey and how they dealed with it.

Too much unnecessary details + cringey writing = me forgetting why I ever loved Christan and Ana so much :/

This was just as terribly written as you’d imagine but the OCD in me 1. Needed to read the 6th book and 2. Couldn’t DNF even though it was 755 PAGES. I feel like there’s definitely a drinking game in here with how many times Christian refers to things as “yar,” and how many times he feels “ten feet tall” (with ten written out, plz). I think EL James wrote a woman’s perspective on this romance/relationship in a much more thoughtful, intimate (and sexy!) way. Christian’s POV leaves a lot to be desired. Unless we’re talking about Jamie Dornan and in that case all of the desire. All of it.

Meh. Really long (that’s what she said) and just meh. I slogged through it, but it lacked any real substance or new insights from his perspective.

I expected a lot from this, and I struggled. It was a slow start, which usually doesn't seem to draw me in, and the political jargon lost me pretty quickly after that. I read a lot of legal thrillers so was able to follow most of the Supreme Court scenes, but by then I was pretty sure I had no idea what was going on! As this was the audiobook, I would like to try the ebook as I think the quality of the audio also affected my experience.

I admire Stacey Abrams beyond words and have been looking forward to reading this, but i only got to Ch 4 (in part 2 of 13) and can't make myself continue. I'm not sure why, but it seemed as if too much confusion and complications. I definitely didn't like the narration style, way too overdone and annoying IMO. Surprised at so many positive reviews; obviously, I'm missing something. Overdrive@ normal speed, then moved up to 1.25.

“Knowing the law isn’t about the school. It’s about the mind. The heart. About understanding what the law intends as much as reading beneath what it says. Knowing how to find one’s way to the truth.” (p. 10) Wow I love Stacey but this is my second book by her and we just do not click. I probably should have known based on the lack of reviews from certain people whose opinion I normally seek out but I initially brushed it off as them maybe not being into thrillers (or romance as the previous book by her I read). But the writing was truly not great here. The dialogue is theatrical and stiff. It's told from third person which when written well isn't an issue but here it just emphasizes how one dimensional the four central characters are and makes them feel distant. But don't worry each of those four characters has a very useful skill (another lawyer, a doctor, ex military dude and Avery with the excellent memory) which defines their role in the book, there's zero personality to any of them. We don't even get a backstory on how Avery and Ling met and became roommates which could have been a fun story to showcase their personality. This book made me understand the term "commercial fiction", it's meant to be endlessly entertaining and unbothered by nuance. There were so many painful sentences. It's particularly clear that Abrams is trying to come off as somewhat nonpartisan, or at least as someone who doesn't want to make this book only about Democrats. One wince-inducing sentence features another law clerk described as a "brunette with a piquant face and the soul of an archconservative" who extends Avery a brief moment of kindness. *Insert massive eye roll* This nonpartisan blandness is most apparent in Avery herself. It's interesting because in a NYT profile Abrams says "Avery's Blackness is evident" I would respectfully disagree. We spend far more time hearing about Avery's "naturally corkscrew hair" and "green eyes" (she's biracial spoiler alert and her eyes are remarked upon by almost EVERY character) than we do her relationship to her Blackness or how she navigates the world of SCOTUS as a Black female law clerk. She went to Spelman but somehow there's very little time spent on that or having her interact with the Spelhouse world. What was the point of even including that detail?? And of course there's no Black friend or living parent, I don't even think she encountered another Black person in the novel besides the security guard. It was truly bizarre and I know it's unfair but I didn't expect Stacey to write such a stereotypically light skinned and bland main character. Avery felt like a serious concession to white readers especially with Abrams' choice to have her mother be the living parent, a white woman who struggles with opiod addiction. Furthermore Avery is in her twenties in the 200s (we can assume because smartphones and Internet) but has an ANSWERING MACHINE?! Honestly that's when I should have closed the book but I was determined to carry on. We also did not need the chaste burgeoning romance, the male love interest was too humdrum to be interesting or sexy. There's also no chemistry between the two so it's a wholly unconvincing romance which is surprising given Abrams' romance writer background. Similarly there's some cringe-worthy moments where characters go out of their way to shame or sneer at sex workers which was really disappointing. The book isn't about sex work but they also don't move the narrative along and those details and rude comments could have been left out instead of revealing a weird mindset (and if it was just one character I wouldn't say it's the authors but the fact that SEVERAL characters feel the need to say something...makes me wonder). WHILE JUSTICE SLEEPS is an intense, high stakes (a surprising amount of violence combined with democracy being at risk) legal thriller but suffers from loquacious writing and underdeveloped characters, most notably with the main character Avery. Abrams' intelligence is on display in the plot, it's complex and juggling many many threads that allow her to show off her knowledge of bioethics, chess, espionage, medicine, international politics (somewhat), technology and of course the Supreme Court (I loved her author's note about how each of her genius siblings fact checked certain parts of the book based on their expertise). It's absolutely a page turner, I wanted to know how it ended but it took me forever to finish because it was overly long (there are some bizarrely short chapters and lots of unnecessary and meaningless chatter that feels like filler) and the writing frustrated me. At this point I could potentially be persuaded to read another Selena Montgomery book to give it another chance but I'm done with Stacey Abrams thrillers. This was entirely too long and wordy for me to enjoy trying to unravel the complicated plot. And as much as I wanted to root for the brilliant young Black woman at the heart of the novel she's so boring that I didn't care anything about her.

John Grisham’s latest novel released this past week and, like always, rocketed to the top of the NYT bestseller’s list. Unlike most of his novels, Sooley is not a legal thriller but a sports novel focusing on a fictional South Sudanese basketball player. Grisham has made these forays into sports before—Calico Joe (baseball), Playing for Pizza (football), and Bleachers (football)—but they were smaller, shorter endeavors at around 50,000 words. Sooley is a full-length novel birthed out of the COVID-19 pandemic and the cancellation of 2020 March Madness. Grisham, an avid sports fan, decided to fill the time spent not watching sports toward writing this sports story. To add in an interesting second storyline, Grisham chose to have the titular Sooley—Samuel Sooleyman—come from the war-torn country of South Sudan, home to basketball greats Manute Bol and Luol Deng. The premise is a promising one, because Grisham is able to tell two contrasting stories. The first story, after Sooley’s work ethic leads to a position on the national team and a college scholarship, combines a fish-out-of-water story with an immigration story with an escaped-the-hood story wrapped out the Cinderella story of a March Madness to remember. The second story is about Sooley’s family in South Sudan. Shortly after Sooley leaves, raiders burn his hometown, killing his father and kidnapping his sister. His mother and brothers escape, eventually making their way to a refugee camp. It’s an interesting study in contrasts that highlights two vastly different lives. A question I kept asking myself as I read this novel was “Do serious, nuanced themes require serious, nuanced storytelling?" Sooley, for all its thematic elements dealing with the Sudanese refugee crisis, doesn’t really deal with it in any substantive way. He has this deep and tragic storyline and its never used to its full potential or talked about with depth. My reluctant answer is “No, not always.” If Grisham did so, his books wouldn’t be at the top of the NYT list. They wouldn’t be “easy reading.” And in that, many would have even less awareness of the refugee crisis in South Sudan than the little Grisham gives them. Think deeply enough about Sooley and you’ll uncover a plot that reveals the elitism of American society. Sooley has value to America as an entertainer. And not even a particularly good one. He’s a third-string guard for a small-time university. But because he has the potential to entertain, all roadblocks to his immigration and citizenship are cleared. Meanwhile, there are thousands of refugees—Sooley’s brothers and mother included—who have no value to the United States because they cannot play basketball. It’s a poignant contrast, but one that Grisham fails to draw out. The first three-quarters of the novel progress in standard sports book/movie fashion. Sooley is not a good basketball player, but he’s got height (you can’t teach that) and he’s got a great work ethic (which makes him teachable at everything else). He makes the most of the opportunities he’s given and it leads to an improbable run through their conference and into March Madness. Unfortunately, Grisham gives us very little in the way of how this happens. Sooley, for all the weightiness and trauma behind his story, seems not to feel any of it. He plays a mediocre season then, suddenly and magically, he begins to hit threes (which Grisham repeatedly and annoyingly calls “bombs”) at a rate that would be unbelievable if Steph Curry wasn’t a real person. It’s all just a bit much and Grisham doesn’t do the work of convincing the reader to suspend disbelief. Nonetheless, I was willing to call this an average, rah-rah sports novel—one that will sell well, then you’ll see hundreds of copies in your used book stores in a few months—until the last quarter when Sooley took an incredible twist. Perhaps it was because Grisham realized he’s virtually abandoned the B-plot in South Sudan. Perhaps it was because he’d overwritten his typical sports novella length and, not wishing to edit, deciding to add a shocking twist to push the novel to full-length. Whatever the case, it’s not a good decision. What happens from the end of the March Madness run through the end makes absolutely no sense given the story that Sooley had set up so far. Then, just so as to not end on such a cynical note (which would have been preferable), he crams in a final subplot about Sooley’s mother and brothers so absurd it makes the rest of the book seem believable. Grisham, you lost me at about 70,000 words in, which, with some editing, could have come in at the same size as your other sports novels. You had a simple, straightforward story that hid some deeper themes within it. Pushing the novel to full-length through a series of absurd twists took a perfectly serviceable but mediocre sports novel and turned it into an irredeemable mess.

Terrible ending, ruined the whole book for me

Never so disappointed in a book. I would’ve given this book 5 stars. It was such a great story about a refugee from Sudan turned basketball star. Until the last part then it took a stupid turn and I can no longer recommend this great book turned stupid.

Mr. Grisham, please stick to legal novels. There were too many things wrong with this book: the ending (last 50 pages or so) was terrible, the writing in the beginning read too much like a YA book for my tastes, and the feel good aspect read like a Disney movie. The book has a good message: with hard work, practice, and perseverance a person can become a skilled athlete if they hone their raw talent. Samuel Sooleyman is fast; he never gives up on a play; he can jump higher than anyone else on the court. But he can't shoot and his ball-handling skills are poor - both of which are key components for a basketball player. He reminded me of Rudy getting to the courts before the gym opened to improve and he's receptive to constructive criticism about how to get better. But the idea of a young man making such huge improvements in less than a year to carry his team the way he did was hard to believe. Added to that are all these behind the back passes and a scoring spree that eclipsed Reggie Miller had me in disbelief.

The early days of the pandemic were a wild time for many. A time which led to reflection for some and anarchy for others. A time of great uncertainty and a call for “action” for many. A great many decided to get in touch with activities or hobbies, which they have largely abandoned as they have aged. John Grisham, an author most known for his thrilling court room dramas, decided to indulge his nostalgia by crafting this book, heavily focused on the sport of basketball, which he loved briefly in his youth. Grisham, a man of immense wealth, estimated at upwards of $400 million has the resources and means to write whatever he so chooses. That is the beauty of having ‘fuck you money.’ While I appreciate Grisham’s willingness to expand his repertoire and to tickle his childhood fancy, this effort was not a great showing of his literary efforts. On a personal level, I have ample respect for the man as he is very active and generous in providing legal aid to many indigent persons and causes. I recall seeing the verve and quiet intensity he demonstrated while being interviewed on C-SPAN – clearly the pandemic was not so wild for all of us. The main focus of the story is Samuel Sooleyman, a hidden gem found in the hinterlands of the South Sudan, a newly minted country that is basketball mad. Just a couple of days ago this country picked up their first win in Olympic competition and prior to that, gave the U.S Olympic team all they could handle in a narrow defeat. As someone who loves basketball and has had an odd compulsion to scout a hidden gem since at least the mid-90s after watching the mediocre Kevin Bacon film, “The Air Up There”, this was definitely in my wheelhouse. Through much luck and determination, Sooleyman is able to secure a spot on the youth national team, which will give him a potential shot at further opportunities. The national team through some generous donations is able to cobble enough money to go on a barnstorming trip to the United States. While there, the team plays with a ferocity, not to mention skill level which surprises many of their opponents. Though the team has hardly enough funds to acquire the requisite uniforms and footwear, they are still able to highlight their abilities. They even get a thrill of a lifetime meeting their national hero, Niollo (clearly based on Luol Deng). In yet another stroke of luck, despite being tethered on the bench, Samuel has an advocate with connections to college coaches. One of these coaches is Lonnie Britt the coach of the HBCU, North Carolina Central, who is known for his acute eye to spot untapped potential. Despite some trepidation on using a scholarship on such an unknown, Samuel is soon transported from rural South Sudan into suburban North Carolina. While here, he befriends another freshman, Murray Walker. Murray and his family led by his mother Ida and father Ernie function as a second family to Samuel, inviting him into their home and providing meals and love. The Walkers, especially Ida who is a well-regarded attorney filled with vigor, are the surrogate family that Samuel so desperately needs. As Samuel starts getting acclimated to his new environs, another metamorphosis occurs. Through an intense workout schedule and a growth spurt, which sees him sprout 6 or so inches Samuel has gone from a scrawny point guard to a well-built small forward. More suspect and a lot less realistically, he has transformed from at best a spotty shooter to a Steph Curry-level marksmen. Desperate for bodies after a rash of injuries, the less than astute coach Britt is compelled to finally play Samuel. Will Samuel be able to replicate what he has shown in practice to primetime? Well, if he could not, this book would have ended much sooner (not necessarily a bad thing). Samuel puts on a show for the ages electrifying the school as he bombs shot after shot and almost single-handedly saves the season for the Eagles. I thought Grisham did a wonderful job in displaying the balancing act that Samuel most navigate. However, the actual basketball action is filled with redundancies (how many times must he write “29-foot shot?”). Instead of ratcheting up the suspense, this part dragged on forever. This was my chief complaint, if you are writing a book focused on basketball, it is important to be able to capture the ebbs and flows of the game, something that Grisham failed at. Would “Sooleymania” go from a campus-wide phenomenon to a national craze? Would North Carolina Central prove to be a Cinderella and capture the nation’s heart? “March Madness,” the one thing the NCAA has not found a way to screw up, is an annual event that is as meritocratic as possible. An event in which a small school can “upset” a larger school. While I thought that Grisham did a fair to middling job capturing the hysteria of this event, he did an awful job with describing the seeding process. He also stated various inaccuracies, such as a #1 seed never being upset by a #16 seed, which ironically occurred to one of the coaches, Tony Bennett, who got an acknowledgement at the end of the book. He also had Florida, a school from a major conference (SEC) as a #16 seed, which due to a number of reasons would never happen. The number of inaccuracies left me annoyed and wondering why a man with that much wealth would not hire a fact-checker or do a cursory google search? On a brighter note, for the book not the characters were how Grisham dealt with tragedy. I thought he was at his best when describing the fear and angst which Samuel felt when dealing with events in his homeland. The powerlessness was heart-rending and while Grisham does not know ball, he certainly knows how to extract emotions from perilous situations. His knowledge of the legal system was on display towards the end and almost made up for the weak penultimate event, which soured much of the book. While I appreciated the breadth of this work, it is crystal clear that when dealing with things he has vast knowledge, such as the law and aide for refugees, John Grisham is a talented writer. Unfortunately, this book is basketball focused and this is not territory in which Grisham shines. Repetitive sequences, which felt like poor film montages hindered much of the middle and instead of creating suspense weighed down the succeeding pages. The number of inaccurate statements that are easily verifiable and that were unnecessary annoyed my anal-retentive sports mind. Even though there was good here, a hundred or so pages could have easily been sheared off to form a more cohesive and tightly wound work. As a basketball book it did not deliver and is only 2 stars.

too predictable I used to love the Women’s Murder Club books. Now they’ve become repetitive and predictable. I keep reading hoping this might be the one that brings the ladies together again without just little snip-it’s of their separate interactions. This will be my last one. The spark is gone. Such a disappointment.

I don’t know what it was about this book but I just could ‘get into’ it. I started it not long after finishing a truly epic read and had high hopes that I’d love this story. But what I found was it just felt flat and lacklustre. The characters a came across as quite one dimensional and I struggled to connect with them or feel anything towards them. I’m aware that this is a part of a series but equally I should’ve been made to feel like I was part of ‘the gang’. Instead I was left utterly confused as to why this group of women ‘the murder club’ felt it was totally okay to talk shop with one another - because they are friends. Also the character ‘blackout’ came across as a bit of a spoof. I couldn’t take him seriously and the way he delivered his actions was too staged and overly dramatic. I adore police procedural novels but I thought this book blurred the lines far too much between reality and fiction. For me, the most engaging parts were the trial sequences but sadly they ended and blackout remained. It would appear I’m in the minority for this book when it comes to low scores. I hope that it a reflection of my tastes rather than the book as I have enjoyed others by this author Thanks as ever to NetGalley for my advance copy in exchange for my honest review.

It was okay, but I wonder why I keep reading this series. I don’t much care for Lindsay and her gal pals. It’s too gory to be called “light reading.”

** spoiler alert ** the last book (so far) of the women's murder club series! i liked how they actually for once provided motive but otherwise this book just floated in mundane territory. Its been at least 10 books since Jill was killed off and i was expecting this to be Cindy's last hoorah, but nope. 23 murder books with a ratio of roughly only 3/23 books ending dark is wearing a bit thin, if i want an 'they all lived happily ever after' i'd read a romcom.

I think that this is the first James Patterson novel I’ve read and I have to say that it came as a bit of a surprise. Clearly there are millions of Patterson fans out there - this is #23 of this series - but I’m not really one of them. For me the characters were flat and their voices all sounded the same. Similarly the flip from hard-nosed cop/lawyer, etc to talk of bffs was similarly unconvincing and a bit irritating. Although it is a police procedural with a pretty impressive body count, I just didn’t feel any real sense of danger for the protagonists and it all felt extremely unlikely. This sadly didn’t really work for me at all. With thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an arc of this novel in exchange for an honest review.

** spoiler alert ** This book was a mess. Barbara Sullivan’s bruises wouldn’t still be healing when she went to trial. Cindy “didn’t order room service” but had the driver leave it on the door. If it were better edited I might have found her abduction more gripping. Like other titles - Richie is NBd didn’t know she was missing for 12 hours. So weird. But yet I always read them.

First, Patterson has been the Walmart version of an author for a while. I think we all know that when he brings in an additional writer, he’s not writing. At best he is contributing to an outline, and I’m not sure he is even reading the final product. This is his publishing company trying to stretch out their gravy train. So whatever with that. What really pisses me off is that Patterson doesn’t give a shit that his once good name as an author is going down the toilet. The Alex Cross series was at least his. So now he doesn’t even have that. I’d have more respect if he just retired the character and quit ‘writing’ all together. Let’s face it, the Alex Cross books have been declining for a while. What happened to the psychological thriller? Politics is in my face every day, I don’t want to read that crap. Now for this book. Why are we calling it an Alex Cross book? It’s absolutely NOT. So we don’t have Patterson and we don’t have Cross. Yet I’m supposed to be excited about this?? I was along for the ride, but if you think about it too much it really doesn’t make sense. A lot of suspending reality here. Too many things to point out honestly. Why are we trying to kill a comatose Alex? Bree shooting the ‘nurse’ was very satisfying though. The well-funded bad guys have their target in a cabin, but they toss in a flash-bang? Why??

disappointing So far we’ve had a women’s murder club that obsessed on gun control And now a cross book strictly focused on insurrections and takeovers of the White House by conservative patriots. I really wish he would go back to serial killers and fbi profiling. This is getting extremely boring. Stop with the political hit pieces and go back to old school Alex cross and Women’s Murder club

I think I’m officially bored of the series . Also isn’t Nana Mana about 116 years old by now ;-))

Several co-authored Patterson series are getting thin, but the latest Cross 31 should be the last. Alex Cross is a minor character. The plot is filled with unmotivated jumps for actions sake. The final build is poorly developed and fails to prolong interest. I finished the thing only to see how pathetic the final scene would be, in this 31 didn’t fail. Pathetic

Book Review Cross Down by James Patterson and Brendan DuBois ✅James Sampson features prominently making this a “Sampson “ series spin off and NOT an Alex Cross book ✅ Cover says thriller but feels more like political spy mystery, police procedural - think James Bourne, Reacher, Clive Cussler ✅ I am curious to know who wrote what - 2 authors…how was the writing divided ✅ Very fast paced, short chapters, tons of side characters (most end up dead), high body count ✅ An ok read- but mostly because I love The Alex Cross and John Sampson characters - the plot itself felt overdone- I have read this book 1000x under a different title by another author, nothing new or fresh here Overall Meh, disappointing, predictable Thanks to @grandcentralpub for my copy in return for an honest review. Opinions expressed are my own

What is potentially a great story is completely ruined by a second author. You can literally see what Patterson wrote and what the other author did. I'm also not entirely sold on having the story from Sampson's POV, just doesn't feel right.

Prefacing this with: my apologies in advance for being a giant Debby Downer, but I am beyond frustrated with this trilogy so it's rant o'clock. I do not understand how I am now 2 books into this trilogy and still nothing of note has happened. The first book thoroughly bored me the entire way through. I mean, it SHOULD be something I love. Romantasy, with an animal companion, and not-horror ghosts. That is most everything I love in one book. But I was LITERALLY falling asleep all the way through book 1 (and I mean genuinely. I am not the sort of person that can fall asleep on a whim--that book may as well have been a sleeping pill though). That said, at the end of book 1, something finally happened and it ended on a huge cliffhanger and I was like alright, maybe books 2 and 3 will be where all the action are. Unfortunately, I was incredibly incorrect. I feel like this book served no purpose. Nothing of note happened. Nothing was resolved. It was just more of the same bland storyline from book 1, and then left you waiting for book 3. It was almost 500 pages. How are there no answers or any new interesting plotpoints for 450+ pages??? At this point, I have lost whatever care I had left, so I guess whatever the conclusion is in book 3, I'll never know. 🤦🏼‍♀️ Thank you so much to St. Martin's Press and NetGalley for the ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Very little plot progress occurs. I am not exaggerating when I say that the overwhelming majority of the book is dedicated to the main characters cooking and eating dinner together, along with a bizarrely specific audit of each time the dogs or cat were let outside to poop. If you were to somehow remove all of the scenes or sentences that were solely devoted to people eating or animals pooping, the book would be 1/4 as long.

The second installment of "The Lost Bride Trilogy" by Nora Roberts clocks in at 400+ pages. For that amount, I'd thought we be a little further along. Instead, it was filled with a lot of daily life activities, like eating, the protagonist worrying about a haircut (which turns out fabulous), the pets, their jobs, etc. There is a lot of movement in this novel but it's mostly from one room to another and into the "beyond" as that dang mirror keeps popping up at advantageous spots--almost comically. I think the main problem I have is the characters sort of blend together after a while. They all talk in a sort of stilted dialogue. Yes, they all have different backgrounds but when they speak it's basically the same (although Cleo manages to get in an astronomical number of "Sons" when she talks). I don't get a true sense of character. That and the fact that, other than Hester Dobbs and the mirror thing, their life is pretty perfect. Entire families getting along, everyone agreeable, even the townsfolk, their jobs. And the new pet who fits right in. Seems sort of too good to be true, but maybe I'm just jaded. After my first read, the reaction was "meh". Still an okay cotton-candy book, but just okay. Roberts has written a ton of things that drew me in, just not this trilogy. Fingers crossed for the last installment.

so sad but this ends at a 2.5 ⭐️ spoiler free part of the review this was... disappointing, to say the least. I thoroughly enjoyed Henry's ADHD representation and thought that was done well. Halle was a people-pleaser and had an eldest-daughter curse so she said yes to everyone and everything and didn't know how to say no or put herself first. By the end, I loved seeing her yell and argue and stand up for herself. ➳Their relationship was cute. They were both there to support each other and they had really sweet moments. Was it worth the length of this book? No. ➳Side characters are there but everyone seems to be in distress. Nate is away, Stassie is stressing; Aurora is weird and Russ is a teddybear; Kris, Robbie, Bobbie and whoeevr the fuck else exist and I still don't even know who they are three books later (Robbie is in a wheelchair? I never knew this?) The biggest downfall was how BORING this was. Oh my god. I was seventy percent through and the book should have finished then. I want you to be mindful of this: the book starts at the beginning of a fall semester. AND WE NEED TO GET THROUGH TO MARCH for Halle's character arc to be complete. When I read Icebreaker (5/5 stars for me), I didn't notice and/or mind how long it was. Wildfire was a bit of a slog, and I noticed it was unnecesarily long. But this one? Holy moly. SO unnecessarily long. And i love long books! I've read a 700-page fantasy in one day. But please. It took me a week to read this and this was the one release this year I was so looking forward to, and I couldn't get rid of it fast enough. I dreaded the fact that I had to pick this up and read it because I was so bored. This part is going to be me ranting, since I'm very disappointed by this book. Spoilers ahead, so beware Since I really did love Icebreaker and even Wildfire, I was so esctatic to get this. But I think my tolerance for the way this author writes has worn thin, between the choppy sentences or weird paragraphs that have no place or rhyme or reason to be there. I kept thinking to myself as I was reading, "This paragraph could have been deleted and nothing would have changed" or "This could have been the leading chapter paragraph and we wouldn't have missed anything." Because why are you trying to waste my time with these unnecessary, dragging details? There are so many redundant conversations between EVERYBODY. ➳Russ and Henry—him essentially telling him over and over again that he doesn't need to stress about being a good captain, etc. There's at least forty pages covered on this. ➳Henry and Halle—I love good communication. not when they are communciating the same point over and over again and getting nowhere. I feel like they went in circles. I don't like labels? You don't either? Cool! You need space? I'll give you space, but I'll be sad about it. Pout pout. Like get a grip. ➳Halle couldn't stand up for herself to save her fucking life. Like seriously grow a spine. Going into this, you think it's going to be a jock x tutor dynamic and while that is true, it's not the way you think it will be. They essentially befriend each other first, then just spend all of their time together, and then they decide to help each other out. And henry is great—he has a care kit for girls, let's not forget!!—but I wish there was more tension. I felt no butterflies. No fuzzies. Nothing. Because they seamlessly just... fit. Halle lives in her grandmother's house. Yes, you heard that right. Homegirl has a whole ass house to herself that her mother pays for. Unrealistic for a twenty year old, but okay. On the topic of unrealistic things, I truly do not believe Halle had time to do half of the things she always said she had to, nevertheless all of them. And adding onto more unrealistic things, Henry asks his friends (Russ, aurora, etc) to literally help Halle through her laundry list of never ending people-pleasing tasks by grocery shopping for her or buying christmas presents for her relatives. I dont care how good of a friend group you say you have—aint nobody doing all that. Another trope is the virgin trope. Our heroine, Halle, is a virgin. I will reiterate since I think it's important that I do so that I LOVED ICEBREAKER AND WILDFIRE!!!—I thought their spice level was pretty good. The spice in this book is nearly nonexistent. It's also a slow burn, since halle is a virgin. Obviously. And it wasn't even good. Like... Henry. I thought you had more game than this babygirl. I was lowkey embarrassed for the both of them LMAO. And of course, we have Halle's ex boyfriend, Will, who keeps coming back like a fucking cold sore you can't get rid of. Halle literally goes to his house in the middle of the book because her younger sister ends up there, and barely tells Henry. Like girl what? There's also this other subplot for Halle submitting a writing prompt for... whatever reason, hence why she needs Henry's help with getting "experience" to write something good. This is the backdrop for the whole book—her trying to get material for her own book (which the premise sucks, by the way, more secondhand embarrassment)—and by the end, it doesn't even get chosen. So all of that for what? Literally everyone dropped their entire lives to help her finish this and it didn't even get picked. Girl don't quit your day job!!! keep daydreaming!!! Now listen. There were good parts. Halle found a group of girl friends which is hard as a girl in your 20s when you're introverted and had your entire life grown around a man. Her and henry's relationship really was sweet, even if emotionally codependent. But it was just so long, so boring, at parts icky and cringey. To say i'm not disappointed by this would be a lie. And it's a 2.5, which is not a horrible rating, but I was really expecting something spectacular. And sure, that can be on me, but when I rated both other books 4 stars and higher, excuse me for having expectations. It's possible I've outgrown this juvenile, college-life style of books. Maybe I don't care about twenty-year old's problems when they're this stupid. The writing is not the best (you don't "have a shower" you "take a shower") and I might just prefer something with a little more... intellect. My initial review, "This is going to be so good I just know it," could not be more wrong, but I digress. -- thank you atria for the arc!!! -- THIS IS GOING TO BE SO GOOD I JUST KNOW IT

manas has unlocked a new level of brain rot.

This book is how I know my frontal lobe is fully developed because oh my god Rebecca I’m not explaining myself

I think this book was supposed to be about a young woman triumphing over childhood trauma that resulted in her being a parentified, anxious adult but it’s actually about a woman whose only personality trait is that she loathes herself. She can’t communicate for shit, she only grows as a person when other people are forcing her to, and nothing is ever her idea. We are products of our environments, and her environment sucked, so I’m not necessarily blaming her, but that doesn’t mean I was happy to read 400 pages of her not believing anyone when they tell her they don’t hate her. The guy is marginally better - he was raised by lesbians so he’s like, an Ultra Feminist or something - but there is no evidence that Halle experienced any evolution independent of Henry’s guidance and friend group, so what’s the point? There’s a cute cat, I guess.

i can’t believe i’m saying this…but i did not like this y’all 😭. icebreaker and wildfire were both 5⭐️ reads for me and i was SO PUMPED for this one. but in the nicest way, this was just so long, so boring and had no substance to both the romantic and general plot lines. the previous two books in this series were so atmospheric. all i wanted to do was live in those worlds. henry is a character who i LOVED, and i just felt like he was a completely unrecognisable character in his own story. i also feel like these two main characters were just too similar, too plain. their was no ying and yang, push and pull. they didn’t challenge each other or balance each other out. i didn’t believe them or root for them as a couple they just had no chemistry for me. i genuinely couldn’t tell you how many plot lines were introduced and not developed. i’m so devastated, because this was not like the hannah grace that i know and love 💔. the only redeeming qualities for this was honestly seeing russ and rory doing ratatouille couples costumes. it was the best thing that’s happened to 2024 🤪🙌🏼. 2.5⭐️ 2🌶️. im so sad. enjoy my happy reading thoughts while i had them: - tropes: college, sports, friends to lovers, fake dates to help write your book - not the dedication already attacking me - this better not be FULL of taylor swift references istg 🙄 - cami bisexual queen i love her already - the cookies 🍪 - omg heck yes fake dates to help write your book i love it here - “you’re not allowed to fall in love with me” my beloved - all these little things she’s doing to help with his overstimulation is make me emo 🥹 - the duck 🦆 i’m YELLING - russ and aurora’s halloween costumes are the best thing to happen to 2024 😭😭😭😭 - it only took half the book but THIS is the hannah grace i know omg henry i love you 🥹💜 - OMG THE RECORDING WHAT 😱🔥🔥🔥🔥 THIS MAN - in the most polite way…this is so boring yall 😭 - like nothing is happening - “i want to make my relationship with my dad worse. and read the books on my TBR” AURORA ICON BEHAVIOUR I LOVE HER SO MUCH - the amount of cringe im getting is not cute

you might be thinking, “wow. two stars. harsh.” let me tell you: this book was 100 pages too long and DESPERATELY needed a better editor. by page 300 there was no longer a plot and I couldn’t wait for it to be over. i loved Henry. i liked Halle. i related to both on a deep level but this dragged on for far too long. it felt like Hannah was trying way too hard to write herself into the characters and didn’t leave them room to be themselves, especially Henry.

‧₊˚🖇️”This might be my favorite romance book, but we’re my favorite love story.” ⋆.ೃ࿔*:･ -ˏˋ2.75 ☆ˊˎ- I was a bit conflicted with the rating on this one, and I have changed the rating three times as I was writing this review. It started as a 3, and just declined from there. Let me start by saying that I was really enjoying this in the beginning, but then nothing really happened and I started to get into a slump over picking this up. It was starting to get more and more annoying and I was struggling to finish. With that said, welcome to my rant. ╰┈➤Halle was one of the best parts. Being the eldest daughter I truly related so much to her on so many levels, I felt seen. But that was the extent of it. ╰┈➤Henry fell flat for me if I’m honest. I always thought he was overhyped in Icebreaker and for good reason I think. I didn’t really feel anything toward him, just boredom for most of the book. ╰┈➤Them as a couple did nothing for me. I thought they were cute at the start but they had no real chemistry in my opinion. I felt nothing toward them and there was nothing that made me want to root or cheer for them. I think they were better friends than lovers. And thinking back on it, Henry had better chemistry with the cat. ╰┈➤Now can we please talk about the ’side characters’? And are they really that ‘sided’? I had the exact same problem with Icebreaker. There were so many that most of the time I was asking myself “who is this and why do we care?”. And the answer is we don’t! In the beginning I thought Robbie and Bobby were the same person, for crying out loud. Because there is no depth to these characters, they all read the same and were too zero dimensional if I’m honest. And then, as if there weren’t enough already, out of nowhere the author introduces Emilia, Poppy and some Kris dude (yes, I had to go search the names on my kindle) that once again added nothing. I think the only characters worth mentioning were Russ, Aurora, Cami and Joy. Literally everyone else could be written off and the book would be so much better for it. There were also some moments where I thought the friendships felt forced and inorganic. ╰┈➤The writing was good enough, simple but pleasant. You can see the author has really improved since her first novel, I think the main problem is the structure. Sometimes it was confusing, because a conversation was happening between two characters and a third got involved out of nowhere when we weren’t even aware they were in the room. Or conversations would happen and it made little sense, so much so that I had to go back and reread some scenes. I think for the author the scene makes sense because they are visualizing it, but for the reader it can be confusing. ╰┈➤In terms of plot there isn’t much to add, because it was almost nonexistent. It truly felt like nothing was happening for most of the book, especially as we neared the end. It felt like the author was just inventing excuses to not finish the book at one point, and adding stuff that didn’t add anything substantial to the story. I mean the book is nearly 450 pages long and for what!? The story could’ve been told in 200 or less. -ˋˏ✄┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈ I feel like i deserve some kind of award for finishing this, because it feels like I’ve been reading this forever and the last 25% was a pain to get through. I thought about dnf’ing it a couple times because I was dreading picking it up and the ending wasn’t even worth it. In the last 4 chapters I threw my kindle twice against the bed, don’t worry she’s fine! because we get two whole scenes with the main characters, because apparently the side characters were again more important. i was pulling my hair out at that point. Overall, I think this could’ve been shortened and more main character focused, or less side character focused, i guess. I’d still recommend it because I think I’m in the minority here, and if you’re looking for a cute mindless read this might be for you even though it wasn’t for me.

Reading this book was such an exhausting experience. This was my first book by Abby Jimenez and it put me off to the point that am no longer sure if I want to read any of her other books. ✔️ Online meet cute ✔️ Insta lovey ✔️ Found family This was one of the most bland and emotionless writing I have read in a while. There were no feelings to it, I surely did not feel a single thing reading it. The plot execution was so messy and had no direction. The romance was very mid. The two characters start off okay but then their personalities clash. The chemistry is meh. They do have some cute moments but I could not feel a single thing for them. Justin and Emma have issues of their own but Justin deals with things a tad more maturely compared to Emma. Sure, I feel bad for Emma but the way her story and character was written is just so damn boring. Justin's siblings were more cute and I would rather read about them than this tiresome book. I skimmed it towards the end and have no regrets. I realize that it's probably just me who didn't like it but please go in with low expectations. Also, what is the purpose of marketing it as a standalone if we have to read her other books first in order to start liking it?! ~•~•~ Found family? Forced proximity? Summer fling? Online meet cute? SO EXCITEDDD to start with it!!! ^_^

2/5 Unfortunately, a bit of a letdown for me. I couldn’t connect to the main characters, the romance felt like a side character and had no depth, and the plot felt all over the place at times and wasn't as interesting as I thought it would be. While reading it, I felt literally nothing, as if someone had taken away all my emotions. I don't like to admit it because I don't like doing it in books, but the number of pages I skipped because I was so bored is pretty embarrassing. Our main characters had their first kiss and I was close to falling asleep. Also, is it possible to feel overwhelmed by the amount of things happening in a book to the point that you forget that it is even a romance? Because that's exactly how I felt for most of the story. I recently read a short novella by Abby Jimenez The Worst Wingman Ever and I felt exactly the same, as if the romance was a side plot and the problems and difficulties of the main characters the main. Don't get me wrong, I even liked how the author handled them here, but for the romance book it was supposed to be, the romance was actually my least favorite thing here. *Thank you to NetGalley for the advance copy in exchange for an honest review!*

★ 2.85 stars 𝅄 𓂃 𖥻 “The best kind of love doesn’t happen on moonlit walks and romantic vacations. It happens in between the folds of everyday life. It’s not grand gestures that show how you feel, it’s all the little secret things you do to make her life better that you never tell her about.” 𑇛 ˚ this is not a book i completely hated, but it’s not a book i loved either. see, i can definitely see why others enjoyed it more than i did because i truthfully don’t think it is a terrible and badly written book. it really isn’t. the thing is that, overall, it just... didn’t quite hit the mark for me. one of the main things that held me back from truly enjoying this story was the lack of chemistry between the protagonists. i really struggled to get invested in Justin & Emma’s relationship — which is obviously a big problem, because how can you enjoy a book labeled as romance if you don’t think the main characters have a palpable chemistry? there’s just no way. they did have a few nice moments here and there; but in general, their relationship felt forced and majorly bland to me. i can’t say that i was interested to see their relationship progressing and that i deeply rooted for them to be together. i expected way more. i also expected more from them as individuals. they weren’t necessarily like those characters that are super unlikeable and impossible to care about [thankfully!] but they weren’t special or remarkable enough in my opinion. in my opinion, their personalities needed to be more fleshed out as i don’t think the author made a lot of effort to flesh them out in a more significant way. as for the plot itself... let’s just say it was boring for the most part. i honestly do not have a lot to say about it because i wasn’t immersed enough to care that much about what was happening and i have to confess that i zoned out a couple times while listening to the audio. oops. it did have a few interesting (well, sort of) things in the middle of it all and the author touched in relevant topics such as parental trauma, child neglect, attachment issues, mental health issues and healing — so it was not a total lost cause. but, to be brutally honest, those things weren’t enough to elevate the book as a whole. not to me, at least. all in all, Just For The Summer wasn’t terrible, but it left much to be desired in my eyes. as i said at the beginning of this review, i can certainly see why this was an enjoyable read for other readers — but unfortunately, it didn’t quite click with me in the way i thought it would. it was my first book by Abby Jimenez and, needless to say, i’m not very happy with how it turned out. but even so, i will try to read more of this author’s works and cross my fingers that they are going to give me a better experience.

So I actually didn't DNF it and decided to finish it this morning. You gotta hear me out on this one. I don't think this is a BAD book by any means. I'm just the tin man and can't stand when 'normal' love happens. I'm not going to give a proper in depth review like I usually do because I just don't feel like I have the credentials. I conquered my fear, a romance novel. Things I will say - Maddy was my favourite character. Justin and Emma are both too equally perfect, and I think this is the 'will they won't they' trope? (can you tell how much I read romance). It didn't feel like there was any jeopardy, which is my type of love - *cough* Magnolia Parks *cough*. If you like romances, please don't be discouraged by this review and take it with a grain of salt. *ੈ✩‧₊˚༺☆༻*ੈ✩‧₊˚*ੈ✩‧₊˚༺☆༻*ੈ✩‧₊˚*ੈ✩‧₊˚༺☆༻*ੈ✩‧₊ reading log ୨ৎ i'm soft DNFing this at 48%, i think i just cant be around a meet cute love right now and the characters are frustrating me and i'm just in a state - i think this is a it's not you, it's me type of situation with this book 13/04 7:14pm why do i feel like there’s no plot? like they’re already a perfect match and basically in love what are the rest of the pages for i’m confused and please don’t hate me i just don’t typically read romances i’m sorry 13/04 6:30pm what on gods green earth you expect me to believe a seemingly perfect man everyone just declares isn't the one what do you mean? like what do you mean this is all too meet cute for me i'm what do you mean? 13/04 1:40pm i will never understand the american diet or how they describe coffee orders what the heck is a grande triple caramel macchiato iced tea infusion thingy; the dragon fruit one? when i order a coffee (which i don't) i get a flat white *ੈ✩‧₊˚༺☆༻*ੈ✩‧₊˚*ੈ✩‧₊˚༺☆༻*ੈ✩‧₊˚*ੈ✩‧₊˚༺☆༻*ੈ✩‧₊˚ ⋆˙⟡♡ pre-reading everyone please pray for me - i'm tackling my biggest fear, a romance novel. i will do my very best to not DNF this.

2⭐️ "You're not asking too much. You were just asking the wrong person." THE PLOT Emma is cursed when it comes to love. Everyone she dates ends up finding their soulmate immediately after breaking up. But as it turns out, she's not the only one. Justin posts on Reddit that he also has this kind of curse, so Emma reaches out and they decide to come together for 4 dates, a kiss, and a breakup, all in order for them to break the curse and find their soulmates. Things get complicated when Emma's toxic mother shows up and Justin gained sudden guardianship of his 3 siblings. The last thing they were expecting was for the fake feelings to turn into real ones. "So far, I haven't found a home I'd want to stay at forever." "Maybe home isn't a place. Maybe it's a person." MY THOUGHTS I really had mixed opinions on this book throughout the entire time of reading this. Let's start of with Emma. I reeeally struggled with Emma up until about 70% into the book. She came off as very whiny and "woe me" and I really disliked her character and couldn't see myself liking her. HOWEVER, after the 70% mark, we really get to see her character development and let me just say, it was beautiful. This book really dives into toxic family relationships and attachment styles, and I couldn't see it going anywhere until the last 30%. Abby really tried to make Emma a complex character and I think she achieved that TO A CERTAIN EXTENT. Yes, Emma's character development was well explained later on in the book, but that does not make up for the fact that her character felt shallow and lackadaisical for a majority of the book. Now onto Justin. Oh Justin...he really was the reason I didn't end up DNFing this book earlier on. His character was very likable and he is the definition of, "if he wanted to he would." The survey's he would make for Emma were so funny and cute and I always had the best time reading in his POV. There were some points throughout this book that I felt that Justin didn't deserve Emma because of the way she acted. She could come off as very selfish at times and Justin was just completely blind to it. This leads me into my next point. THE INSTA-LOVE. Lord save me because I could not deal with the insta-love in this book. It ruined the whole experience for me. So you're telling me, that Emma picked going to Minnesota over Hawaii because of a guy she met on Reddit A WEEK AGO? Abby Jimenez what was your logic behind that? Cause it sure as hell didn't make any sense to me. All of that on top of the fact that they were already head-over-heels in love by texting for less than a week. I couldn't deal with it. It was stuck in my brain from the very beginning. Make it make sense, because this didn't. The realest character of them all was Maddy. SHE was the baddest bitch in this book and she was just the side character. I would have much rather read a book on Maddy than I would have on Emma. Maddy had more personality, she was so real and down to earth, and she put up with no bullshit. Her relationship with Emma was amazing and she always kept it real with her. Maddy was the best character in this entire book hands down. The plot itself piqued my interest as it was described on the back of the book. I mean, come on, two people with love curses fake dating and then falling in love? Sign me up! However, where was the rest of this plot besides the beginning? It was like the whole idea of the love curse was forgotten after 100 pages and we never heard from her again. Yes, it was cute. Yes, it was witty. Yes, the ending did make me cry. None of this, though, was enough to warrant a higher rating for me. It felt almost like a chore to pick this up because of the reasons stated above. Overall, I get the appeal of this book. I am definitely in the minority of people who just didn't get the hype around this book. It was a fun read, but this was, personally, not for me. I would, however, like to try another Abby Jimenez book in the future. I have her other two books on my TBR and I'd like to give them a fair shot. If they are anything like this though, she would just not be the author for me. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This hit all the marks for intriguing me, so we're giving it a shot even though I've heard such mixed opinions 😅

Well… my first book by this author and it’s a huge disappointment for me. It’s a fast read and a page turner, but the whole thing was over the top. Farfetched. I don’t mind suspending beliefs, but the development here was really very juvenile. I can’t believe that the author wrote this book, or if he did, he was 17 years old. The storyline started well, but it took a deadly nosedive. The main character is good, and I can see Tom Cruise playing the part, if it ever comes to be adapted for the screen. The two special agents were very cartoonish with horrible dialogues. The universe in this story is extremely tiny. There are too many coincidences. The characters are too close to everyone. The conclusion was so rushed and underwhelming. Regardless, I will read his older books, as I own 17. This one was borrowed from the public library. Hardcover: 329 pages (39 chapters) e-book (Kobo): 288 pages (default), 89k words PS. the price for the ebook, today, is $19.99!!!! Canadian dollars plus tax.

I like getting HC books out of the library. Few of his plots bear much scrutiny however this one seemed more ludicrous than usual. It also contains some grisly violence. Usually the slick writing sustains my interest but this time I couldn’t get over just how improbable it all is. After reading the first half, I skipped to the end to discover the denouement. A good decision. I was glad not to have read the whole thing. 2/5

I took an edible and now I'm too high to write this review

This book made a lot of choices. Most of them were bad. A Court of Silver Flames feels like poorly written ACOTAR fanfiction. It has all the tags and features: making you hate the canon main characters, an uncomfortable pregnancy, the incorporation of lore you didn’t ask for and don’t need, ridiculously toxic love interests, and an unnecessary 200,000 word count. Let’s talk about the High Lord of the Night Court, a character who was a villain, then an adored main character, and now a villain again. Rhysand is so violent and overprotective and his only personality trait is “I will shred you to bits if you touch or breathe on or think about Feyre.” He literally put a shield around her so even her friends couldn’t be around her. Rhysand is only respectful to women who are submissive to him and obey his authority. He was nice to Nesta only after she made a huge sacrifice at the end for his sake. He’s so bitter, and I don’t know why Feyre finds that attractive. I liked him before because he wasn’t overprotective. He let Feyre do what she wanted. But now… “Cassian knew [Rhysand would] shred anyone who so much as blinked wrong at Feyre into a million bloody ribbons.” lol. Feyre is just a decoration in this book. Although she does have power, we don’t see her use it like she did in the previous books. What happened to that important and empowering fight to make her High Lady? Now she has no agency. I’m especially angry because this is so out of character for the Inner Circle. Mor’s development horrified me in particular. She was abused badly in the Court of Nightmares, so she knows how terrible and sick they are. Azriel even describes the way she “savored every moment in the sun… as if the first seventeen years of her life, spent in the darkness of the Hewn City, still lurked around her.” But then Mor says this: Mor sipped her tea, the portrait of elegant innocence. “We’d be better off throwing Nesta into the Court of Nightmares. She’d thrive there.” What happened to the Inner Circle who accepted Feyre with open arms and helped her heal from her sorrow and trauma? Is Feyre’s grief more palatable to the Inner Circle than Nesta’s? The sisters process their hurt in different ways, but Rhysand acts like Nesta is an embarrassment to the family because of it, like they would be the perfect family if it weren’t for her. In contrast, Feyre gets all the support she needs. There are ways to build up new protagonists without turning the ones we already love into villains. I haven’t even talked about the worst part of the book yet: Feyre’s situation. (I think this was revealed pretty early in the book, so it isn’t a spoiler. But you can fast forward to the next paragraph if you don’t want to know.) Feyre is in the middle of a life-threatening pregnancy with a baby that could literally rip her apart. Guess who decides by committee that it would be better not to tell her this vital information about her pregnancy, her health, her life, and the baby inside her body. That’s right: Rhysand and the Inner Circle. A really important theme of ACOTAR is individual, personal freedom. But this threw that all away. I cannot describe how infuriated this made me. And when Nesta made the decision to tell Feyre that childbirth would kill her (a decision made out of spite, but still a good one for Feyre), the response from the other characters was bizarre. From what I remember, Feyre was upset but ultimately supported the Inner Circle’s decision to hide this from her, and Nesta was forcibly and emphatically rejected by her family. I can’t make this stuff up. Parts of A Court of Silver Flames were good, although they were few and far between. The Blood Rite was pretty cool. The tension and high stakes and character development and the way the Valkyries bonded in their struggle was amazing. I really liked Emerie and Gwyn, and I’m invested in their backgrounds and their journeys to come. They are refreshingly unproblematic and normal. They are easy characters to love. Besides the ending, the plot wasn’t very good. The search for the Crown/Harp/Mask felt arbitrary and too random for my taste. It also got sidetracked constantly, so it wasn’t satisfying to me. However, this gripe seems so minor compared to the rest of the dumpster fire that is A Court of Silver Flames that I don’t even care. “My mate” every other page Has filled me with unending rage Breaking Dawn-esque pregnancy Feels like a fanfic fever dream Azriel, he shadow-sings Cas doesn’t have the longest wings Feyre does interior design Nesta walks a narrow line Gwyn and Emerie are true heroes Cassian’s over five zero zero Sister’s sick? Don’t fret, just kiss Throw me into the abyss Dot dot dot, dash dash dash Down the stairs you crash crash crash Bones will bark and eyes are dark Red flags are Rhys’s trademark The day I forget about this book will be a good day indeed. 1.5 stars

the thing above the review box: What did you think? me: me: me: Yeah. That’s my reaction. My brain has been fried. My last brain cell has been destroyed and now the only thought left in my head is “what the FUCK” which in my opinion sums this up pretty accurately. I both loved and hated this book. I was bracing myself from the moment I saw the amount of one-star reviews of this book - specifically Yumiko’s, because this bitch was a diehard SJM stan (I take the credit for converting her) until this book. I knew there were a ton of five-star reviews out there, but all I saw was the one-star reviews, the ranting, and the warning that a lot of shit was going to be ruined. I really, really wanted to love this book. But I was prepared to hate it too. Somehow I ended up doing both. “Rhys lifted his head. "This is a bad idea." Cassian winked. "That should be written on the Night Court crest.” The plot of this book...barely existed. There was a storyline that picked up from where the original trilogy left off, but it was so much less intense. It didn’t feel as engaging or even as well-thought-out as the rest of the books, which was disappointing to say the least. Up until now, I’ve trusted SJM to deliver gripping stories even under all the smut. My trust has been broken, since this book was more porn than plot. I kind of saw that coming, but I was still very, very sad. And disgusted. Seriously, I’m a fifteen-year-old who has never dated. I do not need graphic descriptions of Nesta sucking on Cassian right now, nor will I ever considering that I’m probably not even allosexual. No thank you. “Az chuckled, the wind shifting the strands of his dark hair.“You two need a chaperone up here?” Yes. No. Yes. “I thought you were the chaperone.” Az threw him a wicked smile. “I’m not entirely sure I’m enough.” My mom read this book before I did and she told me it was worse than Fifty Shades of Grey. Since she’s read that one and I never plan to, I’ll take her word for it. That is probably my main complaint: there was way too much sex. Chapter 55 was bearable. The beach scene in Empire of Storms was easy to slide past. But literally half of this book was straight-up erotica. As several people have correctly said, this book could be maybe twenty chapters long and much more exciting if you just got rid of all the fucking. Listen, SJM, I fucking love you, but sex doesn’t always sell. Especially not when people buy your books for...you know, the story. I HATED the amount of sexualization in this book. For example: “But fuck—when had he last had a satisfying roll in the sheets? Certainly not since the war. Maybe since before Feyre had freed them all from Amarantha’s grip. Cauldron boil him, it had been the month before Amarantha had fallen, hadn’t it? With that female he’d met at Rita’s. In an alley outside the pleasure hall. Against a brick wall. Quick and dirty and over within minutes, neither he nor the female wanting anything more than swift release.” Why was this important? Why was it brought up? Cassian is shocked to learn that it’s been two years - TWO YEARS - since he last “had a fuck”? It’s been zero years since I gave a fuck about Cassian’s “conquests”. Maybe he and Nesta used them all up. “He made a point not to look beneath her neck. At the body left on display. She needed to gain back the weight she’d lost, and pack on some muscle, but … those fucking leathers.” So let’s get this straight: he recognizes that she’s underweight, mentally struggling, hasn’t been eating properly...and still sexualizes the fact that she’s wearing tight clothing? At this point, I might think he cares more about fucking her than her wellbeing. Oh wait. “The Mother knew he had enough to deal with today, both with Nesta’s lesson and beyond it, without descending into thoughts of peeling those pants off her and worshipping every inch of that spectacular backside.” These are all from the first two hundred pages of the book, by the way. And let’s not forget about when Nesta sees Cassian and Azriel sparring, and her immediate reaction is to fantasize about them having a threesome. In graphic detail. That being said, I did love what little plot there was between all the sex scenes. I think the way things are escalating is actually solid, and I love how not everything from the first trilogy is completely over. The storyline of Nesta’s training and the human queens was done beautifully under all of that fucking. “I want to take the road that no one dares travel, and I want to travel it with you two. No matter what may befall us. Not as Illyrians, not for their titles but as something new . To prove to them, to everyone, that something new and different might triumph over their rules and restrictions.” Nesta’s trauma representation was probably my favorite done by SJM so far. I know I’ve always raved about how realistic and personal her character’s mental health is, but Nesta’s mentality and how it was written was so well done. “I am worthless and I am nothing, Nesta nearly said. She wasn’t sure why the words bubbled up, pressing on her lips to voice them. I hate everything that I am. And I am so, so tired. I am tired of wanting to be anywhere but in my own head.” Her training arc and the way she gradually learned to open up to people was gorgeous. HOWEVER, I was so tired of reading the same style of recovery every. damn. time. Every SJM healing arc, ever: traumatized girl meets hot immortal guy → they argue and snarl all the time → they project their trauma onto each other unintentionally → something probably goes wrong a few times → one of them opens up about their past → they come back Stronger Together™ because They Have Each Other™. I love the recovery stuff, I love the message, and I love how SJM makes it a point to emphasize the trauma development and the different kinds of pain. What I am not here for is the cookie-cutter rebound where it’s always the same. If you’ve recognized that there are different kinds of mental health issues and different ways of coping, you should recognize that there are different recovery routes - and a surprisingly small number of them involve a sexy tattooed guy who fucks you until you find your closure. “I am going to tell you that you will get through it. That you will face this, and you will get through it. That these tears are good, Nesta. These tears mean you care. I am going to tell you that it is not too late, not for any of it. And I can't tell you when, or how, but it will get better. What you feel, this guilt and pain and self-loathing- you will get through it. But only if you are willing to fight. Only if you are willing to face it, and embrace it, and walk through it, to emerge on the other side of it. And maybe you will still feel that tinge of pain, but there is another side. A better side.” The characters were beautiful, as always. I always love SJM’s characters and how layered they are. This time was no different. Almost. Nesta - I’ve always loved her character. The ferocity, the viciousness, the cold facade. I loved that she was that bitch who refused to bend for anyone. Her development over this book...hm. I loved it, and I loved how it was done, but I also loved wrecked Nesta. The way she healed honestly it felt like she was adhering too much to everyone else’s ideals and how they wanted her to be, rather than growing on her own through her trauma. Most of her character stayed intact, but it just didn’t feel the same as Feyre and Aelin’s healing. “So Nesta had become a wolf. Armed herself with invisible teeth and claws, and learned to strike faster, deeper, more lethally. Had relished it. But when the time came to put away the wolf, she'd found it had devoured her too.” Cassian...I liked him so much better in the original trilogy. Literally all of his narrative was either wanting to fuck Nesta or fucking Nesta, and it made me very uncomfy. This is not the cinnamon roll killer sass king I remember from ACOMAF and I can never go back to thinking of him that way again. Or maybe I can, since the brain is supposed to block out traumatic memories. “Glad to see you woke up ready to play, Nesta.” His voice dropped to a low rumble.” Emerie was amazing and I loved her, but I feel like she didn’t get as much character depth as I expected. In ACOFAS she reminded Cassian of Nesta, but I didn’t really get that vibe from her this time? That half a scene in Frost and Starlight felt more intense than any of her scenes in this book, and I’m kind of disappointed. Her potential just fell flat. I still loved her, but a lot more passively than I was expecting to. “Gwyn’s fingers slid into hers, squeezing tight. Nesta looked up to find her holding Emerie’s free hand as well. Gwyn smiled again, her eyes bright. “Our stories are worth telling.” Gwyn was beautiful. I loved her. Her sass and determination were everything I was expecting from Emerie. Just the way her character was included and written was everything to me. “I'll be with you every step of the way. Just don't lock me out. You want to walk in silence for a week, I'm fine with that. So long as you talk to me at the end of it.” What bothered me a bit about Gwyn, Emerie and Nesta was their backstories. That sounds a little weird, but if you’ve ever seen people talking about how r@pe is constantly used as a “dark phoenix” moment for female characters to “make them stronger”, then I think you know what I mean. Let me be clear: we need this representation in our media. It’s good that it’s becoming a common issue that’s brought up, and it’s good that this awareness is being raised. But what’s not good is that it’s being used as a plot device just to make a female character more interesting. Saying that her story is the trauma of being assaulted/r@ped and that that’s what made her strong is bullshit, and I’m tired of it. It completely invalidates the actual trauma of being r@ped and how for some people, recovery doesn’t make you a badass warrior. To quote this article: When we use rape and sexual violence as only a storytelling device, and fail to engage with the character’s experience, we negate the experiences of the thousands of people for whom rape is a reality and not just something that happens in the background of someone else’s story on screen, stage, and in books. “She would not be mastered by anything again. She was the master of herself.” Another problem I had was Nesta and Cassian’s dynamic. Their banter was good at times. Their chemistry in the original trilogy was perfect. They were so sweet together. “Whatever you need to throw at me, I can take it. I won't break.” But this book ruined it all. Now, we can’t go half a page without one of them fantasizing about fucking the other one. At one point, Nesta can’t go THREE DAYS without Cassian near her because she’s so desperate to “pleasure him.” *concerned* Everything that we were working up toward was just thrown away. Before, their arguments were reasonable. now...Nesta and Cassian are mad at each other? They’re downright toxic. They can’t communicate. They can’t be in the same room without snarling and taunting and threatening each other. But oh, if they’re flirting? Automatic peeling off of clothes, worshipping of dicks, and all of the stuff that I skipped over. “Cassian leaned to whisper in her ear, “The first time I saw that look on your face, you were still human. Still human, and I nearly went to my knees before you.” Their whole relationship as a couple just didn’t feel right. I can’t ship them anymore. All romance was thrown under the bus - replaced with fucking, growling, taunting, and snapping. Comforting blowjobs, aggressive fucking, and slow, gentle lovemaking are basically the only words used for their romantic scenes. The loving dialogues and the wholesome sweet moments were almost gone. “Your power is a song, and one I’ve waited a very, very long time to hear, Nesta.” OH, and can we talk about how the entire Inner Circle was literally so shitty to Nesta? Mor was so understanding and kind to Feyre, and considering her own backstory, you would think she’d be at least somewhat nice to Nesta. But no. She treats her like shit, for no real reason. And Amren? I understand that Nesta fought with her, but Amren was supposed to be the one who at least understood some of what Nesta was dealing with. But no. Instead, she just blamed her for being an asshole instead of really realizing what she was going through. I don't know why or how, but somehow EVERYONE in this book except for Cassian was in favor of throwing Nesta into the Court of Nightmares??!!! What happened to the loving, understanding and kind Inner Circle that I was obsessed with??? Where are the beautiful characters who I RAVED about??? Where are those perfect souls who supported Feyre and helped her out of her PTSD??? I used to love them, and now I can't help but think of them as a bunch of disgusting hypocrites. They have no excuse. One of the only things I really, truly loved about this book was just Nesta’s power and her progression. The beginning scene where Nesta fights the Cauldron and tears away its power was exactly what I wanted. “She turned her head so slowly it was like watching a puppet move. Her eyes met his. Death watched him. But Death had walked beside him every day of his life. So Cassian stroked his thumb along her palm and said, “Hello, Nes.” I was obsessed with the conflict of her power and her restraint. It wasn’t what I was expecting, but SJM always delivers this kind of stuff. I loved it. Her power was a little cliché, and I was rolling my eyes at a few of the things that happened (not AGAIN SJM), but that didn’t completely stop me from enjoying it. To stand against it would be to stand against Death itself. Death herself. Azriel shook, weathering that primal power. But they were both Illyrian, whether Az liked it or not. And so they did what their people had always done before Death's beautiful face. They bowed.” Overall, I honestly hated this book. I can’t tell you how much I cringed and grimaced and gave my mom the patented What-The-Actual-Fuck™ look. I was so mad about so many things. This is not the series that I know and love. I refuse to believe that this book belongs to the ACOTAR trilogy. I might have loved some of it, but not enough. “Do you know how your eyes glow when your power rises to the surface? Like molten steel. Like silver fire.” I'm just...ugh. I wanted this book to be a story of Nesta's empowerment. I figured that was why it was called A Court of Silver Flames. A more appropriate title would be A Court of Porn and Fucking. note: I've been seeing a lot recently about how Sarah J. Maas is a problematic author. I've been an enormous fan of hers for a while now, so I'm not really sure what to say. I don't pay a lot of attention to politics - I can't have an opinion on what people are saying about her political affiliation. As for her apparent racism/discriminatory writing, I've never seen anything offensive in her books (coming from a queer Asian brown-skinned girl), but I can see how some of the examples people have been providing could be viewed as racist. In my opinion she hasn't really done anything that I've considered offensive (again, I'm relatively clueless about this stuff), but I respect your decision if you decide not to support her.

** spoiler alert ** Where do I even begin??? There is way too much to unpack here, so let's just go ahead and dump some thoughts: - given that I forgot Emerie exists on more than one occasion I can only conclude that replacing her with Jelly Jubilee would have had a very minimal effect on the story as a whole - yes, the red star is Aelin, and this sucks for more than one reason: a) this cool Easter egg was just...kind of there, and we didn't even see it from Rhys's perspective, which would have made more sense since he was the one who slowed her down with his power? b) a red star? Aelin's signature colours are blue, green, and gold. Why the fuck was the star red - While I think the audio narrator did a good job overall I do have to question the inexplicable decision to give Koschei Homer Simpson's season 1 voice - Amren lost her power; Nesta lost her power; Mor's power is "truth" whatever the fuck that means; Feyre spends her days wallpapering the river house and arranging gift baskets; Elain has all the presence of an elderly house cat; where are the powerful women that these books pride themselves on? Rhysand, the most powerful High Lord in history, claims that Amren is his second and Mor his third, and Feyre the High Lady, and I have to ask myself what exactly those titles mean when these women never leave the house? Except - well, that's not true. Mor spends 90% of the book doing...something in Vallahan (?), which presumably isn't very important given that nobody discusses it beyond the brunch table, and Amren leaves the house once to go to her apartment and bang her boring boyfriend whose name I keep forgetting. Elain literally never sees the light of day except to visit her father's grave. Homegirl is probably severely deficient in vitamin D. - I got to the end of writing this non-review and actually forgot to comment on what Feyre was doing here. Which, I must say, is telling. She fails the sexy lamp test miserably. - This is all happening while Rhys, Azriel, and Cassian go across the country to handle serious political manoeuvrings. But they're not Rhys's second and third! No, he has women in those roles. Which are definitely not meaningless ceremonial titles. - The only woman who goes out and does anything is Nesta, who was one of the few characters I didn't despise by the end of this book. Of course, a large part of her healing arc is her getting on her knees and apologising to the Night Court, who destroyed her home, locked her in a house, marched her across a mountain range when she was suicidal, jeered at her for being an alcoholic, and - perhaps worst of all - forced her to attend their asinine Solstice celebration. - There are some contentious opinions on Nesta, given her history of bullying Feyre. However, what everyone really hates her for is allowing her younger sister to go into the woods and hunt alone. I have a few notes on this: a) there is something to be said for this. Nesta was a neglectful sister. b) that said, parentification of children is a form of abuse. Nesta was not Feyre's mother, father, or adult guardian. So while everyone was directing their ire at her, they might have also spared some outrage for the father who sat idle while his daughters starved. c) Elain didn't lift a fucking finger either, and nor has she apologised for her cowardice and complacence. Nor has anyone asked her to. I'd like to know why there is one rule for Nesta and another one for Elain. At least Nesta was open about being a shitbag. Elain is the one hiding her cunty nature under a veneer of syrupy sweetness, which I would argue is worse. d) A lot of the Night Court's distaste for Nesta comes from the things she said to them when she was human, or shortly after she had emerged from the Cauldron. Given that she is in her twenties, newly Made, and was a powerless human for much of the time we've known her, expecting her to get on her knees and apologise for lashing out in anger against an ancient once-godlike being like Amren is frankly ludicrous. I suppose their women's studies class never taught them the difference between punching up and punching down. - This book really hammered home how incompetent Rhysand is as a High Lord. Again, I have several points to make: a) The Inner Circle enjoys three lavish homes in Velaris: the newly-built river house, the townhouse, and the House of Wind. They also seem to have apartments across the city, including the one Amren and her boyfriend porked in. Meanwhile, there are people living in slums in Velaris. b) When the Inner Circle finds out that Nesta is living in a slum, they demolish her apartment building. Because I suppose the other tenants can go and fuck themselves. They justify this with the claim that they intend to build a new set of apartments for families that were displaced by the war, and that's great...but what happens to the tenants who were displaced when they demolished the slum? There's something unsaid here, and it's that the former tenants were in fact not families, so it's fine for them to be homeless. Who were they, then? Unemployed people? Sick people? Elderly people? Who are these people who were tossed into the street to make room for the Inner Circle's political posturing? c) The Night Court is the largest territory in Prythian, yet we see a grand total of three locations: Velaris, the Illyrian war camp, and the Hewn City. The Prison is a separate territory. So where is the rest of the court? Is it unsightly? When he was Under the Mountain, Rhysand instructed the Inner Circle to stay and protect Velaris, and he used his power to shield it. But what happened to the rest of his court? Is it just a smoking crater? Velaris has a lot of luxury goods, lavish apartments, and artisan coffee shops - the house prices there are likely extortionate, especially with the High Lord living in close proximity. But the slums then hint at serious trouble in paradise. I imagine the Gini coefficient in the Night Court is absolutely dire. d) The decorative titles of the women at court hint at an illusion of equality, while the reality is starkly different. In ACOWAR, when Mor privately comes out as homoromantic bisexual, Feyre says, "Rhys wouldn't care - I don't think anyone in Velaris would", to which Mor replies, "Velaris is...a haven for people like me. Rita's...the owner is like me. A lot of us go there - without anyone really ever picking up on it". And I have to wonder if anyone actually read this back and understood what had been said here. If the author even knew what she meant by this. "Rhys wouldn't care" and yet gay bars in Velaris fly under the radar, "without anyone really ever picking up on it". Why don't people pick up on it? Why don't the queer people in Velaris want anyone to pick up on it? Being in the closet is not par for the course; it is not a normal and acceptable experience. It is deeply traumatic, and it requires effort. Being out is not the action; being in is. Mor states that she is in the closet because she doesn't want her family to know she is sapphic, for whatever reason, but what about the other patrons at Rita's? Why do they feel the need to be discreet, to meet covertly at a bar whose purpose no one else knows? When Mor says that Velaris is a haven for people like her, what does she actually mean by that? Does she mean it's a haven in the Night Court, or across Prythian? If it's the latter, I'm surprised. Surprised that, in the Dawn and Day Courts, where the High Lords are openly queer, there are not better, safer, more open LGBTQ spaces. Or are we to believe that Rhys, a straight man, is a better advocate for LGBTQ people than actual LGBTQ people, even in his court where queer people are still hiding in plain sight? e) The Prison as a concept is barbaric, and I don't think I should have to explain why. But let's look at it anyway. * When we met the Suriel, they are described as "old and grotesque" and "not worth the danger of going out to find them". More pertinently, Bryaxis and the Bone Carver are described as "an ancient death god and the face of nightmares". The Weaver is described as a "creature" with "nothing but black hell inside her". Bryaxis and the Bone Carver are both prisoners in the Night Court, the latter an inmate at the Prison; Amren was also once an inmate. The Prison is supposedly a necessary measure meant to keep Prythian's most dangerous, irredeemable monsters locked away... Except not a single one of the aforementioned monsters, who have either been inmates at the Prison or are representative of said inmates, are close to irredeemable. The Bone Carver and the Weaver both died on a battlefield in service to Prythian. Bryaxis was freed from their cell under the library after Feyre bargained with them, exchanging possible death at war for - get this - a window in their cell. A window. A fucking window. A point was also made with the Suriel, who was at first glance an evil monster, but ended up becoming a close friend of Feyre's. So what are we doing with the Prison, then? Who decides who is locked up there, and why? * There are no set sentences - inmates are locked up in the Prison for eternity with no chance for parole. They are also not locked up based on any formal charge, nor do they stand trial. They are simply thrown into this concrete box for eternity based on...their nature? Amren was once in the Prison, and she is now a beloved - if blisteringly irritating - member of the Night Court's Inner Circle. I am left asking myself who else in that Prison has a face, and a name, and a life, and who else has the potential to make the world a better place the way Amren did after she escaped (yes, she escaped. She was not released). In ACOSF, Cassian states that he sentenced Lanthys to the Prison, which I'm curious about - was there a jury involved? Is he a judge now? * I also have to ask myself what the prerequisite actually is for being sentenced to an eternity in the Prison; what crimes qualify a person to be stripped of their rights and locked up in a windowless cell on a remote island? Is it killing? Torture? Gross negligence? Because those are all crimes that the Inner Circle is guilty of, and then some. I shouldn't be surprised that the justice system in the Night Court is atrocious, but what does please me is that Bryaxis said "aight imma head out" and no one saw them for dust as soon as the war with Hybern was over. In fact, they were never seen again. We have no choice but to stan. f) Across Prythian, there is a generally terrible attitude to mental health, and absolutely no systems in place to support those who are struggling. After witnessing how badly Feyre's PTSD affected her in ACOMAF, and how his own people in Velaris were suffering after losing their loved ones in the war, I would've expected Rhysand to pull the finger out and set up some form of crisis hotline or clinic for talking therapy. Instead, the Inner Circle's solution to Nesta's mental health crisis is to displace her from her home and force her to train in combat, while periodically using her as a threat against their neighbouring courts who inexplicably have not risen up against them despite them admitting that they are harbouring weapons of mass destruction. Then again, I cannot expect anything more from Rhys who, in ACOFAS, thought it acceptable to quit being the "bigger male" for a day - because integrity is such a drag - and cross the whole of Prythian just to jeer at a person who was in the middle of a suicide attempt. Rhysand is, in fact, not the bigger male. He is very, very small. g) I have gone into this in my status updates, but the quality of the health care in general in the Night Court - and in fact across Prythian - is absolutely pitiful. In the Great Lakes region of Africa in the 19th century, people were performing successful caesareans; they used anaesthetics, and were highly organised in the way they carried out the procedure. Meaning that, at that point, it had become routine. Caesareans in Europe at the time were not so successful; while they had been carried out since the 16th century, around 85% of mothers died from the procedure. However, that is a 15% success rate, with mortal human doctors who of course did not have access to magic. Therefore, I cannot understand why a caesarean was not an option for Feyre, other than to manufacture drama. This drama, though, comes at the expense of the Night Court's worldbuilding. I can only imagine what horrors the civilians are enduring under this tyrannical system. Who is dying, and what are they dying from? Preventable illnesses, presumably. I had a thought at one point - if the Fae are immortal, should Prythian not be hugely overpopulated? But I suppose the constant wars, terrible mental health services (the mental health provisions for men are particularly bad; if the support for women is minimal, for men, it is non-existent) and dire general health care takes care of that. h) I don't think I need to explain the horrific irony of Rhys' mantra being "it's your choice" while he barricades Feyre inside an impenetrable bubble, lies to her about her own medical condition, and responds to her genuine concerns about the welfare of her family with patronising, creepy innuendo. When Eris attempts to barter for Nesta's hand in marriage, Feyre is understandably outraged. Rhysand's response? "So bloodthirsty hehe". This of course feeds into the illusion of equality in the Night Court; Feyre is the High Lady only in name, and she commands absolutely no respect from her mate or from anyone else in her court. They tiptoe around her only because if they did not, Rhys would come for their necks, and he has to maintain a veneer of wokeness or admit the sordid truth: he is no better than any other High Lord. In fact, he's worse than at least three of them. i) The Night Court's "Court of Dreams" is a cesspool of nepotism and cronyism, with various unqualified and unethical players taking on crucial roles in office. The worst of this is the way in which they employ gruesome methods of torture to extract information about their enemies, usually from conscripted or low-income soldiers and, given the intimate information they gather, presumably servants as well. The worst offender here is actually Azriel, who has the mentality of a serial killer, but who the Inner Circle just...keeps around, for some reason. It's like being roommates with the Zodiac Killer. I can't even begin to understand the thought process behind this, and I'm not going to try. I've run out of characters, so I'll probably continue this in the comments at a later date. I'm not done. I am not even close to being done.

How come y’all liked it so much? Such a bullshit spin-off 😫 Nesta is being an annoying bitch as usual yet we are supposed to cheer for her ass and feel sorry?! And suddenly Az is into Elain out of nofuckingwhere?? Wtf? 3 sisters for 3 brothers? How lame. The biggest slap was giving us Feysand’s child in other people’s povs!! What the hell?! That was just a ridiculous decision. Let alone how their characters were abused in this book. Anyway, even if I’m mad about it, I still support the series (not the author). Hence, the 2 stars. Just wish it will be back to “normal” with portraying other characters as they have been in the trilogy and not changing their chore existences🙄 P.S. The story of the series should’ve sticked to Feyre, her sisters are a waste of paper. I said what I said, period.

I don’t care, Nesta still is THEE ABSOLUTE WORST. Also justice for TAMLIN, I SAID IT. For lots of thoughts and ranting: https://youtu.be/2VoyPZOP534 I think it’s rather funny, so you should watch. But seriously where is Lucien’s book!?!?! And he deserves better than sheet of paper Elaine 😒

Buddy read with Snezana A few years back I joked that I'll read anything SJM writes and I'll definitely love it, how wrong I was. I spent a day after reading this thinking whether there is anything I actually love in this book and I can't pick any, I'm either indifferent or outright hate everything about this book. This book is 600+ pages, everything here can fit into a 300+ pages book. This is not an EPIC FANTASY, I repeat this is NOT an EPIC FANTASY, this book is an erotic fantasy with random things thrown into it, in my opinion there is absolutely no plot. This is supposed to be Nesta and Cassian's book but SJM added way too many things about Rhys and Feyre that added nothing to the plot. SJM also did a mistake of tying up all loose ends in ACOWAR, so instead of creating a whole new villain, she picked a Slavic mythology that was badly executed. Another random thing is the Norse Valkyrie that she added here, another horrible execution. This book is also contradicting, remember when we read ACOMAF and we were willing to agree that Tamlin is evil, well that shit is old, instead of finding a better redemption story for Nesta, she made made everyone sort of mean, hypocritical, negligent and unnecessarily violent so that Nesta can come up on top, why the lazy writing. It's like the characters got replaced by body snatches. Absolutely nothing was hard for the characters, they achieved everything and got everything they needed by luck, it was so easy, barely an inconvenience. The writing is what ruined this book for me, if it was better written I would have ignored the other things in this book. The world building didn't help either, it was way too contemporary, they were doing yoga, meditation, abdominal exercises etc. SJM didn't even bother making it better. SJM can't describe moving things, whether from dance scenes to fight scenes, the depiction was horrible. Even the creatures were badly described, here are some example. How am I to make sense from this Cassian blocked, counterpunched, and then the sparring unfolded. Fists and feet and wings, punch and block, kick and stomp, breath sawing out of them as he and Az tried to break past each other’s defenses. What is this? The thing that crawled over the ridge had been crafted of nightmares. Part cat, part serpent, all black fur and sharp claws and hooked teeth. Then there's the romance, WTF was that, everyone was horny all the time, almost all they think about is sex, what is all that about. Instead of training all they do is have sex, no wonder nothing got done. Finally the characters. Nesta have always been a mean bitch, she was never likeable, all her memories and regrets was about Elain, she didn't care for Feyre. She became depressed and instead of them helping her they not only let her go downhill but sponsored the drinking, then they woke up one day with an ultimatum, who does that. Then suddenly she cares that no one likes her, since when is Nesta into what people think about her, I prefer the former her who was mean. Only Feyre had kept them fed and clothed, earning scant amounts for the pelts and meat she hunted. She’d kept them alive. The last time she’d hunted for them, the food had run out the day before. If Feyre hadn’t returned home with meat that night, they either would have had to starve to death or beg in the village. Nesta had told herself that day that Tomas would take her in, if necessary. Maybe even Elain, too. Cassian is just another generic SJM male character, kind of like Aedion, Rowan and Rhys. He has almost no personality, he is a warrior that enjoys fighting and killing but somehow kind and a generous lover. Eye roll. Amren was a mean hypocrite here, Rhys wasn't any better and Azriel is still a mystery.

** spoiler alert ** okay before i get started, i have to warn you all, this review is absolutely riddled with spoilers. as in, you probably wont get two sentences in without reading a spoiler. and also, if youre like me and you ignore other people's spoiler warnings and read the review anyways, then you should click off. seriously. you will regret spoiling yourself. right, so now onto the review. the fourth (fifth, if you count acofas) installment of the a court of thorns and roses series by sarah j maas, titled a court of silver flames, follows our main character, nesta as she adjusts to her new fae body and goes on a journey of healing and growth after an awful war. this review will be divided into five parts: characters, plot, romance, writing and miscellaneous. starting off, im going to be discussing my thoughts on the CHARACTERS in this novel. im upset. some of my all time favorite characters in this series were acting so different, literally to a point where it made me hate them. i understand that this book was supposed to be "nesta's perspective", and naturally, that would put the inner circle in a different light, but some of the characters's actions were inexcusable and just plain rude. im going to dive a bit deeper into each individual character and my opinions on them. nesta: previous to reading this book, i was somewhat indifferent about nesta. all around me in the book community, people would be getting into all out arguments about whether nesta was a good character or not, and i was just over here like "azriel. i want azriel book. now. please." but sarah j maas did a great job in converting me to a nesta stan. the way her different coping mechanisms were displayed were wonderful, and nesta's voice in the story was touching, if a bit dramatic. her character arc in general was great, and im glad that shes apologized for her past actions, but has still stayed true to her iconic self. and also, can we talk about the fact that she has a romance novel addiction? i loved that. cassian: i found cassian to be a little annoying in this book.he was simultaniously dry and obnoxious. you can only make so many dirty jokes before someone begins to find you to be irritating. this is very random, but cassian literally made a "your mom" joke at some point in this book. was that supposed to be funny? there was also a point in the book where cassian "punishes" nesta by making her do physical labor and go on a hike to the point where she passes out. this is not okay. never has been. never will be. overall, his character felt contrived and i felt pretty detatched from him. cassian was never my favorite, but i expected to like him a bit more than i did. gwyn: gywn's friendship with nesta, and her story, was so heartwarming. she was such a wholesome character that i look forward to reading more about. and guys, i think sarah has been dropping hints for a gywn x azriel romance, which i would be so down for. also i saw a theory that tamlin is gwyn’s father? that would definitely be interesting. emerie: EMERIE AND MOR?!?!?!? YES PLEASE. azriel: AZ AZ AZ AZ AZ AZ AZ. azriel was by far my favorite part of this book. his dry humor, his self conciousness, his relationship with nesta, his training strategies, his worry for feyre. i didnt have the specific edition, but i read the bonus azriel scene online, and honestly i feel like he was acting very out of character. he gave the necklace he bought for elain to gwyn. which is fair i guess, because i hate elain and i love gwyn, but he was just acting so... cold? im feeling confliucted UGH. THE NEXT BOOK BETTER BE THE AZ BOOK AND IT BETTER BE GOOD. rhys: oh boy, be prepared for a rant. RHYS WAS AWFUL IN THIS BOOK. THAT IS THE BOTTOM LINE. HE TREATED NESTA LIKE CRAP. HE DIDNT EVEN TELL HIS OWN WIFE THAT THE BABY SHE WAS CARRYING WOULD KILL HER?!?!? SO MUCH FOR "FEMINIST". in a court of mist and fury rhys was the loving, understanding companion that one would need after facing awful circumstances and dealing with PTSD. where did this man go? rhys in this book was all like "nesta. you can cope. just please cope in a way thats convenient for me." it infuriated me to no end. feyre: feyre, unlike her mate (*retches*), stayed unproblematic throughout this book. she was continuously nice to nesta, despite the crude actions of her friends. i do wish she had stood up a bit more for nesta, especially against rhys, but in my opinion, she handled nesta's coping best out of the inner circle, besides from azriel. and yes, i was pretty tired of feysand (they already had there time to shine), but i was glad to find out feyre was pregnant and appreciated seeing her display her undying love for nyx (which, by the way is an EPIC name. it literally means night!) amren: was never a huge fan of amren to begin with, but she was insanely rude in this book. was that always a thing? i dont remember that being a thing. eris: i am so interested in eris's story. so cryptic. so mysterious. is he getting a redemption arc?!?! characters that i could talk about, but wont (for various reasons), are elain, lucien, and mor. PLOT: COMING SOON... (this is code for "im lazy and dont wanna finish this review right now", so please, just bear with me.) ~~~~~~~~ i have.... thoughts. review to come. ~~~~~~~~ february 16th 2021 (after school): MY BOOK IS DAMAGED. I REPEAT. MY BOOK IS DAMAGED. it came in the mail all banged up. i’m so sad 😭✋ february 16th 2021: GUYS IM AT SCHOOL RIGHT NOW SO I HAVE NO WAY OF KNOWING IF MY PACKAGE HAS ARRIIVED. IM SO EXCITED. february 15th 2021: MY PREORDER HAS SHIPPEDDDDD february 12th 2021: 4 DAYSSSSSS. also i’m almost done with the ToG series, and i don’t wanna start this book until i finish that, so i’ll probably start it a week or two after release day. january 16th 2021: ONE MONTH! january 7th 2021: nesta and cassian live in my head rent free. i cannot think about anything else. january 4th 2021: I CANNOT STOP THINKING ABOUT THIS BOOK. I NEED IT NOWWW. december 30th 2020: I JUST LEARNED THIS BOOK IS GONNA BE LIKE 700 PAGES?!?! THANK THE CAULDRON

2 stars baby. I promise there will be no spoilers in this review, I’m not a monster. Warning: this review is long. Let’s begin with what kept me going throughout this entire book: my stupid tallies. My Stupid Tallies: Characters snarling: 108. This physically hurt me tbh. Characters being described with golden/tan skin: 22. The woke queen is back ladies and gentlemales, with another racially ambiguous cast that lets her imagine them as white but defend herself if people ever say she has no POC in her books. Absolute galaxy brain. Characters purring: 17. Gross. Characters roaring: 9. While much lower than I anticipated, it still was 9 times too many. I have never heard a real-life person do anything close to a “roar” but since “tHEy’rE nOt HuMaN eLLiE” I guess it’s fine. The M (view spoiler) Word: 2 I want to thank this woman for restraining herself in this book, 2 times for her favourite word is incredible, let’s give her a round of applause, guys. The Characters: Bryce Quinlan: Bryce “Silky” Quinlan is first up to the executioner’s block and oh boy do I have some things to say about Bryce. While she is SJM’s typical snarky heroine, she is what I will thusly dub The Advanced Self-Insert . While Calaena and Feyre were obvious self-inserts (both having golden-hued hair and blue eyes, suspiciously like the author) Bryce actually has RED HAIR, which is honestly a game-changer, a never-before-seen addition to Sarah’s repertoire. I’m so proud of her. Let us list why Bryce is The Advanced Self-Insert: - Every dude is insanely horny for her. Doesn’t matter if they’re an ancient mythological being or some dude on the street -- he wants to bang her. - She is supremely skilled in the arts of battle. Wielding both a rifle and a sword at once? No problem, despite both weapons requiring two hands. Bryce is just that amazing. Being half-human and therefore physically weaker than almost every character in this book? No problem, the plot will demand she beats them anyway. - She is the most beautiful “female” to ever walk the earth. Nobody compares to Bryce, whose hair is silky beyond words, whose voice is silky, whose walk is silky (???), whose skin is silky. The woman is so silky she will fold if you touch her. Naturally, silk is a complete aphrodisiac for every “male” in this novel, so she is desired by all. People having types? Nope, golden-skinned redheads only baby. But enough about what makes Bryce ridiculously hot, let’s talk about her flaws, and boy are they vast. - She is just too curvy to be a dancer. Her ass and breasts are just too round, too perfect, for her to possibly be a professional dancer. - She attracts “alphaholes” (these are her own words btw) and complains about it despite these alphaholes being the only men she even entertains notions of dating/being with. Maybe her true flaw is that she’s a hypocrite? - ??? - Did I mention that she’s really beautiful? A well-rounded character (literally) if I do say so myself. Hunt Athalar: And now we come to our glorious love interest, our Fabio, our physical equal to Bryce. He is a fallen angel (completing SJM’s wing-kink), so renown through the land that he has been dubbed “the Umbra Mortis” or “The Shadow of Death”. The creativity behind this title is unparalleled: not only did she have to think of two words that are “cool and edgy” but she had to put them in google translator and change them into Latin. Think about that for a second … all the time and effort… what a writing queen. I hope to be as powerful as her one day. Anyway, let’s talk about his personality. Like Bryce, he can be quite funny sometimes (I actually love the Jelly Jubilee parts of the novel – see I can be nice). Also, like Bryce, his personality doesn’t really extend past the fact that he is beautiful beyond comprehension and has power never-before-seen for his race (lightning magic, ooOoOoOOOoo). Also like every other powerful character in this novel, he uses this magic a total of once or twice. Because when you make all-powerful characters, you must limit them by not letting them do anything of note, otherwise the book would’ve ended on page 3. Oh, and he has a total foot fetish. I feel like that’s important to note, you know, as a trigger warning for grossness. Still better than “Feminist King” Rhysand and Rowrat. The Other People: Carbon copy rip-offs of her characters from other books. Ruhn is an emo version of Aedion merged with some Azriel. Fury is literally the same as Amren. Juniper is Elain with a personality. Sandriel is Maeve. Danika is EXACTLY Aelin. Is it plagiarism if you’re ripping-off yourself? A question for the philosophers, methinks. The Plot: By far the weakest plot Sarah J. Maas has ever construed and this is the same woman who plotted ACOFAS. It goes like this: Action > Banter for 600 pages, sprinkled with the most boring murder investigation I have ever read > Answer is given to them > Another 50 pages of banter > Revelations > An “action-packed” ending where more than half the cast of characters do nothing. The World: The world-building in this book sucked. I know of two locations: Pangera (an entire fucking continent) and Crescent City. That is all. We never leave Crescent City. Ever. I don’t think we could if we tried. There’s this war going on in the background of the entire novel, between humans and the Vanir. Yes, the Vanir. If that sounded familiar, it’s because it refers to a race of nature gods in Norse mythology. However, SJM liked the sound of that word but didn’t like its meaning, so in this world (also called MIDGARD) the word ‘Vanir’ refers to all different kinds of mythological beings, including angels, fae, werewolves etc. I love stealing words from ancient cultures and disregarding its original meaning so it can work in my shitty high fantasy novel. Anyway, this war is going on because humans are completely oppressed by the Vanir, who see themselves as superior to humans in every way. However, most of the characters are Vanir so the human plight is pretty much pushed to the background except when the half-human Bryce is being sneered at and she gets mad about it. There are literally people dying, Bryce. This war and human oppression get less screen-time than Bryce’s perfect ass. How can I take this war seriously and believe the Vanir are meant to be the bad guys when we spend so much of the book talking about how sexy they are?? Lastly, the writing: I don’t wanna be too mean here because I did read an ARC, but holy shit this is most badly edited ARC I have ever read. I’m thinking her editors are just becoming so lazy because they’re like “ah whatever it’s SJM, they’ll buy it no matter what, leave all the typos in there, take out no scenes, just let her do whatever.” This book should have been edited down to 500 pages and that’s THAT. Overall: If you loved her other work, particularly the ACOTAR series, you will no doubt love this, it has lots of the same shit in it. If you’re going into this hoping her foray into adult fantasy will result in intricate world-building, morally grey characters and adult themes, you would be wrong. This book is basically ACOTAR but now she can swear!! Hooray! 2/5 stars thanks for coming to my Ted Talk.

How most authors approach writing an adult book: “I’m going to delve in to some dark, gritty topics. Readers will truly feel the pain of the characters struggling to cope with the world around them.” How SJM approached writing an adult book: “SHIT FUCK BALLS FUCK FUCK FUCKING SHIT HOLY FUCKING MOTHER OF FUCK YOU FUCKER WHAT THE BALLSAC YOU SON OF A BITCH FUCKING FUCKITY CUNT RAG.” ———————————————————————— I’m finally ready to write this damn review. Please note that I AM actually a big SJM fan, which is why I took this book's existence so personally. Alright, alright, alright: 1. The minor characters. I was much more interested when Bryce and Hunt interacted with anyone OTHER than each other. Can I name any of those minor characters? Sure can't because either a) I finished this over a week ago and already forgot their names and/or b) their names are weird AF, which made it too difficult for me to remember them in the first place. I particularly liked Faerie brother & co., cat demon, badass boss bitch, and mermaid dude. 2. Danika's hair. Ice blonde with rainbow highlights is pretty bitchin'. (I'm grasping at straws here.) It's a no from me, dawg: 1. The 3rd person omniscient POV is done SO POORLY. I'm honestly at a loss on this. ToG is told from the same POV and SJM does a fine job with it (could I USE any more acronyms?). Seriously. SJM knows how to do it. SHE KNOWS HOW TO WRITE (don't @me, haters). SO, WHAT WENT WRONG HERE?! She left absolutely NOTHING up to the imagination. There was no mystery or tension between the characters. We’d read a scene from Bryce’s POV where Hunt was unusually quiet. Then, it would switch to Hunt's POV where he would spend the first few paragraphs recapping the exact scene we just read with Bryce AND he would explain every single thought he had while he was silent during that conversation. THERE WAS ZERO ROOM FOR INTERPRETATION. There was certainly no need for me to turn on my brain. She spoon feeds it all to you. 2. The spoon is actually a giant shovel used for slinging info dumps at you. You're told basically the entire history of this world for 150 pages with a little bit of dialogue/one grain of plot rice sprinkled in during it. Do I look like a give a flying flapjack who ruled this place 400 years ago and how they weren't that popular and who took over for them and what color shoes that person wore and how long they went between haircuts? SURE DON'T. Tell me when it's relevant. But actually, don't TELL me this information... 3. SHOW IT TO ME. It's Creative Writing 101. You need me to know about the current dictator's entire family tree as well as each of their favorite colors? SHOW me why it's relevant WHEN it's relevant. Don’t hit me in the face with a textbook. Also, make sure it’s actually relevant. 95% of the info dumps were not. NEAT. 4. There was no sex scene. In fact, there was very little spice at all. I’m not reading SJM just for plot, SO WHAT THE HELL. 5. Everything is SO contrived. I can’t even go into this without giving away spoilers. But, you’ll know it when you see it. Over and over. 6. So much gratuitous cursing. Look, I'm not some delicate flower who faints at any and all four letter words (see: this review). But, reading this book felt just like watching a Scorsese movie. Did they really need to say "fuck" every other word? FUCK* NO THEY DIDN'T. It served no purpose. *my purpose = rage 7. Bryce quit dancing because she was told her boobs and ass were too big. OKAY, BRYCE. Could not stop rolling my eyes at this detail. Am I going to read the next book in the series? NO. Is the previous answer a lie? Probably. But, Lindsey, if you hated this so much, why didn't you give it 1 star? Bias. Complete and total bias.

Watch my video review by clicking here. A very promising start to the book with some very heavy worldbuilding sprinkled in, is ultimately ruined by extremely pedestrian and indulgently edgy writing and a plot that drags on for hundreds of pages too long.

Sarah Janet, PLEASE GET AN EDITOR. Because why is this the first book in a series and it’s this long? Bryce: LOVES TO DANCE Hunt: has wings? I can’t remember much else but GR said I needed words, so here’s my abbreviated review. For more thoughts: https://youtu.be/l_v1inTeI5Y Sarah Janet Maas must be stopped but I know she won’t be and I’m mad about it 😭. Why can’t I write nonsense and be paid lots of money?

2.5 stars I originally wanted to rate this book 3 stars but after writing this review changed my mind to 2. No, I wasn't disappointed, I had 0 expectations. I also rated Kingdom of Ash 2 stars but this one is better plot-wise. In Kingdom of Ash, however, I was more invested in the characters (inevitable after 7 books) not Aelin, anymore at least, but many side characters. When I first heard about Crescent City I was very excited. I loved that she’s moving on to something new, I never like it when authors extend their book series. There are indeed many things I hate about her novels but most of the time, they are fun to read. This book was no exception. If you loved her other books, you’ll love this one. If you didn’t, I don’t recommend it. Many aspects are more or less the same. Little has changed, even the characters don’t bring much freshness. The spoilers will be hidden in this review. At the start of House of Blood and Earth, there was a crazy amount of info-dump. I almost thought that I’m slow because I couldn’t process everything (and no I was not willing to spend time trying to figure out the info text I read when I’m not even reading a physical copy) but then it got extreme and literally out of nowhere. For example, Bryce is doing something *extreme amount of info about her life and the city* even when it’s not related to the current events. This is one of the worst info-dump situations I’ve come across in my life. Not much was happening other than being introduced to the world at first and Danika, Bryce’s best friend. It was interesting enough, however, I struggled with many concepts later because of the above-mentioned problem. I missed some important details too because I was bored will all the information. In this world, we basically have patriarchy of mythical creatures which are divided into four houses. There are many kinds of mythical creatures from shifters to vampires and witches to angels and demons, fae and necromancers and a lot more. It’s a kind of present time fantasy with tech like urban fantasy. Crescent City is your typical SJM trying too hard to make her book look like an adult one with the cursing every two sentences, drugs, and some more f**k words. Pathetic. Bryce also sleeps around a lot. These don’t make someone look more mature/more adult but the opposite sometimes. Before I start with the characters and plot, I would like to express my absolute hate towards one topic: drugs. Bryce, the main character, and her friends smoke weed and snort lightseeker, which is essentially cocaine. I hated the drug portrayal in this book for two main reasons. One, I loathe drugs. I was freakin disgusted. Second, it was insensitive to people who suffer from drug addiction. So basically they snort lightseeker just for partying (along with other different forms of drugs) and do not struggle from addiction. Okay. Moving on to the characters, let’s start with Bryce: • She is your typical snarky SJM heroine. Can speak however she wants to all scary Venir and tough people and get away with it especially when others don’t even dare to look at them let alone talk that way because of alleged deadly consequences. • She is a redhead and all males, regardless of their rank, want to sleep with her. She’s oh so beautiful. She did not even qualify for professional dancing because her boobs and butt are too big. To quote Bryce ”woe is me”. • She is portrayed as poor. Lol. Poor people don’t party in night clubs at least twice a week, well, unlike SJM’s belief, partying, drugs, and alcohol actually cost money. It’s so annoying when the privileged try to portray poverty. Just don’t. • She is like Aelin keep stuff to herself only drop the bomb later. No foreshadowing. When you actually read from a perspective you do not expect them to keep things to themselves, it can happen if done so well that the reader doesn’t notice. Or doesn’t care, because it’s not something we’ve been wondering about! But in this book, it’s so damn overused, it happened 3 damn times at the very least (the third being by another character). This bugged me in her other books and Maas continues to do it thinking it’s an OMG WHAT A PLOT TWIST but it’s actually deceiving the reader. • She’s your Marie Sue, beautiful, strong (view spoiler), attracts men, and wants to help (view spoiler). • She can be smug, at one scene it was written that Hunt and Bryce existed a store after buying something ignoring the salesperson or whatever’s thanks. This person was never mean to them. This sentence added absolutely nothing to the plot and only served –in my case at least- to dislike Bryce and Hunt. This portrays how many people view salespersons and annoyed me a lot. You’re not better Bryce, YOU ALSO SELL STUFF BRYCE AND HATE ANNOYING CUSTOMERS. • Some of her actions were out of character and not properly developed. • Bryce was described as “one of those people who, once she’d set her sights on what she wanted, didn’t let anything get in her way. If she wanted to sleep around, she did it. If she wanted to party for three days straight, she did it. If she wanted to catch (view spoiler) her friend’s murderer…” this is rather funny. Accomplishing the first 2 needs a medal because they’re extremely difficult to achieve. Is SJM seriously comparing sleeping around and partying to catching a criminal by an experienced investigator/cop? This is incredulous! • This one is a huge spoiler and basically sums up what else I did not like(view spoiler) • Okay so these things aside, I did not hate her. I hated how she treated Lehabah at first but she redeemed herself. Other than the drugs things and the typical SJM tropes, I like her better than Aelin. Fine, that’s not saying much but she wasn’t all bad. She’s not full of herself and doesn’t let anyone undermine her for being a half-breed. She’s also smart but at the same time, I feel like the plot was woven to be convenient to her somehow. As for Hunt, I like him, I just wish he had a more lasting impression. Already forgetting about him. His role only revolved around Bryce and the book would’ve been fine without his pov (view spoiler). Regardless, he’s your typical alpha male IF I HEAR ANOTHER MALE OR FEMALE IN A BOOK A YEAR FROM NOW IT WOULD BE TOO SOON. I’m glad Sarah broke her former lover practice (but hey this is the first book, can’t say for sure yet) even though Conner is great and I believe he deserves better. Most likely would’ve liked him more than Hunt: shapeshfiters>angels. (view spoiler) As for Ruhn, I wish he had more role in this book. He was another Aiden but not an annoying one. Flynn and Declan were cool. Looking forward to their parts in future books. I appreciated his love for his sister. If he doesn’t play a major role later, I’m going to be disappointed. Tharion was also pretty awesome, hopefully, we’re going to see more of him later. Lehabah was my favorite. She’s so sweet and cheerful. I’m also very interested in Aidas and Jesiba’s future role in the series. As for Danika, aside from the drugs, I liked her. I appreciate the girls’ friendship. I’m also very interested to know more about Fury –who is Amren 2.0- (seriously though, can’t she come up with some original names? Feyre/fae, Fury/a court of mist and fury. And please more character personality diversity!!!! Now moving to the plot: • The book could’ve been easily 500 pages without unnecessary battering and description. It should be illegal for a UF to be 800 pages. • Since there was a lot of info about the world, a little guide at the end of the book would’ve helped. Even great authors do it. • We had the cliché evil monologue to reveal his evil whole plot. • Who the heck puts a shower and an aquarium –a very big one- in a library that contains the rarest books in existence?! • I did not have a problem with the pace… until the last 150 pages or so, it felt like the rest of the book and (view spoiler) was a filler. However, while many parts of the ending were surrealistic, I liked how the murder was solved (view spoiler). • WE MUST always have a tormented male who was enslaved to an evil woman. This shit gets old real fast. • I’m glad the mysteries of this book were resolved yet we have enough to work within the later books. • We HAD NOT MATES. YES, PEOPLE. SARAH DID IT. • No cringy sex scenes! (view spoiler) Beside the language, this book did not have many nsfw scenes. • The magic system was kinda arbitrary, we no rules. Something I dislike. This sums up what I thought while reading this book, will be continuing this series. Is this an improvement from her other books? Yes, maybe. Could it have been better? of course. This book wasn’t bad and kinda liked it but it had many flaws I couldn’t dismiss.

A slight improvement over the last CJ Box disaster- about the fake bear killing people but this was so disappointing. Joe Pickett used to be one of my favorite series but now it feels like being in a MAGA Twilight Zone. Up is down. Down is up. Killing purple haired hippies is OK if they are "libs". Militia types are only misguided - the FBI is corrupt. Sovereign citizens and constitutional sheriffs are a western majority. Today's generation doesn't know the meaning of work. College campuses are evil breeding grounds. The Deep State is Democratic. Reading this made me think what it would be like to trapped in a Dentist office - with only Newsmax and FOX being blasted on the TV - then getting a cavity filled without anesthesia. Making things worse, Nate can see through his falcons eyes when it flies. Yes. We now have the reincarnation of Carlos Castenada's shaman as a bitter far right vigilante falconer. But, I resisted the urge to mark this as a DNF. Goodbye Joe. It was nice to know you.

Review: This was filled with the many tropes that bludgeon thriller literature. Former spec. ops guys hunting Dr. Evil. One is black and moves like a cat. The other a falconer with a pony tail whom can see through the eyes of his pet perrigrine falcon. I am not kidding. Joe Pickett is the only one worth following but he is too good to be true along with his perfect wife and smart (x50) daughter. Yawn. This story line was lacking a good foundation to justify hunting someone for killing reasons. The reasoning is vague, but somehow, someone died blah, blah and maybe I missed the whole story in prior works. Still, it is as limp a reason as the cultish Ivy league college students toting guns with murder on their minds. Again, not kidding. Joe is hiking around and hears a gun go BOOM in a canyon, and immedately knows that it is a .454 Casull. Really? I have shot all my life, been in tournaments around the country and I could not tell you, without guessing, what caliber is being shot. Maybe the difference between a pistol vs. rifle vs. shotgun but no more than that. Maybe a .22LR all by itself. This must be like seeing the terrain through a Falcon's eyes kinda voodoo. The other annoying mis-representation, are that chukar fly in erratic patterns and are thus, hard to hit with a shotgun, hence the name "Devil Birds" as ascribed to in the novel. Just No. I have been hunting chukar for 50 years and they generally fly straight, with little deviation. Why some people in Wyoming and Idaho call them devil birds, is because of their ground agility. They can move rapidly up or down steep slopes. I think Mr. Box is trying to sell novels based on his self-representation as a western kinda guy whom took people fishing. The idea that someone can see through a birds eyes when in a trance, moves this novel into the Fantasy genre. I received this ARC for an honest review. 2.1/5

Bad Not the best kind of boring save your money. In fact the last two books were just O.k. Mr. Box seems to be losing his toucch.

Audiobook. This was a buddy read because my friend was gifted a copy of the actual book. Having not read/listened to the first 24 books of the series, I was able to follow along. However, it would have been much easier to have had the background and buildup from the previous books. I had to research falconry so I did learn a few things. The conspiracy theories and antigovernmental rhetoric was not great timing in my world. Overall it was an okay book. I was not enticed to read any other books in the series.

** spoiler alert ** Spoilers? I guess? Not plot spoilers, but… spoilers. This book is a “tell me about the gun” tactical thriller. I feel like this genre is comfort reading for dude-bros and boomers who think 100 guys could take down a gorilla. This kind of book is deeply concerned with the caliber and ammo type and magazine capacity of all weapons discussed. Less concerned with three-dimensional characters. There are basically 3 types of characters in books like this: 1) good guys. These are usually ex-military, probably special forces guys who can single-handedly take down opposing battalions. The audiobook narrator gives them Batman voices. 2) bad guys. These are also usually ex-military but regular old marines or whatever. Plus they’re naughty. 3) NPCs. Figuratively and usually literally civilians, they rarely make a difference in the fight. They are usually macguffins that the bad guys want to capture or kill and the good guys want to rescue and/or evacuate. Examples of NPCs in this book are small children, grandmothers, and dipshit liberal anarchists who the bad guys use as cannon fodder. You can tell they are dumb liberals because one of the jokes is how they make the bad guy boss recite a paragraph about how they are standing on stolen land, etc etc Battle Mountain is not bad as this kind of book goes. It’s compelling, you’re rooting for the good guys, you hate the bad guys. I don’t even mind the condescending boomerish political backdrop. What I do mind is how dumb and anticlimactic the actual fight is. The whole books leads up to one big battle sequence, and spends soooooo many words going over all the details—the lay of land; the different factions involved (there are 4); every (and I mean EVERY) gun that everybody is carrying. This is an attempt at realism, right? So then why does the author completely abandon realism during the actual fight? Instead of doing something tactically clever or unexpected, the good guys win because they are so badass that they have magical powers. That’s not an exaggeration. Before the fight, one of the good guys ASTRAL PROJECTS INTO A FALCON TO SEE THE BATTLEFIELD FROM ABOVE. Why not just have him cast fireball on the bad guys and save us the trouble of talking about the triple-barreled shotgun for the FORTIETH DAMN TIME I get that this is a power fantasy, but it would just be so much more interesting to me to read about a fight in a realistic tactical thriller that was won with REALISTIC TACTICS. I guess that’s too much to ask

I used to like CJ Box. Maybe this is what happens when you have to churn a book out on the same character(s) for years-it just gets bizarre. I don't really have any issues with the game warden Joe Pickett and the "outlaw falconer" Nate R showing up in the same corner of Wyoming at the same time, but no one is going to tell me that Nate can meld minds with his falcon and see what the falcon sees. Shades of Locke Lamora or Game of Thrones-but at least those books are billed as fantasy. Also, I just thought it was cheap writing to have the bad guy Soledad not training his radicals to prepare for fight, doom and destruction and to treat them-his own followers- with such contempt. I'll be taking a break from CJ Box.

I’m a long time fan of C J Box, but this one is so violent that I was disappointed. Joe is searching for the governor’s son-in-law only to discover a plan to get rid of many government officials and other military CEOs by a group of dissatisfied protesters. Axel Soledad is involved and Nate is hot on Soledad’s trail.

So..Grisham is one of the authors I always read. I loved the first Camino island book. And while I didn’t hate this one...it wasn’t nearly as good. This is not quite 3...not as bad as 2 stars! Why won’t goodreads give us half stars?

The first third of the book sets the scene nicely on Camino Island, however it shifts away from this for the remainder and drifts along without being overly gripping. Waited for drama throughout but it never appeared. Disappointed for my first venture into the John Grisham universe.

I will admit that while I read the first book in this series, Camino Island, I did not remember much about the book, just that I was not overly impressed with it. It was a fairly mediocre unremarkable book. Unfortunately this book is much like the first, while there were a few good parts in the book the majority of the book was fairly boring. The author spent more time describing the characters and the scenery than he did the actual mystery. There was one aspect of the book that is topical due to what is currently happening in the world, that is the treatment of aged patients in hospitals and long term care facilities. I would characterize this book as a Sumer read, read it on a beach or aircraft where you are not paying attention just killing time.

2.5 stars - love the setting, but the story just fell flat for me.

Having lived in Florida for decades, the most frequent question I have during hurricane season is “When Will It Be Over?” Unfortunately that’s the same question I pose with the novel “Camino Winds” I’ve really enjoyed many of Grisham’s novels over the years. I forced myself to get to the end of this one because of the tremendous respect I have for his earlier works. I so many levels, this novel disappointed me. The characters didn’t engage me, and the plot, although interesting, didn’t sustain the novel. The ending was perhaps the most disappointing. It went on, and on, and on. Rather than leaving the reader with an appreciation for the work on the last page, it left me wondering whether I would ever pick up another Grisham novel. (I have to add one last comment about the hurricane that is so central to this plot. I live in Jacksonville, the same part of the country depicted in the novel. I’ve seen what happens when a major hurricane hits the area. From experience, I can tell you if a major hurricane hits a small town on a Florida barrier island, getting over the bridge again and opening a business will take many months, not days. This assumes of course that there is anything worth coming back to.)

The rampant sexism and misogyny got in the way of my enjoying this rather dull telling of an intriguing conspiracy plot around pharmaceuticals and nursing homes. I was already annoyed as hell with the objectification of women, when one character, upon admiring the attractive physique of a dead woman, said something like, "What a waste." I don't know why I finished it. But I am glad I borrowed it via Libby rather than paid for it.

A stumbling beginning fell into a moderately interesting story. Unfortunately, it fell into oblivion with an amateur sleuth segment. Not recommended.

I can’t recall ever rating a Michael Connelly novel as low as this- his latest. “Nightshade” introduces a new character ( many actually) in detective Stilwell. As a new Michael Connelly character he doesn’t have the same familiarity that many of us readers have for characters like Harry Bosch. After 340 pages, I feel like I know very little about Stilwell. I wish that Connelly had done more to develop more background on the detective. Additionally, I didn’t feel like the plot line on the two investigations covered in the novel were very compelling and didn’t leave me “on the edge of my seat”. I will continue to read Connelly’s work and give him a mulligan on this one.

** spoiler alert ** Bummer I am a huge Connelly fan. But this new character is a boring, small island cop with a not too interesting story. I was ready to give up at page 80, but I hung in for Connelly sake. I know with Bosch getting killed off connely needs a new hero, but this ain't it.

As a committed Connelly fan & having read Every one of his books—- this book was such a disappointment. I felt Connelly did Not write this novel! Shallow characters with plot uncharacteristically UNcompelling! For the first time, I just did not care about the characters ! No depth. Truly disappointing. I will not be following this series. I cannot recommend this book. I do redirect readers to Connelly’s other books.

What a disappointment! This is an author I have read for the past 30 years, and what a load of old tosh this was. Sorry, but so many of the characters were weak and just forgettable. The main protagonist is just not believable...and I felt like I couldn't care less what happened. I stuck with the book because of who the author is....not sure he wrote it actually; so not like him. Too many unbelievable jumps......no depth to any of the characters.......no depth either, to such a beautiful place and just jumped about all over the place with no real structural strategy. As I said, so disappointing, as I was excited about Connelly starting a series with a new main character....will not be reading any more in this series. And the ending....OMG really! To read through all that and have such an abrupt ending...obviously Connelly started reading his own novel and thought I need to finsih this asap as it is so unworthy of me.

I see this author all the time, he is very popular in the library so when I saw this book was the start of a new series I had to grab it. After department politics drove him off his homicide desk in the mainland, LA County sheriff’s Detective Stilwell has been sent to a low key post on Catalina Island. Sad to say I just couldn’t get into this book at all. There were so many characters straight away that I found it hard to keep up, and I found the pacing to be too slow for me. I couldn’t connect to the characters or the overall story. I did like the setting of Catalina Island and the short chapters are always something I will enjoy. Sadly this was a miss for me which I am disappointed about as I love a good detective series, perhaps I picked this author up on the wrong book as I’ve only ever heard great things. I’m sure lots will absolutely love this though, so still give it a go.

James Patterson has several bestselling series, each carrying different levels of readership popularity. Detective Alex Cross is his coveted franchise and most successful series, followed by the Women’s Murder Club, Detective Michael Bennett, NYPD Red, and the Private novels. The Detective Michael Bennett series is one of Patterson’s better feel-good characters. Bennett is a successful Detective working special crimes in New York City. His home life and (very large) family are really the center of his world and provide the primary reason for the readers to cheer him on. Bennett’s first wife, Maeve, died after fighting a losing battle with cancer, leaving him with their 10 adopted children to raise, along with his sour grandfather and catholic priest, Seamus. During most of the books, Bennett has moved on by falling in love and becoming engaged to his wonderful housekeeper, Mary Catherine. The good news is that most of the books in this series have been pretty enjoyable and worth reading for the most part. The first nine books in the series were co-authored by Howard Roughan and built up a nice consistency and rhythm in the plotting and overall character development. However, there was a change. The last four books have a new co-author - James O. Born - working with Patterson. With that came change. Change in style, plotting, and quality. To be honest, I personally found the first two books co-written with Born to be less than pleasing due to weak plotting and several characters acting inconsistently. They were definitely my least liked Bennett books in the series. I felt like the new co-author was struggling in his understanding of the characters, especially after having Bennett’s son arrested for selling drugs. That just made no sense at all and was so completely out of character, I am still trying to figure out how this move was consistent to any of the character’s previous history. Then last year’s book, the third with Born, - “Ambush” had some improvements in plotting and characterization, which wasn’t hard to do considering the lesser quality of those previous two outings. Now, their fourth book together – “The Russian” – is out, and having finished it I am ready to share my review. When it starts, Michael and Catherine are just weeks away from their planned wedding. At the same time a new serial killer makes his presence known in New York city in a deadly way. His name is Daniel Ott, his profession involves being an IT computer specialist who contracts with companies to work on their systems in major cities like San Francisco, Atlanta, and New York. However, Daniel has a secret. When young attractive professional women don’t treat him as well as he feels he deserves, Daniel hunts them down, stabbing them in the chest or neck, and finishing off his work by stabbing them in their left eye. As expected, Bennet is assigned to investigate, along with his new partner, Brett Hollis, a young but smart investigator with a talent for research and analysis. Before they can get started and build any momentum, more killings and victims are discovered. The FBI is called in to work alongside Bennet and Hollis, bringing Agent Emily Parker back to work with Michael again, and provide seriously needed resources. Then Hollis performs some serious research on serial killers and finds a scary pattern that he shares with Bennett. There have been similar killings in other major cities, most recently two to four murders in Atlanta. To make matters worse, the city’s mayor sends his bull-in-a-china-closet bully over to demand action and results, which Bennett’s refusal to participate only makes worse. Not only does he have no clues to finding a killer, he is faced with the threat of being replaced just a few weeks away from what is supposed to be the happiest day of his life. The day when he finally exchanges wedding vows with the one woman he loves and needs most… Although this was one wasn’t as bad as the first two that Patterson and Born combined on, but it's definitely a step back from the last one. It’s not terrible, but it is average. A very average outing that comes across as ho-hum or who cares by the time you finish. The biggest highlights were the finally-we-get-to-the altar which should be a magical moment, but barely got three pages of coverage, as well as Michael’s new partner, Brett Hollis, who was a brightly developing supporting character with a bright future. We definitely want to see more of him. Outside of that, the serial killer mystery plotline was standard, with a bland protagonist that was vanilla as vanilla can be, and followed the usual Patterson storyline from beginning to end with a weak and tepid twist. There were some nice quality family moments sprinkled throughout, and I wished we had more of them. Overall, this book average and didn’t do much to challenge and move Michael Bennett forward. Some Patterson may enjoy “The Russian”, but the mind-candy escapism that we seek was less than stellar in this predictable and tension lacking outing. This makes Patterson and Born partnership in a hole 3 out of 4 times, and counting… Here’s hoping for some improvement sooner rather than later…

Pretty average crime/thriller book & the ending was a bit of a reach.

Ohhh how I didn’t want to give this a bad review. It’s very charming and a little emotional but I just think ultimately it’s supposed to be a murder mystery - and it just wasn’t. It feels like the series has become stale and the storyline just wasn’t compelling. If this was the first In the series then I certainly wouldn’t be continuing. Of course I’ll read the next in the series but I hope it’s released when there is a story to tell; not for the sake of releasing a new book every year.

Those who love watching paint dry will enjoy this book.

I think I've realised - I'm not a fan of modern books, too many modern values preached as rock solid truth. Euthanasia as good, wishy washy hope for after death, law-breaking as "all-right if no one is harmed". Maybe I'm an old fuddy duddy now, but I think I was just sad. It probably is worth 3 stars, I did finish and enjoyed it, but I won't read another Richard Osman I don't think. And I got this for free from a street library thanks random stranger!

I don't think this is a romance. A romantic subplot? Yeah. But romantic suspense altogether? Nah. It's more of a contemporary fiction with a little bit of suspense element to it, accompanied with a romantic relationship that isn't even fleshed out that well. It kinda made me mad though. Not the book's fault, it's mine. Because I thought this was a normal NR romance. I would've been okay with it if I was forewarned before about the lack of romance in this. Eh. Plus, I'm not that into the whole acting and Hollywood stars stuffs. Then having to read a book chokeful with it just TURNS. ME. OFF. SO. FAST.

This book didn’t impact me in anyway whatsoever. I didn’t have fun with it, I didn’t cry, I didn’t feel anything. Idk. I feel like it came out at the wrong time, as we are kinda in the age where people sympathize with the wealthy and famous less and less. Seems a little stale if I’m being honest. 🤷🏻‍♀️ what can you do. The writing was excellent per usual and the first eighth was pretty dang promising. But then it took a sharp turn into snoozeville. With Nora you win some and you lose some. This time I lost.

The story quickly take you in when young Caitlyn, a 10 year old girl, is kidnapped. (Spoiler alert!!!) But when that situation is resolved in the following chapters, one has to wonder what's going to happen in the rest of the story. What happens is that Caitlyn's future continues to be shaped by those who want to hurt her, meaning the villains shape the story. There's not enough explanation of their motivation, especially of the evil mother who arranged the kidnapping of her own daughter. She just continues to haunt and torture her daughter through the press, and the rest of the family keep telling Caitlyn not to react nor make a counter statement. Why the heck not, I'd like to know! In short, every time Caitlyn starts feeling secure, the media is against her once again. The mother and other bad guy send thugs after Caitlyn's boyfriend and injure him quite a bit, and then he breaks up with her. Caitlyn gives up her successful acting career, and so it goes on and on. The ending is predictable. If you're a Roberts fan, you know from part A that the young boy who helps her is the one Caitlyn is going to end up with. Blah, blah, blah, yawn. A super successful, rich, trim and atheletic Hollywood family who are all so perfect. I did like the farm and the family who helped Caitlyn, and the cops. Also, why didn't Nina stay in the picture or was forewarned when the vendetta of the bad guy began? And why didn't Caitlyn's father end up with Julia? It doesn't really matter. You'll forget all about this book the moment you finish with it, if you make it that far. Lastly, a quote: "You're young, beautiful, white, wealthy, and talented, so yes, privileged." This sentence feels wrong. Is it just lazy writing? I mean, if Nora Roberts really believed this of her main character, why did she create her? Why not write about the exact opposite? To be precise, I don't mind reading about characters like these, but Roberts seem to criticize her own character for what and who she is. I just find it bizarre. Perhaps she's trying to gain new readers or be hip with the times. Again I ask, why not simply take herself out of her comfort zone (this book feels like a rehash of previous books) and write something new and original that resonates with the times?

This is a meaty read 454 pages so a big investment on your time. It needed to be a great read, sadly it wasn’t. It starts with a funeral celebration of the oldest Sullivan’s life and the coming together of the extended family at his mansion. When 9 year old Caitlyn goes missing during a hide and seek game it’s not long before the family find themselves facing a kidnapping. Great start and a good hook to get the reader in. Unfortunately having exposed who was responsible fairly early in the book it really had no where to go. We follow Caitlyn into adulthood and it all becomes very predictable and unfortunately boring. Over half the book was predictable and dragged on to such an extent that I skim read most of the boring dialogue to almost the end when I couldn’t read any more. Such a successful writer doesn’t really deserve two stars but with lack lustre characters and boring predictable storyline I’m afraid I really can’t give it more. I would like to thank the publisher for sending this in exchange for an honest review.

I haven't read much Nora Roberts outside of her JD Robb stuff (which I enjoy), but I didn't expect this to be so boring. The first section is really the only good part, 10-year-old Cate is kidnapped and cleverly escapes. The aftermath and finding out who was responsible kept me interested. But that's only a small part, the rest is just rich, privileged Cate trying to figure out her life. There's a tepid romance (I expected more from Nora in this area) and supposedly some suspense as Cate is receiving vaguely threatening messages. But it's clear in the book who the villains are, so really there's no suspense at all. A minor confrontation at the end, then it's over. Way too long for this lackluster story.

The five stages of reading this Fredrik Backman novel: Stage 1: feasting It starts off really good. The way he depicts the superficial art buyers scene of the super rich is truly great and greatly true. What a great novel this will be! Stage 2: denial Still good, but something is starting to annoy me. Can't lay my finger on it. Stage 3: the turning point This is not writing! This is constantly trying to score! Why does every single metaphore has to be grand, every point sharp, every pun as witty as possible? If someone is desperately going for 'epic' it turns everything to flat. Stage 4: in comes the sarcasm Oooh Fredrik, you're sooooo deep. How incredibly deep you are! Seriously, how hard can someone try to get their book posted by teenage girls on insta and tiktok with the caption: "OMG you guys, this novel totally gets me! It just knows how impossible it feels to live in an adult world. Be yourself! Be brave! Be!" Hands down this will end up in the top 3 fiction on Goodreads for 2025. Stage 5: utter vile (and bile) At a certain point the avalanche of desperately wannabe quotable oneliners became this annoying that I not only vomited in my mouth several times but swallowed it as a welcome compensation for all the sticky sweetness. The end Ps. It's good YA though.

one of the biggest changes i’ve made in my reading habits is to give up on authors. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... for many years I was reading every backman release on the strength of my feelings for A Man Called Ove, hating each cheesy, cliché-ridden account of grumpy grownups more than the last. but then i decided to read every goodreads choice award winner. i thought it'd be fun. well. this book follows a poor girl who loves a painting and spends a lot of time hearing the story of the three figures in it that most people can't even see. it mostly involves sitting on trains and making brash remarks and then launching into another 25-year-old fart-related anecdote. almost immediately we were off to a rough start. this has an intense style, much more omnipresent than i remembered it being. i knew that backman loves a good expression (my issue with Beartown is that it's a book of mugs) but at least mugs are succinct. this felt like every paragraph's primary focus was the longest route to get to a cliché. every chapter ends with “he was wrong” or “she was right” or “they didn’t know what was coming.” lots of “not to brag” or “not to be mean” striving to reach the qualification of joke. this was never going to go well for me. i want to apologize to mary oliver (we should know proportionally more of your poems than that one wild and precious one — add it to the lengthy mug collection) and to sentences (not every one needs a “because that’s what we do, promises like that aren’t lies, they’re acts of rebellion against death” comma splice follow-up) and to backman himself. because i've gotten to the heart of my issue with him: for me, his books are too corny to be serious and too depressing to be feel-good. bottom line: it's time for me to retire from the backman game.

I don’t want to have to do this, but I do have to give this book a bad rating and review (thanks Atria Books via Netgalley, I was very excited to receive this ARC). My Friends follows two timelines: a group of friends in the past, including characters Joar, Ali, Ted, and “the artist,” as they navigate a tumultuous summer involving an art contest and the sea; and the present day Ted and Louisa, who uncover the truth of how the artist went from being nervous to enter said art contest, to being a household name in the art world. I didn’t read the premise of the novel before starting to read; after liking most of Backman’s books, I was convinced this would be an equally life-affirming and lighthearted read as Anxious People, filled with exceptional writing and grandiose proclamations that I have typically found both believable and relatable believable. And there were many of such proclamations in My Friends, which were actually the rare parts of the novel which worked for me. My favourite line from the book is: “Art teaches us to mourn for strangers.” There was a lot of commentary on art and artists that I found compelling, including this section: “there is a speed at which a heart can beat that you can’t remember when you’ve stopped being young, art that is a joy so overwhelming you almost can’t bear it. How sad it must be, the artist thinks, what an immense loss for anyone who never gets to experience this.” There is also a section which calls upon a Mary Oliver poem ( “The Summer Day:” “Tell me, what is it you plan to do / with your one wild and precious life?”). Backman manages to turn this commentary and use of art and artistry to discuss youth and aging—however, this came without much subtlety, as Ted, a forty-year-old man, is continuously treated as though he’s just turned ninety (“Ted stops and breathes through his nose, so hard and so irritably that Louisa is really impressed that no snot comes out, he must have incredible sinuses for such an old man”). I didn’t care for either Ted or Louisa as characters, nor for their dynamic; they were sarcastic in their dialogue, in what I believe to be an attempt at humour that fell horribly flat for me. Further, not much really happens in this book—it takes place over the course of a few days, and neither character seems particularly well-developed by the end of the novel; Backman barely scratched the surface with Louisa, while Ted’s singular purpose was to recount the story of his one youthful summer to Louisa, a diehard fan of the artist’s most famous painting (of the sea). My biggest issue with this novel is the sheer amount of nonsense littered throughout it. I can’t really explain what was going on other than poor writing, and I can’t really do it justice without providing examples: •“It really is a remarkably bad idea, all this. Worse than socks in a toaster.” •“an anxious and overwhelmed man with skin as soft as room-temperature cheese glances back.” •“this was a school, and if there’s one thing everyone knows about schools, it’s that a pair of crutches left unattended in a room will, sooner or later, end up on a roof.” What? Unfortunately the bright parts of My Friends were few and far between, and not significant enough to overcome the uninteresting story and characters, and much of the novel strays from the high-quality writing that I’ve grown used to with Backman. I also seem to be in the minority of the advanced reviews for this one, so I’ll be interested to see what the reception is when it releases in May. A less critical and more devout Backman fan might find it acceptable, but I honestly can’t recommend it, it was a slog to get through its nearly 500 pages.

I am an outlier here but this book was not for me. I won't go into too much detail but my main issue in the book was the fact that I was just so.. bored. I loved Bride so much and fully expected to enjoy the vibes in this one, but there was something off. I usually love dual timelines, but here?? it made no sense and it served absolutely NO PURPOSE other than annoying me. There were a few funny moments here and there but for the most part, the humor here just fell flat. I also HATED the plot twist regarding Serena's condition; like it made the book so much less enjoyable for me. I WANTED TO LOVE THIS BOOK SO BAD I SWEAR😭 Alas, the vibes were not vibing for me😭 The book edged us FOR SO LONG, and when we got to the spice it was.. lackluster.. again I am an outlier here so this might be a me problem? As always, Teddy thank you for blessing my ears🙌 the way he says "baby" is just sooooo😩😩

ᝰ. 2.5 ✰ I read Bride over a year ago. I don't remember much, other than I enjoyed it at the time, so I was looking forward to this one. Sad to say it was a miss. The humour in this book didn’t work for me (maybe wrong mood/time). I found it forced and overdone instead of naturally funny. Koen’s meant to be this big, bad thirty year old something alpha but then he’s saying stupid shit like jizzmuffin and twatwaffles ?? The plot was all over the place. Serena getting misdiagnosed by multiple doctors, Koen with his celibacy covenant, then there's the cult situation 😭 I know this is a vibe read but everything felt disjointed—the dual timeline was confusing, the pacing was off, writing was messy. That said, the spice was really good 5/5. Unfortunately, everything else fell flat.

honestly this was pretty underwhelming. how do you make a book about one of the most powerful alphas with werewolves this boring? I didn’t like the plot or where the story was headed. The whole celibacy covenant storyline felt like such a poor excuse to keep Serena and Koen apart, and in the end, it did nothing for their relationship since they had zero chemistry. Koen was cold and distant for half the book and then suddenly decided to act like a normal person. where was the buildup? the tension? the slow burn? no, we got insta love and some half-baked forbidden nonsense instead. Also this man was supposed to be a powerful alpha and yet he acted like the biggest idiot alive. HELLO?? you’re the alpha, just abolish the celibacy thing? change the law? do literally anything?? instead he’s out here telling serena to go sleep with someone else like. respectfully sir, you are a COWARD. Serena was a bit better, but she had her moments too. she was kinda naive and made some dumb choices. and the whole dying storyline? absurd. like girl, you’re clearly just going into heat, let’s be for real. 😭😭 the side characters? couldn’t care less. none of them were interesting. the back and forth timeline was confusing, the pacing was weird, and most of the plot felt told instead of shown. and the cult subplot? also stupid. the ending felt very abrupt, messy, and full of loose ends. the best thing seeing lowe, ana and misery again so i’m going to go reread bride for the 5th time because this wasn't it.

In a Nutshell: Expected far more from my very first Kristin Hannah book. Loved the intent, found the content so-so, disliked the writing. This is, as is obvious, an outlier review. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Plot Preview: 1966, Coronado Island. Twenty-year-old Frances McGrath, known to all as ‘Frankie’, belongs to a wealthy family of navy veterans. At the send-off party for her elder brother who has enlisted for Vietnam, someone tells her, “Women can be heroes, too.” This sparks a desire in Frankie’s mind to serve her country through the armed forces, something she never considered before. As the only corps willing to take a freshly-graduated nurse is the army, Frankie, against her family’s wishes, registers with the Army Nurse Corps and sets off to Vietnam. There, she sees the true picture of war, where every day is a fight for survival. But will this struggle end with the end of the war? With war protestors becoming stronger by the day, the Vietnam veterans might not be coming home to the open arms of their country. What lies ahead? The story comes to us in Frankie’s third person perspective. Bookish Yays: 😊 The intent deserves credit: to focus on the women veterans of the war, to depict what women can do, even if they aren’t allowed to. 😊 The war-related scenes are as gruesome as expected. Felt like I was right there in the war zone with Frankie. 😊 The focus on the importance of and the struggles faced by nurses and the secondary treatment they are given compared to doctors. 😊 The details about the mental struggles and health issues faced by returning veterans, which went much beyond typically shown in fiction. Bookish Mixed Bags: 😐 Frankie starts as a great character. Even when she is a naïve fresher, she has the right approach towards her work. But as the book progresses, her decisions start turning more and more impulsive and short-sighted. I don’t mind books with unlikeable characters as they add a nuance of realism to the story, but in this case, Frankie’s behaviour, especially in the second half, was more frustrating than understandable. 😐 The Vietnam war is not called the ‘American War’ by Vietnam without a reason. I appreciate the author’s decision to highlight even the American atrocities and the lies spun by American politicians. Though these negatives are not covered in as much detail as I would have liked, they are still enough to shed light on the truth. However, the depiction of the American troops in Vietnam is white-saviour in approach for the most way, focussing more on the medical aid offered by the Americans to the locals than talking about why the locals needed the aid in the first place. 😐 Most war books stop at the end of the war without showing the aftermath. That is one aspect in which this novel excelled; it went much beyond the timeline of the war and shows the reception of the Americans to the returning veterans, and the protests. However, the depiction of these events seems a bit exaggerated. I am obviously not privy to what happened in 1970s America, but I find it hard to believe that not even one person knew about women serving in Vietnam, or that not a single person showed sympathy to Frankie’s mental situation. The author’s note mentions that women veterans often met with dismissal, but ‘often’ doesn’t equate to ‘always.’ The balance is missing. 😐 Frankie’s downward spiral in the second half is, in one way, a good creative call as it shows us the darker side of PTSD. However, the events get tedious and repetitive after a while. Plus, the hyper-drama level is way too high in this section. 😐 While there are some interesting secondary characters in the book, they barely get proper detailing. Most of what we know about their background is the little we get from passing references in conversations. Many characters disappear without a trace as soon as their purpose is served in the plot. The one I am most curious about is the senior nurse who greets Frankie on her arrival in Vietnam. What happened to her? There were at least three skilled nurses that we know of (Ethel, Barb, and the senior nurse), but we hardly get to see them in action. Why does Frankie have to be the one to save the day, every time? The character decisions also induce much eyerolling. Whenever there is a party, the nurses drop everything and rush off, without asking or informing anyone. How is that possible in the army? 😐 For the first time ever, I, a big fan of author’s notes, have mixed feelings about the note in this novel. I appreciate the clarity the author provides about her intention behind this book and her research sources. Two issues, though: 1. She has no first-hand experience of Vietnam (which is very evident in her writing about its weather), and 2. She said that she wanted to change the place names and war unit details for ease of writing, but changed her mind only after veterans told her not to. I find it very odd that an accomplished writer of historical fiction even considered falsifying factual details just to make her task easier. Bookish Nays: 😣 The writing was the biggest disappointment. This book is much overwritten. At 470+ pages, I thought we would hear multiple women’s perspectives and experiences in the war. But unlike what the title suggests, “The Women” is mainly the story of only ONE WOMAN – Frankie. Moreover, there is too much of telling in the writing. Every single outfit worn by Frankie and the others is described in elaborate detail. Actions are narrated step by step. Every now and then, we see the time mentioned in army style – “At 20:15” – as if to remind us that Frankie is now a military member. The foreshadowing is too blatant. One phrase that comes up multiple times is “How long had it been since…”. The worst of it is the character resurrections – yes, plural! The effect is repetitive and annoying. 😣 The romance is cheesy and unappealing. Every single guy who has a proper role in the story falls in love with Frankie. We are expected to believe that this is common during the war time because of the low number of American women around, but in that case, how come Ethel and Barb and the other nurses didn’t have anyone falling for them? As it is, I don’t like romance popping in non-romance books, but it is even worse when the writing is so corny and the situations so lopsided. The lack of appeal in the male characters doesn’t help. 😣 There is not a single Vietnamese character of importance in the whole book. Moreover, the representation of Vietnam is, as expected, focussed on the problems: rats, malaria, heat, lack of potable water,… Though the Americans enjoy water-skiing and swimming and so on in the local lakes, the beauty of the location is rarely described. The funniest to me was the finger-pointing at Vietnam’s monsoon for causing Frankie’s travel bag to stay musty and stink even eight years later. Sorry! But if your travel bag is odoriferous, it’s probably because you haven’t washed it, ever! Don’t blame the monsoon! 🎧 The Audiobook Experience: The audiobook, clocking at almost 15 hours, is narrated by the inimitable Julia Whelan. Need I say anything more? Everyone who knows audiobooks knows that she is among the best narrators. If you still want to try this book, the audio version is definitely a fabulous way to check it out, especially considering its length. All in all, I do appreciate the author’s efforts and the intention that made her write this book. I even liked certain aspects of the storyline, and loved learning about the nurses who gave so much to the fruitless war. But the writing and the plot development were not to my liking. The problems are exacerbated in the audio version as it feels like an endless journey through monotonous situations. As is evident from the current rating on Goodreads, mine is very much an outlier opinion. Most other readers have not just loved the book but are positively gushing about it. So please go through their reviews before taking a final call. If you are the kind of reader who prioritises sentiments over plot and writing, you might love this novel way more than I did. 2.25 stars. My thanks to Macmillan Audio and NetGalley for the ALC of “The Women”. This review is voluntary and contains my honest opinion about the audiobook. Content warning: War-related brutalities and deaths, infidelity, miscarriage, drug abuse, alcohol abuse, PTSD, gender discrimination, racial discrimination. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Connect with me through: My Blog || The StoryGraph || Instagram || X/Twitter || Facebook ||

2 soap opera stars. Too cutesy and romance focused. No one is more surprised (and disappointed) than me to be giving a 2 star rating for this much loved and highly anticipated book. I started this novel thinking it would be an easy 5 star read. My rating quickly lowered to 3 stars by the halfway mark and then slowly dwindled down to 2 stars by the end. This novel follows a young womans harrowing journey as a nurse in the Vietnam war. The main character was likeable enough, but she lacked any sort of grit or believability for me. She felt very surface level and cutesy from start to finish, giving the overall tone a soap opera feel. Unfortunately I do not enjoy cute stories, especially when it comes to historical fiction. The lighter tone of this novel made it easy to fly through but neglected to leave any sort of lasting impression on me (other than disappointment). When I read historical fiction, I want grit, heaviness, atmosphere, rip-my-heart-out emotions along with the factual detail. The only aspect I received from this novel was the educational component of learning about this time in history. It had some atmosphere , but my detachment from the characters had me distanced from the plot altogether. There was no grit or emotion to pull me in. There were a couple of heart wrenching moments, but they didn’t truly move or impact me in any way. Romance is a heavy theme throughout this book. Unfortunately romance is a genre I do not enjoy reading. The main characters’ love interests had me confused and distanced from the storyline as none of it was even remotely believable. I think most of my lack of connection is that I wasn’t bought into any of the romance pieces and this is an integral part of what makes the storyline work. I also found this book extremely predictable and very cheesy at times. My eyes rolled a lot in the second half. I predicted several large plot points in the second half which took away any sort of shock factor or enjoyment I may have received from those reveals. The author also included an extreme amount of hot topics, like she was trying to touch on too many things without truly fleshing her ideas out. Overall, this was a complete miss for me. I am thankful to have read it solely for learning about this time period but I received zero enjoyment from an entertainment perspective. I have loved all of this authors previous historical fiction work, so if you are looking for a gritty, heavy, impactful historical fiction book, I encourage you to read those before picking this up. Please note, I am the outlier with my thoughts so make sure to read the countless raving reviews before deciding on this one.

Eeeek. This will undoubtedly be one of my most disappointing reads of '24! I am baffled by all the 5 star ratings that it's getting. After "The Nightingale" and "Four Winds," both of which were 5 star reads for me, I was really looking forward to "The Women." I started it immediately the day it was released. I was excited, to say the least. But ugh. The premise: Frankie McGrath is not your traditional girl, wanting more out of life than the traditional domestic roles. When the U.S. goes to war in Vietnam, her brother Finley, who is also her best friend, enlists and her parents are brimming with pride. Her father came from a "Navy house" and has a "hero wall" in their home where he puts up pictures of "heroes." His father was a veteran, and his own generation of men all went to war during WWII, but he was not able to go and overcompensated for his subsequent feelings of inadequacy by going overboard on the patriotism. His children are raised believing that serving your country is the highest honor. So when her brother Finley enlists & is deployed, it occurs to Frankie that as an R.N., she should follow in his footsteps. She winds up joining the army bc it's the only military branch that will accept her fresh out of college with no experience, she envisions proud parents, meeting up with her brother in 'Nam, coming home to accolades and a heroes welcome. Reality is nothing even close to that. So it started off alright. I am not particularly knowledgable about the Vietnam War so I figured I'd learn a thing or two. Things escalate quickly. Before Frankie's plane even lands in Vietnam, she's getting shot at by "Charlie" & cowering in fear bc of all the loud, terrifying gunshots & explosions happening in the vicinity. She's quickly thrust into wartime nursing, exposed to death, missing limbs, & other horrific injuries within minutes of reporting for duty. There is no learning curve, there is no training, she's forced to sac up & buckle down & WORK. So this was as far as I got while still thinking that I would enjoy this. At this point, things started to go awry. (view spoiler) The best bits IMO were the bits about the friendships Frankie made while nursing. Going through something as traumatizing as a war together has a way of solidifying relationships & bringing people much closer together than the average friendship. The way that Frankie relied on them & the way they showed up for her time & time again warmed my heart, but tbh even these parts highlighted how lacking the whole book was bc again, they lacked any substantial characterizations. We got no real backstories on either of the women, even the bits & pieces of their present lives were quickly glossed over. They were props, devices plugged in just to get Frankie out of whatever man-induced hole she was currently in. It also validated my opinion about Frankie being self absorbed & selfish, for all the support & love she’s given by these women, she gave almost none of it herself. For example, it takes her a very long time to be open minded about the cause her “best friend” has devoted her life to bc she’s too busy wallowing, & then when one of them gets engaged Frankie is jealous. Everything ties back to whatever is going on in her love life, it was annoying. For a book titled "The Women” which supposedly was intended to be something that gave distinction & a voice to a group that history has all but forgotten, a lot of this was about the men. Historical fiction is not my favorite genre, but when written well (according to my preferences) they can still be some of my favorite books. But when I pick up a piece of historical fiction, I want to learn something about a time or a place or a people. Often after or while reading HF I find myself reading up on that topic, watching documentaries, searching out facts. Kate Quinn, John Boyne, Emma Donoghue are a few that come to mind that have consistently provided me with what I want in my historical fiction. What I don’t want is to read a romance within a historical setting. In “The Women,” reading about the experiences of a nurse in a time of war DID interest me, but it could have just as easily been any other place or time or war. Other than a few mentions of the heat & of “Charlie” one would hardly be able to differentiate between this & any other wars. It was ultimately a hollow construction of the war, a backdrop for the romantic exploits of our MC. I could have written this book with what little I knew about the Vietnam war. I got through just shy of 500 pages without learning a single thing. The title “Love In A Time Of War” would have mo To be fair, I didn’t completely despise this book, it was readable, I was never bored. It was just that I had such high expectations & the result was disappointing. I have not read any of Kristin Hannah’s earlier works to know firsthand whether this is actually true or not, but I had gotten the sense that she had begun to deviate a bit from her previous chick-lit/romance with more literary work with "Nightingale," and "Four Winds," but it feels like she’s reverted back to her former M.O. with "The Women." (Which no shame to readers of chick-lit, some of it is great, but it’s just not what I was looking for in this instance.) Ordinarily I might have rated this 3 stars, but because my disappointment was so severe I had to go with 2. That doesn't mean that I'm giving up on Kristin Hannah, I still plan to one day read the "Great Alone," and I will likely continue to read whatever she comes out with. It is also worth noting that so far the reaction to “The Women”has been so positive that it leaves me feeling like I might be alone in my feelings about it. I’m getting the typical “what did I miss?!” feeling. To each their own I guess 🤷🏻‍♀️🤷🏻‍♀️

The Women by Kristin Hannah is a Blend of Historical, Literary, and Women's Fiction! I'll be honest, I was expecting more finesse from Kristan Hannah's writing style and storytelling... The Women transports the reader, along with the main character, Frances "Frankie" McGrath, to the Thirty-Sixth Evac Hospital in Vietnam, sixty miles from Saigon, within the first four chapters. By the end of the sixth chapter, I shed my first tears. This is an emotional read and, for those of us who remember those years during the Vietnam War, it stirs different memories in each of us... Overall, the pace of this story is slow, allowing repetition to sneak in. This is especially true after Frankie's return from Vietnam. Her homecoming was heart-wrenching but carried on, chapter after chapter, making the story too long. Perhaps the length would have been better justified if backstories were included for the primary characters. Very little to nothing was provided for any of them. Early in, the writing felt cumbersome and overly descriptive with flowery prose. The narration sounded throaty, stilted, sometimes monotone, and at other times exaggerated. The story had more telling than showing by the author's use of the story's narrative, rather than focusing on creative writing skills to allow the story to flow naturally. The writing style was my least favorite aspect of this book. It felt clumsy, overdramatic, and at times, snarky. This was an immersion read with a Kindle copy and an Audible audiobook, narrated by Julia Whelan. I love the female-focused premise and how the author allows the reader's imagination to proceed beyond the ending of the story. The story is emotional, true to the era, and well-researched. I cried, relived the memories and the music from that time, and appreciated the feeling of authenticity. The Women has many positive reviews and high ratings and I respect those viewpoints. As in all of my reviews, this critique is my honest opinion. Outlier Island, here I come. It's going to be a lonely place this time around... 2⭐

UPDATE 1/29/26 - - This book won the 2025 Audie Award for Best Fiction Narrator. I'm not sure how, as NONE of the Vietnamese names are pronounced correctly. Unless you want to get into a punching contest, I do not want to talk about how she pronounces Tết. My issue isn't only with white women. It's about heritage novels not getting the respect they deserve. One of my problems with the WANDERING SOULS audiobook was while the narrators were Asian, they weren't Vietnamese, so they too, did not pronounce names correctly. -- We all know the Goodreads Choice Awards are a popularity contest. As someone that went into this knowing I wouldn't like it, I'll try to keep this positive. To the person who said hate reads were out for 2025, fuck you, I'm always out. When I search Libby for books about Vietnam, it is hard to find anything written by Vietnamese or Vietnamese diaspora writers. Most are written by bitter white men that served in the war, which in Vietnam is known as the American War. Do I think another white person needed to write a Vietnam War book? No. Is it made slightly better by the fact that it is written by a woman about a woman? Maybe. Take a peek at the five star reviews. Nearly all are from white women. That's fine. Read what you like. I certainly won't police that. But for me, this story is unnecessary. Frankie is one of the most unlikable characters I have ever read about. Do not @ me. I read plenty of books that I end up loving, where I hate most of the characters. See my squabbles below. Play my little drinking game. Die of alcoholism. Frankie should've. While I'm being a Grammar Nazi, should've = should have. If I see one more person write should of, I will lose my shit. 🥃 Take a shot every time a white woman recommends this book 🥃 Take a shot every time Frankie says "in his language." It's not any language. It's Vietnamese, a language spoken by 85 million people. 🥃 Take a shot every time the narrator says Tết wrong 🥃 Take a shot every time Frankie feels like a poor little rich white girl 🥃 Take a shot every time a man says "there were no women in Vietnam" 🎧 Thank you to NetGalley and Macmillan Audio

The Exchange is the highly anticipated sequel to “The Firm” answering the question of what happened to Mitch and Abby McDeere after they escaped from Memphis, 15 years earlier. Only, for Grisham, it has been 32 years since “The Firm” launched his career as a legal novelist. With “The Exchange,” he plops us into the early 2000's, where we find McDeere a high-powered partner for one of the world’s largest law firm, Scully & Pershing. He now lives a very privileged life with his twin sons and wife, Abby in Manhattan. The first 37 pages of the novel takes him back to Memphis, where he has the opportunity to clear the air with an old friend/colleague. Was Grisham trying to fill in the 15-year time gap since Mitch and Abby fled the town? And…Was it necessary to the overall story? Especially since there was no resolution to what occurred when he visited. We then see Mitch being sent to Rome to take the lead in a case involving a Turkish company, that is seeking payment for building a bridge in the Libyan desert. When Mitch assigns the London-based Scully associate, Giovanna to go on a fact-finding mission to the bridge, she is taken hostage with a demand for a $100 million in ransom. And…Now this book becomes a "legal" thriller, with Mitch having to outsmart the captors (to keep Giovanna alive) and find a way to pay the ransom. The book moves at a fast-pace, and sometimes it doesn’t feel like Grisham is giving readers an opportunity to breathe comfortably through each scene. Which makes this novel somewhat frenetic. Almost like searching for Waldo, where readers may ask… Where in the world is Mitch now? And wondering, when we do have a moment to catch our breath… Is it necessary to give readers the feeling that Mitch and Abby may be on the run again? What happened to Grisham’s writing? Do we really need all these dull details about plane tickets, car rides, and another delicious meal the characters are eating? I have been such a fan of Grisham, devouring each book I can read, especially since they are typically so generously donated to my Little Free Library Shed. But…This one, even though I couldn’t wait to read it, I wish he hadn’t written it. For a much better Grisham, see my review of “The Firm” here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...

2.5 stars Underwhelming. What a letdown. This one did not work for me. And I refused to believe that it was written by Grisham. Even the storytelling did not deliver. This was my 34th book by this author (I have some older ones, still unopened, because I was so discouraged to read them). I was far from thrilled. But it left me craving for pasta. There are so many descriptions about food and long flights. This work could have used new characters. There was no need to label it as “The Firm 2”. 100 million dollars for a ransom to save one life. But it’s fiction. Anything is possible. I will leave it like that. Ebook (Kobo): 283 pages (default), 87k words - it should not take more than 6 hours Hardcover (Doubleday): 352 pages (47 chapters)

For years fans of John Grisham have wondered, whatever happened to Mitch McDeere the protagonist on his first major book, The Firm. Well almost 30 years later John Grisham fills in some of the blanks, as Mitch and his wife Abby return in the year 2005. Thing have changed for Mitch and the opening chapters have nothing to do with the rest of the book other than to supply background on Mitch and refresh readers on the basic plot of The Firm. Mitch and Abby now live in New York and have two sons. Mitch is a partner in the worlds largest law firm (over 2100 lawyers in 31 worldwide locations), while Abby is a cookbook editor. The basic story is that the firm represents a Turkish client who was hired to build a bridge in Libya. Mitch goes there with a female associate and while on a trip to inspect the bridge the female associate is kidnapped and then held for an exorbitant ransom. And now Mitch is dashing around the world to try and secure the funds to pay the terrorist kidnappers. No law involved in this, and shallow characters that you really cannot connect with. And yet this is the type of book that Grisham fans love: readable, fast moving, multiple locations for the action and a deadline that has to be met unless serious consequences occur. I wanted to like this book but it is shallow, doesn't make a lot of sense and by the end we probably will not see Mitch and Abby for a long time.

Disappointing, slow, repetitive, predictable, excessive descriptions that lend nothing to the story. It felt like the author was paid by the word instead of the story.

Readers hoping for a high-quality sequel to John Grisham’s thriller, “The Firm,” may be disappointed. I found “The Exchange,” neither enlightening nor entertaining nor well-written. The time is 2005. The place is Manhattan. Some fifteen years have passed since the events of “The Firm.” Mitch and Abby McDeere live on the Upper West Side. He’s a partner in the world’s largest law firm and does pro bono work on death penalty cases (which he doesn’t do in this story). She’s a cookbook editor. Their twin youngsters attend private school. The novel’s first quarter catches readers up on what happened to Mitch and Abby after escaping from Memphis, the Mafia, and its captive Bendini firm some 15 years ago. It includes Mitch’s brief return to Memphis to investigate a death penalty case (that goes nowhere) and to meet with a former friend/colleague from the firm (who doesn’t want to reestablish their friendship). That first quarter has very little to do with the rest of the story. It struck me as a “back-story” dump designed to reacquaint us with Mitch and demonstrate what a good guy he’s become. The remainder of the novel pits Mitch, Abby, and the mega-firm against: 1) Muammar Gaddafi’s Libyan government to recover for a Turkish client some $500 million for a bridge it built; and 2) North African terrorists who kidnapped a young associate—the daughter of a dying senior partner—while inspecting the bridge and who want a $100 million ransom. Mitch deals with numerous businessmen, lawyers, security experts, and government officials as he navigates raising the ransom money and the logistics of the exchange. He and/or Abby “private-jet” to a number of exotic locations, including Rome, London Libya, Morocco, Maine, and the Cayman Islands. “The Firm” was a thrill ride. It placed young Mitch—a very bright, hard-working, and engaging attorney facing a number of moral conundrums—and his compelling wife Abby at maximum risk. I remember eagerly turning pages as Mitch used his legal skills and cleverness to fashion a very elegant solution that avoided death at the hands of the Mafia and imprisonment by the US Government. The novel was filled with danger and conflict. None of that cleverness, elegance, or excitement is present in “The Exchange.” It’s filled with thinly drawn characters. Mitch is charmless, self-righteous, easily annoyed, and contemptuous of anyone who doesn’t see things his way. The rest of the characters are “game pieces” to be moved around a board. There’s nothing about any of them that invites us to care what happens to them. We never do get to know much about the young associate who’s kidnapped, except that she’s brilliant and beautiful. Throughout the novel, she hardly speaks. That makes caring about what happens to her a challenge. And while the settings may be exotic, they’re not well described. I learned nothing about any of them that I did not already know. And I never came close to feeling like I was in the midst of the story. The writing is very expository. We’re told what happens. But there’s little in the telling to involve or engage us. In many instances, what happens is tedious and humdrum—no more than a recitation of everyday actions (as mundane as: Mitch and Abby woke up and got out of bed. He took a shower. She made the kids eggs. Mitch came to the kitchen, hugged both twins, put on his raincoat, went out the front door and down the elevator, walked to the subway, and rode it to work.) Many scenes seemed pointless. Time after time, I found myself asking: Why did I just read that? Does it have anything to do with the story? Or is it just there to fill pages? There is some adventure and suspense toward the end of the novel (about 85% of the way through, according to my Kindle.) But readers will have to go through a lot, including some moralistic lawyer-bashing, to get there. And the ending that follows is pretty ambiguous and not very satisfying. I was so looking forward to this novel. I really wanted to like it. I just couldn’t. Which is why it’s getting only two stars. My thanks to NetGalley, the author, and the publisher for providing me with an electronic ARC. The foregoing is my independent opinion.

Mitch and Abby McDeere spent a few years outside of the country after exposing the crimes of the Memphis Law Firm where Mitch worked. They now live in New York City where Mitch is a partner with the largest law firm in the world, Scully & Pershing. When Mitch takes a trip to Rome on business, he visits his mentor who is terminally ill. Luca asks Mitch to escort his daughter Giovanna to Libya. A quick trip to the middle east leaves several people dead and Giovanna kidnapped. It' up to Mitch to break the news to Luca; and try to get the firm to cough up the money for the ransom. This book takes place approximately 15 years after The Firm, during the reign of Maummar Khadafi in Libya. Abby plays a big part when the kidnappers use her as their contact with the firm. Mitch must get the various partners in the law firms to put up money to pay the ransom. I thought the pace of the book was very slow. I found it hard to keep my interest in the story. The ending was a bit of a let-down too. My rating: 2.5 Stars.

** spoiler alert ** Absolutely underwhelming and disappointing. The first 15% of the book covers a subplot with Mitch working a pro bono death penalty defense case. I made assumptions that this plot tied into something later, and was hoping that would be true. Mostly this part of the novel is simply to give Mitch an excuse to visit an old friend from “The Firm”, and to rectify Mitch’s character from the first book. It really serves no other purpose. Sad, because this part I liked. The real story is more about a kidnapping and negotiating ransom. I didn’t care about the lawsuit against Libya over a $400 million construction contract. I didn’t care about who was kidnapped. I frankly didn’t care about anyone as the characters were very underdeveloped and uninteresting. It was a lot of dredging through negotiation meetings, descriptive lunches, and flights to and from places. Just absolutely tedious. No big thrilling moments or plot twists, no deception, and an extremely anti-climactic ending. I sincerely almost DNF this about 10 times, but I’m a completionist. Having read “The Firm” multiple times, I was very let down by this sequel. Would not recommend, especially for diehard fans of “The Firm”. Not sure why there are so many people on here giving this five stars. People are being dishonest, and are doing you a disservice.

I've been a Grisham fan since the original release of The Firm. In recent years I feel the quality of his stories have slipped, but the books were still enjoyable, what I would rank as 3-stars. The Exchange, sadly, was not enjoyable. I felt like it was 75% filler material and 25% story, and the story portion was weak with no creative mechanics: meeting - phone call - glass of wine - fly to a different city - repeat. Great writer, disappointing book.

Underwhelming….gripping in parts though…but a far cry from what one expects from John Grisham…

Don’t expect a legal thriller. Don’t expect good fleshed out characters. Don’t expect a story you’ll itch to keep reading. Underwhelmed.

Oh so boring! I usually love Grisham, but not this time around. The bridge wasn’t going anywhere and neither is the story. Terrorist in Libya hold no interest for me. Too many characters and to much intrigue. Got to the halfway mark and skimmed to the end.

So I don't know why this is billed as a continuation of the firm. I know its because its Mitch and Abby are in it, but it really could have been anyone. The book was a series of asking for money and eating. The end was tense but dumb, because why? I was disappointed. Grisham was always an autobuy and good read for me but of late, the quality is simply not there.

I believe my fellow corpos are very familiar with an adage "This meeting should have been an email". Well, as a matter of fact, this novel should have been a novelette. In the latter case, it probably would have been quite a nice result. But, as it is the former, this novel has an almost criminal case of punching the words out without any solid reason. And, as it is, this book gets dull, boring and everything is ballanced on the story arc that could and should have been told in 5 times less time and paper. In the end, it is a readable book, but nothing else stands out. 2*.

What a total disappointment. The Firm was my favorite John Grisham novel, so I was ecstatic that we were going to get the next chapter in Mitch McDeere's life. I reread The Firm a few months ago in anticipation and anxiously waited for The Exchange. But, it was dull and terribly generic. The MC could have been any random lawyer working for a big firm, there was hardly any mention of Memphis or Bendini and Locke except at the beginning. The story was uninspired and boring, the writing mediocre, and way too much time was spent detailing what they were currently eating and drinking (clearly just filler to get the word count up.) I stopped reading John Grisham years ago because all his books were formulaic, and even bringing back one of his most beloved characters didn't change that. This book isn't worth picking up.

So I just finished this book. And well, it was so lackluster. I was on the edge of my seat with The Firm. Basically the book was an analogy to how bad big law is much like Grisham’s more recent book The Rooster Bar was a commentary on student loans and getting a legal education doesn’t mean that you will make big money. I guess for me, I fine with that if that is what Mr Grisham wants to tell, but I kept waiting for a twist in this book and one never really came. He teased so many of them though. This book easily could have been a stand alone without Mitch and Abby. If you really want to read this one, I suggest visiting your local library. Not really worth purchasing, unless you get it really cheap AND you want to read this for completing the Mitch and Abby arc I guess.

OMG...what was this? What happened to Grisham? There is no soul, no reason to care in this bloated book. One of the reasons I loved books by Grisham was the small time lawyer generally was on the right side against The Big Bad. There was thrills. This book had an unlikeable pathetic small time lawyer who was out to swindle an old woman who died mysteriously. But this is the premise but we had every last detail until her death at around 45%. And when Eleanor died, i didn't really care since she wasn't very nice and was driving drunk which put her in the hospital. This story had no thrills, I didn't care who killed Eleanor since Simon was a trash human (and everyone around her). I hated the writing. This was such a huge miss to me.

So, Simon, our MC, is an absolute a$$hat. Despite the situation he becomes ensnared in, I had a hard time drumming up even a drop of empathy. And none of the other characters were much better. This was the biggest problem for me throughout. Pacing was uneven, being especially slow throughout the first half. A lot of irrelevant and unnecessary content felt like it was tossed in to add pages. A LOT of pages. How many client lunches did we really need to read about? And no one with a serious gambling addiction simply decides to stop one day because he has other things going on. Totally unrealistic. The reveal felt abrupt and rushed. I wanted to know how things turned out, so I never considered not finishing. But I did quite a bit of skimming because, quite honestly, I was bored. And, well, I just didn’t find the ending worth all those pages it took me to get there. *Thanks to Doubleday for the free copy.*

A time to snooze. Oh, how the mighty have fallen. I honestly can't remember the last John Grisham novel I read, but this one certainly didn't live up to my memories (although, looking at the ratings, I know I'm in the minority here). In "The Widow", small-town lawyer Simon Latch is barely keeping his practice - and his marriage - afloat when wealthy widow Eleanor Barnett walks into his office to draft a new will. Her late husband left her a hidden fortune, and Simon sees the chance of a lifetime. But when Eleanor's story starts to unravel and she ends up in the hospital, Simon is suddenly accused of a crime he swears he didn't commit. "The Widow" is long - very long - and not in a good, immersive way. The first 60% of the book could and should have easily been cut in half. Those chapters drag on endlessly, filled with a lot of pointless repetition and filler, with almost nothing happening beyond Simon being shady, spending money he doesn't have, and cozying up to his elderly client by taking her out for countless lunches. Then, just when things finally pick up in the last 40%, the pacing flips completely and races through the parts that should have been the most exciting - the courtroom drama and investigative energy you'd expect from a Grisham novel. The result is an unbalanced story that feels strangely hollow, centering around a small-town lawyer who is - perhaps a first in Grisham's universe - almost impossible to root for. I initially attempted the audiobook, narrated by Michael Beck, but gave up quickly after realizing that while the nasal, whiny tone he adopted for the elderly widow might have suited her, he unfortunately applied that same voice to practically every female character, including the thirty-somethings, and it became unbearable fast. Overall, "The Widow" felt more like a chore than an escape, but if you're determined to give it a try, skip the audiobook and stick with the print version.

** spoiler alert ** I have always loved John Grisham's books, so eagerly pre-purchased this book. I can say with no hesitation that this is by far the worst book I've ever read of Grisham's. Apparently this is his first attempt at a "who dun it," but it falls flat. Most of the book (at least 2/3rds) rambles on and on about the day to day life of a boring small town attorney - his gambling habits, his poor home life and divorce, and other poor choices. It hints at some intrigue with the entrance of "the widow," but then continues the mind numbingly boring day to day of taking the old gal out to lunches, what they ate, etc. He teases with some possible interesting threads, but then basically doesn't take those further. The ending is rushed and just plain DUMB. I considered DNF, but just ended up listening to it at 1.5 speed to get through it. SPOILERS ALERT!! A fan of true crime, I couldn't help rolling my eyes at who Grisham settles on as the killer. A serial killer Xray tech. Seriously?? Never mind that the widow had two step sons (who had records and no jobs) who were after her money, that the lawyer's secretary (who delivered the poisoned cookies!) was in a relationship with one of the step sons and the other step son was arrested for assaulting another lawyer in town who he thought had written the widow's will. Police never take a single look at either step son and instead ONLY focus on the lawyer who wrote her will. Then at trial, the defense attorney NEVER BRINGS UP EITHER STEP SON as a possible killer instead of his client. Doesn't give the jury any inkling that there were several people in the widow's life that very well could be the killer - like EVERY defense lawyer WOULD DO. The trial itself is also boring and I just couldn't stop rolling my eyes. Then in the last few weeks prior to the lawyer going to jail (of course the jury found him GUILTY!!! with no real evidence), he manages to hire a couple of hackers (even though he is BROKE BROKE) who dig into hospital records and SOLVE the case!! Voila! And the FBI and the court hear some arguments (based on evidence that was illegally obtained mind you and not admissible in a court of law) that this other guy is the killer and immediately set aside his conviction, even though the other guy has not yet been found guilty... Ummm, not how the justice system works. I was left thinking, "Did Grisham even write this book???" Save yourself the trouble and pass on this one.

Enjoyable enough to read at times, but utterly pointless to finish. Gave up with a handful of chapters to spare because I don't care for any conclusion. Disappointing.

It seems like every chapter a character was smoking and/or drinking. Who cares what brand cigarette is being smoked, or brand of liquor? I couldn't care less. It definitely earned a two star rating in my opinion. David, you're better than this!

3.45 out of 10 stars This has been my least favorite Baldacci book. It has a lot of misogyny. In the previous book you felt like the story was misogynistic because it was the times. In this book it feels like Baldacci just wants his main character to get laid a lot. If you throw out all of the women being subjugated parts, the writing is still sophomoric. I actually laughed out loud at a couple of cliche sentences. I've read quite a few of Baldacci's books, and will probably read more, but this is the last Archer book I read.

This has to be a joke (or a bad experiment or a ghost writer). Usually Baldacci is good, but this was flat, boring, and full of 1950’s corny phrases. And I do mean full, chock full. The narrator’s male voices were so similar, one sometimes had to puzzle out who was speaking from the context or content. No more preordering for me!

Bringing all the (non)sensibilities of the 2020s back into the 1950s. Ain’t it amazing that the heroes of the 1950s thought and acted like the progressives of today? Who’d a thunk it?

I was really disappointed in this book. I was wondering if David really authored this book or if he had a ghostwriter. This book was nothing like his other books that I loved!! Bummer!!!

Molls and dames and shamuses and gumshoes and snappy patter - and an endless, never-ending, without-let-up, page-after-page (in fact about 213-pages) of description of nothing happening. And, getting some limited action going after page 213 is really an insult to a reader's time. In the first book in this series I noted all this endless description, slow pace, and nothing happening in the first half of the book; but, thought maybe it was just the break-in of a new character within a new genre for this long favorite author. Now the second book - where even the shoot-out and murders are primarily fashion and forensic descriptions of what the dead are wearing and the angle at which the bullet/knife traveled through the bodies - is really just more droning-on description. It's one thing to do a slow-build; it's entirely different to be stuck in neutral. Sorry to see a gifted author spinning in this descriptive rut - particularly since Archer seems like he could be interesting if he wasn't so busy always telling you the weight and weave of the worsted wool that everyone is wearing.

Anon believable book seeing a true fan of David balducci this is one of the worst books that I have read that he has written is boring it is so childish there’s no twist interns and you really know the ending halfway through I read it because I felt felt it will get better it did not just not a good book

I hate to rate this so low but after the first book which I adored this book fell extremely flat. Very surprised by all of the high ratings It was a hard read to get through, just repetitive and trying to push a narrative constantly that although is justified and good was really all the book was. Characters lacked the same characteristics from the first book and all of the children seemed to be the same and not individual. If you loved the first book don’t read this one. The ending of the first can be left as that and should have been.

✨...I would…take the vasectomy over this✨ To get it out in the open: No this is not a bitter rivals book at all, no she’s really not an ice queen and it’s literally not a secret, no he is most certainly not Roy Kent (even accidentally), and no the romance isn’t ultimately central to the story. I found this to be more of a sister relationship story with a romance subplot. The romance/relationship was basically reserved acquaintances to quick fondling friends. I thought I could love it but I just couldn’t keep making excuses or trying to convince myself that the next page would have the moment I’ve been reading for. If I was really trying to start something, I’d call this Frozen fan fiction. I mean seriously the word frigid is used enough, and the amount of ice/ice queen/frozen/ice in my body/I’m literally a block of ice with eyes language is astounding. I honestly don’t foresee many people having my same reaction to this book. I think it’s a fine, easy read but absolutely nothing special. Emily Henry’s name attached will make it special to a lot of readers and that’s fine. Sally Thorne is that kind of author for me. I thought it had potential, a lot of it, but it ultimately fell so flat. That disappointment made me the most upset. I gave it 2.5 stars for the “fine” easiness of it, but I didn’t round up because I think it could’ve been more than fine but it wasn’t and that’s the boob punch. Full review below. Sorry if I’ve wrecked your dreams of this one. Personally, I didn’t like it but I’ve been told I’m petty. This is the part I should say “but I hope you love the book!” But my previously established petty ass will forever and always choose to write about how misery loves company and that I’m saving you a seat. ✨ Overview: I was hopeful. I read the first 67% of this book super fast. I was t h r i l l e d that I was enjoying my time. I love to love books. I want to love books. It’s so much easier to love books. But I think looking back on that first two-thirds of the book, I was ignoring small and irritating things because I r e a l l y wanted to love this book. The relationship was cute, if surface level, and while the book was absolutely not rivals to lovers, I still liked the set up. But I was waiting for that spark to happen. That b i g revelation in the relationship when tensions are high and trust is fragile. The “I have a l w a y s loved you” painted bedroom or even the errant vasectomy (iykyk) big reveal. Something shocking or surprising or different. My kingdom for s o m e t h i n g. Anything. I really thought we’d get one. Instead I got a whole lotta Libby (main heroine’s sister), a weirdly placed Hallmark “Big City Person turned Small Town Person and Local Store Savior” moment, and book metaphors. So many book metaphors. (Thinking about it now, the “something” twist was here I guess…but it’s not regarding the romantic relationship so no dice and it wasn’t even interesting. It made a could be interesting plot point uninteresting.) ✨ Steam: I knew the last third of the book would feature their inevitable sex scene, but before we got to the Big Penetration Sensation, the moment that would wrap this book up with a bow, I was finally trapped by too many irritating things. They piled up to a height I couldn’t ignore; a height that cast a m o s t a g g r i e v e d shadow over the nice and tidy nothing special five-orgasms-in-one-sex-scene sex scene. Since I was already annoyed by the time we got to The Sex, the language was just way too flowery and metaphorical for me. I don’t care what the idea of Charlie feels like. Or just how much he resembles a book. I just want to know how he feels in your v a g i n a. The phrase “we fall into each other” made me want to gag. Just say you fucked goddamnit y’all are falling into each other all over the place! Ya topsyturvy mofos. I will say the sex was definitely more than I thought we’d get. There were three almost sex scenes prior to the Rolie Polie Olie fan fiction. The language went to the extent of “nipples” and “erection” but they did their jobs. The three prior scenes were each hot because the locales were super hot: front door, midnight pond, library. I think this is Emily’s hottest book. I would be fine with this sex/steam level in another book… with the one caveat that I actually like the rest of the book. ✨ Characters: Libby pushed me too far with her not being able to understand that Nora had a job and couldn’t just take three weeks off from work. Nora only worked until 5PM and took O N E phone call and Libby just had to puppy dog eye it. Nora was so self-sacrificial when it came to Libby. Yes I was annoyed at Libby, but goddamn girl take a hint and stop trying to help! She kept *covertly* throwing money at her sister it was weird. She gave up a lot of things and was about to do it again! She got some huge news and was like “but I’m so selfish for even wanting this during Libby’s midlife Hallmark crisis.” And when Nora finally got to lay into Libby, we were interrupted in such an eye roll way. Literally for fuck’s sake. It was my Rocky montage cut short by an untied shoelace and a face-plant into a bunch of stairs. I thought Charlie was pretty okay until he took a stab on the now communal blade of self-sacrifice. Out of nowhere, and only for the sake of previously non-existent tension, ol Chuck just had to fuck up his entire life for zero reasons. Nobody asked you for this rite of stoically unhappy passage sir. It was too much. This book was supposed to be a bloodthirsty shark and her grunting, broody nemesis. We got a minnow and a dude in a hoodie. She wasn’t really frigid, icy, or unfeeling at all. He wasn’t Roy Kent. He wore black once and I grunted more than he did. They had one semi-bad lunch two years ago that apparently made them rivals (it didn’t). I get that “underneath it all” she wasn’t supposed to be frigid or icy, but literally her exterior was just as nice and normal as her lukewarm inner self. ✨ Plot: He was an editor; she was an agent. He rejected a book (about an old man’s dog dying, fun!) she pitched. Two years pass and now that profound dog death book is a best seller. Her sister is having a Moment and wants to travel to the real town of this—thankfully—fictional dog death book. A book described as if that Sarah Machlaclan commercial just ended with a basket of dead puppies. The agent finds the editor is also in the obscure small town, a big *shock.* She shows him the die-puppy-die author’s most recent manuscript and it’s so good! brilliant! fucking amazing! perfect! for no reason at all because it’s frankly quite bad! (You really don’t get any actual details to turn the idea of that manuscript into a plot that makes sense so… gotta trust their Midas touches there I guess.) Since the author is *fragile,* frigid shark lady (?) must make sure the mean stormcloud dude (?) isn’t too mean. Yes the shark is actually being nice because she’s literally a nice person who rides a Peloton because she likes it. She was nothing at all like Margaret Tate—I love Margaret Tate. There’s nothing beneath the surface of either of the main characters, at least nothing intriguing. You get the basic plot points that check off the basic plot point list (including a great love for lists!). Her peloton is shoved so far down your throat you’re basically training for the Tour de France. The author seemed to think that owning a Peloton is the hallmark of a bitchy person so if she just! keeps! mentioning! pelofuckington! we’ll have to start to believe Nora is an unfeeling ice cube with thighs of steel. Of course, it’s really supposed to show us that nice people can be blonde and ride Pelotons too, but it was just… poorly done. I thought the concept was fun at the beginning: Nora is the Big City girlfriend that the Big City boyfriend in a Hallmark movie dumps for the Small Town baker/Christmas tree farm heiress/struggling bed and breakfast owner because the Big City girlfriend is too blonde and too toned from the stationary bike she wants to fuck more than him. Cool but just so… not about that at all? How can that character be so boring??? Nora never proved to me that she had ever been a poisonous bitch worthy of Bob Spaulding’s scorn. Although she did declare herself “Heathcliff”…but I also think she likes Heathcliff…so back to square one. ✨ Conclusion: By trying to subvert so many tropes, this book just reverted back to every other trope. Congratulations ya played yourself. I think parts were definitely meant to be tropey, but I don’t think the book really meant to be so wholly predictable and unsurprising. There was nothing about this book that would make me pick it up again or anything that makes it stand out from the crowd. The relationship was so…blah by the end. Maybe I’m the frigid wench because I felt nothing akin to warm and fuzzy. Again, I liked this book for a lot of the book, but that was basically all hinged on the assumption that the relationship would go somewhere interesting and I’d be naming him the honorary mayor of my vagina. Once it was clear I wasn’t going to let Charles anywhere near a large pair of ceremonial scissors, the shiny, bright ribbon fell away and I was pissed. All the small annoying things just snowballed into Heat Miser territory and I literally broke into a musical number. So sorry family. That emotional and romantic payoff ending (and the big “I love you” “prove it” scene) was sacrificed for pages and pages of Libby and her bookstore charity case. The relationship got like the last two pages. Of course, more than a few pages were devoted to their “gut-wrenching” but oh so “righteous” split up. I initially said this was Emily Henry’s most romancey romance but I take it back. It ended up being way more about Nora and Libby than about Nora and Charlie. It is evident in the scope of the ending. Just go watch The Proposal instead. ⭐️⭐️.5/5 🌶🌶.75/5 Spoilerish idfk: P.S. Really, when a character hasn’t cried for over a decade, there are certain expectations in a romance. Just saying. You don’t wait the whole book to cry and then cry over something other than the penis attached to the love of your life. You don’t make it your entire character trait and then wait until cry number four to cry over him. Ya just don’t. *Thank you to the publisher for an advanced review copy! I really thought we had one bois I really did.

i didn't like this :( but i have reasons so let's discuss: 1. nora. god i so desperately wanted to love her. she's kind of stony and bitchy and so am i, ergo match made in heaven? not so much. the stony exterior was great but the immature center was irritating. i could understand her motives in wanting to keep her sister happy but her inability to solve problems and ask straight forward questions and allow her sister autonomy... big oof. 2. libby. her character was never fleshed out enough to be even a little interesting. she has 2 outbursts throughout the story and each time i thought they'd be break throughs in making her have something to really say. but no. she had a different perspective on her upbringing than her sister which was interesting enough but her life wasn't interesting enough to have motivations. she has babies, that's all i gathered. 3. charlie mcblandbland. he definitely feels more like gus than alex, which i guess makes sense given the similarities between beach read and book lovers. but beyond a decent sense of humor and some tragic backstory i again, did not find him interesting. i could feel emily henry attempting to make him a perfect match for nora with the older sibling, never picked by girls shtick but the sexual tension fizzled after the first encounter. boo. 4. setting was not my fave. i've heard people say it's schitt's creek-y but there aren't enough charming characters to make that a thing. did i like anything? i suppose i can admit that there is some growth on the part of nora. she chases her dreams, lets a man into her life, and finally lets her grown ass sister be a grown ass adult. but that's kind of it. feels mean to do it but it's a 2 star read for me. at least beach read had that jaw dropping moment of unrequited love/mutual pining.

Read by a book lover who didn't love this book🙂 Don't get me wrong, it's no doubt so well written. The prologue and the first few chapters are brilliant. But soon after, it became incredibly dull for me. It didn't have the 'wow factor.' The characters are just bleh (sorry not sorry). I found Nora to be slightly more likable than Prem's dick- Charlie (Dating Dr Dil reference that has the potential to ruin any love interest named Charlie). So Charlie is just bland...like the rest of the book. The concept is not new. I found it to be similar to Beach Read but in a very uninteresting manner. I wanted to like this book but simply couldn't. It did not work for me. But I would still suggest to give it a try, you might end up liking it more than me🤷‍♀️

The writing and the characters. No. Was looking for a good read with good character development and good chemistry. One of those books which look like it was written in a hurry. And the cover could have been so much better 😩

I thought I would love this book. Academic rivals to lovers? With an ice-queen heroine and a grumpy hero? That's my type of book. Sadly, this wasn't any of those things. This wasn't rivals to lovers at all. This was more like a mild dislike to insta-lust to lovers. There was no rivalry. They just had a healthy competition. One slightly bad interaction years ago does not make two people enemies. It does not work like that. Our lovely heroine, Nora, was not an ice queen. She was simply a workaholic. Everyone treated her like she was a cold-hearted person. But she literally wasn't. She just liked her job. What's wrong with that? Nothing. To be honest, she was a bland character. The author kept mentioning how cold she was. But all I saw was Nora being a practical person and a good agent. How is that a bad thing? Charlie was quite alright. I don't have much to say about him. Libby was such an immature person. She acted like a ten-year-old brat. Her sister adored her yet she always found something to complain about. Did she not understand that Nora liked her job? She was very pushy and selfish. And don't even get me started on Dusty. She barely appeared in this book yet I strongly disliked her. Who writes a book about their agent without asking permission? A book which does portray the said agent in a positive light? An agent who is very good and hardworking? That's just peak unprofessionalism. One other thing I did not like was that this was full of miscommunications. All these adults behaved like teenagers with no common sense. Overall, this was a very boring and predictable book full of clichés.

sorry but what even was this book? i really wanted to love it but it did nothing for me. this is the last time i listen to booktok😭 it was giving cliche rom com. the characters felt flat and i felt zero connection to them. i was veryy bored and underwhelmed.

Actual live footage of me with this book... Look, I've tried but I think I'm ready to throw in the towel on Emily Henry... she's just not my cuppa. It's not the book - it's obviously me when it comes to this author. I've not had much luck when it comes to EH but I've not given up and so I checked this book out from the library. Am I going to love it or? Please be good 😩🤞🏻🙏🏻

Idk if this book put me in a slump and I just wasn’t feeling it?? Took me a month to finish… this book was so boring and redundant I wanted to cry everytime I picked it up 😭 Happy Place- 4 ⭐️ Book Lovers- 2 ⭐️

I had such high hopes. Ugh. What a disappointment. This book was too much and not enough at the same time. Too many characters, not enough depth of a single story. Too many pop culture references and name dropping, not enough true substance. I may be in the minority with this one, but it was pretty lame.

I think I lost some brain cells reading this one

I know I'm in the minority here, but this just wasn't for me. The characters felt like caricatures (no one more so than Gigi, whose language made me think the author had never met an English person and was basing it all on Bridgerton style dialogue...). The plot seemed to drag as well, and I found my attention drifting more than once. I picked it up, because I thought it would offer fun escapism in a beutiful setting, but I just never really connected with the story. That being said, I am probably just the wrong audience here, as so many readers love it, and that's the beauty of books.

I really hated Matthew’s character, and the more I got to know him, the more I was so glad that he died in chapter one. Caroline may be given more grace, but I really disliked her for her attitude toward her mom. But the development between the two felt forced. Given how pivotal Gigi’s role is, I was surprised how little she was featured, relative to everyone else. I think it might’ve been because there were too many characters to focus on. Probably would’ve worked better with just three friends and a different title. Epilogue felt cheesy. Book could’ve concluded without it. So while I was unsure what the big deal had been about this book, I thought it was cute the way the author highlighted her other book (The Hotel Nantucket, which I liked much, much more) within this story.

The release of a new Elin Hilderbrand novel is a sure sign that summer is upon us. Her books are perfect summer reading, and The Five-Star Weekend is no exception. Set on Nantucket, this novel follows the recently widowed Hollis Shaw, a well-known food blogger, as she brings together four women from different stages of her life for a perfectly curated weekend of food, wine, shopping, and togetherness. These women have very little in common and all are dealing with conflicts in their own lives; will the weekend bring them together or end in disaster? I'll be honest, I didn't think this was Hilderbrand's best effort. I prefer her earlier books; her more recent works feel like an extended tourist advertisement for Nantucket, and her characters often feel disconnected from reality. I found myself most drawn to Tatum's character, a blue-collar year-round Nantucket resident. She seemed most down-to-earth and therefore was the most relatable. I had a hard time sympathizing with Dru-Ann's viral social media crisis or Brooke's struggles to remain plugged into wealthy local mommy society, and I definitely couldn't connect to Gigi, who harbors a secret that will destroy Hollis if/when it gets out. I don't want to say much else for fear of spoilers. If you love Elin Hilderbrand, you'll love this book. However, if you're like me and you long for a return to her earliest works, then you probably will find yourself disappointed by this novel. Hilderbrand plans to retire in 2024 and to be honest, after reading her past few works, I'm sad to say I'm not sure I'll miss her.

Oh man so bummed not to have liked this one! Elin is normally one of my favorite authors for charming, quick and deeper than usual beach reads. Sadly, this one was a total miss for me - very unlikeable characters, such cliche tropes for everyone, no real drama or substantive issues amongst the women, and you really weren’t rooting for anyone. She was so name droppy about Nantucket and clothing brands that it became like an overdone advertisement for the island and expensive things. And all the talk about food and the ridiculous amount of detail she went into about each meal was just over the top. Overall this one was a miss for me but I’m sure folks who love Nantucket and a more light beach read will still be into it.

HEY ALEXA PLAY LOOKOUT WEEKEND BY DEBBIE DEB! Lookout weekend ‘cause, here Elin comes Because Five-Star Weekend, was a dud! If you’ve been following me for some time, ya know I’m slightly obsessed with the Queen of Summer AKA Elin Hilderbrand! Her annual summer releases are the peak of my summer season and a cherished past time activity with Mama Rover! For six days leading up to pub day, I was feverishly stalking my local B&N, crossing my ears, eyes, tongue, AND TOES (!!!) that one of the angelic booksellers would place a copy of the highly anticipated The Five-Star Weekend on the shelves, days early (as they are wont to do.. BLESS!) Much to my dismay, my bookish treasure hunt did not end in a happy ending (no, not that kind of happy ending, get your head out of the Nantucket gutter!) and I had to wait until pub day to get my dirty paws on a copy! Did I immediately binge read The Five-Star Weekend? Yes! Was it a five star bookie wookie? NOPE! *siiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiigh* Hilderbrand’s 29th summer novel follows an iconic food blogger named Hollis Shaw, who is reeling in the aftermath of her husband’s sudden death. Nursing a broken heart, feeling the wrath of blame from her young adult daughter (ugggh), Hollis decides to organize a “Five-Star Weekend”. The concept is fab: gather women from each stage of her life and host a Nantucket-licious weekend doing all of the things! However… Hollis’s constant obsession over her followers, likes, and social media, were just… so cringe to me! The subplots of the women attending the weekend were also just… eeeeeeek! A PLETHORA of cancel culture (which I know EH drew from her own personal experience but the manner in which she handled it in this book was SO WEIRD), the wife of a man being accused of sexual misconduct, a handful of cheater-cheater-pumpkin-eaters… it was all just too much for me. Island vibes were lacking but per usual, the food descriptions were dynamite. ALRIGHT, OFF TO GO READ ONE OF ELIN'S BACKLIST BOOKS! BYEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!

** spoiler alert ** Didn’t hate. Didn’t love. I know I have to suspend belief on a lot of beachy reads, but there were parts in this one that made me roll my eyes all the way up to my forehead. I loved the few Elin Hildebrand novels I’ve read so far, my fav being the summer of 1969 and Hotel Nantucket. I enjoy picturing Nantucket in the summer, the numerous references to my fav city Boston, and life on the storied East Coast in particular. I love her descriptions of beachy island days in the sun and nights spent drinking rosè and eating perfectly seasoned pomme frites. This one, however, was inconsistent. There were several times where I was genuinely questioning if I missed something or if the editor was drunk. A character coming out out of literally nowhere (seriously no small clues, no musings, no nothing, just all of a sudden, I’m gay! Should I announce on Facebook!) a character last name inconsistencies, several sentences that literally made no sense and did nothing for the plot. I don’t know. This one just missed the mark for me.

Meh. Not bad but not too exciting either. The ending wrapped up a bit too conveniently, Jack (and Kyle) were creepy as hell, and frankly for a book about friendship, Hollis doesn’t seem like a good friend at all.

not me forgetting I read this.

𝟎𝟓/𝟎𝟏/𝟐𝟒 These two were so boring they made my medical textbooks seem more interesting 🥱💤 Calling it a day with this series I've got no hope for the next book. ｡ﾟ•┈꒰ა ♡ ໒꒱┈• ｡ﾟ

this was underwhelming as the emotional connection wasn’t strong enough for me and their romance felt like it was more told rather than shown.

I’m usually a firm believer that an interconnected stand-alone series should be read in order. I follow this rule religiously and *almost* never have regrets. However, I don’t think the world would end if you skipped this one. I just didn’t find anything interesting or worthwhile in this book. Ana Haung does a good job keeping her interconnected stand-alone series pretty individual. I think it goes for any of her books, if it doesn’t sound interesting to you, you can skip it. Which I greatly appreciate. Of course, don’t let my review influence you too much, if it sounds interesting to you, go ahead and read it!! I just personally didn’t enjoy this one as much as I thought I would. —— 2 stars✨ 💛 ———————————————————————————- જ╰┈➤ 𝓅𝓇𝑒-𝓇𝑒𝒶𝒹: Time to pick up this series again. ⏱️ 👑 I literally shaking with excitement because this series is so much fun and I can't believe I waited this long to pick it up again. 🤦🏻‍♀️ Anyway, im excited to gobble up all the easter eggs she sprinkles into her books. Setting my expectations high so I hope I don't get let down. 🤞

I didn't see this coming. I'm about as close to a John Sanford fanboy as they come. Not every one of his books is a home run, but quite a few are and the ones that aren't are often doubles or triples. I've enjoyed the Prey Series. I've enjoyed the Flowers Series. I've really enjoyed the new Letty Series. I enjoyed his Sci-Fi book and I enjoy his YA series. I enjoyed the Kidd books. I've enjoyed it all and throughout all of it I don't think there was a book that I didn't like...until now. Finally, after 33 successes, Sandford has laid an egg. Toxic Prey is officially my least favorite book he's written. Where to start? First of all, this is a Letty Davenport book, not a Prey book. Lucas is the main character of this book. He doesn't share the spotlight with Letty equally. It's her case. She's the main character and he's part of the supporting cast. There's absolutely nothing about this book that requires him to be there. He could have been replaced by a new character and nothing about this story changes. Now, I don't mind it being a Letty book, but let's call it part of that series then. This is also a Letty story. This isn't Lucas investigating. It's spy stuff. At no point does he break the case. In fact, he hears something. That's it. That's the big break. It's coincidence that he solves problem. You could replace Lucas without even having to change much of the dialogue. If this is your first introduction to Lucas you'd come away asking what's the big deal? How has this character made it to 34 books? It's also improbable. Don't get me wrong, you have to be willing to suspend some serious disbelief to get past how many serial killers Lucas has caught so that comes with the territory, but the way this book comes about--the fact that Letty, Lucas and their crew are the ones who are tasked with saving the world gets more and more improbable. At many points I asked myself, why isn't the full weight of the US Government being put into action here? The pacing was off too. Sandford's books usually hum. They start a bit slow but then at some point, they go downhill hard to the finish. I usually have to try to make the books last. I struggle to make them last more than 2 days though. They are that good and that well paced. This took me 4 days to read and I had to force myself to read on at some points and was never excited about picking it back up again. My biggest disappointment was that I actually liked this book the first time I read it. Only it was written by Dan Brown as part of the Robert Langdon (DaVinci Code) series in 2013. In fairness, it wasn't my favorite book by Brown either but it got more than 2 stars, I can tell you that. It felt more plausible. And look: it's not that because one guy writes about a noble virus spreader trying to save the world by killing off half the population so that means no one else can, but Brown's books are pretty popular, as are Sandfords and I've never caught him borrowing before. If there had been some new tilt to it, if he had taken the sub-genre to a new place or given it a new twist I'd say fine, but if my memory serves me correct, there are a LOT of similarities and not too many new distinguishing ideas. I'm going to wipe this one from memory. Every author deserves a clunker once in a while and considering it's been over 50 books without one, Sandford gets an automatic pass from me. But I don't recommend this one. And I can't give it more than 2 stars. I'd suggest starting the Prey Series from the beginning. Anyone who's ever taken that suggestion from me has thanked me (and cursed me for all the books they had to buy or take out at the library). I've enjoyed every other Prey Book. This one? It was Toxic.

Yeah, it was pretty toxic. The worst of the 34 Lucas books by a long way. I'll give him one more chance, all authors deserve one, but if the next book is as bad as this, I'll call it quits. Note to John Sandford and almost all authors. Not every phone is an iphone. Not every tablet is an ipad, and not every computer is a Mac. In fact, their market share is small, though the US seems to like them a lot more than the rest of the world. Why can't you just say 'phone' or 'tablet'? Is Apple paying you kickback or something. Wouldn't surprise me. Special people own i devices ;) Shameless plugs aside, this story is overused, and this implementation of it is just plan dumb. Unrealistic characters, cringeworthy dialog, and just generally boring.

I honestly should have known I wouldn’t love this… seeing as the entire premise of the book is a cheating trope 😭 I can handle messy stories and messy characters if the redeemable qualities surpass the negative ones… but this didn’t work for me. I unfortunately could not root for anyone. Except for maybe Scott. Bless Scott. Oh and I did like the little historical blurbs at each year. That was fun.

5 Sizzling Facts about “28 Summers" 1) Yet another beachy romance from Elin Hilderbrand, originally released in 2020. 2) The book's premise shares the same premise as the classic movie "Same Time, Next Year". In "Same Time, Next Year", a man and woman are intimate with each other one weekend a year, with no communication between them during the year. In "28 Summers", two lovers connect with each other in Nantucket on Labor Day weekend every year. The two protagonists watch the "Same Time Next Year" movie together annually. (UGH!) The male lover is married so the couple’s “same time, next year" affair is an adulterous affair. 3) In the book’s prologue, the book's beloved and deeply flawed female protagonist dies of cancer at a young age. Per her request, her clandestine "same time, next year" lover is called to her deathbed. I was disappointed that I knew the book’s ending prior to starting chapter one. 4) BEWARE: This book contained political dogma. Shame on you, Elin Hilderbrand! Although I respect the author's political views, I don't enjoy reading any author’s political views in a fiction book. 5) BEWARE #2: Names of real Nantucket hotels and restaurants were cited in this book, AKA product placements. (Huh?) The author slightly changed the name of the supreme court justice nominee she was bashing, but did not even attempt to change the name of Nantucket's White Elephant Hotel and other establishments -------------------------------------- TO SUM UP: Elin Hilderbrand is a prolific and talented novelist. After listening to this book, it seemed like she FINALLY ran out of topics to write about. (Ya think?) The author's "borrowed" premise from a classic movie was lame and required a huge suspension of disbelief. The author's feeble attempt to give the movie's premise her own spin that did not work. By adultery Summer #3, I grew tired and was just not "getting" why the female protagonist didn't give her lover an ultimatum. While the author’s recap of key news events each year was nostalgic, it was also wearisome. Quite frankly, it seemed like the author was using these yearly news recaps as filler material. (Did she have a word count to meet?) I listened to the audiobook read by Erin Bennett. As usual, Erin Bennet's narration was superb. 2 stars for Elin’s "28"!

The writing of this book was compelling. The storyline was disgusting. Romanticizing infidelity is not cool with me, neither is normalizing it. No. Just no.

I have nothing against romance books per se but I don't know whether its my singularly bad luck or something else that I seem to pick up books which leave me scratching my head and wondering, "If this classifies as Romance, I am better off reading thrillers😀". . 28 summers was another one of my bookclub reads which I agreed to in a temporary moment of insanity. This story follows Jake and Mallory and their unusual arrangement of meeting for each Labor Day weekend every year come rain or shine, marriage or relationship, kids or bereavement🙄. . Jake is a friend of Mallory's brother - Cooper and they meet for the first time at Nantucket for Cooper's bachelor party. Mallory inherited a cottage from her aunt in Nantucket facilitating her escape from big city and a toxic best friend - Leland. By a quirk of fate or a healthy suspension of belief on readers' part, every person of the group leaves the cottage one by one thereby allowing Jake and Mallory to spend a weekend together and then promising each other to recreate this magical weekend every year on labor day.🙄 . Now if you are thinking that why didn't Jake and Mallory tried to make the relationship work if they were so enchanted with each other, well then how could we poor readers endure 28 repetitive summers of a supposed magical weekend. Girl and boy meet, they fall in love, they stay together - story over😀. . Jake is still carrying a torch for Ursula, his childhood love who is a hot-shot lawyer prioritising her career over her parents and her love relationships. Now Ursula's metamorphosis - from a kind, sweet twelve year old girl who used to spend hours by the bedside of her terminally sick friend Jessica (Jake's twin) to a woman who is a regressive 'feminist' ("You want to give me a compliment, tell me I am smart, I am strong, not that I am beautiful"- What's wrong with being everything, I wonder to myself!) - rivals Kafka's! . Jake returns from Nantucket, bumps into Ursula and yes, they get together again. The difference being that he is now carrying a torch for Mallory. Repeat this 27 times more, add a wedding and a daughter for Jake, add a few relationships and a son from a 'five minute stand😀' for Mallory and you get 28 summers. . I have really strong views about infidelity. In my personal opinion, its better to separate and go separate ways than to stay and cheat in a relationship. This book brings infidelity to a whole different level. Mallory seems stuck on Jake. No one else is good enough. Meanwhile Jake is living his life with Ursula trying to project that he is a martyr. I felt like giving him a slap on the back of his head and saying, "Leave her moron and go back to Mallory if you are so unhappy". But no, he can't seem to leave Ursula who changes color with every season, presumably just for comparison with bland as a toothpaste Mallory. . There are lots of sub plots which seem to be put there as fillers only with no substantive relationship to the story. Cooper's five marriages, Leland rediscovering herself as gay and having a relationship with a famous author, Leland coming back in Mallory's life and berating her, ultimately outing the secret of Mallory's 'weekend' in her famous blog. . I don't know how my bookclub members were swooning over this book, crying and wanting to read more books by the author🙄. I think its time to bid adieu to that club.

Nope. This book didn’t sit well with me because these were adults making terrible and absurd choices. I also didn’t like the faintly veiled politics. It all seemed a bit ridiculous...

I would rate this book 1 star, but I do have to admit Hilderbrand can write. Did I hate the entire plot of the book, yes, yet how Hilderbrand set up the book and her writing style is pleasant. You can tell a lot of thought went into the book. As for the actual plot I don’t even know where to begin. The relationship between Jake and Mallory made no sense, why did they never give a real relationship a try? Why did Mallory torture herself with this relationship and only let go when another woman told her to? Why did Jake stay with Ursula (I’m going to be honest I did not understand how his dead sister played a part in this, his reasoning seemed so stupid)? Why was a hard working women, Ursula, portrayed in such a negative light? Why were all the main relationships crappy? By crappy I mean full of cheating, no communication, and/or not good matches. If this book wasn’t for a book club I would have stopped at 15% of the way in. There was nothing romantic about this book and it was just so ridiculous. I guess my biggest take away from the book is this is how I would never want to live my life. So happy I am now finished this book and can read other things. Sad I will not get back the 6-7 hours it took me to read this degrading book.

oh my fellow Reese’s Cups im so sorry but this book was a HOT ASS MESS. as a huge Reese fan i’d been so excited for this book to come out and that’s the only reason i didn’t just dnf this early on. Not sure how much input Coben had on this but I did not expect a Reese Witherspoon book to be such a ‘dad thriller’ complete with mobs, russian oligarchs, and cartoonish biker gangs. let’s get this out of the way: the writing in this thing is straight of a high school creative writing class kind of bad. there is sooo much unnecessary exposition and everything is explained to you like you’re a 3rd grader. one egregious example: “Is this a Bugatti?” Maggie asks. She doesn’t know cars, never had any interest in them, never understood those fascinated by them. Cars aren’t her baby or friend; she doesn’t think they’re cool. They get her from Point A to Point B. Period, the end. She only guesses it’s a Bugatti because it just feels like money and because Charles Lockwood had told her that she’d be staying at the new ultra-exclusive Bugatti Residences by Binghatti, which is supposed to somehow combine Binghatti luxury living (whatever that means) with, well, Bugatti luxury automotive design. Didn’t make much sense to Maggie, but not much about the innovatively decadent (yet decidedly throwback) Dubai lifestyle did.” Like???? it’s a mostly readable book, and around the 30% mark is where i stated getting invested in where the story was going and what reveals were in store, but again it’s just not very well done. this also feels a bit confusing coming from Reese as this book is much more suited to Coben’s audience than hers. maybe it’s because i associate her with books like Big Little Lies and Where the Crawdads Sing, but i definitely feel like people would expect more of a domestic mystery from her instead of an outlandish conspiracy/action thriller like this 🤷🏻‍♂️

I’m sorry Reese ILYSM but this was brutal

writing this was certainly... a choice! pre-read: doing a 24 hour readathon for the choice awards nominees.. wish me luck 🫢

I only read this because Ann Patchett recommended it!! She should give me my time and money back. It’s not VERY bad, but bad enough to make me write a review. It’s some sort of smart-ish feminist Dan Brown. Lots of long quotes from Wikipedia. Thank you, Reese (or Harlan) for explaining to me what ‘brunch’ means. Or ‘motel’ 🙄🙄🙄. Thank you for assuming I am such an idiot that I don’t know the meaning or origin of basic words, but I am intelligent enough to listen to and understand all the details of a heart transplant or a boob job. Because that’s the main reason I pick up a thriller, to learn how to do surgery… I read somewhere that Reese Witherspoon said she hopes this book will encourage more women to go to medical school. 🙄🙄🙄🙄 It would have been 3 stars if it hadn’t gone all Dan Brown on me.

Audiobook (11 hours) narrated by: Reese Witherspooon Chris Pine Kiff VanderHeuvel Suehyla El-Attar Young Peter Ganim Saskia Maaleveld James Fouhey Published by Hachette Audio (Grand Central Publishing) Anyone who has read my reviews may know my love for Saskia Maaleveld. She is an exceptional narrator. Even in the midst of award winning actors, her narration skills shine through and above the rest. She is awesome and was, by far, the highlight of the book. I recognized her voice immediately and it is one of the reasons that I finished this book. While the rest of the narrators are good, there wasn't as much emotion and depth as I would expect from such a well named cast. It brings back reminders to when my father would say that when the entire cast of a movie looks awesome, it's probably going to suck. In this case, he would be correct. The audio is flawless. Gone Before Goodbye starts off interesting enough but somewhere around, well I didn't look at the time and don't want to give a spoiler but maybe a quarter to a third of the way in, dropped a huge plot hole. I had hoped that at some point the plot hole would be explained and I even read the last 30% of the book twice to see if I missed something in the wrap up. I did not. I get the idea that they were going for and it was interesting, but to advance the plot using a device that doesn't have answers to explain something that happened with a person who is deceased doesn't cut it. Especially in a thriller, mystery type story with lots of questions that the characters, and by default the readers, are trying to figure out. Instead of planting clues and whatnot, more unanswerable questions were dropped. Yes, there were a couple of intriguing and interesting conspiracies and mysteries that were solvable, but most were not. The 'twists' came out of no where, so weren't so much twists as just something thrown into the story that you would have had to guess out of thin air to figure out, if it was even on your radar as a reader. Some of the characters were really flat. Even though all of the characters had personality, of some sort, the author used a low effort way of hiding what was going on by not giving us any back story so there was no possible way of knowing. It wasn't in a good way, as in a first person narrative who didn't know what was going on, so didn't have the information, but was left out. Basically the characters were poorly made and the main character was poorly driven. While some of her characteristics may have been realistic, she was made up of a lot of poorly viewed tropes, that while can be and have been used successfully in stories, the stories have to be fast paced and well written so that the focus isn't on the characters lack of integrity and moral issues rather than the excitement of the adventure. The long and short of it is that it seems written by a person who spends their life living in movies and doesn't really understand how real people work. I guess this would work if this was written as a great movie, but it wasn't. I personally like Reese Witherspoon as an actor. I have also enjoyed some of her behind the camera work and do know that she loves to read. As a debut of this style of writing, I can see how she could evolve from here as there were a lot of parts of the story that I really enjoyed, which is why I finished the book and read a good portion of it twice. I would hope that people close to her would be as honest about what they don't like as that of which they do so that she is able to hone her skills and move forward if she is enjoying writing and wants to do more of it.

Maybe this would work as a tv series but I didn't like the book much. The writing didn't flow naturally, we have names like "Porkchop" (wth?), I couldn't empathize/care about the characters. I thought it's the audiobook problem, so I switched to reading the ebook but the story didn't improve.

A collection of three short stories/or novellas. I had the book and the audio, but was super disappointed. So much so, that I didn't even bother to read the last story. I made it to 60% and didn't feel like wasting any more reading time. The first story featured Jake Brigance, who is a character in his series and I've read a few of them. The beginning hooked me, but nothing much happened and the ending felt unfinished. 🤷‍♀️ The second one wasn't better. Grisham has written some of my favorite novels (FIVE star), but he is also hit and miss for me. Library loan/ published May 31, 2022

This book is a compilation of three Grisham novellas. Unfortunately, John Grisham went "0 for 3" with this reader. I listened to the full-cast audiobook and all of the narrators did an outstanding job. It was Grisham's storylines that did not resonate with me. Full disclosure: I am a fan of Grisham's earlier novels but not his most recent ones. Perhaps my tastes have changed but I miss the "old" Grisham.

2.33 aggregate rating of the 3 stories in this collection. Overall, another subpar effort by Grisham, in a set of stories that likely wouldn’t ever see the light of day but for his name and reputation. Homecoming (2/5) - The initial premise of this story - the lawyer who takes the money and runs - surrounded with the inclusion of familiar Grisham characters and settings set the stage with promise. But then it’s almost as if he quit in the middle, and it ended. Strawberry Moon (1/5) - Just more of Grisham’s ongoing anti-death penalty obsession, except with a completely unbelievable character and dialogue Sparring Partners (4/5) - Not a bad effort here; I will give credit where it’s due. Should have taken this story and broadened it into a novel on its own and left the other two stories behind

Not a Jake Brigance "book" A Jake Brigance story, that ends in the middle of what would have been a good book. I should have read the description closer.

Shame on JG, shame on Random House Taking three short stories and stacking them in a row and calling it book #4 is, IMO, disingenuous at best. I took a moment to go back to the advert on Amazon and forgave myself for what I assumed was my overlooking these were short stories. If it is there, I couldn’t locate it. To make it worse, they really aren’t good reads. My sense of this “product” is lazy, disjointed, and disrespectful to faithful JG readers. I would not recommend.

I love reading John Grisham but the short stories just make you miss how he lays out the story and shows you how the characters are when you read the whole book. Good book if you like shorts like this.

I liked the first story "Homecoming" the most of the three within the book; however, I definitely could have done without the repetitive sexualizing of Mack's 17 year old daughter, especially when he says how she flicks a cigarette out and lights it, blowing the smoke like a sexy Hollywood actress... eww and weird and just, no..

This book contains three novellas. I elected to listen to the first of the three novellas on a road trip with my 11 year old. The reader does a great job in the Audible edition but after 20 chapters in the book my kid looked at me and asked, "Is something going to happen?" I was wondering the same thing. Sadly, in the first two novellas not much happens. And the third one felt like an incomplete story that could have been developed into a full length novel, much like the Grisham novels of the 90's - edge of your seat kind of stuff, but instead it was very slow moving with a disappointing finish. If you loved the pace of Gray Mountain and The Rooster Bar this book may be right up your alley. For me, it was way too slow. I'm a huge Grisham fan, just struggling to enjoy his work from the past 5-6 years.

I'm thinking 2.5/5 It was interesting but I was bored as all hell

The story involves twin girls living in a town called Mallard, some people from this black little town are so light they could easily pass as white. When the twin’s mother decide to cancel their plans for the future so they can start working with her, both girls decide to escape from Mallard and follow their own path. One will choose to be black and the other, to live as a white person allowing the reader to see how the choices we make can reflects on our life. I know very well this book was hyped and praised by alot of readers. The premise and themes tackled in the story are very interesting. Despite all this, I felt no connection or interest whatsoever in the characters or the story. I struggled with the long chapters and the back and forth between timelines. It was most probably not the book for me and I know I’ll be forgetting it soon. 2.5 ⭐️

I actually hated it so much, which breaks my heart. This series is one of my favorites, but this one just felt so different from the original 3 and even Time's Convert. I was bored through most of it. I feel like nothing happens and that everything changed. Diana and Matthew just seemed like completely different characters, and I didn't like who they had become. Also witches use wands now??? why??? Overall, so sad that I didn't enjoy :(

** spoiler alert ** Feeling really flat after finishing this. It was a slow start, but does start to pick up the pace. But then just as things seem to be about to get interesting, it just stops. Very abrupt and anticlimactic. It’s meant to be a cliffhanger I know, but it just left me feeling… was that it?! So many long and complex ramblings and storylines and info dumps. Have a pen and paper handy to keep track of all the extended family through the ages. Found it really hard to follow the point in places. Also there are some really random and out of the blue actions and decisions from characters that don’t really fit how they would normally behave. (Diana and Matthew going into the forest to ‘try’ the task in there just in case? What? Just felt so out of character and dumb. And I know Sarah has been difficult before, but her character in this book just feels nasty in places, which I’ve never felt from her before) I’ll read book 6 when it eventually gets here, but I’m disappointed with this one. Better than 4, but nowhere near as good as the first 3.

I was so excited for this book. Sadly, it was a total slog to get through. The characters’ actions often are inconsistent and they do little to engage the reader - quite the opposite as I found myself not caring what happened to them and just wanting to get through the book. I agree with other reviews that the book should be half as long as it is, definitely. It has a bit of a ‘middle book in a trilogy’ vibe; that is, getting the reader from one place to the next. However, it’s more than just that as it doesn’t feel true to the characters as established in the original trilogy.

All the snark aside, my heart hurts from all the retcon done on this beloved series. Matthew was reduced to a cardboard cut out, and the character assassination of Sarah felt pointless and cruel after all of her growth in the original trilogy. It seems like the years between Time's Convert and TBBO can be summed up as character regression. And dropping Domenico's name and not even giving him a cameo? About the only constant is Baldwin showing up to help the scion out of their latest mess, and and getting nothing but mockery and grief. Frankly, I'm just baffled. PS On the plus side, we did get some pieces to add to the white board and an egg or two confirmed. 2.5 stars

I really wanted to be nice and give this 3 stars but there was so just much I didn’t like about The Black Bird Oracle. - It was SO SLOW, and there was practically no plot to keep it moving forward and interesting. The initial premise is that they’re worried about the kids being tested, and it doesn’t happen until the last 10 pages of the book and is super anticlimactic. Not to mention the extremely annoying ending that’s way too open ended. - I get that this is Diana’s story, but even the original trilogy would cut to other POV and this book desperately needed that to break up the monotony. The first three books were about her learning her magic. We did not need another entire book of just this. - In addition to that, we barely see any characters from the original trilogy and the ones we do see are barely there. I would like some #justiceforgallowglass who STILL hasn’t gotten a happy ending. - The scene where she gives Matthew the love potion was so weird.

I am soooo sorry to write this! I was expecting this book, as I LOVE All Souls series. But it was the biggest disappointment of this year for me. I felt like I am reading not about Diana Bishop, but about Ysabeau (Matthew´s mother). Diana´s character turned out as very arrogant and annoying, like she took her attitude from Ysabeau - with one huge exception. Ysabeau was the LADY and acted like lady. Diana ... well, she is not lady. She is just selfish and arrogant and thinks she knows better than enyone. Mathew, my dear perfect vampire? How it happened that he is now just a dad and submissive husband? To be honest, I stopped reading somewhere in the middle of the book, because I didn´t want to ruin my Matthew from previous books completely. Maybe one day, I will finish this book. But for now, there are too many books I want to read and I see no reason to waste time with something I do not enjoy and I struggle with. I think author made a mistake when she decided to continue with existing series. She would do better if she would start completely new series with new characters and everything.

It pains me to give an All Souls book two stars but dear Lord was this book boring. Diana I am begging you, stop describing the tea.

A witch, a vampire, and their twins visit the family farm. I do not have anything positive to say about this one. It is too long and too full of detailed information about random bits of whatever. The story was boring, and the characters were flat. It was like taking a three hour out of your way scenic drive through the Kansas plains when the original drive would have only taken thirty minutes. Not much was gained besides introducing more family to the story and taking the reader one step closer to a “possible” final boss battle. I highly recommend the first three books in this series, but I do not recommend the last two. I am not sure what happened, and I am losing hope that anything further will be decent enough to redeem what was lost. Who knows if I will give any future books in this series a read. Two stars to a book that was all filler.

2.5⭐️ I am truly disappointed. I've read the first trilogy and skipped the fourth book, considering it was only about Marcus and Phoebe. First of all, this book is way too long. I didn't mind the history of Bishops and Proctors, and how Diana had to learn magic and all that. However, there were parts that I could skip over and it wouldn't change my comprehension with the magic system. The second thing. Diana. How do I say this... It felt like she hadn't learned anything after years living with witches and vampires AND dealing with Congregation. She was supposed to be smart. Matthew also supposed to be smart. But both of them just.... disappointed me. There were a lot more things I didn't enjoy in this book. But I'm not in the mood of writing it down. So yeah, it was not a good read.

DNF at 35%. I loved the first 4 books in this series but I feel like this book was way too long and suffered from character regression and assassination. Also, I know witches are supposed to be into herbs and tea but GOOD GOD there did not need to be so much fluff added talking about it every other paragraph in this book lol.

** spoiler alert ** What I liked: First chapter got me interested. The tension to find Becca in the Ravens’ Wood. Diana’s Crossroads challenge. Matthew drinking her blood to understand her better. Chris and Miriam making a couple of appearances. What I did not like: everything else. The love and understanding of Matthew and Diana is gone. Diana must go to this new place to a person she has never met before (to her knowledge) and fully trusts that nothing is going to go wrong. Lies to Matthew to keep staying longer. She is generally selfish. Also for a book about her kids, they really aren’t in it a ton. Hated that Stephen and Rebecca’s relationship is tarnished. Why is Jack considered Matthew’s grandson and not her son? I loved how much she was protective of him in the trilogy. Didn’t care for Meg. Or for Sarah’s personality change that never gets resolved or addressed. Instead of a new villain, we get Satu again. Also why is Diana still such a novice at 41? Sadly, I do want to skip over a lot of the info dumping in this book and in past ones. Got more excited when the vampires showed up. For such an anticipated read, I was disappointed.

This series has run out of steam. Domesticity and child-rearing are not what I’m here for, and the mountain of supernatural and ancestral minutiae, and poorly developed new characters, added to the tedium. I no longer recognize Matthew and Diana (he, especially, has become opaque as a character), and the romance is gone. I miss the epic sweep, globe-trotting action-filled plots, and compelling characters of the first 3 books. The rushed non-ending just added insult to injury, a lame cliffhanger setting up the next book which I now have very little desire to read.

I finished this book on my birthday! And what a birthday it was! The overly dramatic me will say the world is ending or at least it's on fire, and for all the misogyny and woman-hating that has pervaded our species' existence, we need more witches!! But, as far as this book is concerned, I don't know if this was the one to pull my spirits out of the dumpster that's currently on fire. This review will not be on par with my reviews for the first 3 books. Book 4 threw me for a loop, being a really decent book but not in the same vein as the first three, it was hard to put this book in context with the rest of the series. As a standalone, it was hard to get through, as part of a series, it was just a disjointed bridge to the next book (fuck me, I have to read another one of these???) The TL;DR of A Discovery of Witches was that Diana and Matthew's relationship was organic and Diana coming into her powers was well done. I loved the introduction of these characters that we spend so much time with and it was a cool world of vampires, witches, and daemons. The TL;DR of Shadow of Night was that all Diana and Matthew did was fight. I still cannot be bothered with the stupid covenant that's supposed to keep Matthew and Diana apart and the whole book is about finding this old manuscript that - SPOILER - will not be important as the series progresses. Diana learns more about how to weave spells and it should have been amazing and magical and all I remember is how ridiculously detailed it was and how much Diana and Matthew fought. But it had Philippe so it wasn't a total loss. The TL;DR of The Book of Life highlighted once again the selfishness of Diana and Matthew, thinking only of themselves when there are so many other beings out there. Literally as soon as they brought in another scientist (human, even!), all their questions were answered. It was cathartic as a human and a scientist, but as a reader, it was infuriating! We made it through three whole books just to discover that segregation is stupid... I appreciate the message but either make Diana and Matthew crusaders for desegregation from the start of make it a lot shorter!! I'm pretty much completely off Diana and Matthew as people and as a couple, but now they're also parents to twins. This book also highlighted how magic just *happened* and it was forgettable and poorly explained. Hokay! So! The TL;DR for Time's Convert was that it was a perfect departure for me. I was so burnt out on Diana and Matthew that it was wonderful to spend time with two characters that I love (Marcus and Phoebe). Otherwise, it was an Outlander book, or, less charitably, a Forrest Gump for the 18th century. It added nothing to the All Souls lore, but I really liked it just for itself. My gosh! I'm sure I could go on, but I haven't even started talking about this one yet. PLOT!! What plot?! Just kidding. The twins are now 6, and little Pip is showing aptitude as a weaver and little Becca is showing aptitude as a witch who also still drinks blood?? Who cares?! SPOILER, there's very little of the kids! And today's political climate highlights this catastrophe for me in that rich, white people spend way too much time doing what they believe is best for the next generation while we never even hear from the next generation. I wouldn't be surprised if the next generation votes for Trump runs away from home and joins the circus just to spite their family in book 6. You see, at age 7, young witches are evaluated by the Congregation to see what their specific aptitude will be, and Diana is freaking out because not only was this a process that freaked out her parents enough to spellbind her when she was little, but also her children are different, and she doesn't want the Congregation telling her what her children should be. I can't go on any further with plot, I have to air a few serious grievances with this logic........ *deep breath* DIANA HAS NO IDEA WHY SHE WAS SPELLBOUND!!! SHE HAS NO IDEA WHAT THE CONGREGATION WILL DO!!! As it turns out, she and Matthew will be right about the Congregation witches systematically selecting for certain witches in order to ensure the most powerful witches will continue to be prominent, but you find that out late in the book. From the start, all she has to go off is the fact that she was spellbound as a child and the apparent reason was that her parents didn't want anyone to know how much magical potential she had. She does not have real confirmation of this by the time the story is over. Peter Knox, the witch who would examine her, was obsessed with her mother Rebecca, and they had reason to fear him, but he's dead now and here again, Diana only finds out how obsessed Peter was late in the book. She knows nothing about the Congregation's motives now. Neither does Matthew. Does anyone try to find out more?? Nope! Does anyone question why the Congregation even still exists?? Nope!! Does anyone even question why the Congregation is doing these examinations??? Not until Diana happens upon some background research! Oh, and do we ever even see Diana being powerful enough to warrant fear of discovery on her parents' behalf?? Again, NOPE!! I don't even know what it was they wanted to hide from Peter Knox. As a result of the spellbinding, Diana spent all her formative years suppressing her magic, and so now she's hugely behind the curve, and this book was all about her trying to catch up, and being taught by family she didn't know existed......... Oh no, here it goes again........ YOU'RE AN HISTORIAN!!! YOU KEEP TELLING US!!! BUT YOU NEVER RESEARCHED YOUR OWN FAMILY TREE?!?!?!?!?! No, because the plot didn't need her to until now. Turns out Diana has a HUGE family on her dad's side, and fuck everyone else! We barely see Ysabeau, Sarah is now persona non grata, I don't think we ever see Marcus or Phoebe, Philippe is barely mentioned (even in the first few books we learned a lot about his motivations for founding the Congregation and now that the Congregation is turning out to be evil, I guess DH wants to distance him from it??? But I'd really appreciate a comparison between what Philippe's vision for the Congregation is vs what it has become... Too much to ask??). EVERYONE is gone unless they have a very specific and small role to play. I mean, MATTHEW is hardly in this!!!! So what was this, instead??? It felt like someone read Harry Potter and took all the superficial lessons about how to make your series more witchy and it was every other magical creature book about how the governing body wants to control the magical creatures. As happy as I was to see actual magic, so many of my highlights are like "Ha! it's like expecto patronum!" or "Ha! it's like when Harry walked into the Weasley house for the first time and the dishes were doing themselves!" or "Ha! it's like the first time Harry walked into the Leaky Cauldron and the tea was stirring itself!" or "Ha! it's like the howlers!" or "Ha! it's Hedwig!" or "Ha! it's like the pensieve!" And once again, Diana was able to pull out whatever she had to pull out to magically defeat anything that stood in her way. TL;DR I don't want to talk about it anymore. My rage powered me through all the above. The point of this one seemed to be that the ideals of the Congregation have been so bastardized as to mirror the ideals of the Salem Witch Trials: they want to kill anything remotely witchy? Let's be the baddest witches in creation! And let's use eugenics to do it!! I THINK!! The operative notion here is that this was not explored fully enough for me to be fully confident in my assessment. With everything that happened to Diana and Matthew in the previous books, you would think they would have NOTHING to do with the Congregation but they still seemed fully ruled by it. Why?? Because of lingering loyalty to Philippe? Also not confirmed or denied. If book 6 is not about dismantling the Congregation, I will not be reading it. And I'm sorry I had to read this one to get to it. All Souls Reviews so far: A Discovery of Witches: ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Shadow of Night: ⭐⭐ The Book of Life: ⭐⭐⭐ Time's Convert: ⭐⭐⭐⭐

Too many cuss words. Fast pace action suspense. A bit graphic for me. Not reading again. Plot was good. MC was way cliche but I liked him in the end somehow anyway. Missed the chance at a killer of a last line tho. “There were *finally* ten kids waiting at home to see me.”

I usually really enjoy the Michael Bennett series but i didn't find this one to be as good as some of the others. Perhaps because there is a new co-author? I found the book to be a bit slow, particularly at the beginning. I love the Bennett children and felt that their presence and antics were less prominent than in earlier books. There's plenty of action in the last 100 pages which redeems the book to some extent but it was not one of my favorites.

2 1/2 stars. Maybe I’m just getting tired of this series. I didn’t enjoy this book that much. It felt like a rehash of several others.

Imagine, if you will, that you're a hitman. One of the best in the business, in fact; your skills with a sniper rifle have no equal. You've just been hired by a mob,who is willing to pay you handsomely for assassinating a single target from afar. The best way to do it would be to find a good vantage point, perform the hit, and then vanish in your getaway vehicle, right? Wrong. Obviously, the best way to perform the job is to don a disguise and construct a fake identity, mingle with the local population for months, and only then actually do your job, bamboozling everyone in the process. Duh! Billy Summers is better than The Institute , but The Institute is easily Stephen King's worst published novel, so that's not saying much. The sad thing is that it could have been a good novel, but it did not turn out to be one...once again. In it's best moments Billy Summers shows promise of greatness, but it never comes to pass; whatever hope it had quickly dies down and the best parts of the book turn out to be just okay. At its worst, it is just the latest example of the continuously deteriorating quality of King's recent work. Fans of the mysterious and the uncanny and those who love the exploration of the thin border between the real and the unreal that Stephen King used to do so well have nothing to look for here. Billy Summers is another of King's forays into writing thrillers, which I think he's just not very good at. His characters are boring; his pacing is off; and his plots are just not entertaining or suspenseful. It's incredibly hard to come up with original, engaging ideas in a field which sees so much competition, or even successfully dress up old ones in new clothes. Frustratingly, Billy Summers doesn't manage to do either of these things. In fact, this latest stage in his career reminds me of what happened to another popular author, who also wrote dark, disturbing books which straddled the border between reality and science fiction - Dean Koontz. Koontz was never the writer that King is - his prose is too often made ridiculous by his overuse of metaphors and similes. and his tendency to insert his personal beliefs into his writing eventually made me quit reading him altogether. His characters are cookie cutter, and all of his stories use the same tropes over and over, and his worlds are black and white: all his protagonists have traumatic pasts and are good and kind hearted, and his antagonists are absolutely evil. When the two come into conflict, can you guess who wins? Having said all this, his fiction from the 1980's and early 1990's is full of genuinely interesting and engaging ideas. His plot concepts are genuinely great, and even if his delivery fails most of the time, this promise of greatness kept me coming back for more. Even though his plots are usually formulaic and his characters are always either good or bad, he had a great ability to mix the fantastic with the real, and make the two overlap in a way that I wished would be done more often. A good recent example of what I mean is the popular Netflix show Stranger Things . I always thought that Koontz was a great idea man, and that his books would benefit from being written by someone else, who would introduce more moral ambiguity into them and just write them better than he did. And then something happened. Much like King, at a late point in his career - in his case the mid 2000's - Koontz started publishing thrillers almost exclusively. He wrote them before - most notably Intensity, which I thought was one of his best books - but now they seemed to be his main creative focus. He never completely abstained from the supernatural and the uncanny, but his books never regained the creativity they had in the 1980's and 1990's. As I read through his output, I remember thinking that his earlier, much darker books reflected the trauma that he went through in his early life, and that the outlandish, creative ideas helped him fight his own, personal demons. Perhaps at some point he realized that he has not only moved enough his past trauma, and it stopped being the main factor which drove and inspired his work up to that point; or perhaps he just became a hugely successful writer, who no longer had to heed the calls of his publishers demanding dark fiction with elements of horror, and could write whatever he wanted. I mention all this because Billy Summers and Stephen King's recent attempts at writing similar fiction reminded me a lot of Koontz's transformation. Much of King's own personal life is reflected in his fiction; growing up in small town America, childhood hopes and traumas, the struggle with alcoholism and substance abuse. However, his recent work displays none of the charm and deep understanding of character that drove his earlier novels; perhaps he too has moved on from past traumas and they no longer haunt him as his muses? Or maybe he also is a household name, and no longer needs to listen to his publishers, because they will print anything with his name on it, as evidenced by the legion of adoring fans, who post multiple 5-star reviews full of animated GIFs meant to convey their love for its author? Billy Summers started slow, became midlly engaging in the middle, but ultimately fizzled out at the end. To sum it up: as a character driven novel, Billy Summers fails, since none of its characters - main or otherwise - are particularly interesting. As a thriller, Billy Summers fails, because its plot is cartoonish and outlandish - thankfully, not as bad as The Institute, but we're reaching Dean Koontz level of improbable coincidences here, which is truly worrying. But most of all it fails as a Stephen King novel - aside from easter eggs alluding to his older novels, there's nothing special about this book, nothing which would make it stand out from the endless rows of generic thrillers that you can pick up at the airport or the train station before your trip and then forget afterwards. There's nothing here that sticks, that stays. Everything about this book is ultimately forgettable, and as I said it's yet another of the disappointing, latter-day King efforts. As you'll know from the blurb, Billy Summers is a killer for hire, but only accepts the hit if his target is a truly bad guy. Unlike the protagonist of the TV show Dexter, whose vigilante crusade against criminals was ideologically motivated, Billy seems to only kill bad people for money. This was the perfect opportunity for King to create a complex and nuanced character, whose morality is neither here nor there - but he fails to do so completely, as Billy Summers is impossibly perfect and therefore perfectly boring. While Billy himself acknowledges in his mind that he is not a "good man", there is nothing to suggest otherwise - he has a heart of gold and goes out of his way for people he cares for, and as will be shown later, strangers. Billy is such a goody two shoes that if he wasn't a killer for hire, he'd probably be a saint, and King doesn't manage to find his way out of this absurdity. We are obviously meant to empathize with Billy, because he's given a very complex backstory - for the absurd purpose of maintaining months-long cover for his job (reminder: he never needed to develop any sort of relationship with his target, or even get physically close to him) he pretends to be a writer (yes, really) and writes a memoir, in which he describes his childhood spent in a foster home and later war experiences in Iraq. Many readers found Billy's backstory to be dull and distracting from the main plot, but I felt otherwise; for me, Billy's childhood is probably the best part of the whole novel, and the only one where I felt real emotion emerging between characters. However, he inevitably grows up, and the later part of his memoir - dealing with his experience as a soldier in Iraq - did not have the same impact on me; the childhood part could have easily been based on Stephen King's own experiences while growing up, or those of someone he knew; obviously he never fought in Iraq, and I doubt many of his close friends did. In the acknowledgments section he thanks Bing West for his book, No True Glory, an account of the battle of Fallujah. The difference between the two is that West is a combat veteran, who not only saw action in multiple conflicts, but spent weeks on the frontlines in Iraq and talked to dozens of people involved in that war, from ordinary soldiers to top-tier policymakers. West's interest was to preserve the account of this war for posterity; while reading King's obviously fictionalized account of Billy's time in Iraq, I couldn't help but feel that it felt cheap, almost exploitative. Actual soldiers went through experiences like these and worse, but their names will never get even an ounce of recognition that this book does; it felt a lot like stolen valor, which is a terrible thing. I believe that the actual plot - the assasination, the famous last job - is a ruse, meant only to introduce the context for the real plot of the novel, which begins 1/3rd into the book. This is where I hoped Billy Summers would show its true face and strength; it didn't. The sad thing is that I can see many readers giving up on the book before the true plot even kicks in, because of how milquetoast and boring it's been up to this point.. Still, to discuss it would reveal the surprises of the story, so I'll hide them behind the spoiler tag: (view spoiler) In her reviews of King's novels, my friend Becky points out one recurring theme, and this time I paid attention to see if it'll appear in this one as well. And sure enough, it did: King's approach to fat people, or rather his bizarre demonizing of overweight and fat people. In this novel, a very bad character is fat, and attention is brought to the physical appearance and behavior of his fat body; one of the mobsters with whom Billy interacts is an overweight character named Giorgio Piglielli (yes, really), who is called George Pigs behind his back. It's not funny, but weird. This book sadly includes all the missteps of recent Stephen King fiction - attempts at modern slang that don't quite work, young characters knowing and referencing music and movies from way beyond their era, weird approach to current technology (at one point Billy leaves some money for a friend he made to cover the cost of Netflix that he watched at their apartment, which made me wonder - does Stephen King know how Netflix operates?), and, of course, about a dozen references to Donald Trump - none of them positive. I understand that he's not a fan of Trump - I'm not as well - but at this point in time he seems to live rent-free in his head, which really took me out of the story. It's like listening to a bickering old uncle, who won't shut up about politics. Mentioning Trump about a dozen times isn't enough, as one unimportant character - I think it was a woman exposing a racist sentiment towards someone - is described as possessing "a very Trumpian prejudice". These criticisms aren't even constructive - they're just thrown there offhandedly, dismissively, boring this reader and adding absolutely nothing to the story; if I wanted to read actual political analysis, I'd pick Arlie Hochschild or Thomas Frank. Ultimately, there's nothing in Billy Summers that would make me want to give it even a lukewarm recommendation; fans will probably enjoy nods to The Shining and other novels, but these Easter eggs reminded me of a happier, better time, where Stephen King used to set trends in contemporary popular fiction instead of simply following them, and poorly. Still, I have no doubt that this book of his - like all others - will sell incredibly well, and I can already see a movie or TV adaptation being announced. I'm still happy that he is there and he is publishing; but each time I pick up his recent book I'm less and less happy with what I read.

Do you ever have those nightmares where you didn’t actually graduate University because you missed a few credits? Reading this book made me feel like I failed classes in Egyptology and Quantum Physics and therefore failed out of College. This novel is about Dawn, a woman whose life is unfulfilled, even though she is married to Brian and has a teenaged daughter. Years prior, in college, she met and fell for Wyatt who she has never forgotten. When the plane Dawn is on crashes, she has an opportunity: she can go back home or she can take a trip down memory lane, to Wyatt. While I loved the first few pages of this novel all of which took place in New Haven, CT, a mere skip and a hop away from my hometown of Woodbridge and loved Dawn visiting all of my old haunts, once this novel delved into Egyptology I was completely lost. The split past v present storyline was well done and somewhat intriguing and while I did find some part of this storyline and the characters to be enjoyable, on the whole, I skimmed through much of the story which felt like reading a University textbook. On the whole, having read every single book Jodi Piccoult has written, “The Book of Two Ways” is my least favorite novel this author has written. I struggled to get through this and hope that the author returns to her tried and true the next time around. This was another buddy read with Kaceey. Thank you to NetGalley, Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine and Jodi Piccoult for the arc. Published on Goodreads on 11.24.20. Review also posted to blog: https://books-are-a-girls-best-friend...

I see I’m in the minority with only giving this book 2 stars. It started out very slow and it didn’t grab me so i stopped at 25%. Too much Egyptian lingo for me. I found myself skimming through a lot of the little part I read. Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for this early release in exchange for my honest review.

Dawn lives with her husband Bryan and her daughter Merit in Boston. After surviving a plane crash she reconsiders the things that she has done in her life and thinks if she could have done things differently. She goes back 15 years when she was a grad student in Egypt excavating tombs with handsome Wyatt and wonders if she could have finished her PHD. Fifteen years later, Dawn works as Death Doula, providing support for the dying and the family in this time. She is good at her job but contemplates whether she could have done things differently in her own life. Thank you, Hodder and Staughton and NetGalley for a copy of The Book of Two ways by Jodi Picoult. I am a big fan of the author, but I am afraid this book wasn’t for me. I felt that half of this book was like reading a textbook in Egyptology and quantum physics and then the other half was all about death which I felt was quite depressing and neither did I find interesting. I am sorry to say I could not finish this book.

Jodi Picoult is one of my all time favourite authors and I was beside myself when I got approved for this. This book was not her usual 'controversial topic' style, but the unique set up of a crossroads and a woman whose life splits into two journeys was a fascinating concept. I liked the characters and the chemistry between them, but for me the story was overshadowed by the Egyptology information throughout. I understand the need to include it, seeing as that's where the concept of the book originated from, but I felt so much pressure trying to understand the background in order to get the most satisfaction from the novel as a whole. Jodi herself said she had only put the information in that was necessary to complement the story, but I was a little lost. I am going to try this novel again when my signed copy arrives in case it is just the wrong time for me mentally.

DNF it feels like im reading a course book 😴🥱 its like im back in school and I hate that

Oooh. I don’t know about this. She literally means life after death or what does death after life look like, and .......... I really try to avoid writing negative reviews. I mean really what is the point in that. To hoot and holler about how bad something is, doesn’t make a whole lot of sense. So this is a caution review. Souljah literally, yes literally wrote a book about life after death, wow. The first clue you have that something is amiss, is the publisher blurb. It says so little about the contents, that’s generally a red flag. This is a very dark book. I had trouble sleeping after finishing. Most of the book takes place in the Last Stop Before The Drop, which is a sort of purgatory but complete with earthly things, cars, fashion, attitudes, sex (crazy sex, some involving dead humans and animals) and demonic devils. I was waiting for some justification for all the madness, and towards the end of the book, just a teeny bit arrives. Not enough to redeem the novel, but at least letting a little light in after pages of darkness. It’s just a bizarre novel in every facet of the word. You will undoubtedly question how the decision to publish was ever agreed upon. So, as a caution, approach carefully, be ready for a what happens when you “die” tale. If you are into that kind of thing this book will work for you. If you were looking for the continued story of Winter Santiaga on Earth in Brooklyn, NY, that book has not been written. You’ve been warned. Why Souljah why? Perhaps her purpose was to have folks thinking about how their living could impact their afterlife. Believe me, you don’t want to spend any time in “The Last Stop Before The Drop, the County of the Ungrateful, the State of Ignorance, and the Land of Arrogance.”

I was one of the girls who grew up reading The Coldest Winter ever way before I had business reading it. It changed the way I viewed my own life and I wanted nothing more than to be like Winter Santiaga. Waiting 20 years for this book, I thought I wouldn't be able to put it down, but Life After Death was a hard read. Not because it was hard to follow or particularly difficult in verbiage, but because Winter is still Winter, and I didn't realize I needed Winter to grow up. I needed Winter to be the mature version of herself and all the things we loved about her: super fly, cunning, business minded, loyal and raw. It turns out that being an adult doesn't make Winter mature, and our heroine is not as loveable as she was in her youth. If anything, this book was a pusher for Prison Abolition, because prison made her worse. It stunted her growth, took away 15 years of her life so that a 33 year old woman is still 18 in the mind, and that's dangerous. I pushed myself to finish this book and even when I did, I was a bit sad. There was some growth by the end of the book but it was so minimal it was like feeding someone castor oil for 6 days and giving them a peppermint at the end; it was barely enough to cover the bad taste.

This book was not what I expected it to be. Not that I want a book to be predictable, we all love a shocking twist or POV we didn't expect etc.. But lets think back on how The Coldest Winter Ever ended. Mama Santiaga's funeral. Winter and her father seeing each other for what we think may be the last time. Midnight adopting the twins. Porsche showing up looking great and living life. As a reader, I'm hoping this isn't the last time Winter gets to see her Dad. What kind of life are Midnight and the twins going to have? Wow, Winter realizes she is at her lowest, what happens next? What happens years from now? I read Midnight, but didn't read Porsche's story. Maybe I need to in order to get this, but I don't think so? I'm looking to see what happens with these characters we've invested in 20 years later. The first book had so many important messages in it. I loved reading between the lines and seeing what Sister Souljah wanted the reader to understand. I could see her passion in that book. I loved how raw Winter's story was. In this book, Winter is shot, and the whole story is of her comatose thoughts of what hell is like after living the life she's lived. For me, it was almost too "wow" for me to really even take in any possible messages that were trying to be told in the story. The demonic presence, the animalistic sex, the demeaning actions from what is clearly the devil as her man... why? Even the ending where she comes back to life didn't fit what I felt would have or should have been her end game. Winters interview and the responses she gave didn't seem like responses she would have had after seeing the mercy she's been given in life. Especially after Winter learns a lesson and realizes what's up, that response should have been way different. Maybe one day I can re-read this and try to understand why this angle was used to tell Winter's story. Maybe I was way too hyped up to take in whatever story was about to be told. I don't think Sister Souljah is a bad writer at all. Maybe those of us who didn't care for this book are the ones who aren't seeing what is supposed to make this book really great. I just would have liked to see Winter actually living life and see how she has changed and grown as a person. If she didn't have a happy ending and did the same shit she did when she was younger, I still would have preferred to read that than to read the crazy hell limbo dream that was her story 20 years later. I don't really give bad reviews. If I don't like a book, my review is short and sweet. I don't mean any disrespect to SJ as an author. This is a lengthy review because I genuinely love her books and I'm invested in Winter. I was really looking forward to this one. I think anyone who read Coldest Winter growing up was super hyped about this book. I wish I could ask Sister Souljah all the questions I have about why this was written the way it was. This book just wasn't for me. And I don't think it was the best sequel to Winter's release either.

2.5 at best! I’ve thought long and hard about this and I just can’t give this book more than a 2.5. If you are looking for that feeling you felt while reading The Coldest Winter Ever and even the Midnight series you are not going to get it. There was just no thrill for me. About 5 or so chapters in I figured out what the book was solely about. Let’s just say the title speaks for itself, literally. The last two chapters is what made me give it a bit more love on the rating. The Santiaga family was hottest on the block, nobody was messing with them even while locked up. Winter had a crew in lockup. She had plans for them to star in a reality TV show when they were released. They were going to make their appearances and make their money but nobody will come close to looking better or making more money than Winter Santiaga, she will make sure of that. She was the star of the show, the main attraction! However one of her crew members figures out Winter was up to no good and has her own plan of dealing with Little Miss Hot Shot. Winter just irked me the ENTIRE time. She literally did not learn a thing after serving 15 years in prison! Brooklyn is where she grew up. Brooklyn is hood. You know what they say: you can take the girl out the hood but you can’t take the hood out the girl. This definitely rings true for little ol Winter. Lots of religious and cultural lessons which one can take and learn from for sure. There are some triggering and controversial topics that are brought up as well: rape, sodomy, abortion; to name a few. Just read it with an open mind don’t have high expectations like I did or else you will be (just as I was) highly disappointed. Also...was anyone else annoyed with the number of times the word “furthermore” was used or was it just me?

Souljah wiled out! Who approved this foolishness?!. 20 years!!!! 20 DAGGONE YEARS!!!!!!!!!!

So, where do I begin? I anticipated this book so much. It started off really interesting and kinda what I would expect as a follow-up to Coldest Winter Ever. Then it took a turn. I have to admit I was lost, confused, and had to will myself to want to finish. By about Chapter 28 I will say it came it back around. Not that I totally enjoyed the book, but it made sense, kind of. This book reminds me of a long bad dream that you try to explain in all the detail you remember. Many things don’t and won’t make sense. There will be some random stuff happening. There will be some clear things that you experienced and expect to happen. As you explain this dream to someone else, you think they understand, but really they just want you to finish your story.

“Everybody know Winter Santiaga is all about action and hustle, plotting and planning, making it and taking it, and a dead bitch can’t do shit.”(p. 2). Oh yea---shout out public library for getting me this book BEFORE I went out and bought it--ah yea such a library lover, they always come thru :) This is my sixth book by Sista Souljah so I kinda knew what to expect but this was nothing like I thought it would be at all... So yea I read Coldest Winter Ever like every other girl sometime in the nineties and been hooked ever since..actually I have kept up with this saga and read every book she has written with the characters since---the three Midnight books and even Porsha’s A Deeper Love Inside.. This book released twenty years after the first one takes place right where the last one left off with Winter finishing up her fifteen year prison sentence….she is talked into having her life filmed with a spot in reality television produced by her sister Porsche’s husband. Winter is just as superficial and brash as she was twenty years ago and the chance for the spotlight, money and hood fame is too intoxicating..She begins to make her demands from clothes, bags, shoes and of course the ultimate man she has had her eyes on since she was a young girl--Midnight.. “I want VIP passes for everybody who I select to see me styling on my release day. I want a red carpet that runs from the prison release door to the black Bentley that I heard Midnight pushes, and of course, Midnight in person waiting on me to walk the red carpet straight to him.” “You know he’s a married man, right?” Elisha asked smoothly. “I know, but I knew him first. I saw him first. And this is my show we doing starring me, right?” I reminded him. “A reality show…” Elisha said. “You make him show up. I’ll make it a reality,” I told him with full confidence.” (p. 5). “Every inmate in there believed in their heart and bones that I was headed to becoming the realest and the brightest superstar.”(p. 108). Oh yeah and one more impossible demand as is her style to be over the top--- “So in my six days of thinking about my list of demands, the answer to what Winter really wants is, Santiaga. I want my father to be released. I want both of us to come up, back to where we belong. To be the royal high that we were before, but even higher.” (p. 10). She envisions her rise to the top and nothing and no one could stop her--- “ It had taken me fifteen minutes after my arrest to put together my payback list. But it took me fifteen years to put together each scheme on exactly how I was gonna do it. Smarter, I knew I had to take revenge without getting found out. If I made one mistake I could end up back in prison and that wasn’t even remotely a possibility no matter what I had to do to prevent it.” (p. 14). “I was not only going to be a clothing designer, merchandiser, wholesaler, and retailer. I planned to get into interior decoration. I figured no matter what anybody wore or possessed or imagined, I could make it look even better. I would set up the most meanest-looking images and make the whole hood and whole world chase it. Of course that means, more money more money for me.”(p. 26). Only right after she is released she is shot dead.. She spends the entire story as a ghost moving around and through her life and the people are around her frustratingly in another realm of life...she revisits her own after-after party and then finds herself in the United Arab Emirates with Midnight, his three wives, small army of children and family in an immaculate mansion/castle--- Oh yeah and Midnight is still unbelievable smug, handsome and above all so humble (the lies LOL) “Oh, now even the cat has a crush on me,” the male said smoothly without laughter. (p. 42). Sigh Midnight, how I love and hate this arrogant character...but he is the sole love of Winter’s life and the one man she wanted and could never have and that both infuriates and entices her-- “The collection of off-road vehicles, motorcycles, and exotic whips were lined up in the distance as well. That choked me, strangled me. To think that my father, Santiaga, was locked up in the box in an eight-by-five cell with no way out, while his man who he put on was wearing his crown, fathering his daughters, living his lifestyle and then some, was way too much. (p. 50). I am rocking with the book and crazy revengeful Winter..until about 23% in when as a dead woman she sees herself as a python in a mirror reflection---WTF? “When I became the red python, my forever nigga kept me, adored me, even allowed me to crawl all over his beautiful body no matter what time or where he was at the moment…….Bullet. He knew I was poisonous and quite deadly, but apparently he was 100 percent certain that I would never ever bite him…………….He told me that I was the sexiest serpent ever, and that I would make a mean-ass belt, handbag, or pair of heels or boots, but that he would never ever allow anyone to swipe me from him or hurt me in any way.(p. 79). It gets even weirder in the Last Stop Before the Drop, the County of the Ungrateful, the State of Ignorance, and the Land of Arrogance, where Winter is stuck and must confront herself---and sigh about 34% she turns into a dog---- As a dog she is put in a kennel--yes yes this all happened until she is awakened and counseled by the UBS or unborn souls of all the babies aborted and never given chance to speak...This one got harder and harder to read seriously---- “All of the males who are surrounding you today, and who are standing with me stage front are UBS. ‘UBS’ stands for ‘unborn souls.’ This means that we each were once in your womb. You each chose to abort us. We sons gathered today are only a handful of more than a trillion unborn souls who were murdered in the womb. We forgive.”(p. 134). In the underworld or whatever Winter meets two girls Pretty (Sarah) and a white girl named Bridgette who become her crew traveling to clubs (with a 12 foot tall red dj ?) and back to the House of Mercy a couple of times where the importance of atonement and self reflection and submission to the ONE are ingrained in her--the emphasis on religion and humility are there I just think there has to be another way to spread the message without berating the reader and Winter with it--here is one of the more powerful segments but it was read with a side eye at times as I just felt the writing, story and this element of religious submission was not done well at all--- “If children are taught by their parents to know and understand this, and to read Quran as the main book that is repeatedly read, and to make their prayers properly, then their minds would not be in a state of disorder and chaos and confusion. Once you know that Allah is ONE. Once you read even the first chapter of the Holy Quran, you, no matter who you are, will learn your position in all things. Allah is ONE, Allah is the only ONE to be worshipped. If you knew this, you would never worship anything else or anyone else, not even your mother who birthed you or your father who raised you. And, most importantly, you would not waste your entire life wanting, expecting, and organizing others to bow down and worship you.” (pp. 302-303). This fevered dream sequence is super full of gratuitous sex scenes everywhere--it was more than a little raunchy and over the top--sheesh LOL...This had to be the most overhyped, anticipated and worst reviewed book I have ever read--I admit to skimming through some of the wild and silly meandering plot sequences as it didnt add or enhance the story to miss a few interactions with Olga and the nuns and I dont know it got real confusing and then to top it all off --no I can’t ruin the ending you have to suffer through like I did for it LOL..was it worth it-No, was it insightful-Also No and did I learn anything besides that maybe Coldest Winter Ever was definitely a standalone novel this one was not needed--glad to have this one down but whew it was disappointing for sure...I am debating on giving this a one-star review as it was dumb but it wasnt horrible LOL its maybe a 1.74 I will give it a 2 out of respect LMAOOO

The book started off good, had me intrigued but then it went Completely Left….. Finally the last chapter made sense and anything came together. I wouldn’t dare recommend or try to read this book again

2.5 STARS / I was going to give it a 3, but the end ruined it Meh Read 467 pages and also listened to much of it... *Length: 18 hrs and 3 mins *Unabridged Audiobook *Narrated by: Caroline Lee This was a long time to invest in characters and a story. What started as a mystery of a missing mother became a bit of a slog with lots of repetition, dialogue and nothing happening (tennis references, migraines, anxiety, food, more tennis). There were a few moments of humor, but not enough to make this one very enjoyable. The entire storyline was anticlimatic and unconvincing. I kept waiting for everything to make sense, it didn't (how can these smart people be so foolish)? I kept waiting for some kind of revelation (not worth it). I kept waiting for the explosive ending, never happened (You want me to believe that happened?). I won't even go into the COVID chapter (what was that)? I don't mind slow burns if the story holds my interest, but this one became frustrating and was definitely overwritten. I missed the fun and craziness her books usually deliver. It was just okay, I didn't love it. Oh well.....moving on..... Audible credit/ Library loan/ Read in October 2021

Deciding between 2 and 2 1/2 Stars. Although there were some intriguing parts, the thought running through my head was...what a long strange trip this is. At times interesting characterizations of an unusual dysfunctional family, part mystery and an ending I could have done without, for me, this was not a particularly enjoyable book to read. Having really liked previous books of Liane Moriarty, I will always check out books by this author, hoping it will be a better fit.

I feel bad saying that, but reading this book was a chore! I finished it because it's written by an excellent author... I was hoping to find something to enjoy in the plot eventually. Oh, how I regret spending so much time reading this tedious (and too long - 520 pages in French) story! A character study can be interesting, but this one simply wasn't. And the ending fell really flat... 1.5 stars

I like Liane Moriarty, but this one wasn't for me. The biggest issue was that it was easily twice as long as it needed to be. I don't mind a long book but this one was pointlessly long with huge sections that could be completely cut with zero impact on the story. There is A LOT, overkill amounts, of tennis. I persisted through the fluff dialogue and repetitive tennis talk hoping for a climax that never came. Once I realized just how uneventful the "climax" of the story was I was treated to an additional 100 or so pages that seemed tacked on to the end just to add COVID for no reason at all. ***** The Delaney's are and always have been a tennis family. Joy and Stan met playing tennis, had 4 kids who all played tennis, and even opened their own tennis school. Even well into retirement and against doctors instructions Joy and Stan still win doubles matches regularly. When Joy goes missing Stan demands he had nothing to do with his wife's disappearance. Even though he admits to having an argument with her the last time he saw her and he has fresh noticeable scratches on his face. As the police interview Stan and his four grown children we learn about the family and a suspicious girl who showed up on their doorstep the previous year on a (now & then) alternating timeline. As more details surface Stan's motive becomes more clear, even to his children who started out backing up his innocence.

I was super disappointed with this book! I had been looking forward to listening to this since July and it's now December - First, we have new readers - Tim Campbell & Hillary Huber - It was often hard to discern which character was speaking, because their voices did not change that much, so could not always distinguish who was speaking. Next, the stories just didn't gel for me. I expected more chemistry between the characters. I assume their might be another story with some of these characters in the future, based on Griffin's reaction, at the end. Hopefully Coulter's next book will be better!

A lot of pieces that - mostly - got pulled together at the end (never did explain how son sent by the evil psychopath knew that the female undercover FBI agent was in St. Lumis since it was supposed to be Savitch that went there). But there was also a tremendous amount of pointless filler - interior decorations, clothing and hair styles, picnics, town tours, dysfunctional family spats, name dropping characters from past novels, 18-yr old's birthdays parties, etc. Those fillers combined with too many "absolutely no way does a FBI agent act like that" situations became distractions. And those distractions made the writing seem jumpy and choppy. At several points I wondered if Catherine Coulter actually wrote the book or if this was another example of a lesser-known writer doing the work while the better-known writer gets the name and publicity and monetary credit. Every author has lesser books and this was definitely my least favorite in the Savitch-Sherlock series.

Disappointing I have read all of Coulter FBI series and found this book difficult to stay awake. This lacked the tension of past books and read more like a disjointed romance novels. However I will certainly wait for the next one with hopes that the series will bring back the old magic.

Very disappointing. I was very disappointed in this book. I have read, and enjoyed other books by Catherine Coulter. This didn't even seem to be written by the same author.

It pains me to say this but in my opinion the plot was ridiculous. Way over the top. I do not recommend it.

I have been a loyal reader of the whole series, and I continue to love all the characters/residents of Three Pines. But the plots have become increasingly convoluted, and I felt like I had to slog my way through the book. Disappointed.

I have loved Penny’s Gamache books, although I was disappointed in the last one. However, Grey Wolf was silly and preposterous in the development of the story and boring in its use of a constantly reused theme. Maybe it’s time to get back to Three Pines and its endearing characters.

Worst book in the series. Could not get into this book at all.

I have always enjoyed listening to the Inspector Gamache novels, chronic vertigo prevents me from actually reading, but Ms Penney has a new narrator this time and he is awful. I won't be listening to another if Jean Brassard continues as narrator. He is difficult to understand and his French accent is so strong I had to keep replaying passages. He ruined the book for me to the point that I can't even make an objective remark about the story.

You can drive a truck through the plot holes, and the whole mystery that Gamache has to solve is just stupid. Anyone who was trying to stop something that horrific would have just gone and told him, not given him crazy clues. Deeply confused and disappointed by this one. How did Sebastien become part of it at all when he was in a cloistered monastery? I'm hoping Penny will get back to normal murders and character development, but the next one looks like more of the same.

Oh, you know I love Louise Penny, and I’ve met her in person three times. I’ve read all her books. But I really don’t like the recent direction of her books. Conspiracies and world domination or extinction. Too much! Too ridiculous. Just give me a murder in Three Pines, or a nearby town. And tell me about Oliver and Gabri and Ruth and Clara and Armand and Reine-Marie.

** spoiler alert ** No. Just no. Two stars for the way she keeps me hoping, but this was pretty much the worst Gamache ever. Never a good sign when the monks are back — and this time we have the Dominican School of Theology and the Vatican thrown in, so Penny’s ludicrously wrong footed views on Catholicism are given full rein. A key plot point (I think; I never could tell what was going on) hangs on an egregious violation of Catholic sacramental theology, but oh well. Throw in those. Short, choppy. Sentences. And the incessant repetition, sometimes for effect (I guess), but many times seemingly just a lack of editing. Characters whose motivations whipsaw from one paragraph to the next. Plus, there’s a Chekhov’s gun that NEVER GOES OFF. Or maybe it does … IN THE NEXT BOOK. Because The Grey Wolf (the title comes from that “old Native American legend” of the two wolves inside us, which Penny presents here as if no one had ever heard of it or the multiple memes it has given rise to over the decades) is to be continued, next year, by THE BLACK WOLF. So no real ending here. Penny has left us, like Reine-Marie and Annie trapped in a household full of children, Ruth, and Rosa, frustrated and with marshmallows in our hair. Tabernac!

I have read all of Louise Penny Gamache books and enjoyed them all but this was a big disappointment She has moved away from the usual theme of murder and the cosy village of Three Pines with it’s hugely entertaining cast of characters and written a book of political intrigue. The plot was muddled, there were too many characters to keep track of and the story jumped all over the place. The ending suggests there might be a follow up novel, I hope not.

Louise Penny is getting out of control. When did a Homicide Detective take it upon himself to deal with a terrorist plot to kill millions? Never, except that Penny is making Gramache into a new superhero. In this CONVOLUTED story, not only are we flying to Labrador and remote areas of Quebec, but our homicide detectives fly to Italy, France, and the US. I'd like to see their Homicide department budget. Garmache is calling in favors from all sorts on all continents, and not sleeping or eating except an occasional croissant. Please. Stop it. If you suspend belief, this is a way to pass the time and not think of real-world issues. Not her best.

American space? Astronaut. Soviet? Cosmonaut. But Joan? Pure Stupidonaut—title earned.

Trust me, nobody is more devasted than me for rating a TJR book this low 😞 Atmosphere wasn’t a bad book per se. That’s the worst part. If it were outright terrible, I could’ve dismissed it. But this just… failed to feel like Taylor Jenkins Reid. It didn’t have that TJR effect — that quiet emotional pull, that depth that creeps up on you and stays. She tried to make it emotional, I could see the effort on the page, but it never settled into anything real. The emotions felt shallow, almost rehearsed, instead of earned. I kept waiting for it to hit me the way her books usually do, and it just never did. And then that ending. What the fuck was that. Characters suddenly start behaving out of character, not because it made sense for them, but because the story needed a big emotional moment. It felt forced, manipulative — like the book was trying to wring tears out of me instead of trusting the story to do its job. And that’s exactly what TJR doesn’t do. That restraint, that honesty, is why I love her work so much. Honestly, 2 stars is generous. I'll settle with 1.5

Joan loves her niece, Frances. Joan loves space. Joan’s sister Barbara is a selfish bitch. Joan loves space. Humble Joan. Smart Joan. Joan loves space. Joan loves Vanessa. Space is God. Joan loves space. Barbara is a bitch. Joan is lukewarm on space, actually. Joan loves Earth. There you go. You read the book. yw, ily. Can’t wait to talk shit about Barbara at book club.

At first, I thought I couldn’t get into it because I was dealing with dry eyes and already in a reading slump but now I’m absolutely sure I won’t be finishing this book. This isn’t meant to be a hate review, it just didn’t work for me and ended up being a disappointing read. Once again, it felt like the author leaned on topics like LGBTQ+ and women in STEM as a kind of PR angle. I’ll be honest I just couldn’t connect with this book. Everything felt dull and overly clichee. The characters, the plot, the pacing ugh everything was boring. The way certain themes were emphasized so heavily to make the book more marketable didn’t feel genuine to me. I also don’t enjoy reading about interactions with children in adult stories. I don’t think I’ve ever skimmed sections as quickly as I did the conversations between Joan and her sister’s child. There wasn’t a single part of the story that truly pulled me in or sparked any curiosity. The dialogue, writing style, and overall structure aren’t bad in fact, they’re quite strong compared to many authors. But so many elements just didn’t appeal to me and once I realised I was only reading to get through it, I knew I had to stop. This was my first TJR book, and I had really high expectations but it’s a DNF for me. I picked it up hoping it would pull me out of my slump, but now I feel like I’m slipping right back into. I’m giving it 2 stars because its critique of a male dominated society and perspective is both valid and well-argued. I guess that sums up the book for me: the writing is good but dull, and the message is strong but feels forced. I started this book with my friend Idil. Girl, I love reading together, but please forgive me this time.

What the fuck, I couldn’t be happier to be finished. 90 percent of this book was about the FMC’s sister being a drama queen and forcing her to take care of a child that isn’t even hers. The other ten percent though. Absolutely Gorgeous. Sapphics and Space, I wanted more romance between these two beautiful lovebirds and more celestial knowledge brewery hitting me from all angles ✍️. The big picture and concept? Mesmeric. Lovely. The build up and development? Dumbly.. Executed. TJR, you definitely hurt with one of your most boring reads yet. Carrie Soto would be real proud. 😍👏

I’m really surprised at the 4 and 5 stars people are giving this book. There was no spark and honestly the hero of the story, the thief, was one of the most boring characters ever. I think I have to quit buying NR’s books which I’ve been reading since she started writing. The odd thing is that her JD Robb books keep getting better and better. I kept waiting for an exciting climax and when it finally came it was nothing. Slow moving and written with no passion.

This book was way too long and tedious. The main character is a thief, but all his thefts go perfectly with zero excitment. Really? No suspense whatsoever.

** spoiler alert ** This was like a very long and predictable Harlequin Romance book. Booth or Harry or a plethora of other names had a difficult life , his father abandoned him. His mother battled cancer for many years and they never had enough money. Through all the hardships he remained a loyal and loving son but was forced to steal to pay for all the past due bills. After the death of his mother he still had the best aunt that ever lived and was also the very best nephew on the face of the earth. Booth had an eidetic memory and was able to master ten languages so that could help him further his endeavors as a master thief. He met the girl of his dreams and they had a torrid love affair that was unlike any love affair before. But then Booth was forced to make his love hate him so she would not be in danger of someone threatening him. He then spent 12 years traveling and stealing and learning all the languages but wanted to settle down in a small town to teach theater to high school kids! Because of course he was great at that too. Oh yes and he was a master chef and also a master clean freak. After these years the two former lovers found each in this small town. She had came there to get away and write her next best selling book because of course she was a huge star by then. I can’t say I enjoyed this book at all but I have a pact with myself to finish books that I start. I kept waiting for something terrible to happen to the main people but other than a mother’s tragic early death and a love forced to end (but of course rekindled) all went too perfect.

reheating evelyn hugo's nachos

Thank you Berkley for the arc! This is my lowest rated and least favorite EH novel. I waited and waited and waited to read this, and when I finally could, I felt I was putting it down every single time I picked it up. Going into this, I expected a deviation from the normal romance that Henry usually indulges us in, so I was not surprised by the focus on Margaret, or her life. I could see the vision for the book but I don’t think Henry executed it good enough. It tried too hard to be too many things and failed on all fronts. The premise alone was enough to make me think this would be my new favorite but it never went in that direction. It was not an invigorating experience to read about this nepo-baby, American pioneer rags to riches family story. I was supremely underwhelmed by Margaret’s character and backstory as a whole. I saw every “twist” coming, and the story was all so predictable. It lacked conviction and I just could not connect to it and therefore, it didn’t come alive for me. I wish so badly to understand the five star "life changing" reviews talking about great character development and the romance of a lifetime when everything was surface level and flat. I'm wondering if I got a different copy because I just don't see where in the story people are finding that... Characters Not only does the romance take a backseat for this book, but I found character development severely lacking, but at the same time, this is Henry's spiciest book? There was just no room for their development with Margaret in the way. Alice did not feel like a present character (in a story entirely told from her POV) in her life, and there just wasn’t enough time for us to truly get to know her since we’re learning about Margaret for me to feel any way for her. Alice is also the first sunshine-y character that EH has written, and that also just did not work for me. I never connected to her. The weird tidbits with her family never truly told a cohesive story; she has a sister she mentions over and over and yet she never comes into the story, nor does she ever talk to her. Her friends live in a text-only existence until the very end. The relationship with her mom, while I could understand the how and why, just felt a little lazy and like an afterthought. Also the weird not-serious-boyfriend relationship she had with a complete separate character for half the book was so strange... SO strange... Hayden, too, did not come alive for me. There were sporadic dumps of information from him which lacked reason since him and Alice, at that point, were practically still strangers. His character arc was never truly developed, nor is there any real depth to him just because there's no time to focus on his character. I didn’t understand or feel their connection, and that is partly due to the fact that this story heavily focuses on an entire third character, and also because it’s very insta-love. There is no rivals to lovers, at all, in this 384 page book. Imagine my disappointment. I can imagine all of the different ways this COULD have gone and didn’t; the insta love didn’t work in this book, and I think had it taken its time instead of ramping things up at 25%, then suddenly in love at like 50%, I would have been able to feel their connection better. There were some cute moments, but it was nothing noteworthy. I also almost died of secondhand embarrassment from the spice moments that I genuinely had to skip them… Again, had the characters and their relationship been developed better, I might have felt differently. The rivals to lovers never truly came to fruition. All I could think while reading was the missed potential. Writing Emily Henry, without a doubt, has a way with words. Her writing is some of the most beautiful I’ve ever read. I didn’t quite feel that way with this book. The biography aspect of the book felt very juvenile and simplistic in a way that didn't make us work for anything. Everything was told to us, not shown, especially Margaret’s backstory. Instead of an immersive experience where we are transported to her past, it’s told in a summarization way, and for me made it feel like a history lecture than a “larger than life” story about a woman I’m seemingly supposed to care about? Like why should I care about Margaret? There was nothing interesting about her at all. Like, oh no! A rich nepo baby with "problems." What a snooze fest! WE DON'T CARE ABOUT BILLIONAIRES!!!! Lik I don't understand WHY Eh felt compelled to write this? Additionally, I found the chapters of this to be chunky and also a little chaotic. Setting Idyllic and perfect for the summer, the setting of this took place on an island in Georgia. It felt coastal and gorgeous, and there are plenty of moments where they’re in the garden or on the boat and it was a great location for the book. Final thoughts This is not a bad book, it just simply was not what I was expecting or wanting. I knew the romance would not be the central plot line but it also wasn’t NOT the central plot line either (this may be somehow her spiciest book? count wise, it is), which left me feeling like I was reading two separate books mushed into one. Because yes, the romance isn’t the focus, but it appears to be the main focus when Alice is not with Margaret. So to everyone saying this isn't a romance... It is. It just wasn't well done. There are plenty of women's fic books that have a superb romance subplots (and I mean SUB plot) where there is not nearly as much spice as this one. That is why it is a romance. Unfortunately, it is just consumed by Margaret's incredibly boring life story. I wasn't quite sure what the purpose or intent was because of the lack of direction. Overall, it felt choppy and odd, and without full dedication to Alice and Hayden as a whole, it just felt awkward whenever they were together. This is also the first EH book that ends with a pregnancy/birth which was interesting to say the least, though the epilogue was really beautiful. Again, I would have enjoyed it more (who doesn’t love when the grumpy MMC cries when holding his daughter in his arms?) had I felt more connected to the characters and story. I can commend Henry for the attempt, but I genuinely hope she does not write a book like this again. I really want to reread this just to see if I'll feel differently (and would be happy to eat my own words) but then I think about suffering through the supreme staleness that is this book. My overall ranking: 1) Beach read (5/5) 2) Book lovers (5/5) 3) Funny story (5/5) 5) Happy Place (5/5) 6) PWMOV (5/5) 7) Gbbl (3/5)

this is the first emily henry book ive actively disliked, so much so that i wouldve easily and quickly DNFd it within the first 15% had it not been an emily henry novel. there are two main storylines here and neither of them worked for me. first, the margaret ives biography storyline, which i could not care less about. i cannot stress how much i did not care about this storyline. i literally skipped every single chapter to do with this storyline (and there are a lot of them) because i couldnt be bothered and also im not here for whatever this storyline is, im here for the romance. which brings me to the second storyline in this book: the romance--which was also not good. i would be hard-pressed to call this book a "romance" because it simply did not feel like one. the romance was soooo rushed, and boring to boot. the banter was stale and contrived (what happened to emily henry's fun, snappy banter??), the characters got way too close way too quickly, and it all just made the whole relationship so unbelievable. and because it was unbelievable it rang as false, and all the things that would've maybe been romantic in another novel felt cheesy and overly sentimental here (especially the ending, which made me roll my eyes). what happened to slowburn, pining, tension, yearning, etc etc?? the best part of any romance is always the buildup and there is no buildup to be found here. just scene after scene where the characters do exactly the same thing: go to a diner, chitchat, go back to Alice/Hayden's place. at a certain point i just didnt want to read this book anymore. i didnt like reading it, and cant say that any part of it really impressed me or interested me in any way. sorry but twas a flop for me

It was a book! One that doesn’t know what it wants to be, and in trying to do romance, mystery and women’s fiction, it ends up falling short at all three. The Margaret Ives biography plot? Completely unnecessary. I could not have cared less. I could have skipped every single chapter related to it up until the end and wouldn't miss a thing. It dragged the story down and made me question why it was even there in the first place. If I wanted to read a biography of sorts, I wouldn’t be picking up a book that looks and sounds like a romance. And speaking of the romance—where is the romance? Alice and Hayden’s relationship is so rushed and flat it might as well not exist. They go from rivals to lovers in like two conversations, and the chemistry is non-existent. The dialogue is dull, the interactions are repetitive, and nothing about their connection feels real. What happened to tension? Longing? Flirtatious banter? This felt like watching two cardboard cutouts try to fall in love. Mind you this all happens in THIRTY days. This book was a mess, start to finish.

This started off with me thinking this book was going to be similar to the Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo & I think that is almost what she was trying for, but it was so boring and badly written in my opinion. There was a part that I started to enjoy it & then it got boring again.. There were times I was reading this for several pages and would totally space out and get so lost. I kept hoping it would get better, but this book was not for me. I think it could have used a lot more editing to make a more cohesive and interesting story. I felt the concept was good, but it was not executed properly. I may be the outlier here as I saw a lot of good reviews.

I'm not sure if Danielle Steel has always written this terribly, if she's phoning it in as she gets older, or if someone is ghostwriting terribly for her. The premise of this book sounds fun: a long-lost princess is reunited with her royal family. However, the writing is hardly better than a student essay with redundant passages that only serve to add to the word count. I have admittedly read very little of Steel's work, but I have to believe it used to be well-written for her to establish such an avid fan base. I received a digital ARC from Random House in exchange for my honest review.

I DNFed after the third death… just too much tragedy for my taste.

I liked the second half more, but still found it meh.. The story felt too forced. Not a nice introduction for me to Steel's works oops.

I was a fan of DS books for many years, I’ve not read any for a while but the last couple haven’t blown me away. The plot on this one was thin at best. There was no real character development. The writing felt really lazy. I’m not sure how many times in a chapter we need to be told how diminutive in size someone is! There was a huge amount of repetition, I found myself focusing on that rather than the actual story. I don’t remember her earlier books being like this.

I’ve been a fan of John Sandford’s books for decades, which makes this review especially difficult to write. I didn’t like The Investigator at all. In fact, I gave up halfway through. I love that Letty now has her own series. She’s a great character, and I have high hopes for future books. We immediately begin with a character dump. So many characters! Quite a few are interchangeable, and I found it difficult to keep track of who was doing what to whom and for what reason. The plot is the kind of complex that becomes overly complicated. We spend a lot of time on oil fields, how they work, who does which job, and where the oil goes each step of the way. I was so incredibly bored because, quite honestly, I don’t care. I just wanted to get on with it already. From there, we got into the ragtag militia group, more oil companies, and various government agencies. I just never connected with any of it. I missed the character depth I’ve come to expect from Sandford’s novels. Soon I was skimming, and by midway I saw no point in continuing. Much of my disappointment here is a result of personal preference. The plot will no doubt work well for many readers. *I received an eARC from the publisher, via NetGalley.*

A real let-down. I was excited to read a book where Lucas Davenport's daughter, Letty, had the starring role. But was very disappointed with the story. It read laboriously with too many superfluous details about guns and the oil business. Especially about guns. My god does it go into detail about weapons. I guess gun-lover might like it. A lot of people die, some of the criminals get caught and I think Sandford may have left the story line open for a sequel. Just wasn't my thing and since COVID started I've read dozens of other Sandford's novels and enjoyed them all. It was a Letty let-down all the way.

This is a perfect example of male authors not being able to write women. Letty came across as a wannabe Ryan Reynolds type cast character with breasts. The attempt at humor throughout this book was so cringeworthy I was regularly muttering out-loud "oh for fucks sake." Worse than that was the new male encounter formula that was repeated again and again. Letty meets new male character, man is condescending and distrustful of Letty, Letty demonstrates skill and/or knowledge of guns, man becomes both instantly impressed and aroused by this surprising revelation that a feminine looking woman enjoys handling ammunition. Just an exhausting read.

This book is very dragged I’d say. I find myself skipping a lot of pages, only reading the dialogues. Eventually I feel Letty’s character is too perfect for me to believe in. She bosses around everyone including the senator. She has that “I’m superior than everyone vibe” that I find hard to related to.

This book starts with a ridiculous storyline. Letty, a new Stanford grad, now works at DHS. First week in and she’s running field intelligence on a major terrorist attack. She yells at a General and tells a Delta how to run surveillance. This fantasy scenario can work if there’s a “wink, wink” attached, unfortunately the tone remains serious, even finds time for politics. Letty becomes a rogue hero with a know-it-all prickly bravado who breaks countless laws for the “public good” - hmmm, eerily like her adversary. The juxtaposition is jarring, uncomfortable and unintended. Letty’s nearly unlikeable, the plot holes are huge, the writing wanders. The audio book doesn’t help.

I have enjoyed all of the Virgil Flowers and the Lucas Davenport novels. I was anticipating a great new series, however I am sorry to say this isn’t it. We know Letty from the Davenport Prey series where she originated. She was a good character in those books, and she is a good character in this story. My issue with this story was it began so slow and I struggled with the over abundance of dialogue for 3/4 of the way through. The last quarter is very good, but getting to that point nearly had me bored to quit reading.

Audio at 1.25x Performance ok - mispronounced words so could have been better directed Not up to par. Lucas and Virgil together again. Weak play. Ridiculously characters. Insulting depictions of women. And stupid ending. You would have thought it was written by Jodi Picolt. First Lucas Davenport I would not recommend unless you ‘have’ to read them all.

I love Sandford and Davenport and Virgil, but this isn't a Sandford book. It is obviously ghost-written. One non-spoiler example is the expression "What!". This expression is used throughout the book by multiple characters. I'm no English major by any means, but the way the writer used it made no sense to me and it really stuck out like a sore thumb. I am confident that I have never seen this expression used in a novel which was actually written by John Sandford. Personally, if they acknowledged that this was a Davenport book written by another author to keep the series alive (a la Andrew Child) I would have purchased it anyway. I belive Sandford is in his mid 80s now. Perhaps he is officially retired. The story is written by a writer who clearly knows the characters and writes Davenport and Virgil well enough. They have good banter throughout. This is the best part of the book. The story itself is very blah. The crimes/drama are not exciting or interesting. The other characters and their conversations are boring and repetitive. I really didn't care what happened in the end. If you are a die hard Sandford fan, it is worth a read to get the Davenport-Virgil fix, but that is it. One of my least favorite Sandford books.

There was a time when I had read all the Lucas Davenport books, then just kind of lost interest. After several years of skipping them thought I would try another one. Just doesn't work for me. Drag out way too long. Can't see my self going back into this series. Thanks NetGalley for advance copy

The mystery of who killed the judge and his sons was really good - I doubt it would have ever been solved in real life because that was a real "out of left field" thing. That said, I really was not a fan of this story. The widow was too crazy with a friend who was little too beyond loyal and neither had any regard for the baby. I'm always very disappointed when a man writes female characters who seem to act based on situations not true emotions. The main cops were just so conveniently brilliant and lucked into helpful people that it was just totally fiction and not fiction pretending to be reality.

I've read every Lee Child book. Bought them on release day and couldn't set them down. Until about 4 years ago. Frankly, Lee Child has sold his soul. Firstly when he let Tom Cruise buy the rights to some of the Reacher books for movies. More recently when he decided to retire but keep an income (which I'm sure he doesn't need) by passing the work to his brother, Andrew. The Reacher books have gone downhill to the extent that, if this was the first Reacher book I'd ever read it would be the last. Poorly written, by a lazy writer with a plot which must have taken a whole half hour to devise. Just someone getting words on a page to generate income by depending on the loyal fans to keep buying. 2/5 is being generous. Retire properly and retire Reacher. The guy has to be old enough by now.

I am not sure what to rate this. Again, Scott Brick’s narration kept me in the book. It was a bit obvious what was going to happen early on in the second storyline. Apparently these books don’t go in yearly order since we were taken back to 1992. I have to assume that he carried his rolodex with him so that he had all of the contact numbers with him. Just makes it easier for my weird brain to not be stuck on something so ridiculous if I think that. Why I get stuck on dumb things like that, I have no idea, but I do and it’s annoying. Though this was quite minimal compared to the deodarant thing🤦🏼‍♀️🤦🏼‍♀️🤦🏼‍♀️. Yes, you can all roll your eyes at me, I do it quite often myself. Okay that’s all. Read the summary provided to find out what the book is about because 7 scientists who worked on a secret project in 1969 in India are being killed one by one and Reacher is put on a random special task force to come up with a list of suspects in hopes of stopping the killing before all 7 are dead, is all I have for you. Rating and review posted: 2/15/26 2.5⭐️’s rounded down. 🤷‍♀️.

Reacher 28 - 2.5/5. Absolute turd!! I could put up with this when I started it because I was on holiday in sunny Ibiza, but now that I’m back to Britain (and back to work), I’m miserable enough as it is without reading Andrew Child’s massacre of my boi Reacher… DNF 70% Ok update. Went back and finished. It was okay I suppose. 2.5 out of 5. I won’t be reading any more from Andy.

I’ve been saying I’m done with EH for probably the last 3 books of hers that I’ve read but still wanted to at least finish this trilogy. And now I’m really done. I’m tired of every book having an infidelity story line. I’m tired of the endless name dropping of restaurants and landmarks (in both this trilogy and her other series). I’m tired of her overuse of exclamation points and irrelevant parenthetical asides. I’m tired of every character having a bizarre name (Cash, Baker, Dunk, Swan[?!], Floyd, Tilda, Bright[?!]....). I don’t even really get why this was a trilogy. The actual plot could have been wrapped up in one book, especially with as tidily as every problem was resolved. We definitely didn’t need this slew of random side characters who didn’t matter one bit to anything. Who cares about the news anchor? Who cares about the “school wives”? No one. And I definitely don’t care when they only show up in the last 2 chapters of the book.

Troubles in Paradise, you say? Oh let me count the ways: - Who the heck is the narrator? Told in first person present tense, three books in and I still can't figure out who the "I" is that's telling the story. I even went back and reread the beginning of this one for clarification, which wasn't to be found. - Are we really supposed to believe that every. single. character. is so easily susceptible to insta/outsta/re-insta-love? - Why did Hilderbrand feel the need to tack on a conclusion with a fabricated hurricane and introduction of a random, new character? Listen, I get that these are escapist novels. I happily went along with the first two, but this final installment in the trilogy just highlighted my overall issues with the series. I did enjoy the St. John setting and the characters' ties to Iowa City (Go Hawks!), but all-in-all this is a reading adventure I'm glad has run its course. Blog: www.confettibookshelf.com IG: @confettibookshelf

So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive. So repetitive.

I read this book because I had already invested the time to read the first two. Wish I hadn't. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

Definitely my least favorite of this trilogy. You pick up Elin for beach & food vibes and this only partially delivered on each. But what’s really insane is the events of this book take place less than 60 days from the first book and when you remember that fact you realize the main characters are demonstrating TPB (truly psychotic behavior). Lastly, this got so convoluted at the end it barely made any sense.

** spoiler alert ** literally no purpose to this series im sorry i thought more would happen that would be juicy but nothing. for my book club girlies just know the hurricane finally happens

I’m still so confused and this was the last book

Meh. This was the 3rd in a series. I am not sure if this book was really any worse than the other two, or if I was just tired of it. As someone who has been to St. John numerous times, I found the first book fun as I read about so many of the places on St. John that I have grown to love over the years. By the third book, I felt that the reference to the many restaurants, bars, beaches was overdone...constant "name dropping" (literally in one sentence there was a reference to 5 bars/restaurants). And the characters were all a bit ridiculous. Just about everyone it seemed got mad at someone else (when they clearly loved - or were following in love) with that person. And heaven forbid that any one talked to each other - get mad and stop returning phone calls. What is with these people? Have they no maturity? And of course, once the person who was mad (for really no reason), the other person instantly forgave them and they lived happily ever after. It got old quick. I know this isn't supposed to be anything "deep", but really no sense of reality. Everyone who was struggling financially suddenly came into money or a place to live (or both). Life rarely works out this way. I guess reading to be in a happy place I shouldn't worry about this small thing, but just another annoyance for me. This three-book series could have been a single book. And I suspect for me if it had been (with a lot of the excess trimmed down, I may have not been so down on this one.

Was this book written for someone with memory problems because the background information is repeated every chapter. Also Rosie’s a hoe

"Only the Dead," penned by Jack Carr, delves into a world where the boundaries between fiction and troubling ideologies blur. While Carr's knack for storytelling is evident, the book's overt alignment with far-right extremism, its glorification of firearms, and its propagation of conspiracy theories cannot be ignored. The narrative appears to perpetuate dangerous ideas that have the potential to harm social cohesion and contribute to polarization. It's important to consider the broader impact of literature that normalizes such beliefs, as it can inadvertently legitimize extremist views. In an era where fostering understanding and unity is paramount, "Only the Dead" raises concerns about its potential to exacerbate divisions and undermine societal progress.

About 100 pages into this book I thought "is this by the author of the Terminal List"? And of course it was. The Terminal List is the worst book I have ever read. Stupid story. Stupid Characters. Ridiculous conspiracy theories. Told very poorly. Fortunately, Jack Carr is improving as a novelist. Now it is just ridiculous conspiracy theories told adequately. The conspiracy theory goes back to Breton Woods and includes the Kennedy assassination, the invasion of Vietnam, Cuba, Afghanistan, ect. If you like your conspiracy theory to be widespread and very, very stupid you will love this book. If you love an author that uses his book as product placement for various businesses, some of which is on their website promoting you will love this book. If you love an author who hates all forms of government you will love this book. If you don't care whether the story makes any sense at all you will really love this book. To be fair Mr. Carr tells a story well and moves it at a good pace. But Dear God he really needs to get his head out of his colon and see what is happening in the real world rather than this horrific fantasy he has created. The fact that some gush over this book explains why convicted sexual deviants have a shot at winning the White House.

Really hard to get into this book. I’ve listened to all the others in the series, but this one was tough to get through. So much time spent hearing the author explain the workings of the world. It’s very heavy handed in the politics. And it just keeps coming. The part where he mansplains economics to us was brutal. Went on way to long and was so damn repetitive. Probably 2/3 of this was just rambling about some pretty dry stuff. This series may be losing its touch

I have never read a Nora Roberts book and I felt it was about time. Sadly, this one was not for me. The story started very interesting, and I enjoy the characters. After 10% was like watching someone’s real (boring) life in real time. Every workday, every drink, every step laid out on the page. After 50% I skimmed a ton. For a book that could have had a lot of drama it was one of the dullest ones I ever read. Recommended For: Only read if you have read Nora Roberts before, do not start here.

2.5 Too many details that weren't pertinent to the story. I think I could tend bar now and know how to make every drink known to man!

a lot of things happen in this book and almost none of them are interesting

I feel like two stars might be generous. I don’t remember just trying to get through a book like that in a long time. The only interesting part of this book is all given away in the blurb on the back. Then it’s all a crappy romance story with the male character being what I felt was controlling, demeaning, and misogynistic - not what I’d call cute. Absolutely don’t want whatever that was for myself. Okay maybe not misogynistic but definitely a toxic amount of control.

Well where does one start . I have read most of the Prey series , but I’m pretty sure this will be my last one. John Sandford is using these books to express his hatred and dislike for conservatives . If you’re a progressive liberal type , this book is for you. If you’re a conservative in the very least nah bruh don’t bother. I sure wish I would have used my audible credit on anything else. Blah.

** spoiler alert ** Nothing much happens with Lucas and Virgil except they eat. They eat junk. They eat breakfast. They just eat. And Sandford is getting way too political, way too left wing. Way too TDS. Way too gun control. Fascist control. I’m really getting tired of the literary intelligentsia insulting 50% of the country, probably their readers, with their left wing bs. And masks? Good gracious. I think Lucas just needs to retire. Virgil needs to retire and write his books. Maybe Lettie can be the new hero. Or Sandford can retire too.

It sort of sums up the optimism of the end of the Trump era. But it is wildly over the top. It will be interesting to compare the sentiments in the poem with Biden’s future performance as statesman. At the moment, it looks like it is asking for the ridicule of hindsight, like the drone king Obama’s Nobel Peace Prize. I hope it looks prescient in four years time, I really do. Maybe it is too sentimental, too Hollywood. Maybe I’m too old and cynical. Maybe. I give it 2 stars as a phenomenon, part of the zeitgeist. Just as a poem, however... Just as a piece of literature... It is an absolute zero.

It’s not so much a poetaster’s slant I’ll grant it that, or even tasteless bites Of senseless cant, but on the naked page One has to scant a lack of poesy But scarcely covered by infrequent rhyme With no idea of metered time—what’s more, The stupid controversy re: translation, (This witless age’s predilection o’er One people’s sudden inability To translate words for that their pigmentation’s Wrong—let’s just call it racist and move on) And Gorman’s dutiful genuflection To the imperatives of moment’s case Does not a great and lasting artwork make. (See poor Ben Jonson’s poet laureate state; His fate was to be known as Shakespeare’s mate.) But just as well. This age’s poetry, American especially, is not In vibrant health, but, weakened in its cage, It dies a strengthless flower in its rage.

I was torn between 2 and 3 stars. I have read every “In Death” book and every “Eve” book. The last few have not been good, but I preordered this one anyway. That wont happen again. This time I read the book as though i was reading a new author, a new series. The dialogue is terrible and every character speaks with the same stupid tone. A widow: “He would have wanted it so. It is your duty to find who did this terrible thing” A widower: “. She was the glue. They’re good boys. Of course. I met him , but..I don’t know” A young woman: “ he was the leader. He was. It was so long ago. It was so long ago” Charles : “ it shows. It shows not only that he was loved. But that he loved. He care. Delia. “ Things that made Eve appealing 10-15 years ago are not irksome. She is so ignorant of everything. Flowers (who doesn’t know what a daffodil is?). “Those yellow trumpety things were open. How did they just open?” “ Why is it a turnover” “Should be a hand pie” “Why get the lead out? Whats the opposite? Fast? Get the feathers out” Roarke has gotten boring and reminds me of an abusive spouse. “Wear this, not that”, “Take my money, (because you aren’t competent to go get yours), “You will be the guest speaker as a cop, even if you don’t want to”, “You drink this now, you take this soother, no argument” “He eyed her, saw the flickers of temper and ignored them...Regardless you are not leaving the house without...” The of course the bad guys, who are rich spoiled pompous like Roarke and Eve, are also stupid and 6 nasty comments from Eve - count them, 6 in 2 pages and the guy loses his temper and spills it all. I decided. 2 stars.

Normally love J.D. Robb...but this one disappoints I have read every book in her Death series and eagerly look forward to each new release. This one lacked both humor and intrigue for me. Frankly I found it boring which is something I never say about an Eve Dallas story. So disappointed.

I am beginning to wonder if these are ghostwritten.

Alas this was disappointing. It opened well, setting the scene, the crime, but that is where it seemed to stall, going into a revolving and repetitive dialogue on the reason/motive for the murder of two main suspects. There were some obvious avenues to pursue for evidence such as access to the victims' link/phone records, but that never came up, would have been easy to have them waiting for them to come in, but it went in the direction of let's break them in the box instead. There were some nice moments throughout of the main/regular characters, but overall, this one feel flat and was a struggle to get through and found myself wanting to skim read sections that were more of the same merry-go-round, no suspense, no real action, just a ho-hum progression.

I really don't know where the 5 stars are coming from This is my all time favorite series. I have reread or relistened numerous times. This book was not a good effort. Too much agenda pushed. Too many people thrown in during interviews very quickly. I lost track. I could have read first 3 chapters and then picked up at 95% for the interrogation and missed nothing. Some favorite side characters get a passing nod. Even interactions with Somerset weren't up to par. I'm going to have to start getting these from library and read, before purchasing moving forward. I have the book and audio for every one in series. Including the novellas. To expensive for what was churned out in this book. These books are normally show. Shows the investigative process, relationship building etc. This book was a bunch of tell. It just fell flat for me in a big way. Audio 3 stars normally 5. Why does Roarke sound like a consiliatory dweeb who is sometimes from Ireland and why does Eve sound like a 40 yr smoker with a headcold. Susan has her sounding like an older woman in this book.

It was repetitive, going around same thing again and again and again. Also none of the interview or characters involved were interesting. There was absolutely no thrill and no satisfaction at the end. Sadly it's a forgettable book at best.

Extremely repetitive. There’s a good police procedural buried in here.

I love the in death series. This one is mediocre. I wait for each book to be released. This one seems to have been written by an assistant. Most of the book is Dallas & Peabody trying to come up with a suspect.

** spoiler alert ** That’s the ending!??? What a giant disappointment. The ending of this book was wild- a helicopter landing on top of a prison building, collapsing the roof right onto the person they were trying to save?!! Then the father confessing to all of those murders with barely a reason? Did they just get sick of this book one day and tried to tie it in one bow in three pages? Even the Joe story with Bao coming to work with Lindsay for an unclear reason ?! Your husband is missing in action and Lindsay’s just going out for beers with friends? Terrible.

I have read all the books in this series and this has to be the worse. I think its time for the Women's Murder Club to retire.

This book started off decent, at least a solid three stars. But things really went off the rails in the last third or so. I struggled to even get through it and then the ending was terrible. Just completely thrown together - it was rushed and chaotic and didn’t even make sense. Which is so disappointing because it started off fairly promising. But the quality of this series has greatly diminished in recent years, I fear.

This was ok, but nothing special and it ended abruptly in a single page which was a let down, I expected more.

Is it just me or did others find it odd that neither crime was solved by the police detectives? We are to believe that Boxer wasn't more determined to find the killer of her longtime friend & mentor? Just leave it to Cindy the reporter? Where was Conklin? Yuki's life is in danger & not much concern from her husband? This book could easily have been cut in half - lots of repeating. How many times do we need a descriptor of Lindsay's daughter? And after several chapters of "where's Joe?" he just reappears with no explanation. Lots of descriptors of their favorite restaurant and staff, why?! Dull and boring!

For most of you who read my reviews, you already know the following but let me be transparent. I read most of James Patterson’s books and have for several years. Some might ask why and that’s another whole discussion best saved for another day. I have really enjoyed some, liked some, and didn’t really care for others. On a personal level, I must admit that his Women’s Murder Club series – focused on the professional and personal lives of four women in San Francisco - has been very hit and miss over the last couple of years. Unfortunately, this year’s outing - “25 Alive”- is a bit more miss than hit. There’s no other way to say it. For me, it’s another middle of the road, formula-matic and predictable, with another short-shifted ending that feels thrown together in a rush that robs what could have been a bigger emotional punch for the reader. “25 Alive” is an anniversary number in the series, so I was hoping for a memorable moment for one of the Murder Club members or some kind of shocking development that either shakes them up or brings serious change into their lives. I will say that it starts off with a surprising moment that immediately draws your attention and teases a real serious investigation that will be driven by personal desire for revenge. What can that be you ask. This surprise happens in the first five pages and is included on the book cover, so don’t feel like I am giving away any spoilers. Lindsey’s longtime partner, mentor, former boss and chief of police – Warren Jacobi – is murdered in the Golden Gate Park by an unknown killer. Of course, homicide detective Lindsey Boxer is called to the scene and assigned to lead the investigation because her boss, Jackson Brady, trusts her and her team to hunt down the killer. Lindsey also has fellow Murder Club member, investigative reporter Cindy Thomas, helping her out by running down her own leads. At the same time, their other team member, assistant district attorney Yuki Castellano, is starting her new court case. She is leading the prosecution against Esteban Dario Garza, a handsome and wealthy, 23-year-old playboy with Mexican drug cartel connections, on trial for the murder of his friend. This may be the murder that law enforcement believes it has enough evidence to win in court, but they are sure that Dario has killed at least seven different women over the last three years. They just haven’t been able to gather enough definitive evidence to charge him. This time, Suki believes that she can bring home a guilty verdict. Things quickly go from bad to even worse for the Murder Club members. First, Lindsey’s team find a matchbook near the site where Jacobi was murdered with the words “I said. You dead.” Then they discover another dead body a few blocks away with the same words showing on her computer screen. It looks like they are hunting a serial killer, one who has a bigger trail than they think, and is looking for more. Second, during Yuki’s opening statement, a smoke bomb goes off in the hallway outside the courtroom causing an evacuation. When the smoke clears, an unwelcome gift box has been left behind with cards listing the names and addresses of all the jury members, prosecution team, and even the judge. The threat is clear and the trial will have to be moved into a secure lockdown state. However, that will won’t be enough to keep cartel assassins from eliminating whoever they need to in order to stop the trial from taking place. Will Yuki be able to stay safe or will she find herself being a target? As with several of the last six to eight books, each of these two primary plots come across like variations on previously used storylines, which are starting to feel a bit prescriptive and repetitive. Let’s see if this sounds familiar to you… Yuki fighting a courtroom battle, Lindsay searching for a serial killer, Cindy running her own investigation and helping lead Lindsey to the killer’s identity, and Claire providing necessary medical information and playing the role of emotional support. Oh, and of course, let’s not forget, Lindsay’s husband, FBI agent husband Joe, who gets called in to go on a secret assignment that ends up helping resolve the investigation. And of course, he barely makes it back alive. Sound familiar? Maybe it’s me, but it feels like the same thing being repeated over and over again. And what makes it worse, at least for me, is the ending. I am not sure why several of the recent books in this series have such thrown together endings that feel like critical scenes where the dots get connected and full payoffs occur on the page rather than off the page. The culmination of the two primary storylines and Joe’s subplot practically take place over the last 10 pages. Seriously? After almost 300 pages of buildup, we connect all of the dots and wrap everything just like that in 10 pages? Seriously? Where in the heck was the editor to advise Patterson and Paetro to add some more meat and emotional payoff to the ending? I realize that editors probably don’t have the power to direct Patterson, but this is really hurting the quality of the books in this series. Yes, I recognize that is my humble opinion, and a lot of Patterson readers would disagree with me. I am just trying to be honest and provide constructive feedback (even though I am probably sitting on the beach of my own solitary inhabited island). Again, this is not a completely bad book. I give it two out of five stars and enjoyed some of the escapist, mind candy reading experience. I had a lot of hope for how the two storylines started out, but it lost steam about half-way through. To add to my frustration (and I need to stay spoiler free), the revelation of Warren Jacobi’s murderer and his/her outcome was a real disappointment. It was such a whimper rather than the emotional climax that it truly deserved. Warren deserved much better. As I said in my review of the last book in this series, my biggest frustration is that this series could be better if Patterson and Paetro focused more on character development and took some risks rather than settling for retread formulas that are losing most of their strengths and uniqueness. Overall, after all that constructive feedback, I give it a grudgingly passing grade but most of that is due to legacy and the relationships these characters have built with me rather than the comfortable state that their current storylines and weaker endings have been delivering. It is what it is… I hope your reading experience was more enjoyable…

I don’t think I’ve ever seen this rushed of an ending. The book was going well with a strong plot, and I thought this series was getting back on track. Then all three plot lines wrapped up incredibly quickly with rushed endings. For instance, one killer was suddenly caught after an outlandish stunt and then confessed to two of the murders “for no reason” even though one of those murders was the focal point of the book.

The 25th book of James Patterson's Women's Murder Club Series is now a new low in the series, I am sad to say. I thought The 24th Hour was bad but this one is downright lazy and has issues, to say the least. Things begin with an emotional shocker - Claire calls Sergeant Lindsay Boxer to prepare her, for nought - she's shocked when she arrives at the scene to find out the murder victim is her friend and former partner, Retired Sergeant Warren Jacoby! That isn't the only murder, there's another one close by, and both murder scenes contain a cryptic clue that ties them together - a 4 word phrase, which Sergeant Lindsay quickly surmises is the trademark signature of some sicko the police absolutely must stop. Claire examines the victims. Lindsay must catch the killer with the help of Cindy as the killer has also mailed the "signature" to a New York Newspaper. It's a Public Relations nightmare in the making. One of the reasons this story isn't very good is it portrays Lindsay as an ineffective detective since it is Cindy who digs up most of the clues, despite many things essentially being handed to Lindsay that she doesn't end up following up on. Meanwhile, Assistant District Attorney Yuki Castellano is prosecuting a capital murder case against a popular Hispanic clubber famous for his music and dance videos, who allegedly has killed a string of women he picked up at various nightclubs. None of which the police could pin on him until he kills and then decapitates an acquaintance, leaving behind a witness now terrified for their life. Worse yet, he's the son of a famous cartel member, who threatens the entire justice system with reprisal if his son isn't released. The reprisal begins with the presiding Judge and his wife, so now everyone is on edge. Incidentally Joe and Bao are sent by the FBI into Mexico to track down the Judge's killer, where they run into the Cartel's hitmen with a gunfight ensuing. Interestingly enough this is the only plot line that is well done in this whole book. Considering the current political climate in 2025 when Trump is in power, it almost feels like this book is justifying why people hate criminals, especially Mexican drug lord murderer types. Frankly anyone who believes in Law and Order should be aghast at what these people have done, but it is the hatred of these criminals that paints an entire race as bad, for the actions of a few. Race issues aside, the writing in this book was "hella lazy." What is up with that stupid ending that stretched my credibility to the limit? I can't even believe I read this conclusion what??????? (view spoiler) I can't believe this guy is the head of a cartel gang, when his decision making is so incompetent he'd fit in America's Dumbest Criminals, like this genius. Honestly I love the premise of the Women's Murder Club and it's usually much better than this. But the 24th and 25th books leave a LOT to be desired. The writing is still competent, but the stories are not. Even the case that Cindy does most of the heavy lifting on, is not very well resolved. I'll probably still read next year's book like a sucker, but I'm hoping the authors get some better beta readers and editor feedback before they choose this kind of ending for a book in an otherwise good series.

This book almost restored my faith in Patterson, almost. 300 really good pages ruined by a lazy and abbreviated ending. Patterson is washed

2.5 ⭐I was bored with it

Getting closer to getting the whole “club” involved, but way too many loose ends with a rushed and disappointing finish to rate any higher than 2 stars.

Listened to audio with maxim, ending was rushed, story had like 100 suspects along the way. Not great.

Easy to predict. No plot twists. I do not recommend.

Very choppy style in this book. MC really!? Would any person put their family in danger to get back into the job? Not believable. Didn’t like how it jumped around, hard to follow. This is the first lacklustre book but this incredible author. Huh. Feels like someone else wrote this book.

Find my reviews at: https://theburgeoningbookshelf.blogsp... I'm sorry to say that Simply Lies was not my favourite David Baldacci novel! I absolutely loved the Atlee Pine series and couldn't get enough of her. I was sorry to see the series end. Simply Lies is the first book in a new series featuring protagonist Mickey Gibson. Gibson is a former detective now working for private investigation company ProEye, tracking down the hidden assets of the extremely wealthy who have mounting debts. Gibson is conned into investigating the death of a known criminal and once she is in, there is no backing out. Simply Lies has a very complicated plot and I couldn't understand Mickey's motivation to become so involved in this case. There weren't a lot of characters in the novel but everyone had two, sometimes three, different names. Baldacci includes lots of dialogue and internal monologue - two of my pet hates. I did enjoy the unexpected twists in the story and I have to admit the plot wasn't at all predictable. I definitely plan on giving the next Mickey Gibson novel a try as I know Baldacci can write a compelling five star worthy novel. *I received my copy from the publisher

I have read all of Baldacci’s books, I can’t think of one of them that I didn’t like. This one… if there was a way to definitively prove it, I’d put some large money on it that he did NOT write this book. It sounds SO UNLIKE any of his other books… it truly stands out as different. In many ways, the writing & simplistic storyline comes across as maybe a grade 8 students first book, definitely NOT an accomplished authors most recent novel. As I read it, I kept looking for clues where we all get told we’re being punked. I seriously expected to read “thanks for reading, this novel was actually written by my apprentice….”. It’s not important enough for me to do a deeper analysis to compare writing styles, but I would point out a few very obvious discrepancies: Characters - David normally provides terrific and visual descriptions of most characters, to the point that you can generally create a picture of each in your mind. This book?… I would not be able to tell you a single descriptive thing about Mickey, the MAIN character!! And I finished the book 15 minutes ago! Information…. Baldacci always describes tools or methods used in detailed ways, so you actually understand the how and what of the “new”, or secret technology. When a certain gun is used… they are explained in detail and given names and I’ve actually stopped reading and googled that name, mid-sentence, to learn more. This book… did Mickey even have a gun? Location:…. Again, the way he describes where the character is located is very detailed in his other books, like he’s actually been there. This book…Not even close and I would be hard pressed to tell you where it took place, 15 minutes after finishing it. Over all… it was “okay”, but not very impressed with it for sure. As I said, I would believe someone else wrote this with him adding bits here & there, but not truly paying attention himself. :-)

One does not expect Marvel movies to be scientifically accurate. One does not demand originality too. Predictable storylines are fine as long as the characters' backstories and behavior are reasonably plausible. The fans starting such a movie simply want to be entertained by all the actions and interactions. The expectations from Baldacci's books are similar. However, when the enjoyment factor declines, as seen in Simply Lies, readers begin to scrutinize the numerous logical inconsistencies. It is possible that these shortcomings are no more pronounced in this novel than in any of the author's previous fifty works. The story may not be more predictable than the rest, but its predictability becomes jarring due to the diminished enjoyment value. Somehow, the story does not work, and that's perhaps the whole truth for this reviewer. Whether this is because of underdeveloped leads or the utter illogicality of everything or anything else is unimportant.

I really wasn’t too thrilled with this. The premise seemed interesting, but as I got further into the book I felt its quality slipped more and more. The connection between the two main characters just wasn’t compelling and I found myself wondering why they were even linked at all. Jealousy from Francine, who wanted to live through her? It doesn’t make sense why she would go after Mickey years later. In addition, Francine’s backstory seemed extremely contrived and lacked a realistic aspect, it read as if the author tried to brainstorm every horrific childhood trauma and cram it all into one character. The chapter discussing NFTs and cryptocurrency bored me to tears: I do not care. Further, we were supposed to believe that Mickey cared so much about her two children, the fact she’s a single mom of two was shoved into our faces constantly throughout, but then she goes and gets involved in the takedown of a notorious international criminal who the FBI has been unable to get for years? It’s simply implausible, as was a lot of the rest. This novel was definitely a miss for me.

It's not easy wading through the reviews of a Stephen King book. There are those fanatical readers who either love or hate his work. There are many who give his books 5 star ratings before they even read his books, thinking that he could poop on the page and it would still be brilliant. You also have the haters who think he hasn't written a good book in 25 years who read his stuff just waiting to point out why it's not as good as his early stuff. Me? King is hit or miss for me. I've really enjoyed some of his books and others I find almost unreadable. That said, based on the description of Fairy Tale, I came into this book with high hopes and high expectations. Unfortunately, I found a lot to complain about in this one, much more than I found to celebrate. King makes the same mistake I'm seeing with a lot of authors right now in that he tries to give voice to a first-person narrator who is clearly beyond King's understanding. The worst part is that King knows it and tries to make excuses throughout the entirety of this book. The narrator of this book is a 17-year old boy who might be the most anachronistic high-school kid I've ever read. King goes into this one knowing that he doesn't have the knowledge of what it's like to be a 17-year-old kid in today's world, so writes him as if he's more of a 45 year old man. When Charlie, the protagonist, references sports heroes, it's Mike Tyson and Shaquille O'Neal he mentions (because his father made him watch YouTube videos of them). When he encounters a skeleton-monster, he relates him to the Skeletor action figure he used to have when he was a kid, despite the fact that He-Man wasn't popular during his supposed childhood hears. Charlies quotes all kinds of movies. Most of them are in black and white (explained as more quality time spent with his dad watching TMC-Turner Movie Classics Channel). It goes on and on. If you take a drink every time TMC is mentioned, you'l wind up too sauced to keep reading. Charlie has that nostalgic coming of age character that King writes so well, so often, but you could drop him into a book King wrote 20 years ago and he wouldn't have seen out of place. King does nothing to make him a modern day teen. I could be wrong, but I don't think Charlie sends or receives a single text message in this book--only emails. There are some other glaring problems with this book. The first 160 pages are like a really long prologue. Almost a third of this book is gone before we get to anything that has to do with a fairy tale. Before that is the story of a boy who meets an old man and his dog and for reasons that are explained, but feel like a stretch, the boy gives up his senior year of high school, quitting the two sports he plays, to take care of a grumpy old man who gets hurt and can't take care of himself. The WHY is explained, but it never feels authentic. It never feels authentic to a kid of the age he supposedly is in the time of the world he lives in. King gives his reasons but they feel more like excuses. There's also some problems with the Babelfish issue. After a long, grinding preamble, Charlie finally goes down the rabbit hole and passes through a barrier that makes his head fuzzy for a moment and somehow allows him to speak the language of the place on the other side. He's realizes that he's speaking another language and is unable to say things that there is no translation for such as "awesome sauce," which I believe King thinks is authentic 17-year-old speech. King goes on to show many instances of this solution to the babel fish problem. He repeats it over and over again, almost unnecessarily so. Then he stops. It's toward the end of the book and all of the sudden, he's saying words that people from Other don't understand. That he can say them is against the rules King has built for his world. Twice in short succession he says things that his friends from Other don't understand and ask him what it means. As much as this might seem like a minor thing, it's indicative of the laziness that this book was written with and is something an editor surely should have caught. King's pace is usually slow and this one is no different. I knew that going in but it was an easy book to put down and one that didn't have me excited to pick it back up again. That said, fans of King will like his folksy storytelling and the vivid pictures he creates with his writing that slows the pace down as it does. This books is filled with shout-outs to horror, fantasy and folk take/fairy tales. Much of it was clever and there a lot of nice homages from Bram Stoker to Disney and everything in between. This whole story is an homage to the genre and at points it can be charming in that way. If you can get past how anachronistic his protagonist is King fills his world with interesting and endearing characters. His bad guys in this story feel a little light. Some good "big bad" hanging over everything with impending doom could have given the story some much-needed tension. As it is two of the biggest--literally and figuratively--villains in the book are dispatched via deus ex machina in the form of a weapon from our own world which feels a little cheap in a magical fairy land setting. King can spin a yarn. I remember reading the first third of the book and thinking, that we hadn't even gotten to the main story yet, that we were just building up to it over the large chunk of page space, but that King has a way of wrapping you up in a story that can be enjoyable even if it's outside of the plot. Clearly, there are going to be people who love this book. I felt like King took the reader's suspension of disbelief for granted though and asked too much. If you're going to write a 17-year-old character, especially in first person, you need to get know how a person that age speaks and thinks. Instead, King just kept making excuses for why he thought like a 45 year old man. It's a 2.5 star book for me and I'm rounding down to 2 in my Goodreads rating. There wasn't anything to make me want to bump it up. I'm afraid I can't recommend it. This book has too many issues for me to give it my stamp of approval. If you really feel like you must read this one, I hope you'll wait for it to come to your local library instead of dishing out cash like I did. Honestly, I think it's best to just take a pass. Note: If the blurb of this book interests you but you don't want to read it--or if you have and want to read the same premise done right, I highly recommend The Book of Lost Things by John Connolly who takes this same project on and gets a much better result

The book started in a brilliant fashion with a compelling story about a mysterious old house like in Psycho, a strange accident, an old dog, a shed with obscure noises... Charlie Reade is on his way to a big adventure. Couldn't keep my feet still to discover the secrets down the stairs in the shed with the hint to Bradbury's October Country. But then? First there were good references to Lovecraft, I also felt some kind of Dark Tower atmosphere at the very beginning. I was wrong. Stephen King focused on a kind of pastiche of Alice in Wonderland, Grim's Fairy Tales, The Wizard of Oz. He created interesting characters, everything all right here, but the whole story with Charlie who originally wanted to rejuvenate the old dog Radar was counteracted with a kind of parallel world and its destiny. To be honest. I didn't like this world and its characters. First I thought Stephen King will come up with a kind of Pet Semetary 2.0 but personally I was disappointed from this would be fairy tale/fantasy cocktail. Maybe he should have focused on one tale here. Love this author since early youth. Read almost everything he ever published. But this book didn't do it for me. After that great frame story... I'm a bit speechless and sad. Sorry folks. Maybe the right book for fantasy fans...

A bloated, meandering mess. While there were some good parts, quite a bit was drawn out way longer than it should have been while other parts could have been elaborated on more. Honestly it seemed like king was building toward a big revelation/reward/payoff at the end but, instead it just sloughs along and goes through the motions until it’s over. Disappointing, the fantasy parts seemed very un-fantastical and dull. The characters for the most part were fillers and are very forgettable. The best part of the book are Radar the dog and the Snab (a giant red cricket). Oh, also, thanks Mr. King for interrupting the narrative a couple times to remind us that Republicans are evil and racist, I was worried your political views may have changed. A fantasy story is the perfect place to soapbox your politics…

i pulled through this only for the sole reason of not having a Stephen King dnf on my consciousness.

i can't believe i read this. i never, in my whole life, had any intention of doing so. but then i decided to read every goodreads choice award winner, an all-dud lineup which included the third book in this trilogy. i wasn't going to read that. but i did "compromise," i.e. relinquish my morals and pick this up. it went roughly how i expected. we follow violet. our girl was supposed to be a scribe, but her badass mom hates her so she has to go to dragons and death camp. please do not get it confused: the scholarly path untaken does not mean that violet is smart. it means she's a nerd. a smart person wouldn't bring a backpack of books (take a shot every time the first chapter uses the term "heavy rucksack") on the classic Treacherous Rainy Roof Obstacle Course, or spend the march in question reciting geocultural factoids. (although how else would we get our info dump if not through a seamless and surreptitious multiparagraph ted talk?) the other things you need to know about her off the bat are: - she REFUSES to cut her beautiful long hair. - her body is tea. - she's just, like, really small. anyway. all the other death dragon campers want to kill violet, because she's a cop's kid, but no one wants to kill her more than the hottest guy on campus. you're never going to believe this, but their families hate each other. and his name is xaden. that's the bad boy. (there's another guy who wants to kill her, too, but he's less sexy about it. you can tell because his name is normal.) of course there's a really nice and also extremely hot sweetie from childhood, who will have a snowball's chance in hell in this love triangle. his name is, i'm sorry to tell you, dain. the plot of this book mostly revolves around attendance at Evil Violence Dragon Boarding School, where you have to fight to the death like every day. that's class. violet mostly responds to this by foraging for mild poisons that she deliberately times to hit at the exact moment each person is fighting her. this works perfectly without causing suspicion 5 consecutive times before she screws up the timing and has to sexily fight xaden, who smells like leather. all the hot guys smell like leather. on average there's at least one death per chapter and one "Fuck. Him." with that exact punctuation. time also just passes however, with before-breakfast chores on one page happening just prior to lunch on others. no one cares. that's not what this is about. the part people care about would be the smut. the thing you need to know about violet's school experience is that there's nobody on earth like her. not only do two dragons decide they want to pair up with her, when everyone else has one, but each of these two dragons are of superspecial rare kinds that are never ever interested in bonding with students. but violet is not like other students. or girls. or dragon people. or any other category. one of those dragons just so happens to be mates with xaden's dragon, which is also super rare and (i'm assuming) happens mostly because you don't meet the romantasy genre requirements without too many uses of the word mate. this means that violet and xaden have to be near each other all the time and can talk in each other's heads. obviously. violet also has not one, but two signets (which is "a power" in this world), and both of them are like super rare, too. she has time control AND lightning wielding. so i know what you're thinking. "does that mean lightning strikes when she comes." and the answer, of course, is yes. and xaden's shadow powers (?) also mean that dark spots are just, like, punching the walls and stuff when it happens for him. the first sex scene doesn't come until 75% of the way through this book, which may seem like an impressive level of self control, but most of the plot between Violent Hide And Seek and Violent Class Attendance and Violent Field Trip (not to be confused with Violence, which is xaden's pet name for violet, and if you're wondering why her nickname wouldn't just be Violent which both sounds more alike and is more grammatically accurate i am wondering the same) is the yearning and the kissing and the daydreaming and the tension-building leading up to it. anyway. the smut itself is about what you'd expect from 99% of the descriptions that make up this book: she's like, really small, and he's like, so big. they break all the stuff in violet's room. they are really annoyed that the angle of the desk doesn't work for them but they don't ever think about the fact that they are in a bedroom, i.e., a room with a bed in it. etc. then there are the silly mistakes, of which there are many — every beat of dialogue is followed by paragraphs of description and internal monologue before the next one, so the responses rarely match up logically; when violet is passed out she can't fully tell who is speaking, a stylistic choice landed on halfway through her time spent in unconsciousness; dragons exit battle scenes again and again because they keep spawning in for one more dramatic interaction; a fortress in a town that burnt down is entirely intact and pristine because "stone doesn't burn," and apparently doesn't take smoke or structural damage either. but honestly, this whole situation isn’t not fun. i was scared i would end up giving this three stars until one paragraph brought the whole good-time circus to a screeching halt: "As he heads back to Sgaeyl, I can't help but note both of the important men are walking away from me right now, in opposite directions, and given the one I've chosen to follow, my life is about to change forever." not exactly a girlboss. bottom line: this is not a bad book. well, it is. but i get the hype. well, no, *i* don't get the hype. i guess what i'm saying is i understand hypothetically how someone could not hate this. i'm just not that someone.

Watch my video review by clicking here. While not the worst book I have ever read, I cannot for the life of me figure out why this book is so beloved. The decently fun story cannot save the extremely pedestrian writing and complete lack of character work.

The hype....2.5 Stars I was bamboozled and fooled. I knew better, but I didn't do better. Curiosity killed this cat. Don't shoot the messenger. I know the girlies loved this book, but baby I couldn't suspend not an inch of disbelief and there were no vibes to be had. Interesting ending, but I don't think I'm the target demographic.

2.5 stars Hmmm well, where to begin with this one. I really do think I would’ve liked this a lot more if it wasn’t so overhyped like I legitimately don’t understand how Fourth Wing is as popular as it is. Put frankly: it is a mediocre-at-best fantasy book with high entertainment value but very little substance. Alright, let’s start off on a high note with what I loved. Violet, the main character, was a pretty solid character overall. I appreciate how she had a chronic illness (as the author does) that she had to “battle” with and it introduced more representation to a genre that doesn’t have many of those characters. She also was short which was mentioned about 999 times. Xaden, the love interest, also had some depth and layers to peal back which I thought was well done. Both characters were semi-complex but I would’ve liked to see some of their history (ex. family, scribe quadrant). Good character development as well. The dragons were awesome and the whole magic signet thing was super interesting. I also thought it was cool how the other magical creatures had different relationships with their riders than the dragons and theirs. I loved the relationships between the dragons and riders but I would’ve liked to see this more because a lot of it happened off page. The vibes and aesthetics were fantastic. Enough said. The best thing about Fourth Wing was just how addicting it was. There’s no other way to say it. It was super entertaining even with all its flaws. The plot was what carried the book and the plot twists were pretty good albeit a little predictable. All that being said, there were some… issues. First and foremost, the writing was terrible. I HATED it and didn’t understand why these fantasy characters were talking to each other like they were 9th grade boys. Get a grip. The worst part of it was how absolutely cringy everything was. I can’t even count the never of times I choked while reading this and wanted to bury myself several times. This book was a threat to my life and here’s why: When describing Xaden: “Flaming hot. Scorching hot. Gets-you-into-trouble-and-you-like-it level hot. “He doesn’t even try to look sexy. He just is.” “I’m completely, utterly obsessed with Xaden.” “He exists, and I’m turned on.” “He’s in his riding leathers, not in dress uniform, and he’s never looked better.” When thinking: “What. The. Hell.” “What. The. Fuck.” Those are just a few quotes that I highlighted but it doesn’t even come close to showing how Violet was literally SALIVATING and getting all the feels every single time Xaden walked into a room. And I didn’t understand why she couldn’t just talk and think like a real person by using real sentences. WHAT WAS UP WITH THIS?! She fr pulled a S.J. Maas on us with all those broken up thoughts. Oh, and of course I can’t forget those desperate attempts at flimsy world building that was murmuring random history facts. And don’t tell me that this was to help Violet “calm down” because no one, and I mean NO ONE, repeats *history facts* to calm themselves down. What also annoyed me was how underdeveloped the side characters were. Rhi and Ridoc were just there to be Violet’s Hermione and Ron and they had no backstory or personality AT ALL. I especially wanted to see more of Liam who was more fleshed out than the others by the end but of course any hopes for more died (if you know, you know). And finally, the r o m a n c e. Unlike Violet, I was not in fact gasping for air every time Xaden made an appearance because I didn’t care. I wanted more world-building, magic, and dragons. Every other page I was like, we don’t need yet another description of Xaden’s body which is (objectively) hotter than the sun, Violet. It was honestly extremely frustrating to read because Violet constantly sexualized Xaden and couldn’t stop thinking about he she wanted to “climb him like a tree” (no, just no). Xaden really was just the 1.0 version of Rhysand and had no personality whatsoever. I think that Rebecca Yarros was trying to give him some feminist energy but he was also giving alpha-male at times too. Even in his little chapter POV at the end he couldn’t stop thinking about having sex with her even though Violet was trying to have a serious conversation with himAnd why was there no emotional connection between them AT ALL before Violet was in her knees confessing her love for him? Why did it feel like they only liked each other for sex and not for their true personalities? Oh wait, I know. ITS BECAUSE THEY DIDNT HAVE ANY. I think that this got better after their little talk on the parapet but they avoided any more serious conversations after that and just made out and/or had sex instead. I read a review that called Xaden a “Walmart Rhysand” and honestly that just sums up all my feelings about this man. Overall, Fourth Wing was quite entertaining (the most fun I’ve had reading in a while) but just wasn’t it for me. The biggest thing was just the writing but I would still recommend this if you don’t mind it and want to get into fantasy. 2.5 stars. *Update: HOW DOES THIS STILL HAVE A HIGHER RATING THAN SIX OF CROWS? I AM APALLED 🎶 …Ready for It 🎶

WASTE OF MY WEEK. WHAT THE FUCK IS THIS. 600 PAGES AND FOR WHAT? booktok u. horny. little.FREAKS 😡 2 stars (AND IM BEING GENEROUS) no intro, just hate 😘😘 WHY THIS SUCKS: the most one dimensional characters EVER: Violet is so quirky y'all BUT OBVIOUSLY she has the most unique power 😜 and she gets bonded by not one TWO dragons 😎 hevk yeah let's ignore the fact she has no personality besides being weak and lusting after Xaden, but can we blame her guys? He's just a hottie 😍😍😍 YUM GO KING GIVE US NOTHING 😘😘 I fear he's the worst book boyfriend I've ever read 😎 cause OBVIOUSLY he's the most powerful and he's so mean to everyone but violet cause SHES HIS SOFTSPOT WHAT 😍😍 absolutely cancerous. But like the ai art? YUM I NEED A PHOTO SO BAD but no guys cause if he looked like a normal dude I'd lowk cry reading his dialogues 😔 Every single word that came out of this man's mouth made me want to PUKE and barf cause wtf. I kept imagining him as like a random dude cause there was NO way any of the things he did would've been attractive if it wasn't for those ai photos of him. Imagine Dani Devito being like: "you are so fucking explosive in those pants, violence"😍😜 BARF WTF get this man on the death list cause he murdered my sanity. Dragon school lowk sucks ass: Not only are they in a war, but we literally get told that they are in need for more men and dying YET this stupid school decides that killing cadets is better than making them fight so that they might die on the battlefield and serve A LITTLE bit of their intended purpose. Like what? also they don't learn shit. Xaden gives Violet a "crash course" (which lasted like 20 secs before they got NASTY) and she's suddenly better than her entire grade? 🤨🤨 WHAT ARE THEY EVEN TEACHING THESE KIDS? Author can't write : Stop saying cuss words guys, It's inappropiate and violent 😔 Can I read two words without reading "fuck"? pretty please? 😁 Hey yarros, you don't have to cuss to appeal to a younger audience 😄 👍 I FUCKING HATE THIS POOR EXCUSE OF A BOOK I WISH TO BE ILITERATE, see? if I remove the word fuck it doesn't affect the meaning 🤭 DRAGON SEX WHAT: Ummm the smut in this book was definetly.. intresting? 🤨 I JUST read the wraith king so this was so vanilla for me but it lowk made uncomfy from the lenght rather than from the details. 2 chapters bact to back were not needed but okay. Also them getting horny when the dragons are getting it on is so FREAKY ew. 🤮🤮 Anyways, Imma need to reconnect with nature after this one 😭 stay tuned for october (aka classics time 😘)

Let me ask you a hypothetical question. Say your husband is missing and you're trying to find him. You reach out to someone you think has a connection to your husband. When they say, "I can explain," do you: 1. Calmly engage this person in conversation so you can learn what you need to know. Or 2. Run out of there screaming like a lunatic. If you picked 2, then congratulations. You are a shoo-in for a character in a domestic thriller, where everyone acts as crazy as possible, especially when the answer is right there. Why do I let the hype get to me, especially when it comes to thrillers? They hardly ever live up to expectations, and most of them are so silly as to be ridiculous. In fact, if I had a dollar for every time I rolled my eyes while reading a thriller, I'd be a millionaire right now. But alas, all I have to show are bruised eyeballs. What is there to say about this book that I haven't said a thousand times already? The premise is certainly captivating, and the start is strong. Then, slowly but surely, it devolves into nonsensical silliness, along with a heaping serving of the main female character acting ever more paranoid. And on top of that, there aren't even any good twists or surprises in here. The story unfolded pretty much as expected, which is the complete opposite of what a thriller should be. Sorry if I sound bitter. I really had high hopes for this one, but obviously it didn't work out. On the plus side, I can safely put my copy in the donation pile and free up one precious spot on my bookshelf. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

Less of a thriller and more of a mystery in my opinion. I thought this story started off pretty strong and interesting but I quickly lost interest and became bored with the story and didn't really care what happened to this man. It was quick enough read, but totally forgettable. I finished it a few days ago and I'm already starting to forget the details.

"The Last Thing He Told Me" by Laura Dave is a Suspense-Thriller that isn't for me! A husband disappears and all his wife has is a note from him that reads, "Protect her". She knows her husband is referring to his daughter. A daughter who lost her mother when she was a toddler and now her father is missing. How does a stepmother begin to explain something like this to her stepdaughter? A stepdaughter that doesn't care for her. Originally when I finished this one it felt right. It was a short 8 hour 50 minute listen with an interesting beginning, a treasure hunt in the middle and a fade-out ending! I thought... In hindsight, and as I write this, it was a fast pace suspense story in the beginning that loses steam in the end. All the pieces come together but they don't add up and the ending wasn't for me. The characters felt one dimensional and I didn't connect with any of them. The audiobook was narrated by Rebecca Lowman whose voicing was a bit muddled and clipped. It was an acceptable experience but I always look for and expect more entertainment value in an audiobook and its narrator than I received from this one. I'm an outlier with this one, so please check out other reviews before you cross this one off your list! 2.5 stars rounded down.

Um, what are y'all talking about. It's not good. This has such an old lady vibe to it. Not that it's mature but that it feels traditional and stuffy in the worst ways. It seems purposefully inaccessible to a younger audience. Or to anyone who doesn't have a 'Bless This Home' sign in their kitchen. The level of sleuthing these two do is insane. They take a whiff of a clue and fly all the way to Texas. Dafuq? But then somehow miss all the most blatant evidence. The ending is SO anticlimactic. I was hoping for at least a good twist. But no. Nada.

2.5 don’t understand the hype? Overall I found the story pretty dull

2.5 stars Do you ever read a book that everyone and their mother seems to be raving about and you just think... did I read the same book?! Whelp, this was the case with The Last Thing He Told Me. I initially gave it 3 stars, but the more I thought about it, the more I realized that this was worse that okay for me (3 stars is my standard rating for an "okay" read). So, why didn't I like it.... first, THIS IS NOT A THRILLER! This is a slow-burn domestic drama/ mystery. Which is okay, but I was definitely expecting a more pulse-pounding page turner. The book started out fine, but started going downhill once we find out the general reason for Owen being missing. Things became WAY to convoluted for me. A lot of the mystery unfolded based on Bailey remembering VERY specific things from when she was FOUR years old. I don't always mind super unbelievable plot points if the book is entertaining, but this was not the case here. I have seen a lot of reviews saying how much they loved Hannah's character - to me, she was a decent character, but very boring - I didn't get a lot of depth from her. I also hated the ending. I did really enjoy the settings of Sausalito, California (the house boats were cool!), and Austin, Texas. I also liked seeing Hannah and Bailey's relationship develop. Unfortunately, I think this author is just not for me. This was the fourth book of hers that I've read, and the only one I liked was Eight Hundred Grapes (I decided to give this one a chance because of rave reviews and the fact that it was labeled as a thriller). Please take my review with a grain of salt, as everyone else seems to be loving it! Thank you to Goodreads and Simon & Schuster for the ARC!

This was really good until the end… I feel like it was very anticlimactic and left me wanting a lot more.

No. Edit: I guess I’m in the minority here but this book was all. over. the. place. And not in a good way. The author seemed to try really hard for it to be a thriller/suspense story but it just falls completely flat. For all the hype it got, I expected more. Skip!

I cannot express how disappointed I am. There is genuinely nothing worse than the anticipation — the electric excitement after an incredible first book — only to be met with a sequel that feels like one long stretch of filler. Brimstone is exactly that. Filler dressed up as plot, stretched within an inch of its life. I’m going to say it plainly: don’t turn a duology into a trilogy unless you actually have the content to justify it. This book did not. At all. At least 60% of it was just “they went there, then they went there, then they went there,” without any real development or payoff. With the money being put behind this series now, this simply shouldn’t have happened. It feels rushed, padded, and frustratingly hollow. And the side characters — far, far too many of them. Most of them serve no purpose. They appear, deliver a dramatic line, and vanish again. It’s overcrowded without adding value, and the clutter drags the story down even further. Then there’s the narrative device that made me want to fling the book across the room: “Then the character explained the big secret to me, and suddenly I understood everything.” Except we don’t get the explanation. And sure, you can get away with that once. But doing it twice is pushing it. Doing it three times? Absolutely not. By that point, it feels less like mystery and more like the book is actively gatekeeping its own plot. And honestly, can we talk about the main couple? Because good grief. They only seem to come together for the smut scenes — and while that’s fine in moderation, you need an actual relationship to go with it. Chemistry requires more than proximity and convenient darkness. Give me banter, give me emotional tension, give me something that feels like genuine connection. Brimstone gives flashes of heat and then immediately separates them again, leaving no time to build anything meaningful. It’s maddening. And after all those pages — all the meandering, the travelling, the repetitive beats — the story has barely budged from where book one ended. The stakes haven’t escalated, the plot hasn’t advanced in any satisfying way, and the momentum that Quicksilver built so brilliantly has been completely squandered. It pains me to say it, but this instalment was a train wreck. Not in a chaotic, enjoyable way — just a deeply disappointing derailment of what started as a strong and promising romantasy. Two stars, and even that feels like an act of mercy

The amount of undercooked plot this book was serving up was INSANE! I was really excited for this to come out and had so many questions still from Quicksilver that I was excited to deep dive into and hopefully get some answers and expand the story. But this just wasn’t it. I honestly don’t think we properly addressed a single thing from QS, just added more stuff. There are so so many things I was to say about this book but I fear my rant will be endless so I’ve tried to collect the few that felt the most significant. My main issues were that this book was 700+ pages but so much of it felt like filler and then when plot did occur it felt like a collection of random moments pulled out of thin air, dealt with, then sent back to float around never to be seen again. Nothing was grounded or deeply rooted in the world building or our understanding of the world and therefore felt like a lot of the plot wasn’t legitimised and lacked depth. So many times the explanation to various plot points was “I don’t know why this is happening” or “oh why didn’t I think of this” or “of course”. It felt like we were making it up as we went. The author kept all her cards close to her chest for majority of the book and it felt like it was gatekeeping her own plot. For me a good book should have reveals sprinkled throughout the book as it creates a solid platform for you to keep building your plot on top of. It’s those big moments AND their aftermath that has your plot growing deeper roots, offering clarity and most importantly opportunity for character growth. The characters all felt really stagnant to me and their bond as a found family lacked development and depth, yes there was a small shift here and there, but I honestly think there could have been so much more. The potential for it was 100% there. You have a lot of complex characters in this book all of which have there own background story and I couldn’t help but feel like there was so much more to dive into but so many pages and words were used up on what felt irrelevant and surface level. This series has so many interesting and unique things to it. I’ve always been curious about the alchemy and history of the world. The potential for this book and series is HUGE, all of the pieces are there but unfortunately they haven’t really been capitalised on and fleshed out. For me the execution feels flat and one dimensional and leaves me feels frustrated because I felt like there was soooo much potential that went nowhere. SPOILERS below 👇 A few of the half baked plot points 🍞🥖 - What was the point of Saeris becoming Queen of the Vampires when she hated it and therefore spent a good deal of time in Cahlish while Tal ran it in her stead…Only for the court to be killed off and become a nonexistent element. - The spicy time tattoos??!? In the first book when Saeris gets her hummingbird tattoo it felt like there had to be some interesting reason as to why these appear and figured in the second book we would get some answers… only for them to just keep giving each other more and it not once being discussed or explained why this keeps happening? Are they just sex stamps or…??? - The magic system and runes. I was so curious about the Quicksilver and finding out more about Saeris’s alchemy and how it works. But we didn’t really get any deeper understanding of the magic and her runes. Only that they need to be sealed, but no explanation on how that works what it means. Also another issue was the sudden new magic Saeris receives. Her explosive energy and the ability to heal came out of nowhere and was never questioned or explained why she suddenly has these new powers. - Iseabail teasing the Quicksilver out of Fishers eye. (This happens in book 1 but I thought it would be expanded in Brimstone) For 1000+ years he was unable to do anything about it only for it to be resolved off page by a side character in the last page of book 1 never to be explained or questioned in Brimstone. I felt like this would have made way more sense if Saeris was the one to remove it. She speaks with the QS in his eye in book 1 and is also the first Alchemist/most powerful Alchemist in a thousand years, it stands to reason she would be the one to remove it? - The dream state situation? It was later used as an element in the plot when Saeris finds Fisher half dead in his room. But why are they able to do this, are we just excepting the fact now that in all Romantasy books mates should be able to share dreams? - Ren going missing when shits hitting the fan only for it to be allgood. What was the point? - Everlayne being unconscious for the ENTIRE book. Felt like we could have gotten some nuggets of info from her. - The extreme dislike of the witch clan. Whyyy????? With Lorreth constantly fuming over this it kind of feels like we should know why by now. - Edinas book that will now help them solve all their problems. It’s an interesting idea and a nice way to bring Fishers mother into it, but just seems like a strange plot device when we are never privy to the knowledge or help it gives Saeris to solve a problem. There were also a large number of plot holes in this as a result of half baked plot 🕳️🪏 a few keys ones being: - Kingfisher going into pool at Ajun Sky as a boy without a relic. However it’s explicitly explained this pool isn’t Quicksilver but some other black rot like substance. Only for him to come back with Quicksilver, not rot in his eyes? 👀 - A Faes true name is a sacred and seemingly intimate thing. We learn this is a sacred thing that only a mother and their child knows. It is also gifted to a Faes spouse at marriage to show trust as it can be used to control people. So when Saeris gives Fisher his true name it would stand to reason he keeps that between them. But he then introduces himself as Khydan and the demons bro’s then call him this too. - Saeris makes the switch to calling him Khydan by stating “he will only ever be Khydan to me now” but then refers to him as Fisher again further down the page 🤦‍♀️ - The rune the Hazarx gave Saeris ‘broke/unmade’ things and she uses it to “desiccate” the rot in the dream state to break into Fisher room. It was the only thing other than Brimstone to kill the rot (which had basically become the main villain in the majority of this book) and it was brushed over like this isn’t the answer to all their questions on how to kill it! And don’t even get me started on how it’s then used up. - When Fisher and Carrion find Hayden they tell him Saeris is in Yvelia and he just accepts it. Saeris didn’t even know another realm existed in QS. - The seat of honour for a Lady of the House was the right in QS but this in Brimstone it was the left. 😬 - How has Carrion managed to live in the same city for 1000 years??? Surely he would have to constantly move as he doesn’t physically age. We have never really gotten much clarity on this but it feel kind of major oversight as we are constantly made aware that he has lived in Zilvaren for a long time and established a successful business over the years. I believe in QS it’s mentioned that Saeris has known Carrion since they were teens, know one wondering why he looks like a never aging young man?!?!? There were also a large number of major errors in this that I didn’t really understand how they weren’t pick up - Carrion is mentioned to be sparring with Lorreth when he’s actually on his side quest with Fisher in a different realm. - Elroy weirdly mentioned while Fisher is fighting off the infected feeders. - When Saeris walks back into their room she notes the pile of sand from Fishers boots when he was in Zilvaren but it’s written as being from Yvelia. -Fisher taking off Saeris’ shirt twice during spicy time. - Fisher calling her Nissearia or something like that while they have sex. I wasn’t really sure if this was an error but it wasn’t mentioned again or what that even means. I thought maybe it could be her Fae name but who knows at this point. - There were also a number of opening quotations marks missing. Also why did I read the words solar plexus so many times. Ok I’m done now.

Is the kindle version the first draft?

✩ 2 stars ✩ What to Expect: ➼ Obsessive & Possessive MC’s ➼ Political Intrigue ➼ Fated Mates ➼ Hidden Powers ➼ Touch Her & Die ➼ Found Family ➼ Cliffhanger ➼ Duet Narration (Stella Bloom & Anthony Palmini) ➼ Dual First Person POV Guys… what the heck was that?! I’m really not concerned about things like grammatical errors or whatever the heck people were complaining about online. What I do care about is that this entire plot had novella energy. Everything felt kind of disjointed and frankly uninteresting at points and then Kingfisher and Saeris would suddenly be hooking up in a dreamscape or something. 🙄 I like the added intimacy of a mind to mind connection, but in this case it felt like lazy writing. The author wrote so many scenes where the MC’s were physically apart that I question if she added a mind link just so she could slip in some spice. To each their own, but this kind of vampire spice where they drink each other like juice boxes just isn’t for me. I wanted to see more relational growth, but mostly what the author gave us was sex, sex, and more sex any time these characters shared a page. I do like that their relationship seems healthy and supportive, but the level of obsession they have for each other is a bit extreme when you consider that they barely know each other. People were joking about this developing into a romance between Fisher & Carrion, but that honestly didn’t seem that far fetched. If it weren’t for the fact that the word mate was used 180 times in this book… 180 TIMES, I might have really believed it was heading in that direction. Sigh… I’m sorry if this is coming out as a rant. I was just so genuinely excited for this and I wanted to love it so bad! It’s always extra sad when one of your most highly anticipated reads flops. 😔 And of COURSE this ended on a cliffhanger so now I feel like I might even continue the series despite wanting desperately to DNF this. 🫠 One thing’s for sure, these authors sure do know how to hook us. ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ Pre-read: Let’s goooo!! Drop everything, it’s Brimstone time! 🔥 Update: I had to put this on pause at 11% because I realized how many books will need to go back this week and that I’m going to have very little time to read after Tuesday. 😬 Not going to lie though, so far I’m confused as heck. 😆 Sometimes it sucks to not be a rereader. ≪ ◦ ❖ ◦ ≫ Connect with me on Instagram

Ohhh no… this one was a disappointment. How can a book have so much going on, yet most of it feels completely irrelevant? I kept asking myself what the actual main plot even was? And where was the funny dialogue that made Quicksilver fun?? That was a big part of why I liked the first book, and in this one it just felt… slightly cringe. Instead, Brimstone leaned heavily into things that didn’t really matter, and I genuinely struggled to get through the last 30%. It felt like there were no real stakes, everything always worked out a little too perfectly, which made it hard to stay invested. Also, Saeris felt like such a different character. Also how she went from having no magic to suddenly wielding everything she wished in what felt like a single page… it just didn’t feel earned. I’d give this one a 2.5⭐️ which is such a shame, because I do enjoy Callie’s writing. At this point, I’m not super intrigued by the third book… since this one kind of felt like filler to me.

** spoiler alert ** What a waste of fucking time. I liked quicksilver. It wasn’t the best romantasy I’ve ever read, but it was FUN. Brimstone? Almost 800 pages and nothing fucking happened until the last few chapters. I found myself not caring at all. Soooo much telling and not showing. Omg let me stop in the middle of a battle to read this fucking journal to figure out what to do next!!! Are we for real. Even the ending isn’t enough to revive this for me. I can’t be fucked continuing with the series. I just don’t care anymore lol 1 star for carrion swift and 1 star FOR ME for fucking finishing this. There’s a week of my life I’ll never get back. 2⭐️3🌶️

I'm conflicted, I highly anticipated this book with a passion. And so I wanted to love it, but I kept thinking "where is this going" "what's going on?" It was all over the place, and yet it was going nowhere, and giving me nothing but smut. I have to admit that I'm highly disappointed. I still have high hopes for this series so book 3 better be redeeming.

** spoiler alert ** I went into Brimstone with cautious optimism. I thought Quicksilver was pretty mid, but FOMO convinced me to pick up Brimstone right at release, mostly to avoid spoilers. Unpopular opinion: Brimstone wasn’t worth the urgency. By the midpoint, I was so underwhelmed that I ended up listening to the rest of the audiobook at 3x speed. Why didn’t I DNF? Apparently I enjoy suffering. **SPOILERS BELOW** WHAT DIDN’T WORK FOR ME • So much happens and yet… nothing happens. The plot is constantly moving, but somehow feels like it’s going nowhere. Events happen, but impact? Stakes? Tension? Barely present. • Zero yearning. The FMC and MMC are SO in love that there’s no tension, no longing, no build-up. Even when they’re apart, there’s no emotional distance because they’re dreamwalking and having perfect sex scenes like it’s a sport. Which leads me to… • The sheer number of sex scenes. Normally I don’t mind spice, but these felt wedged in. If the couple is already blissfully in love, the constant scenes just became repetitive instead of meaningful. • The word “mate” was used so often it lost all flavour. At a certain point, I flinched every time it popped up. • ACOTAR déjà vu. From the vibes to certain plot elements, it felt like a watered-down version of something I’d already read. The Hasmax gave me total Suriel flashbacks. • The Kingfisher name change saga. We’re almost two books in and suddenly we’re supposed to call him by a new name AND a nickname? • Everything was too easy. Every dangerous situation had a simple, convenient solution. The lack of real stakes made it hard to care about the journey. • Hayden’s reaction didn’t make sense. They told him where Saeris had been and he just accepted it? But I thought she didn’t know what Yvelia was? The logic felt inconsistent. • Death is basically optional. Once again, loved characters can return from the dead with almost no struggle. When resurrection is that easy, emotional weight disappears. WHAT I LIKED • The narrators were great. Honestly, they’re the reason I made it through the book at all. The performance was engaging even when the story wasn’t. Overall, Brimstone had potential but ultimately felt like a repetitive, low-stakes echo of better fantasy romances. I wanted tension, emotional payoff, and meaningful conflict. Instead I got convenience and boredom. Ask me next year if FOMO convinces me to finish the series.

i don't think a single one of these short stories had a decent ending. i don't understand how one can be considered the king of a genre if they can't write endings.

DNF. I was surprisingly disappointed. I gave up 2/3s of the way through so I could return it.

DNF at the 4th "short"* story in this book. None of them are Dark, or even horror, as the title might imply. I'm over King's overwriting, retreading of stories, and scraping the bottom of the barrel for ideas in some cases. I absolutely love his earlier short fiction, with Night Shift being my favorite book of his - but he hasn't put out any short stories that match the quality of that in a long time. *Short - being 50-100 page novellas that comprise this novel, that could easily be 15-30 page stories instead. Ugh.

I was really looking forward to reading this, especially after all the hype from her presenting at the inauguration. What I found was a bunch of repetitive lines that could have been written by any of my students. I was surprised when I Googled her age and found her to be 23 years old. I had assumed she was in high school, which is why I didn't judge the poetry too harshly initially. This book is filled with too many previous accounts of past pandemics, from the Spanish Infulenza to slavery and wars, to be considered original content. She simply restates and lists historical documents and re-words them with a rhyme scheme. Any of my 8th grade students could do that. Maybe it's because I listened to the audiobook and didn't read the words printed on an actual page. I'll give it that, but I waited for four hours of "poetry" for even one line to stand out to me as quote-worthy or notable or deep or touching... and none ever did. With the way she is lauded, I was expecting something more akin to Jamaica Kincaid, Maya Angelou or Langston Hughes. What I got was a sloppy attempt at mashing words together with overused alliteration and unrhythmic lines. (for example: "This book is awake. This book is a wake." I mean... really?) There are plenty of good ideas in this book, and you can tell Gorman is authentic and has a genuine voice to her. However, it is evident that this book was rushed after her newfound fame, as a cash-grab. It feels very thrown together and haphazard. Reflections on a pandemic that is very much NOT over, feels a bit premature and assumptive. The entire first half was simply reciting statistics and facts that we are all too familiar with already. Like I mentioned previously, it's nothing new. In fact, it's weary and dull. It felt very much like a high school student desperately copy/pasting citations from Wikipedia to fulfill a word count limit. I tell my students all the time, I want to hear what YOU think, not what the internet thinks. Every other page was a constant interruption of thought to insert a definition or clarify what she meant. Rule number 1 in creative writing: Don't make the assumption that your reader is stupid. Say what you mean in any eloquent way you wish, and those who get it will "get it" and those who don't can go look it up themselves. Using way too many interruptions broke my interest and left me feeling frustrated that she felt the need to clarify things I already knew. Most of her literary references were fairly common and recognizable, yet she broke her poem's rhythm over and over just to "insert reference here just in case you didn't know what I was talking about." Put a footnote if you really want to educate your audience, but don't assume (as a 23 year old) that your readers won't have a clue what you're referring to. Many of these poems felt like responses to a creative writing college class prompt and not a fresh original idea naturally inspired. Her use of words like "Zoombies" is cringe-worthy in an era we are still living through and comes off as out-of-touch and juvenile. I wish I could like this, and went into it with relatively high hopes. Sad to see her publishers pushing for more content. I'd be interested in reading more natural work from her later in her career.

I only enjoyed the inaugural poem. It's evident, from reading the other poems, that Gorman has yet to find her voice and edge.

In reality I would probably give this 1.5 stars - and most of the positives were because she did have some good lines/metaphors here and there, some clever wordplay, but it was overshadowed by the way these poems came across as very know-it-all. The use of "we" throughout grated on me, especially as yes, we did all experience the pandemic, but we certainly didn't experience it in the same way and to present all of this as a universal experience felt false, especially since it's not over by a long shot. The collection didn't feel personal, and I feel like that is the most basic thing to get right about poetry, so I was pretty disappointed, especially since I watched her MasterClass and really admire her as a person. She is primarily a spoken-word poet, and I think she comes across better when performing than she does on the page, but she still sounds very childish in a lot of this book and it makes me glad I came to poetry at a slightly older age. "The Hill We Climb" is actually one of her best pieces in this book, and I thought she did a really good job with it, but she has a lot of maturing to do and I don't think this book should have been rushed to publication. Most of the poems are about the pandemic, and they are incredibly repetitive, using a lot of the images anyone could have picked up from the news rather than personal moments of her own. She does a lot of things I've been expressly told not to do because it comes across as juvenile and gimmicky - poems in the shapes of objects, using long words nobody knows, rhyming, and postulating. Part of me is envious of people who are so successful already that they can afford to release something really terrible/experimental - on the one hand it's refreshing to just read something terrible, because that person was able to just put whatever they wanted down, get it published, and get paid for it, and I think that should be all our right (to do what we love badly), but on the other hand, I think she will be embarrassed by this collection when she matures and looks back on it. It's very surface-level. The book was also incredibly liberal - it embodies the liberal experience of the pandemic and uses historical references to say how far we've come and how great it is now that we live in a post-racial society. I'm used to radical leftist poetry, and previously thought poetry was inherently subversive, so this was pretty off-putting. I found the footnotes and background information to be better-written and more interesting than the poems themselves, again not a great sign. This is a harsh review and I am sorry to write so harshly about someone so young, but she has a lot of potential and I just hope she matures and isn't too sucked in by her early fame.

I doubt there is a single person here on Goodreads that has not heard at least a hint of the controversy surrounding this book. I’m also confident that nearly every reader has at least a basic idea of the synopsis of American Dirt. So, I’m not really touching either of those elements in my review. I am a white woman, living in upstate New York, thousands of miles from Mexico. I have no real personal experience regarding the Mexican migrant issue, and therefore cannot speak to whether or not author Jeanine Cummins writes a genuine representation of the crisis or not. I don’t even dare to attempt to do so. What I can write about, however, is my own reading experience of this novel. First of all, I was super excited to pick up this book. I lovingly cataloged it at my library when it first arrived. I put my name first on the list to get it on publication day. After all, it was hailed as “a new American classic” and was compared to the masterpiece The Grapes of Wrath. Naturally, this did give me pause, because both are tall orders to fill. Could this proclamation be true?! And it’s such a relevant topic! I need to read this book. I like to learn something when I read. Even if a book is labeled as fiction, I hope to garner some useful information regarding the topic surrounding a group of fictional characters. I want to feel as if I am in the shoes of a character or two, understanding what they are enduring for this short period of time we are together. To my disappointment, I was completely underwhelmed by American Dirt. It was far too melodramatic for my taste. It starts with a big bang right from page one. But for me it was too much. It seemed to be forced in order to provide the catalyst for the rest of the novel, an extravagant attempt to try to gain my sympathy. I felt an instant disconnection from the characters. I tried to remain hopeful about accompanying Lydia and Luca on their harrowing journey through Mexico towards their one glimmer of hope, the United States. And there were scenes that were charged with danger. Naturally, I hoped this pair and their fellow migrants would survive the risks. One additional thing that bothered me throughout – some characters were just not believable. I couldn’t help but think repeatedly “would so-and-so really act or speak this way in this situation?” One example would be too-wise beyond his years, eight-year-old Luca. I was further bothered by what seemed like an abundance of clichés. For example, the beautiful teenaged girl from Honduras – the threat of rape menaced her at every turn. Why not the arguably less stunning but perhaps still attractive mother of a little boy? Would not any migrant woman be at risk from such danger? I guess what I’m trying to say is that the characters were more like cut-outs, in my opinion. I missed the depth of characterization that I find so appealing in my favorite kind of novel. It doesn’t help that while reading this one, I also had the pure pleasure of another book that really did tick off all the boxes – including nuanced characters, equally relevant social and political issues, and perilous situations. I wouldn’t tell anyone they should not read this book. If it at all interests you, by all means, pick it up and make your own judgments. For me, the writing was mediocre and I was disappointed to remain a far-removed observer. None of the thousands of miles separating my home from the Mexican border were diminished after finishing the last page. But I truly hope it does get people talking about an extremely important issue. The best way to read this would be with a buddy, so you can bounce ideas off one another. I may not have made it to the end otherwise - muito obrigada, Pedro! I will continue my quest to become more educated on the topic. For an engaging write-up of this book, please visit my buddy's review here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...

When I started seeing the first (5 star) reviews of The Girl on the Tr... Aham... sorry, I mean American Dirt here on Goodreads, I could immediately tell this was going to be the “book of the moment”. You see, most of my favourite books of all time have an average of 3.5 star ratings on here so I don’t think it’s hard to tell that I’m not one to (usually) go with the hype. With this one though, I wanted to follow the crowd as I didn’t want to spend the next year or so just wondering what all this madness was all about. Now I know. So here we go, first of all I’m not going to go all political or personal about it, because this doesn’t even deserve a lot of time being wasted, besides the time I’ve wasted already by reading it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no masterpiece. Full stop. This is just another average thriller written for the masses. There’s absolutely no depth in the writing, the characters are all living clichés and the story is far too predictable. There wasn’t a single twist in the story I didn’t see coming, and because I wasn’t born yesterday I knew someone was going to get lost as soon as the author decided to tell me that same character was like a living GPS device. 1+1=2, right? Predictable and melodramatic. Oh, so melodramatic. My eyes were rolling and rolling. Gracias a Dios thank god this was a buddy read so I could cry on my buddy’s shoulder. (Sorry I ruined your blouse Candi). Some stories they really need to be told but not in a light kind of way. They can’t just be kids chit chatting at the playground. I’m sorry (not sorry) but this is a NO from me. Next please.

2⭐️ Dare I say that this is probably one of the most overhyped books I have seen from social media? Yes, yes it is. This is going to end up being more of a rant review so here we go. First off, I didn't like really any of the characters, besides Carrion. That man single-handedly carried the entire book and I wish we got more of him. The FMC was fine, but that's not saying much cause there wasn't really anything deep or meaningful about her. First going into this book I thought that the FMC's brother, Hayden, would be more a part of the plot seeing how the beginning went. However, this man was basically forgotten about 25% through the book LMAOO. Saeris would go on and on and on about needing him....just to forget about him and completely change her motive. I hope this man is living his best life cause no one else is thinking about him. 💀 Secondly, I was hearing everyone say, "Omg I loved Fisher so much he's such a book boyfriend,"....DUDE WHERE?? This man was absolutely diabolical to read about. There's a fine line between a grumpy, difficult MMC, but Fisher was one of the WORST characters I've had the displeasure of reading about. Some of the things he would say to Saeris were so...disgusting. You couldn't PAY ME to be around this man for a minute. I'll stick with keeping him at a ten-foot pole's distance thank you very much. Finally, what the fuck was up with this plot? It was literally EVERYWHERE. As someone who reads a lot of fantasy, this was just lacking soooo bad and doesn't even compare or stand up to the biggest names in the fantasy genre. The magic system and overall plot was so poorly explained and I mean that in the most brutally honest way. Nothing made sense. Trying to add 2 and 2 together was giving me 25. Make it make sense. I should know better by now than to listen to books that absolutely dominated TiktTok, and I don't know why I didn't go with my gut on this one. 600+ pages and all I wanted to do was rip my hair out and scream. I have never read a hyped up book be this bad. I have zero interest in continuing this series. While I did enjoy the ending and I liked how it wrapped up, that is nowhere near enough to make up for the dumpster fire that was this book. Save yourself if you haven't read it, truly. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Late to the party but I hope I'll be glad I arrived 🙂‍↔️🩶

2 STARS for the ending (but that's being generous.) Most of my critique is due to poor writing and editing. The book should have been 200 pages shorter, and there were typos, run-on sentences, and plot inconsistencies throughout. Though no fault of the author, BookTok seems cursed with the inability to correctly categorize tropes because this was nothing more than a mediocre romantasy. It is NOT enemies-to-lovers, nor is it a slow burn. The found family was never found and the supposed razor-sharp banter was more akin to a dull knife. The character names were an interesting choice as well. Her nickname is the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and his "real name" is Kingfisher. Was tempted to DNF at the 25-30% mark, but it's difficult to fully evaluate without finishing. So I persevered, and can now confirm that while things did pick up slightly in the very end, it's not worth reading 500 pages of insta-lust in exchange for 100 pages of fantasy plot points that are done better elsewhere.

DNF I’m finally free

oh friends, i’m so sorry! I truly did want to love this so badly. and the reason i picked this story up was because so many friends on goodreads have given this five stars and put it on their best books of 2024 list (with many having it be their #1 fave of the year)! so if you’re interested in this book, please still pick it up, because i am for sure in the minority with my feelings on this! saeris lives in a world where water is the most precious resource and is being rationed to only 6oz a day by a seemingly immortal evil queen. she is also trying to give her brother a better life, by secretly being a blacksmith who forges weapons, and by doing anything else she can in secret, too. but at the start of this book, she has an altercation with a guard, and quickly realizes that she is able to manipulate a special blade. and i probably shouldn’t say too much more than that, but she is teleported to a new world with the fae she only knew about from storybooks. listen, i love anything with a forge and blacksmithing, and you add alchemy to that and being able to transmute some metals? oh, i’m living for it actually. you all also know that i love anything fae! I also have a very big soft spot for magical foxes! and fae gods and their backstories! and the mc’s friend, carrion, was absolutely amazing. but those are truly the only things i really loved about this. like, i feel like so many good and solid building blocks are here, but it just kept getting worse and worse as i would read on. saeris was a little insufferable to read from. and i do enjoy a “unlikeable” character, especially one willing to do anything for her family in a fae realm, but she was just so annoying and her banter with everyone made me cringe constantly. and kingfisher was just someone i never wanted to root for until the very end when we were getting 500 reveals of the villains just saying their evils deeds. it was instalove trying to not be instalove, under a wild power dynamic because saeris was forced to stay in the fae realm, with dirty talk that made me want to jump out a window. in my opinion, the plot just kept getting more away from the original cool concept and just pieces of all these really popular romantasy plots. and then the ending… this next paragraph is going to include a spoiler for the ending of this book, that also discusses a type of trauma related to sa that is implied - please use caution while reading: i am always going to be here for authors writing queer characters, villains for sure included in that, but implying that the villain of this first book is queer, and was sexual assaulting someone over decades in the past as part of a "plot twist", is just something that is always going to make me very uncomfortable to read. i feel like this is a very harmful message that our very real world is constantly trying to criminalize queer people with. also, upon finishing, even though carrion was my favorite character, he is still portrayed as a pan or bi character who wants to have sex with anyone and everyone. and i never want to shame that, especially as a pan person, but it also contributes to a negative real world stereotype! and i normally would look past carrion, because that experience can be a real and valid experience too, but after how malcom’s “my love” and “playground” and many more implications made me feel…., it just feels extremely bad to me. but i also recognize that maybe i am being too sensitive about it, because i haven’t seen anyone else say this in any review, so maybe my reading comprehension just imagined those missing 47 years of abuse being insinuated for the entire ending? but it was loudly giving outlander (in 2025 !!) to me. yeah, i think that’s all i want to say. I am sorry if this is your favorite book, it just didn’t work for me the way that i wish it did. and please don’t let this review make you completely not read this, because i really am the outlier with these feelings (at the time of writing this, i don’t have a single moot who has given this under three stars)! and if you do pick it up, i just hope you have happier reading than i did, friends! trigger + content warnings: exploiting resources, extreme dehydration, torture, unwanted touching, talk of sickness, loss of mother in past, loss of children, murder, violence, gore, vomit, blood, self harm to get blood, magical compulsion, anxiety, drinking, assault, kidnapping, threat of sa, talk of rape in past, insinuation of sa in past, genocide, war, slavery, spider-like creature, imbalance of power dynamics blog | instagram | youtube | wishlist | spotify | amazon

·˚ ༘₊· ͟͟͞͞꒰➳ For those who live their nightmares so that others may have their dreams. .ೃ࿐ -ˏˋ2 ☆ˊˎ- Booktok strikes again, and this one I’m afraid is unsalvageable. The best parts of this book were the dedication and the ending that couldn’t have come soon enough. Mind you, I went into this with no expectations despite of all the praise so just imagine if I had any. I truly struggled and dreaded to pick this book up, and it felt like each time I did I was going to DNF it, but I persevered dumb I know so I could tell you it doesn’t get better at any point. But then again, maybe this one’s on me because I read a book where the MMC’s name is Kingfisher. At about 200 pages, I truly had to go and confirm if this was the same book that everyone was raving about as though it was a masterpiece, because my naïve self truly thought that booktok wouldn’t be as gullible as to praise this as much as they have for it to be a total disaster. And I can understand why people would like this, but for it to gain the attention it has is honestly unfathomable. This is marketed as an enemies to lovers slow burn and my question is: where? Literally where??? The enemies are nowhere to be found and the slow burn was insta lust as hell. And you know what I’m still searching for? The found family. I mean you guys must be Sherlocks because I still have not found it. In romantasy the romance is mostly at the forefront of the book but it’s still a fantasy, therefore the world building and plot might be done simpler but they still have to be there, make sense and be consistent. Well, guess what? This had none of that. The romance was awful but the fantasy was even worse. It felt like the author was trying to bridge the gap between romantasy and high fantasy and it was painful to read to say the least. 『 °*•Characters•*°』 ⋆.˚🦋༘⋆Saeris is probably the most insufferable female main character that I have ever read about. The author wants you to believe she’s a sassy, badass, sarcastic, strong, independent FMC, when in reality she was an unbearable, dumb, rude, whiny brat with a superiority complex. When I tell you, this girl lacks a brain with the actions and things she says and thinks I’m not exaggerating. If this was a YA maybe I could’ve overlooked some things, but she’s in her twenties for god’s sake there’s eight year olds with more brain power than her. I felt like I was getting dumber with each page I read just by being in her head. She’s so uninteresting as a main character and felt like everything was handed to her and made easy for her, and after 600 pages there was no character growth whatsoever. ⋆.˚🦋༘⋆Kingfisher is a Fae with almost two thousand years old that most of the time read like an emo teenager. There’s not much to say other than he feels like every other misunderstood MMC. He was one of the most bearable parts of this book and would’ve been such an intriguing character if he wasn’t so surface leveled. I think there was so much more potential, but the FMC just overshadowed him in a way. ᯓᡣ𐭩 At the end of the day, the only likable character was Carrion Swift and his smart mouth. ⋆.˚🦋༘⋆Over to the romance lust *cough cough*, it felt so shallow. It honestly pissed me off the way the author was trying so hard to shove the enemies to lovers trope down our throats. Saeris had no reason to hate Fisher with every fiber of her being. When she said that at 30% while they were having a moment I had to go back and reread the scene to see if I had missed something, because it came so out of left field. If you are writing this trope at least try and have a reason for them to be enemies. Also, the author would talk about their love and how they’re fated to be but in the end there was no chemistry and everything felt forced with no angst or tension buildup, everything was based on pure lust. Sometimes they would be having a normal conversation and the author would insert some sexual innuendo that came from nowhere, just for the sake of calling it “banter”. And can we talk about that real quick? Where was the “amazing banter” everyone was talking about? ‧₊˚🖇️ ”It’s Saeris. My name. Call me, that or nothing at all.” ┊“Nothing at all? I like the sound of that. Come here and look at this, Nothing At All.”*ೃ༄ Was this it? Seriously? What are we? Twelve? 『 °*•World Building and Plot•*°』 It had an interesting concept but the execution was chaotic. I think not even the author knows the world she built and it shows, because it’s often nonsensical, with no logic and so many inconsistencies and plot holes. Saeris lives in the third Ward where poverty reigns and water is rationed but not alcohol. In the first pages, we learn the Third is a quarantined place where no one can get out of because they are contagious. Of what? After 600 pages we still don’t know because this whole plot is dropped not to be mentioned again. The FMC is caught outside the Third and when a guardian catches her, he is terrified to learn she’s from the Third. She manages to steal from him and gets away with it, but then the guardians raid the Third in search of the item. This made no sense! Why would 30 guardians enter a place that is quarantined when they were afraid to touch her in the first place? And then they just get her out of there and there’s no problems with touching, I guess she’s cured then? intensive eye roll And the water rations were a joke. I mean, there’s a tavern that sells alcohol without being rationed make it make sense. I honestly could be here all day, listing all the plot holes and nonsense, but just trust me when I say there’s more. And this was a recurrent theme throughout the book, where the author would start a plot point and never finish it or even mention it again. The plot was inexistent, confusing, the pace was all over the place and for almost the entirety of the book it felt like we had nothing to look forward to. 『 °*•Writing•*°』 It mainly consisted of word vomited long ass paragraphs, with so many repetitions and over descriptions. I think I read the sentence ”Gods and Martyrs” over fifty times. The chapters were dead ass long and poorly edited. So many irrelevant scenes could’ve been cut out to actually explain the magic system, instead it was a big cluster fuck of nothing. This book just dragged and felt never ending. Overall, we learned once again that booktok can’t be trusted. If you like romantasy where the romance is mediocre at best and the fantasy is a joke this book is for you or if you’re a masochist. ✯ ━━━━━━ ✿ ✫ ✿ ━━━━━━ ✯ This book in one word: insufferable. RTC -ˋˏ✄┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈ 『Pre-read』 Autumn just brings out the romantasy vibe. Hopefully this doesn’t disappoint.

2.5 ⭐️ (sigh) I love that so many people love this book, but it did not live up to the hype at all. Not much surprised me, I didn’t care for the MMC like I care for others, the relationship didn’t work for me, & had it not been a book club book, I honestly would have DNF. I did love that one side character (IYKYK)- HE WAS EVERYTHING! & loved the fact that there were vampires. That was fun! Overall, I think I’m just over so many romantasy books feeling like they are trying to be other romantasy books. I want something fresh & exciting. Something unique! This just wasn’t giving any of that unfortunately.

Honestly, I was more interested in the FMC's ex than the love interest

Flat plot. Dire characters. Disappointing. My 29th Reacher and what a let down. I count the days in October for launch day, and this is only one of a handful of authors that I'll pay for instant access. Definitely feel like asking for a refund. This book is not the Reacher we've come to expect. The plot is wafer thin, with zero personality for the characters. Normally I'll sit down and devour a Reacher book in a day. This took 3 days because I had too many "so what?" moments. I simply didn't care what happened next. One word to sum it all up: MEH! 😬

This book is like if Jack Reacher was a Jack Reacher wannabe and watched the tv show and went out and tried to do it himself. And failed.

Disappointing entry in the series. Andrew Child takes a very simple McGuffin story and painfully seeks to complicate it by multiplying double and triple crosses between more or less interchangeable characters. And Reacher - of all the cheap ploys - suffers from amnesia that is magically cured at the exact point the story needs it. It gets convoluted without getting particularly thrilling. The amount of expository dialogue is staggering, and prevents the action from getting momentum. To be clear, I'm a Reacher fan. But not this one.

Ok I rated this a 2 star based on all the Jack Reacher books. So many have been 4-5 stars for me. I understand Lee is tired and is passing the baton to his brother I get it. But Reacher is dying in the process. I don’t write this to be mean but to be honest. Maybe someone else needs an opportunity to keep Reacher alive cause Andrew is not it. Hopefully these reviews will get taken seriously by the authors.

The more Andrew Child editions of Reacher I read, the less I like them.

2.5⭐️ I did enjoy the twist, slightly predictable though. I’m just glad I finished this book (I can’t just DNF a book even when I should). This series has just become all the same, a tool for writing violence and calling it a story which is a little disappointing

I'm not sure but this might be the first instance where we witness the drastic decline of a thriller series due to nepotism. Andrew Grant is obviously not up to the job. I'm sure he means well but his writing does not suit Reacher. This is just a mediocre thriller novel. It's uninspiring, it drags on, it's clearly not written with passion. I'm not even an Andrew Grant sceptic, I liked Sentinel and No Plan B, and the Secret wasn't half bad. But this is just bad writing. Either end the series or give the reins to someone else at this point.

This is not Reacher. About 85% of the book was boring, and even the parts were Reacher actually felt like Reacher, seemed to just go through the motions. Jack Reacher used to be an interesting, complex character with a backstory, feelings and motivations. Now he just feels like a robot.

The prior entry Toxic Prey was one of the best Sandford books in years (my opinion), but Lethal prey is one of the worst in the entire series. How can you expect your readers to care about the mystery if your MC investigators don’t care for 80% of the book? The choice to have Virgil repeatedly whining about wanting to work on his novel instead of catching a killer seems almost like deliberate self sabotage on the part of Sandford. Not nearly enough of the side characters that make Sandford books fun- needed more Shrake and Jenkins especially with their original tie to the case. I listened to the audiobook (not a fan of the new narrator,) and when the book abruptly ended without a resolution I honestly thought there had been a launch-day mistake. This killer doesn’t have any of the complexities of previous antagonists that earned multiple books, and honestly I wouldn’t be excited to read another book with this particular killer.

Not finished! I read the whole book and was completely frustrated when there was no conclusion! Bad writing when you leave your readers without letting them know if she was found guilty or not!

Quite a letdown I've read Sanford since the first Davenport Prey book. I have liked most, some more,some less. I took a break for a few years but started up again. The Letty Davenport books were a great surprise. They are bangers. The Virgil Flowers books weren't fun for me so I stopped reading them. Toxic Prey, the previous entry in this series, was a thrill ride that hit on all cylinders and was unputdownable. So I was looking forward to this one, even though I don't think Flowers adds much to the team. Sadly, this one is a snoozefest and not particularly well written. Lucas and Virgil stumble around, not really doing much investigating, scratching their heads. Time passes and they don't do much more, then bring in a flock of amateurs and expect them to do all the work for them. Eventually a suspect is identified and they do a lot of theorizing but gather very little evidence. As they plod along toward building some sort case, the author apparently tires of this thousand mile journey as much as I did and abruptly "ends" the story. A thrill ride this wasn't. There just wasn't much to like about this book. Lucas just seemed tired and lacking wit and perception. The only time I cared about Flowers was when I wondered (and hoped) if he was going to be killed off. Why do authors have characters become authors, then tell us all about the boring details of The Novelist's struggle? I think I will skip any further books that have Virgil Flowers in them. He was tiresome. I hope next time we can get back to what this series has been. A thriller.

Love the series but this one is not good. Boring and makes all the characters unlikable; especially Flowers.

hanging? I hate to be left hanging! As a reader it’s nice to have closure. Sanford took a nap at the end.

This is by far the most disappointing of all 35 Prey novels due to the incomplete ending. I realize the author likely receives a lot of leeway from the publisher due to his success; however, they should have rejected this back to him to finish before going to print! 👎🏻👎🏻

Usually love these books but the pacing felt off with some sections taking forever without much to add and others so rushed. I also missed the chirpy conversations between Lucas and Virgil which these seemed too business like. Unfortunately disappointed and not one of my favorites.

unpopular opinion incoming first, let me say i am very happy that so many people love this book already. i love that for you, i really do!✨ this book was fine, but i didn’t love it by any means… and believe me, i tried. maybe my emotions are broken. maybe i really disliked the miscommunication. maybe the entire friend group slightly annoyed me. maybe the writing felt pretty average. maybe i went in with my expectations way too high.

i agree that this book is taylor swift coded as in me and emily henry books are never ever ever getting back together 🥲

2 stars 🩷 i honestly never thought i would give emily henry a bad rating…but there was so much about this book that I did not like. the plot of the story is basically a second chance romance, between two ex fiancés, who reunite after being broken up for five months. the book has a dual timeline (past chapters and present chapters). in the past chapters, they show how wyn (H) and harriet (h) met, how their romance progressed and how it fell apart. while the present scenes show how they slowly start to reunite, while also trying to figure out why the breakup happened in the first place. at the same time, they hide their breakup from their best friends and continue to act like they’re together out of fear their friend group will fall apart. spoilers below 👹 first, i had a problem with the jumps between past and present. i have read books where this worked, but I found myself really wanting to get back to the present scenes and finding the flashback chapters to be very lackluster. one of the biggest problems i had with this book was the break up. throughout the book, the harriet explains the wyn broke up with her over the phone and it happened after some OM drama. essentially, she went out with a coworker and he kissed her. she didn’t kiss him back, pushed him away and she immediately called wyn to tell him. that’s when he broke up with her. to make it worse he immediately returns all the her stuff within days of the break up 😕 for him to breakup with her like that after 8 years together 🫥 also, wyn never pined or groveled. harriet ended up being the one that groveled and even tried to “get revenge” by looking hot, grinding on him when they were faking it, etc. i guess this was a way to get a ride out of him but it made no sense when she didn’t do anything wrong. like what is this– “What about you?” he rasps. “Are you with him?” There it is. Acid rises through my stomach. A cleaving goes through my chest. I refuse to cry. Not over something that happened five months ago. Not over someone who’s already told me he doesn’t want me. “That’s what you think of me?” I scoot back from him until the wall meets my back. “You still honestly believe I cheated on you, and beyond that, you think I’d turn around and do it to someone else too.” “That’s not what I’m saying,” Wyn says, his voice gravelly. “I’m not accusing you of anything! I’m trying to ask . . .” “Trying to ask what, Wyn?” I demand. “If you’re happy,” he says. “I want to know that you’re happy too.” wyn is definitely emily henry’s worst hero. i hated that he would tell harriet that he was finally happy and then be glad when she lied and said she was too. i felt like wyn didn’t even try to question it. i do think he was happier now than during his relationship. during the end of their relationship his dad died and his mom was diagnosed with parkinsons. after they breakup he was finally on medication for his recently diagnosed depression, he moved back to montana to be with his mom and finally found a job he loved, so I understand why he was happier now than when he was dating harriet. but he dated her for 8 years but couldn’t tell she was actually miserable??? i think he wanted to be blind regarding that so he wouldn’t feel guilty about his newfound happiness in life. “It’s amazing. Seeing you like this. So happy.” He studies me for a beat before dropping his gaze on a nod. “I am. I’m really happy.” […] “You too, right?” He matches my gaze. That seesaw feeling rocks through me. “Yeah,” I say. “Me too.” “Good,” he says softly. he also broke up with her because she couldn’t pick a wedding date…YOUR DAD LITERALLY JUST DIED HOW TF WAS SHE JUST GONNA BE LIKE “ohhh i want a spring wedding and let’s spend money NEITHER of us have” when they finally get back together at the end of the book, it felt like nothing had changed. part of the reason why they broke up is when they moved to san francisco for harriet’s residency and he hated feeling inferior to her friends, having shitty jobs and being away from his mom. in the end of the book, harriet quits her residency and moves to montana to make pottery. i really can’t make this up as ellie said, in this economy??? i mean, wyn had to have known harriet would be very busy?? SHE’S IN RESIDENCY 🧍🏻‍♀️ she’s not gonna have the time and energy to talk about their relationship problems. i didn’t like how EH tried to justify harriet needing to quit just because she didn’t think she was good at it, she hates the direness of it and she hates the smell of antiseptic…it felt like she decided to start making pottery as a form of income overnight. then harriet tells her parents “don’t worry, i’m gonna pay off the loans myself” yeah maybe after 200 years 😵‍💫 and if she doesn’t want to be a surgeon, have her become a family practitioner or something??? becoming a neurosurgeon isn’t the end all i understand that she didn’t actually like what she was doing but for her to just move across the country to be with wyn was part of the reason they broke up in the first place??? it made zero sense to me. honestly, when they reunited it felt like he was very indifferent about their break up. it seemed like harriet was the one suffering and he didn’t struggle at all. i think this book desperately needed wyn’s POV so we could try to understand the reasoning for his actions. why did he lie to harriet, why didn’t he break up with her sooner, why didn’t he communicate with her better, why the FUCK did he breakup with her over the phone??? his mental health at that time in his life needed to be explored more for me to understand his thought process. everything about wyn was very flat. nothing about his life was explored, which should have been if that was a major reason for the break up also who tf tells someone they will always love them when they’re broken up? it’s not like he had to change before he fully committed to her again 🤨 NOTHING CHANGED BETWEEN HIM SAYING I LOVE YOU AND THEM GETTING BACK TOGETHER make it make sense EH, please the side characters were also boring and I couldn’t find myself giving any shit about their problems this was entirely forgettable but i still love you EH 🫶🏻

2 Stars I have loved all of Emily Henry’s previous books, and as per usual, I enjoyed the banter, the dialogue, and the setting…for the majority of the book…until it was like EH got tired and had someone ghostwrite the ending…outside of those things though…nope. Harriet and Wyn were boring AF, although I was willing to work with them. But I’m sorry, she lost me at the constant flashbacks, the needless miscommunication, the obnoxiously magical over the top friend group, and the complete lack of financial reality. It was all frustrating. I could go on with numerous examples, like about how Sabrina’s dad is apparently loaded, but that at one point the four of them couldn’t find a place they could afford (??) among other things, but without getting too spoiler-y, I’ll just say three words. Student. Fucking. Loans. And pottery. Sorry, that’s five words. The ending was just completely ridiculous. “I want to go on vacations with my friends.” You know what vacations require? Money, honey. And don’t get me started on Wyn. For someone who said he loved her so much, he gave up pretty damned quick. And didn’t really fight at all to get her back. Just not my favorite.

˗ˏˋ ★ ˎˊ˗ 2.5 𝓢𝓽𝓪𝓻𝓼 ˗ˏˋ ★ ˎˊ˗ ೃ⁀➷ ೀ⋆｡˚ 𝓠𝓾𝓲𝓬𝓴 𝓢𝓾𝓶𝓶𝓪𝓻𝔂 ✩࿐⋆* We follow Wyn and Harriet, former friends and fiancés, who have broken up and now have to spend a week together on vacation with their friends. Harriet and Wyn’s friend group is in Maine for one last hurrah as the vacation home they’ve grown to love will no longer be available. This vacation home was Harriet’s happy place (🥴😒), so its no surprise that she was ecstatic to reunite with her friend group for a week, and step away from dealing with her breakup with Wyn and from being a surgical student. All of that comes crashing down when she’s surprised with her ex-fiancé when she arrives at the house. Her friends arranged for Wyn to join them, as he’s part of the friend group, for their last week in the house. The problem? No one knows Harriet and Wyn broke up. Harriet is obviously not happy that Wyn’s on this trip. She was hoping to escape from him and thoughts about him for a week, while figuring out how to tell the rest of their friends they broke up. Harriet was already planning on this until two of her friends, Sabrina and Parth, announced that they were engaged and that they planned on getting married at the house at the end of the week. In an effort to not dampen the good news, they decide to pretend they’re still together – easier said than done. ೃ⁀➷ ೀ⋆｡˚ 𝓜𝔂 𝓣𝓱𝓸𝓾𝓰𝓱𝓽𝓼 ✩࿐⋆* One of the biggest fails for me is miscommunication in adult relationships. If you cannot talk to your partner, why are you even together? And even more cringey is not talking about it for the other person’s sake when in fact the other person would have felt better if the first person had talked about it. I mean, seriously? How old are you? Harriet and Wyn’s breakup six months ago happened only because of sheer miscommunication. I saw that coming so it was like watching an inevitable car crash. Only Emily Henry can take the One Bed Trope and make it so entirely dull. When it comes to this trope, I have high standards that are rarely met. This trope forces the couple into forced proximity, but all the potential was wasted, because there is no romance in the novel. No heat and no steam. A good trope not fully utilized, or at all. ♡⃕ I usually love a romance story immersed in a friendship. (Not huge on many friends to lovers but I'd like to be. Love a good found family.) But, this group was insufferable. I only loved Cleo who was the realist person in the group and also written quite well. Everyone else felt like they were molded in a clay and came out lifeless. I can define their entire personality in one word. Wyn is boring. Harriet is a pushover. Sabrina is the friendzilla. Parth is an extrovert. Kimmy is chill. Cleo is real. If you really think about it, you know I am right. They had no personalities and did not come alive on the page. Also, yes, Wyn is boring. Some people are just boring. But, so what? The constant need of Harriet to convince him he wasn’t was a bit cringy. At least he knows himself well enough. ♡⃕ All romance novels are predictable, but this one was a bit too obvious. In addition to that, this book was way too long than it needed to be.

ೃ⁀➷✨2 stars✨ 🎶┊illicit affairs + dancing with our hands tied( i love these songs sm tho) ↳ don't call me "kid", don't call me "baby" look at this idiotic fool that you made me 🏹┊to start off this was my first emily henry book, and tbh i was rlly disappointed😔. in my opinion, there was no clear plot. half of the time i couldn't even understand what was happening, and omg the characters?😭harriet had no personality. wyn? he was okay ig... but the whole "fake dating except they broke up but dont want to tell their friends because then they'll be sad" could have been done better. a lot better in my opinion. but yeah - i didnt really enjoy this - and i was struggling to finish it, as i read this😔. 🫶🏼┊thank u so much bestie lilly for buddy reading this with me!! im glad u had fun and ilysm!!💘 u made this whole experience more enjoyable<33!

Yeah, no. This was not it. I still have this feeling that EmHen's book is like that high intelligence joke that I'm too stupid to understand, and I cannot for the life of me figure out why the fuck I'm feeling this- (I'm just going straight to the review) it's in the way how I think her writing was just unnecessarily intelligent and use intelligent words, also how it resulted in how hard it is to digest for my slow brain, and it's just so fucking difficult for me to really focus in the paragraphs. I guess it's my own problem? Lol but I truly couldn't enjoy the writing and I didn't enjoy this freely. The characters were okay but it was just it. The okay characters and none of them were mesmerizing in my eyes, they didn't move a thing inside of me too. It was just bland and meh, it almost feel like same with Nora from Book Lovers but whatever if you don't agree with me on this. The plot was amazing and it has a lot of potential- but it ended in a very unsatisfying way. Not sure why, I supposed I might have currently craving for a huge drama in the middle or something but this book didn't deserve it. But I want to admit that some moments were beautiful and funny in the book but it wasn't often- like I said I couldn't enjoy this maximally because of the writing and it really impacted my views for the whole book. Also the ending was just... so hastily wrapped up and it felt like it rushed the whole thing, hence the unsatisfying for me. I genuinely thought we're going to see the wedding scene more cause wasn't it main event of the trip? I thought the climax was going to be in that very moment but it wasn’t- oh well. I also think this book could end in 30 chapters too, cause there were some chapters that were basically a stretch out and basically a filler. Welp- I actually wanted to like this but- 💀 now I'm genuinely scared that I'm going to waste my time to start on Beach Read in my Yellow Week. 2 stars. Best I can do. I might not feel pissed or disappointed with this book but the unsatisfactory that this book is serving me deserves it. ㅡㅡㅡㅡㅡ This has been fun but ngl since I was in the middle of hiatus, this is hardly a buddy read 💀💀 so yeap- I still enjoy it in the beginning though!💖💖 love you three sm🫶🏻 ㅡㅡㅡㅡㅡ Oof- not me adding another book- for a buddy read, might I add- in between other brs that I haven't finished 😭😭 But fuck it, I'm reading this. With my internet mom lilyya, our unholy mother hen vee, and my menace yet lovely bestie rae 🤭🫶🏻 yes, I'm squeezing myself between these three 🤪 Fingers crossed for another second chance romance 🤞🏻

Thanks, Trolls. There goes commenting on every single one of my reviews. ***** I. Am. DONE. I do NOT like books that manipulate me. I do NOT like authors who think it teaches life lessons by making everything literally the WORST scenario possible. I do NOT like books that I endorse, tell 100 people to read (when I'm at 47%) because it was so amazing-wonderful-addicting-beautiful, and then have to eat crow because a million dreadful things have to happen to get to the fucking point. And for those who ADORED this book, do NOT come at me and tell me I am wrong, didn't understand the message, whatever. I do NOT like being manipulated (SEE ABOVE) when I was already okay with how things would eventually turn out. I didn't need five more fucking stabs in the stomach to get the fucking message. For those who keep talking about all their feelings and how they are having trouble writing a review because of all their feeeeeelings...that's manipulation you're feeling, people. And I am so mad I don't care who I'm offending. I loved the idea behind this book. I did. And even though I felt so much love in one way, I was okay with the devastation everyone spoke of. But then-All. That. SHIT. I will never forgive Hoover for this. Ever. I think I am FINALLY done this time. I am ALWAYS the black sheep on her books...and I have no fucking clue why I keep coming back for more. Probably because I loved Miles (THE ONLY BOOK I'VE EVER LOVED BY HER, making me the opposite of everyone, yet again) so much and want another win...but there's only so much bullshit I can ingest per author and she might have just met her quota. And it's this author's twisted sense of life lessons we need to learn. Oh, and PS, I LOVED BOTH GUYS SO MUCH IT HURTS-so don't even try that one on me. Sorry, guys. I slept on it, and I was even madder today. And I assume my attitude concerning this novel will only get worse, so it's best I post today and let it be. For more of my reviews, please visit:

For those of you who think this is a love triangle. It's not. TRIGGER WARNING : (view spoiler) -------------------------------------------- FULL REVIEW ALL SPOILERS HAVE BEEN MARKED It breaks my heart a little to say this, but I think it's time I broke up with Colleen Hoover's books. Her first few books are some of my favorite books of all-time, but her latest have been very mediocre and not to mention, frustrating. I went into It Ends With Us with an open-mind, but I still found the book to be trite and I felt a little bad for feeling so meh about it given the context and background of the story. Let me get one thing out of the way. Colleen Hoover is talented. Ridiculously so. There's absolutely no doubt about that. Her writing is beautiful and evocative and she's an author with a ton of potential. However, I sincerely believe she hasn't explored her full potential yet. Maybe it's because she's writing too fast, but despite the topics that she's been handling lately, her books haven't been as strong as her debut series. My biggest complaint when it comes to It Ends With Us was how over the top it was. I get that people in real life have all kinds of issues, but if you're not going to give equal and considerate attention to each issue that you're tackling in a book, then it winds up just being messy. In It Ends With Us, EVERY single character had something seriously messed up happen to them. And I do mean EVERY. There's the homeless suicidal boy, the abusive parent, the boy who shot his brother in the brain when he was 6, the infertility issues and so much more. It's TOO much. It's almost as if the author decided to add all these topics to make the book forcefully emotional, like she tackled all of them just so readers find it an emotional tearjerker. If it had focused on the one big issue, it would have been a much much more powerful story, in my opinion. I have read books in the past that were simple in their writing but were all incredibly emotional and made me cry because of how subtly and beautifully they handled the one main topic that they explore. Taylor Jenkins Reid and Melina Marchetta are examples of two such authors who do this brilliantly. And I don't know guys, this book read very pretentious to me. I'm finding this to be a trend in Colleen Hoover's books lately. I mean just look at those names. Atlas? Ryle? Lily Bloom? I mean seriously? Some of those names are supposed to be funny, but they were very distracting and took away from the story for me. And then there are the letters to Ellen DeGeneres. The protagonist is a huge Ellen fan and addresses all her journal entries to Ellen. I'm a big Ellen fangirl, and I loved that Lily loved Ellen too, but ehh the journal writing felt a bit much for me. Oh and my personal favorite? (view spoiler) There was also the cheesiness factor which was amped up like nobody's business. I can tolerate some amount of cheese, but this author takes it to a whole new level. The scenes between Lily and Atlas, especially were nauseating. (view spoiler) Don't get me wrong, they had some really good romantic scenes, but the whole story was bogged down by cliched lines. I'm also very annoyed at how misleading that summary is going to be for some readers. This is NOT a love triangle. (view spoiler) So yeah, this review isn't very cohesive, I apologize for that, but my thoughts are definitely a mess when it comes to this book. If you're a Colleen Hoover fan, don't worry about my rating and review. Considering the fact that 99% of all the other reviews are 5 star ratings, I have no doubt that It Ends With Us, like every other book by the author, will be a tearjerker hit among her readers. I know this makes me sound like an utter snob, but I expect much much more from her books and just slapping together a bunch of tough issues isn't enough for me to want to give a book a high rating.

This Was No Verity and Ryle is Eww Lily Bloom is living in Boston when she meets Ryle, a handsome neurosurgeon. As Lily navigates her new relationship with Ryle, she is reminded of her first love, Atlas Corrigan. Who will win in this love triangle? After reading Verity, I was super excited to pick up It Ends With Us. Unfortunately, this wasn’t nearly as good. Mainly because…… Ryle is horrible from the start. He is dressed in an expensive Burberry shirt and has a “$200 haircut.” First, before I came into the picture, my partner exclusively shopped at Kohl’s with a 30% off coupon and looked very similar to an Easter egg. Friends don’t let friends dress like Easter eggs so I was fairly certain that he was single. Second, what kind of men’s haircut costs $200? I would really like some memes of $200 men’s haircuts. Warning bells, Lily, warning bells! Why is this guy named Ryle? Were too many people named Kyle? When Ryle and Lily meet for the first time, Lily is in a vulnerable state. Does Kyle, I mean Ryle, have any sympathy for her? Well, apparently not enough to show any respect. He says some downright inappropriate comments. Throughout the book, Ryle exhibits stalkery (not an actual word) behavior, and he makes unilateral decisions without even consulting Lily. Even from the first chapter, he takes her picture without bothering to ask her if that would be okay. Sorry, even if you are a hot neurosurgeon, that doesn’t give you a free pass to be an uncaring, inconsiderate person. 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango

If nothing else, Kuang is always capable of surprising me. I did not expect to love Babel’s hefty prose as much as I did, nor did I expect to find Yellowface as unfunny as it was. Katabasis is unique in that it is bereft of anything particularly good or bad. It is nothing. Here, Kuang asks the question, what if every account of Hell was based on real experiences? What if Dante really traveled to the nine circles? What if Aeneas actually crossed the river styx? What if you read an entire book solely dedicated to the author showing off how much they read? A full half of this book (more, to be honest) is nothing more than Kuang desperately trying to remind the reader that she is smart. She knows T.S. Elliot and Michael Huemer. She understands Blaise Pascal and August Ferdinand Möbius’ theories. Nietzsche and John Bancroft? Child’s play. When characters aren’t busy info dumping about a dead philosopher (or mathematician, or logician, or theorist, or just some random guy), the narrator does it for them. I cannot emphasize this enough. This is not a case like Babel, where she included quite a bit of context and explanations for languages, histories, and general events. Here, the entire narrative comes to a screeching halt every five seconds so she can explain Schrödinger‘s cat to us. It quite literally reads like a textbook where the actual storyline is only added in to stop you from putting it down. It is so boring. I must clarify (because some people have clearly misconstrued my words) that I do not have a problem with a dark academia book doing what dark academia books do. Again, and I cannot stress this enough, I really enjoyed Babel. I thought the weaving in of history and her personal knowledge was creative and fun. I have a problem with how goddamn boring this book was. Every single new reference made me groan out loud because all it did was take away from the actual plot. This is exactly the type of book that will have people online claiming they were “too dumb” to understand it (this is, somehow, used as a compliment!). I am here to tell you that you are not in any way lacking in intelligence if you cannot understand the insane amount of slop in here. It is not a positive attribute that the author threw together a bunch of random academia bullshit in the same way that millennials insert Harry Potter references into their books. Frankly, once you look past all of the philosophy, the writing is quite juvenile. It actually shocked me quite a bit. My main praise for Babel was the writing. I thought, even if Kuang isn’t the most elaborate with her prose (she’s usually a very straightforward writer, which I like), it was still a beautiful love letter to languages. Katabasis reads like a Tumblr post. Consider: “You know very well what a heap is. You know it when you see it. It is like porn.” (Apparently a reference, but so random in context that it sounds silly) “You couldn’t just decide you didn’t like being punished and nope back out into Limbo.” (Nope as a verb???) Not a quote, but worth noting that the Hell described in this book is not only unimaginative but actively irrelevant to the course of events. The characters, whom I haven’t brought up at all until now, are insufferable. This certainly tracks with Kuang’s record, as she is really quite good at writing frustrating protagonists (this is a compliment). I liked Alice! Peter, not so much. Feels a bit ironic that I said there wasn’t anything either good or bad when I’ve gone on for so long about the writing, but I do want to make it clear that I do not actually feel any way about this book. It is strangely written with an alright story that is interesting at times and, more often than not, uninspired. It is merely fine. Not great, like The Poppy War. Not awful, like The Burning God. I will forget I read it in a week. Review in exchange for an advanced reader’s copy. Edited Sept. 2025 for clarification.

→ boring as Hell, pun intended ← after deeming Babel a masterpiece, i had such high hopes for Katabasis. i don’t feel like putting you through an overly long review of my thoughts. let’s make this easy. (i’ve read enough over-explaining in this book to last a lifetime, so i won’t do the same to you.) ┏━━━━━❂ the issues ❂━━━━━┓ ✦ tedious + exhausting to read ✦ the mathematics, logic, and geography were all wayyyy over-explained. we know you’re smart but i don't want to read a textbook. nor do i know who any of these people you're referencing are. i’m not going to go do a significant amount of research to enjoy a fantasy book. ✦ Alice was EXTREMELY unlikable ✦ long-winded and unnecessarily wordy. extremely textbook-like for long stretches at a time ✦ boring (!) the first two courts were creative and then it went downhill from there ✦ the most dull, underdeveloped characters. we don’t even know what they look like besides their hair colors. and we only learn Alice’s hair color around PAGE 300. they lack personality, as well. ✦ the entire book gave off a ”holier than thou” vibe. like if you didn’t understand something or earn a PhD, you weren’t *worthy* of reading this book. ✦ the time jumps were very disjointed ✦ our storyline was so non-linear i had to remind myself which court of hell we were in and i just ended up not caring ✦ Peter was just… dull ✦ none of this shit was worth losing half a lifetime. none of this shit was worth wasting however many hours i did dragging myself through this. if you disagree with me — good for you! i completely understand people who have read this book and believe it is brilliant. … but be nice. do i really need to remind adults on the internet that reading is subjective? i hope not.

This must be annoying. If a non-fan got an ARC by one of my favorite authors just to shit all over it, I would be annoyed. I would think, they just don't get it. So there! I've done my due diligence, I've walked a solid mile or so in those shoes, and maybe... maybe I just don't get it. Entertained yet underwhelmed by the depth of Yellowface, I itched to read more Kuang. I was sure deeper intellectual criticism was bound to find me in her other works. So how divinely guided must I have been to watch an ARC of the shiny, glittering Katabasis fall right into my lap! (Thank you Harper Voyager and all those at Shelves & the City... all press is good press right?). I didn't move a muscle. Here it was, BookTok's most anticipated read in the year of our Lord 2025. Touching my hands! Oh! All of its glory! Long minutes passed, and I broke free of my paralytic spell. Yes, my loves, with shaking fingers, I cracked open those fresh pages... and read. My eyes gloss over “naughty girl." Hm. No matter, this is fine. Kuang's first foray into romance will have its bumps, so I'll be forgiving of rookie replications. I continue—oh, woah! Would you believe it, within the first chapter, spells are cast, and straight into hell we go. All right! Although unexpected, I'm geared for a fast paced ride! What do you have in store for me, Ms. Kuang? The short story? Disappointment. The long story? Read on, man. I'll spare you the dramatics for the rest, but as some of you may know... from a TikTok video I made at the halfway reading point... three main gripes arose. While I stand by these, I plan on exploring them further in the context of the finished book. Girlsss, introduce yourselves now: 1. prose 2. fact over fun 3. character development Beginning with #1: prose, I often find myself unimpressed with the typical BookTok favorites populating that table in Barnes & Noble, so this is run of the mill. But knowing Kuang, watching her interviews, and learning her authorial inspirations, I think her style attempts to replicate some literary darlings. Yet it falls flat on its face. Here: although not a constant, many paragraphs hold entire sentences following the formula of "subject verb object." I present an example: "He tumbled the last meter but landed all in one piece. Alice jumped down beside him and landed sprightly on her feet. This hurt her heels, but she had a silly urge to impress Peter," and on it goes. Since I'm a freak, I know Didion inspires Kuang. Since Kuang's a freak, I know she'll read this review, but that's besides the point. Didion has a similar approach, as she commonly follows the "subject verb object" formula, but what differentiates the two is where the rest of the sentence flows from its primordial beginning. While Kuang adheres to parallelism (and maybe that's intentional, hey props to you, girl!), Didion lets each sentence flow a different direction. That's the variation that makes the reading experience more enjoyable to me, at least. Each sentence may start the same, but they end up somewhere else. See, Kuang lacks this diverse flow, and for that, I find it difficult to savor. Oh, my reader friends, but to say it's the worst would be to lie! It’s not the worst. It is fine. Again, I've been reading too many impressive books that I now assume something tame must disappoint. So if this is no problem for you, read on, man. (This is a reference to Sophie Kemp's Paradise Logic btw. Idk if you can tell I'm obsessed. Sorry to bring up another book in the middle of this review... she's the other woman...) Numero Dos! or #2, as the English would say. Fact. Over. Fun. While my initial criticisms under this number were typical, I have a bit more to share. See, a lot of Kuang's critics share their aversion to her exposition dumps, but seeing as I have nothing to compare this to but Yellowface, I'm not sure if Katabasis is better or worse than, say, Babel. I think the latter two are closer sisters than the former. Since all I know is Katabasis, I’ll look at it as an isolated case study. We dive in. Her integration of exposition (all the research she did on hell) is lazy. It is not tightly bound to the plot, it is loose. Unfortunately, Kuang herself is aware of this: "She wasn't sure her ramblings made any sense—it was all a jumble of associated concepts flung together from days of frenzied research" (326). Yeah I just cited that. Kuang rationalizes her poorly constructed research integration by projecting her own writing struggles onto her characters. Ooh that was a claim. Okay sorry, I'll level the playing field, so we can get one thing straight: everyone is impressed with Kuang's research talents. Everyone is impressed that she takes research to fiction! But it's like the RuPaul's Drag Race talent shows: you can have a talent, but if you can't integrate it into your drag, it will flop. Research should likewise be integrated into fiction. But alas! This is a misuse of medium. While I'm not a fan of the major expo dump in the first hundred pages, like any other fantasy, it improves as the chapters progress. Yet, the dip in exposition is not met with a rise in... well... FUN! I'm majorly upset with the fact that hell was simply not fun! This is not by design. Little background: Kuang writes hell as a mirror of Cambridge, insinuating that any living visitor will see hell reflected in their own life, or vice versa, however you wanna put it. Sweeping past the plot holes this introduces, that's an interesting set-up! Imagine what Alice and Peter could get into! Lol. Are you imagining? Yeah. It's cool right? Now erase all of that because none of it happens. The biggest challenges Alice and Peter face are almost instantly resolved by a convenient third party. It keeps happening! Matter of fact, I counted each time Alice said, "could it be this easy?" and for those who own the copy, they're on pages 145, 257, and 398. I don't know, Kuang, it could be easy if you want to write it easy. But at some point, the reader (me) becomes frustrated with the little struggle in these obstacles. They become frustrated that so many advances are earned quite... uh, how do you say... EASILY! Like your ending! Oh, no. Nope. I can't think about the ending or else I'm gonna start twitching in this here library where I write this review. All right now, all this talk of fun in plot, what about fun in MIND? Is the book intellectually stimulating? I'd admit it depends on how you define the term. At risk of sounding pretentious (I've already sped way past that point), it seems I have a threshold higher than the average Kuang fan. Undeniably, my biggest dissatisfaction with Kuang is the immediate interpretations of her own story. This sharp delivery lent itself well to Yellowface, because it was a satire! Her guided direction worked itself into the comedy of the piece. Yet in the context of a fantasy, in the context of Katabasis, this overbearing Kuangian voice infiltrates all! I find that any interesting questions Kuang introduces (and there are many!) are answered within pages. Please girl, let me think for myself. This is not exploration, this is rhetoric. Bombastic rhetoric, even. Harken back to the beginning of this review, I was so insanely, graciously lucky to attend Shelves & the City, where fate led me to hear Kuang speak on a panel. Thank heavens! She is such a great speaker! But she said one thing there, and it's been racking my brain ever since I finished Katabasis. It is (paraphrased), "I don't want to tell anyone how to think. I just want to explore the questions that keep me up at night." Oh. Well. Holy f*cking airball, as they say. I recall the most common defense Kuang fans tout, which argues that her sharp delivery effectively communicates her message. Then I compare that to her claim above, and there's an obvious disconnect. The one thing on which Kuang lovers and haters agree is that she's direct. And there she was saying that she is not. So is she missing something? Am I missing something? Maybe she knows her bombastic rhetoric is... bombastic? Her commentary on women in academia is repetitive, tiresome. I wonder who she writes for. If it's meant to be a Cambridge circle jerk, then they already know this. But if it's meant to be for us plebeians, then she must think lowly of our interpretative skills. At the end of the day, it's not a crime to be direct. But it is a minor offense to lie... and the punishment? How about bombast for bombast? I decree to Kuang the sentence of......... BOMBASTIC side eye!!!! Lmfao sorry to bring that one up ewwww that's kinda cringe sorry. But it was right there. If you're not totally disgusted by that display, then, read on, man. #3 and at this point I'm getting tired I kinda just wanna finish this. I’m not getting paid. Okay so 3 was character development. What I originally said in my TikTok was that we didn't know anything about the characters in the first half, making it painful to trudge through. And well yes! We do get more character info, but only in flashbacks to Alice and Peter at Cambridge. We never quite see it in play. You know the whole "show, don't tell" thing? Kuang forgot about it writing Katabasis. The one time she showed (didn’t tell) was that stellar chapter on Alice and Peter’s strikingly intimate relationship. I yearn for more. Because most often, the reader can not make their own judgement before she steps in. I guess that's par for the course! Praise be the day Kuang realizes that too. That's really all I have to say on that. When it comes to good things, I wonder if I've spent so much time being negative that I've completely lost the light. Ummmm lemme rummage around in here for a bit. Um. Ooh. No not that. Hmmm. Nope. Ooh. Nuh uh. Ahh! Okay. Parallels between Peter and Alice were lovely! They both have characteristics that make them susceptible to exploitation. How satisfying was that. I do think it would have meant more if we weren’t given crumbs up until some of Peter’s lore dropped. But that’s debatable. And I do love a parallel. I do love it. And another. All the pieces tied up together at the end, ending with a final reflection on how precious life is! That was quite sweet! Yes yes, I liked how it all came together. The story seemed to be heading that way the entire time, though, lol, like it was quite obvious even when Alice was thinking otherwise. Alice was not very convincing in her stance, but maybe that's why it was so easily changed over the course of this book. Now I know that's just how it goes. I always want to give an author two chances to see if they vibe with me, and now that I've done that, I know I'll be sitting the rest of Kuang's stuff... out. (I also posted a TikTok on the plot holes of the magic system, but that's gratuitous. For those who are curious, I push you there) Hope that was elucidating. Hope I wasn't too hateful. Hope Kuang won't subtweet me in her next book. Thank you for reading :) *** Post-script: it’s release day so I’m thinking of Kuang. What frustrates me most between Katabasis and Yellowface are her “nuanced” characters. Although Alice may fall prey to the system, although June may hold racist beliefs, neither of them are convicted. There is only surface-level stereotyping of alternate thought, rather than true investigation. A powerful writer would challenge their own and their reader’s beliefs, consider how the opponent is right, and return to beginning, with better tools for combat. To fight, you must know your enemy. Yet Kuang dismisses them. Writes them as caricatures. I do not believe this is effective fiction. It is rhetoric masquerading as fiction. I almost always agree with Kuang’s beliefs, but what I wish her to ask me, through written word, is… why? Why do I agree? I wonder if the value of a book lies in its storytelling or its message. Maybe some readers only prioritize the message. I want a story. Maybe I’m only upset because my fellow readers endlessly sing her praises, and I can’t see it. I have to pick apart the pieces. Say, let’s take the piece where she writes caricatures of enemies. I ask myself, why does this not work? Kurt Vonnegut does the same, and I accept it. Why do I find it funny when he does it? Well, I guess I found it funny in Yellowface. Maybe it’s because these two lean satirical? But outside of the satire medium, Kuang continues to do this! Does it still work in a fantasy? Or is something else required of the genre? I’ve been spending a lot of time thinking about what makes fiction good. Or maybe it’s a subjective experience and I’m wasting all this time. Well! Whatever. Kuang announced her next book, and she’s coming for my preferred genre of litfic… we will see how her style lends itself out there.

so, like colleen hoover for people who are in grad school. before anyone comes banging down my door to say "YOU'RE HATING JUST TO HATE!" yes, this is my first r.f. kuang book, yes i've heard she's prone to autofiction + didacticism, yes i know she wrote her first book at 19 (something i've famously criticized chloe gong for), HOWEVER—i read the recent new yorker profile and was immediately sold. i found a lot to admire in kuang's humility + work ethic, and felt i'd waited for the right moment to finally pick up one of her books. i think we revere male authors for much less (see also: haruki murakami's 5am writing sprints, followed by real sprints in service of the next pair of manic pixie dream breasts). i also found the narrative thread about kuang's husband, his precarious health, and her caretaker role very (bitter)sweet (i'm trying to be more open-minded about autofiction trends). i was only slightly skeptical after learning she'd never written anything creatively until college when she gave up debate club, sat down to pump out the poppy war, and the rest—as they say—was history. this context is important because i went into katabasis ready to love it. and i did! for about 5 seconds. what i will say about kuang that i can't about gong is there's at least line-level skill being exhibited here. no, kuang isn't the talentless hack that colleen hoover is (despite my earlier joke) and no, she's not writing soapy airport slop that'll go on to inflame future celebrity lawsuits (knock on wood). i can see kuang is enthralled by her own projects and that she cares a lot about her research. this is, for the record, a great skill to have as a writer, and one we should encourage. i can see also that for the average non-readerly reader who subsists on an (imbalanced) diet of automatic nyt bestsellers (ana huang, rebecca yarros, SJM), katabasis will feel literary by contrast, maybe even too smart to warrant its popularity. the near-constant references will confuse, confound, and (less often) impress. the non-readerly will either be uninterested or dazzled. they'll feel too dumb for kuang or they'll feel like they picked up a philosophical textbook, that having slogged through 500 pages of intertextual monologues, they've proven their mettle and can finally call themselves suitably intellectual. this is, for them, the Peak. (i'm defining 'non-readerly reader' as: anyone who gets their recommendations from influencers; anyone whose eyes glaze over during narrative description + who longs to skip ahead to dialogue; anyone who stares into space when asked to name an independent press or a poet who doesn't post their drafts on instagram; people who live for trends, for concepts, for tiktok authors, people for whom books are mere vehicles on the way to movie/tv adaptations, yes this is derogatory) having finally finished a kuang book, i can safely say katabasis is largely middling, absolutely average in concept and execution, the result of a lifetime spent chasing external validation through rhetorical feints + flourishes (that debate club track record is all over this project), an unexceptional, boilerplate genre submission that will have tried & true SFF fans raising their eyebrows until it's no longer being pushed by bookstore displays. katabasis is neither too stupid nor too smart. it hits almost every beat needed to appeal to the widest possible net of readers. it's commercial genre fiction masquerading as literary (remember we're living through a literacy crisis rn....back in my day, we were spending the near-decade between every donna tartt release pioneering the dark academia niche with our own tumblr drafts). i can maybe see a world where we categorize kuang as aspirationally 'upmarket' (her work is more intellectually robust than taylor jenkins reid's, less so than suzanne collins'. what does it say that collins' YA genre fiction is more clever than katabasis?). in other words, i'm NOT here to fault the book for its jargon or references. i'm well aware kuang is pretentious and so is she (she apparently self-identifies as such). i love work that's unapologetically stuck-up—if and only if writers go all out, with no care for commercial viability or mass audience appeal. this isn't that. this is a 'living out my latent harry potter fantasies at cambridge!' starter pack—except kuang couldn't decide how or when to deliver her jargon. occasionally, we get italicized "interlude" chapters ("On Reincarnation," "On Chalk") from some yet-unexplained, all-knowing world-building source. i could get behind this concept if kuang had funneled all her heaviest world-building into these little chapters, and if they cropped up regularly, resolutely, & in a way that tied into subsequent plot elements. but the interludes drop off, then vanish for no rhyme or reason. in all the worst ways, katabasis is reflective of an outdated, institutionally-backed vanity. because it's an oxford- and cambridge-endowed vanity (literally, fictionally, meta-referentially), the social fabric of her world is overwhelmingly male. i don't just mean alice is defending her misogynistic, sexually abusive mentor (even blushing over him!) until the very last pages of the book (that plotline is its own can of worms). i mean every bit of scholarship, every philosopher & poet used to build out the world of the novel, comes from a canon of majority white men. katabasis is tasked with walking the unfortunate line between "this is social commentary on the abusive, white, misogynistic nature of academia!" AND, "this book is replicative of every awful system of power in academia!" the result is a confused, uninventive, flatly padded jail cell—really, kuang's world is nothing short of a glorified, self-obsessed seclusion room—passed off as Hell, capital H. the biodiversity? nonexistent. the ensemble cast? largely harmless, immaterial NPCs. we get sand, bones, sand, some white college buildings, sand, cobblestone, sand, some more sand, bones except now they bite but not too much because they need to be easily defeated lest they threaten the hero status of our main characters, more sand, more bone creatures but kuang already expended too many brain cells on her last dante monologue so the only name we get for them is Bone Things (great to see that cambridge degree at work!). the little bit of color we're given arrives during the book's final act, when we're refreshingly free of peter 'Gary Stu's second cousin' murdoch. finally, we get a large bazaar with monsters beyond the (frankly, boring) Shades & Bone Things, new business ventures, new plant life (kuang seems to have taken a brief page from mxtx's Ghost City drafts). otherwise, there's sand. and some cats, because they can for some reason cross metaphysical boundaries + see the dead (basically The Cat from coraline, down to the impeccable narrative timing). even king yama, the fabled, fearsome gate-keeper we've spent 500+ pages waiting for is a let-down—a giant who perches silently on his mega-awesome throne and nods along while professor grimes (at long last!) launches into his 20-minute, mustache-twirling villain diatribe. then yama snaps his fingers and we get the insta happy ending absolutely no one fought or risked anything substantial for (except, i guess, peter, who only becomes interesting posthumously). i'll be the first to say it. i wish he stayed dead. would've been a more compelling novel! now: if kuang was going to throw us into an unending, reddit-level logic puzzle, she should've gone all in. i wish Hell-with-a-capital-H was made up of physical & mental logic puzzles that peter/alice were forced to trek through, so they had a chance to put those so-called 'world-class' degrees to the test. i wish there were mazes, games, kooky game masters, survivalist schemes with direct consequence/reward systems to force proximity + build out the threadbare ship we're meant to root for (except, y'know, alice/peter hate each other for most of katabasis, and their 'chemistry' isn't established in anything but time-lapse-style flashback summaries sans dialogue shoehorned into the 2nd half of the book...do these two ever share interactions that don't involve exchanging theory? the answer is NO!). i wish ANY part of Hell delivered real stakes. there were none. we open the novel already having accepted that peter/alice gave up half of their lifespans to make the journey (and, to the surprise of no one, this consequence is quickly resolved by king yama's scowly finger-snapping...at this point, i wish he would've just broken into song, that's how Movie Magic® the finale rollout was. commit! make it a wicked marathon while we're at it!) professor grimes comprises most of the emotional/physical stakes in katabasis: peter/alice's advisor, the guy who holds the key to the ivory tower, the guy who, from minute 1 until the last pages of the novel, is an unbearable, uncharismatic, black-&-white TWAT. you had one job, kuang. make us care about the book's DRIVING FORCE. FLESH HIM OUT, GIVE HIM NUANCE, PERSONALITY. we don't get that though. as soon as i met this bitch, i knew there was some level of sexual abuse waiting right around the corner. sure, the execution was worse than i could've imagined, but my point stands. kuang practically beamed 'SEX PEST' to us from across the pond. it's like grimes ripped off his mask to reveal an identically ugly face right beneath the first. he was a parody of a scooby doo baddie. but let's back up. from the book's first paragraph, we're launched into an internal monologue. we have no idea where we are in time & space (beyond cambridge, michaelmas term, fall). i mean, literally speaking, what building and room are we in? what's around us? desks, bookcases, chalkboards? i know alice is gripping chalk, but where is she standing? in...the void? we have time for a roman propaganda interlude, a bit of dante, but no physical description, no scene-setting, no gesture work. yes, it's safe to assume we're in a classroom. but if this is the OPENING SCENE of your literal tome and your fmc is DRAWING A PENTAGRAM ON THE GROUND as an inciting event, i don't think an establishing shot is too much to ask for. i can't believe the golden girl of HarperCollins wasn't given an editor competent enough to catch this glaring visual oversight. the first bit of setting description we EVER get arrives well into chapter 1: She knew before she turned around whom she would find at the door. GIRL WHAT DOOR?!?@?# WHERE THE HELL ARE WE??? (addendum: kuang finally establishes that we're in a lab 16 pgs into my ebook, after plenty more monologuing!) i hate to break it to kuang, but if you don't balance your soliloquies with basic scene work, you are in fact selling readers your term papers. perhaps my most flagrant issue with the premise of katabasis: the circumstances surrounding grimes' death. he is, in kuang's words, "the most brazen thinker of his time" & "the most influential analytic magician in England," an uncontested authority, THE foremost cambridge professor, highly sought after, lauded by magicians everywhere, well-known for making his advisees carry out the inconvenient parts of his research, with the power to open ANY door + assure tenure through a mere rec letter. and NO ONE suspects foul play when he dies suddenly and for no reason in a gruesome accident? even though "[Grimes] had yelled at [Alice] once or twice and she had yelled back and the rest of the department had probably noticed"? you've got to be fucking with me. like. girl. not only does it make no sense that alice would walk away scot-free (that no one saw her leave covered in blood while staving off a panic attack), but the ALTERNATIVE WOULD'VE BEEN SO MUCH MORE INTERESTING? if alice was dedicating every last waking moment of her life to making it to Hell BECAUSE magical detectives were poking around campus, interviewing students, and getting closer to exposing her part in the murder...this would've made the journey more urgent & high-stakes! it would've given alice multiple motives (some VERY conflicting, all of them more interesting than 'needs a rec letter' or 'still kinda fantasizes about being sexually harassed by her dead advisor' or 'simultaneously wants to torture him forever?'). it would've imposed REAL temporal restrictions on the otherwise lax, free-wheeling, week-long sojourn in Hell (yes, the book takes place over 1 single week). as is, alice/peter aren't working against any kind of clock except hypothetically, grimes could be reincarnated by now, but we don't know for sure, we're just guessing hehe! again: no stakes. obfuscating alice's true part in grimes' death did NOTHING for the book's pacing or suspense. i'm running out of room, so some quick bullet points: • idk why kuang hid peter/alice's true feelings for each other in present-time when they were CANONICALLY IN LOVE all along. wdym alice doesn't know why there's a weird stir in her gut when he's around? the logic isn't logicking! • i wish we would've moved between past + present peter/alice from the outset to establish friction between their early intimacy & their current awkwardness. this way, we would've gotten some (much-needed) fluctuation and a reference point for chemistry (a chemistry the book would then work to re-establish!). • WHO WERE ALICE'S PARENTS? what's her backstory? to our knowledge, she had THE MOST NORMAL UPBRINGING, YET SHE'S NOW A WALKING, TALKING, TANTRUM-PRONE, SELF-SERVING YET SELF-FLAGELLATING(?), WOE-IS-ME, I'M-THE-WORST, I-DESERVE-TO-DIE, SEXUALLY REPRESSED LOSER FIENDING FOR A CRUMB OF GRIMES' ATTENTION? what the HELL happened in the interim? & why does she not care more about losing contact with anyone but Male Crush #1 (peter) & Male Crush #2 (grimes)? oh, wait: "...her mind wandered vaguely to her parents in Colorado[...]but she could not imagine anyone would miss her that much." okay, that resolves that i guess! • i just think it's funny that every square inch of Hell is populated with ppl from cambridge—is in fact modeled after the campus. the rest of the world? anyone outside of the (british) collegiate social class? we don't know them nor do we give a fuck about them. • kuang couldn't make up her mind about the regional or temporal inflections of her world. sometimes "Anyhow" is our only transition phrase + we get modern anachronisms ("You couldn't just [...] nope back out into Limbo."), and other times, alice/peter are unable to have convos that don't sound like this: alice, an american: Say, Peet-uh! ["Peter" but British™] peter, a brit: why, yes? alice: would you fancy a pinch of wah-tuh? ["water" but British™] so alice is a koreaboo but for english culture (cobblestones & tea & halal carts)! • i also think it's funny that she's spiritually Victorian, a quality peter later interprets as "bird-like": "She liked the light, absent feeling she got when her stomach was completely empty and she was running only on air. When she felt a pale and ethereal shade, a mind that existed without a body." okay, edward cullen with an eating disorder, let's get you some fluids and maybe then you'll calm down and stop equating paleness to perfection • the other incredibly (& unintentionally) comical part of katabasis is how terrible kuang is at eroticism. when we make it to the court of Desire, we get some remarkable world-building: "She felt she was being tested, monitored to see if any of these enticements aroused similar interests in herself. Do you like feet? Do you like dolls? Do you like hard wooden objects? [...] They saw Shades fellating dogs, licking chalkboards, writhing upon beds of panties..." (me when i'm in a competition with an asexual species of plankton to see who's better at misinterpreting what sex is) • later: "...Marilyn Monroe's splayed fingers, Jessica Rabbit, breasts bouncing. Jezebel dressed to the nines[...]Fucking bunnies, fucking like bunnies, a jackhammer, a sledgehammer, iron into flesh..." do NOT let kuang anywhere near ao3. she'll have a stroke. • it gets worse when we dive into the 'SEX PEST ADVISOR' subplot, but there's no time to unpack that here so all i'll say is: god-awful + riddled with clichés! • incredible that peter's singular flaw was revealed to be chronic illness all along (& therefore not a flaw...back to Gary Stu we go!). • some of the world-class description we get: "...dipped the chalk in her not-blood..." & "...barge-type thing composed of scrap and bones..." • "Alice didn't know whether to laugh or scream." okay, xie lian. • "'I hate that man,' she said. 'When [Grimes] died, I felt like I could breathe.'" everything in this book says otherwise (literally everything, including your own thoughts!). nice try tho. • because this takes place over 1 week, because grimes = the only stakes, & because kuang kept him from us until the very end of the book, alice's character development is fully contingent on his 'villain reveal' and is delivered in a last-minute, slipshod lightbulb moment. incredible! • i love the magical deus ex machina flower that a side character who has every reason to hate alice discovers by chance, then selflessly (& conveniently) gifts her as the key out of hell. • alice's character is like... alice's inner monologue: this is all my fault I SHOULD JUST GO DIE i can't do anything right I'M RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SUFFERING OF EVERYONE AROUND ME alice out loud: i was just trying my best ☹️😣😖😓🥺🥺🥺🥺 boring, badly plotted, with an unbearably obnoxious, man-obsessed fmc & her government-assigned emotional support cardboard cutout, 0 stakes, an ensemble cast who hands her instruction manuals at every turn—in essence a colossal waste of time + my cue to never pick up another kuang book! she'll continue to be widely read & will therefore never have to engage in serious editorial overhaul. i'll leave you with 2 quotes that flawlessly capture the spirit of katabasis: "Murdoch." [Alice] followed behind him, pathetic—but she didn't know where else to go. "Please don't hate me." & What had she done since they'd come to Hell? Lied, betrayed Peter, betrayed Elspeth, landed them all in this sorry mess.

Katabasis is Info Dump: The Novel. It's a novel that seems to mistake information for narrative, so caught up in its ideas and "clever" logic that it loses sight of basically everything else. How could a novel this long have been so allergic to storytelling? I swear, it felt like all the information in this book was delivered through massive chunks of exposition. Explaining how Hell works? Massive chunk of exposition. Exploring the characters' lives and experiences? Massive chunk of exposition. Critical moment where the characters finally talk to each other? Massive chunk of exposition. And it's not even that it's a lazy novel, but rather that its energy is entirely misdirected: rather than spend time fleshing out its characters' dynamics or storylines (which, let me tell you, are frustratingly threadbare and massively underwhelming), it funnels almost all its energy into explaining scholarly theories and paradoxes and logic and math etc etc etc. And the fact of the matter is, I can't invest in ~Ideas~ and ~Theory~ when they're not grounded in solid storytelling with solid character dynamics. The result being that Katabasis read like a textbook with the thin veneer of a novel imposed onto it. This whole novel just felt like an inside joke I didn't get--and by the end, I really had no desire to "get" it, anyway. (thank you to hrc for the eARC!)

just glad to be done, honestly

This was not at all what I was expecting... I'm dreading compiling my thoughts into one coherent review, but in the meantime, here's a three-hour reading vlog with my many, many thoughts and reactions (including spoiler sections, if you want all the tea): https://youtu.be/QQrD-aE83zw And a much shorter review in my September Wrap Up: https://youtu.be/WJjL6YUd0P0 Content warnings: murder, blood & violence suicide & suicidal ideation death & drowning eating disorders (restrictive) grooming (of an adult) & abuse of power coercive control & verbal abuse sexual harassment toxic relationship vomit misogyny & objectification slut shaming, fatphobia, ableism & bullying animal cruelty, death & experimentation kink mention: bestiality & child murder You can find me on... Youtube | Instagram | TikTok You can join our book club over on Patreon... PBB Book Club

how does this not have a trigger warning for animal cruelty???

This isn't a book for readers, this is a book for pretentious asshats that think of themselves as 'scholars'. The hype for this book was real - I hadn't read any of this author's books before but The Poppy War is a favourite of my good friend Juliette so we were both hanging for this and were lucky enough to get ARCs from Harper Collins. So this was a Buddy Read with Juliette. A journey to Hell sounds like just my kind of premise, and this book started by taking us straight there with Alice Law and her fellow student/colleague, Peter. Magic(k) in this world mostly involves drawing pentagrams and reciting absurd paradoxes so a little of that and away we go. So let's get it out of the way: this book made a journey to Hell about as exciting as sitting through a lecture on the scientific properties of dry paint. Although, to be fair, science is much more interesting than this awful, bland blend of mathematics, linguistics and philosophy. Almost immediately, the narrative switches to flashbacks detailing how hard Alice worked as a student under Grimes, and goes on (and on, and on, and on ...) about word puzzles, paradoxes, mathematical properties and implications regarding Hell and all manner of pointless things in between. A little bit tested the brain so at the start I didn't mind so much, but as the book went on and all this extra stuff took precedence over the continuation of the story I became increasingly frustrated. We get about three chapters of this random, way-over-my-head crap for every chapter of actual journeying through Hell. The average reader is not going to be interested in this amount of superfluous speculation. GET TO THE GOOD STUFF ALREADY. Sadly, even 'good stuff' is a stretch because, Kuang's Hell? It's all flat, monotonous plains and other ridiculously dull iterations that I won't mention just for spoilers-sake. There is no kind of LIFE in her story - no demons or devils, no fire and brimstone, no pitchforks or pits or meaningful monsters. The creativity she does develop in this area is washed away easily by those other chapters of random stuff I mentioned, meaning there's really not much exciting about their journey at all. This is a book about a PHD student who is just the BESTEST STUDENT EVER. She's Not Like Other Girls because she doesn't mind being treated like a piece of crap by her advisor because it's all totally worth it: one day she's going to get A Really Good Job out of it. Honestly? The whole 'student life' she detailed was depressing AF but, with Kuang being a PHD student herself, I can only assume we're supposed to admire Alice's dedication to a life entirely devoid of anything other than her studies. I myself felt sorry for her lack of living, but that wasn't a subject that really made its way into this book the way it should have. So then we have the 'magick' which mostly amounts to a whole lot of nothing. It felt a stretch to refer to it as magic since it's just chalk drawings and paradoxes and there's no real decent explanation of how it all works. Basically, it's maths. 'Just be okay with it' is kind of the message here. Magic has never been less interesting to me. Finally, the whole reason for Alice and Peter going after Grimes was POINTLESS. Allow me to veer into SPOILER territory: (view spoiler) Essentially, this book had zero reason to exist because the premise thins to nothing as the book goes on. In the same line of thinking, a quick comment on the 'romance' this book is promoted as: what romance? There is some awkward smooshing of Alice and Peter's feelings here and there but nothing about their relationship feels organic. It's more like she threw in a little bit just so this book could cash in on the current trend of 'Romantasy.' I'm not even into romance and I found this relationship dull. And communication misunderstandings is one of my least favourite things in any book - JUST TALK TO EACH OTHER FFS. Don't get me started on the additional pointlessness of the fking CAT. This started out as a four star read for me, but dropped dramatically to a place of loathing. I wanted so badly for it to meet the high expectations I had for it, but it ended up turning me off Kuang completely. I've heard it mentioned that she believes people who don't like her books 'just don't get it' so I guess I'll happily admit she would think I'm a dumbass. Because this book was terrible. I'm throwing it a bonus star for keeping me curious for the first hundred or so pages, but it's more of a pity star and an apology to Harper for such a hate-filled review of a book they so generously provided. With thanks to Harper Collins for an ARC

rfk please put down the textbooks and bibliographies, i’m begging you !! no one is more sad than i am that my most anticipated read for the last 3 years fell flat. this disappointment is perhaps partially my fault. my expectations for a new book from rf kuang were too high, and as you can see, i did not enjoy my time reading this book. i imagine what i experienced was akin to how it feels to crawl through hell one of my least favourite storylines in books is the quest trope: i hate making our way along a journey to retrieve an item (in this case a person) as i usually find my self dragging through the pages until we can finally get to the conclusion. it did not help that hell was made boring and monotonous. i was not attached to either alice or peter, especially not in the way i usually am to rfk’s characters. why this is extra damning, is that you spend the whole time with them. so if you aren’t clicking with your main characters, and there aren’t really any other characters to lock onto…who’s flying the plane? you don’t get any character depth, learn their motivations, backstories and history until very far in, so i spent way more than half of the book emotionally detached from them. one of my critiques with babel was the amount of info dumping not relevant to the story; somehow this book was even more excessive. the writing truly was so exposition heavy with the plot taking a back seat. i was frustrated because i could really feel this book’s length. i hate to say it, but this felt like rebecca’s weakest writing to date. the commentary on the way academia destroys you from the inside out - even more so as a woman of colour, written by someone as academically accomplished as rebecca, should have made this book a stand out. however, by the time these themes came into play, i was too detached to care after being inundated by a narrative that read 65% textbook. i sold my soul to rfk when i read the poppy war in 2020, which means i will read anything this woman writes. unfortunately, this one i will not remember fondly. in fact, i don’t believe that i will think of it again! but, hey, at least i will always leave an rfk book learning some obscure facts.

”You know very well what a heap is. You know it when you see it. It’s like porn.” two months after reading this sentence i found out it’s (probably) a reference to some dude from Halo saying “It’s kind of like porn. You know it when you see it.” but even with that context the sentence above makes zero sense. really burns into your memory though. i don’t have anything nice to say about Katabasis and honestly, i don’t care enough to speak about it at length. i found it a tedious reading experience, made marginally better by switching to the audiobook halfway through. it’s info dumping: the book. the info dumping doesn’t serve the plot, it’s just showcasing that the author knows stuff; half of this is name dropping philosophers (all men lest we risk the feminism subplot actually leading somewhere). like, great that you have four degrees and awesome that you like studying but this is just self-indulgence at its finest. also, people in academia: is it really this serious, is it really this deep. adopt a “i don’t care”-attitude at least once in a while. you don’t need to travel to hell to get half of your life span taken from you - stress and burnout can manage that as well. signed, a person who’s also in academia.

This is the part where I talk about the movie (oh yeah, also I’m going to spoil it): I’m going to pretend I’m on Letterboxd for a minute, so please bear with me. While want to say that I’m a casual fan of Quentin Tarantino’s movies, I have seen and somewhat liked all of them, so I guess you could say I’m a fan… casually. Anyway, I watched Once Upon a Time in Hollywood pretty recently and really enjoyed it! Yeah sure, the movie’s mostly just people driving around in cool cars for three hours followed by ten minutes of intense and cartoonish violence, but I had a good enough time. In fact, I actually think my favorite parts of the movie were the driving bits, and while they’re probably overlong and “unnecessary” to the plot (whatever that means), I think I’m more charitable to movies that look like actors are actually in a real place, acting opposite each other, doing a real thing (no shade to a certain other studio). Also, I watched an interview with Quentin Tarantino where he said that this movie was partially based on how he used to go on drives around Los Angeles with his step dad, so that’s a nice memory. It’s true that the film certainly has a quality about it that captures that nostalgic, dream-like feeling. And while it’s definitely no Jackie Brown, I appreciated its more low-key storyline compared to his more heightened movies. The basic story is that it’s Hollywood, 1969, and we follow a washed-up actor Rick Dalton and his stuntman Cliff Booth for two and a half days as they try to adapt to the changing times. That’s it. Oh, they also fight the Manson Family in climax. That's a thing for some reason. It’s not my favorite of his movies, but I was never bored. Of course, That’s not to say that there weren’t some intense, glaring issues that I had with the movie. First of all, its portrayal of Bruce Lee (he’s also in this) … what the hell was that!? You’re going to sit there and tell me that ninety-seven-year-old Br*d P*tt could win against Bruce Lee in his prime? Yeah right. Get out of town! Actually, the Bruce Lee situation brings up a larger issue I had with the story in how the fictional characters are integrated and interact with the real-life figures that are featured in the movie. For example, a large part of the story focuses on Sharon Tate and the Manson Family. Now, if you’ve seen Tarantino’s other movie, Inglourious Basterds, you’d probably guess the big “twist” in that history is pretty dramatically changed in his movies a lot of the times. Basically, Sharon Tate doesn’t die by the Manson family in this story, and instead they go to Rick Dalton’s house and then they all promptly die by the combined efforts of Rick Dalton and Cliff Booth. I know this fairy tale, “what if?” vibe is kind of the whole point, but it felt really odd to me. Like Tarantino was basically saying “well, this terrible tragedy wouldn’t have happened if my super badass made-up character was there to save the day!” Like… okay? It also doesn’t help that Sharon Tate is barely in both the movie and the book, removing her as a player in a story that supposedly hinges on what didn’t happen to her. The whole thing just had me like, “so~oo, what was the point of any of this?” Very, very bizarre. This is the part where I talk about the novelization (yuck): But hey! The real question is how good is this specific book version of the movie? …Yeah well, it’s fine. It’s still very much a Quentin Tarantino story, with all the good and bad that comes with it. The casual misogyny, the racism, the homophobia, it’s all there. Usually, these things are excused by stating that it’s “historically accurate,” but without the actors here to lessen the blows and add some kind of nuance to the characters, it’s just that… casual misogyny, racism, and homophobia. Only, it’s on the page this time around. Otherwise, it certainly reads like a book. Which I’m aware doesn’t sound like high praise, but of the few novelizations I’ve read, they mostly just recount things that happened in the movie verbatim, without doing its own thing or adding new interesting context to the characters. So, the changes to the movie’s structure were definitely unique in this instance, though I think that even though there’s a lot of backstory (pretty much the whole book) given to characters like Rick Dalton or Cliff Booth, I found that I wasn’t all that interested in them outside of the context of the film. I guess what I’m trying to say is that they were made boring in this book version, which is about the worst thing I could say about a Tarantino character. I mean, the only reason anybody would read the book was for further insight on the characters! And unfortunately, their inner-monologues only helped to display just how shallow they really were in the end. At least the movie version allowed for a modicum of mystery around these two that made them seem like they had something more going on than we see on the screen! I don't know, there was this weird balancing act in the book version where it felt like there was too much detail, but also like there was something key missing. You get all the movie nerd babble that his movies are known for, but none of the aesthetics. The story was definitely made more interesting by the banging soundtrack of the film, that's for sure. So much so that I didn't even realize that I missed it until halfway through the book! Not even playing my Dad Rock playlist while reading this helped! So I think I’ll stick to the movie from now on. In other words, the book definitely showcases how collaborative Tarantino movies are and just how much his material gets elevated by the camera work and the music and the actors he works with. And, and, and! He said it himself; certain actors make his dialogue “sing.” Phew, now that I’ve talked myself to exhaustion, I’ll just end it by saying that the movie was pretty good and the book was pretty meh. I’m going to go watch Jackie Brown now, bye.

You should be embarrassed to suggest that [OUATIH: the novel] would be anything more than a stain on the seat of [OUATIH: the film]'s trunks.

When I was an impressionable teen, I used to devour Tarantino scripts like they were novels. Now given the chance to flip the script as it were, it's a totally baffling experience. Not so much a novelisation as a parallel story, it's an alternate universe to an already skewed history. Rather than following the film's plotting per se, it jumps back and forward in time, spends intimate moments with the Manson family, explores Rick's inner anxiety a little more, and reminds us that Cliff murdered his wife. Repeatedly. So. Many. Reminders. In fact, much of this book feels like the same three or four scenes played out on a loop, stopping only to tell us how attractive Cliff finds the underage feet that have landed in his car. The whole thing ends abruptly somewhere on a set in Europe, although the film's dramatic ending is only mentioned briefly earlier in the book. If the film is a vehicle of self-reflection for Tarantino, one that treads (and frequently crosses) the thin line between tribute and self-parody, then this stomps all over that line in its lovingly described bare feet.

Thoroughly torn on this one. On the one hand, I did enjoy it. It was a nice read and light enough to blast through over the course of a couple of days. It wasn't bulky or even that pretentious, which I had expected considering it's a Quentin Tarantino piece. That being said, much of the allusions to or inclusion of famous faces and places leaves much to be desired. His articulation of detail is fine enough, it is where and why he uses it that lingers so stagnantly. Cliff Booth is shunted far and away from anything remotely interesting, rehashing the two notable notes of his character from the movie. Instead, we focus on Rick Dalton for most of the book, which is fine, he is well-written and encapsulates the bold and brutal lifestyle of someone keeping up their star power. But Charles Manson as a wannabe rockstar with Bob Dylan as his idol, name-dropping Michael Caine, Bruce Lee and even Tarantino himself (in what can only be described as the most startling, dumbfounded ego stroke in literary history) leaves much to be desired. It undercuts the fun to be had in Hollywood.

Yikes. The movie is good, but Tarantino's prose is severely lacking. Read like an amatuer's first draft. Brilliant filmmaker though.

The tedious and mediocre prose, terrible dialogue and the hundreds of pages that lead nowhere and can easily be cut off. The worst part is all the info-dump. Spending dozens of pages meticulously describing alien technologies, magic systems etc is just terrible world-building. Everything is so meticulously constructed that there is no sense of wonder left and it leads to very bland storytelling. Telling over showing is a good way to describe it. I felt like even the characters have stopped growing in any particularly interesting or significant way. They all mostly go through the same character struggles that were supposed to have been resolved in the previous books. I remember enjoying the first book in this series a lot, but these last two books were very disappointing. I doubt i will be reading anything by Sanderson again.

(Vague Spoilers) Unpopular Opinion Time! I love the Stormlight Archive, but I have numerous issues with this book. I believe that Rhythm of War will be known as “the Slog” of the Stormlight Archive, similar to the infamous lull in the middle of Wheel of Time. And while this is a great Cosmere novel, it is the weakest Stormlight Archive installment to date. It’s also the bleakest of the series, and hard to read at times. THE GOOD New POV’s: We get numerous new POV characters, of which the two most important are Navani Kholin and Venli. Of the two, Navani’s story is by far the more interesting. She takes center stage for the majority of the book, and finds new confidence in herself as she struggles with a complicated relationship with one of the Fused. That entire storyline is entertaining, even if an important discovery she makes seems a bit... questionable. Hopefully the next book will clarify. Character Growth: by the end of the book, we finally get some important character growth for both Kaladin and Shallan that's we've been waiting a loooooong time for. The down side is things get worse for both characters before they get better, and the book drags because of it. Cosmere Heavy: considering some of the books shortcomings (outlined below), it seems like the author tried to keep the fans attention by making this the single most Cosmere-centric book he’s written so far. The Cosmere revelations come early and often, which is great, except... THE NOT-SO-GOOD ...the book is SO Cosmere heavy that anyone not following the overall Cosmere story will be confused as hell. The author has stated that you should be able to pick up any of his Cosmere books and read them independently from the other series, but anyone not familiar with Cosmere lore will be either confused or feel they are missing part of the story. At the least, you’ll need to have read Elantris, Mistborn Era 1, Warbreaker, his White Sand graphic novels, and the Dawnshard novella to really understand what’s going on. I also found the Cosmere reveals to be very “info-dumpy”. The author just gave a wink at the audience and said “here you go Cosmere fans!” No “Sanderlanches”: or rather, a mini Sanderlanche at the beginning, and one at the very end. Everything else is slooooooow going. The gradual build up to a sustained and exciting ending that we’ve come to expect from SA books didn’t really happen here. Inconsistent: the story is all over the place. Past books had more consistent slow build plot progressions, but this book was very disjointed, jumping from character to character seemingly at random. It made for a schizophrenic reading experience. Taravangian: the author tipped his hand early in this book, and I saw where Taravangian’s story was headed. Unfortunately, while it was interesting, I feel like he is acting very out of character at the end of the book. Predictable: Taravangian’s wasn’t the only story that was a foregone conclusion; almost every storyline in the book was predictable (Kaladin’s, Shallon’s, Vinli’s, Navani’s - all predictable) and there was a long wait to finally get to the payoffs that you knew were coming. Flashbacks: Venli is the character who’s past is the subject of this books flashbacks, and by and large were not really needed, as almost nothing was new information. It felt like filler, though her story in the present was more interesting. Speaking of Vinli... Vinli: I just don't find her to be a likable character. And we spend an unfortunate amount of time with Vinli in this book. THE BAD Religious Agenda: I get shouted down often for griping about the authors religious agenda. Religion is always a major theme in nearly all of Sanderson’s books, with varying degrees of overtness. There’s really no denying it was there in this book. Navani has a very low moment and prays to god for help. Even though she knows he’s dead, she “keeps the faith”, and the moment she prays for help she’s instantly given the perfect solution to her problems. My eyes rolled so hard they nearly fell out of my head. This isn’t the first time the author has played the “pray and receive instant miracle” card either. Wouldn’t it be great if in real life you got instant miracles the moment you have a crisis of faith? Lazy writing, with a ham-fisted religious message. Jasnah: the best character in the Cosmere for me is Jasnah, and we still get extremely minimal screen time with her. The scant few POV moments we get with her we are treated to an implication that she’s not very interested in physical intimacy. I’ve long worried that Jasnah may be used as a means of taking cheap shots at atheism. So far I haven’t detected any overt attempts to do so, but implying she’s too logical to enjoy sex does nothing to increase my confidence. THE VERDICT I still love the Stormlight Archives, and I did enjoy the book overall, but Rhythm of War was a big dip in quality over previous books. I have hope that Sanderson will turn things around in book five.

** spoiler alert ** This is... most certainly a book. A good book. A good, long book. I feel many will like it, many will love it. I am not one of those people. This book exposes the one chink in brandon's armor, the one weakness in his otherwise brilliant and commendable writing style, drive, and ambition. It highlights a concern that I've harbored for a time, but more on that later. First, I want to give this book its due praise. It consists of pretty much everything you might look for in a Sanderson book. We've got characters that are not only deep and interesting, but fun to read about. We have a superb world, built to hold under 'scientific' scrutiny. And of course we can't forget about the Sanderlanche, which made me write this review under the influence of sleep depravity, as i could not put it down until 3 am. I don't want to dive deeper into what made this book good, because those praises are very predictable, having been said a thousand times over. This book will arrive to the destination you expect it to get to, but as many characters are so fond of saying in this series; journey before destination. The journey in this case has exactly what you expect it to have, all the twists and turns in the road we have all became fond of. It makes the book predictable. Not quite boring, just unsatisfying and much less interesting. The strife of some characters, mainly Shallan and Kaladin just feel like they are going through the motions. Again. Collectively, at this point, the series consists of over four thousand pages. Each of these characters have gotten more page space than most main characters in more traditional fantasy stories. Those two have made a step forward, yes, they've been transformed. But every book seems like they make two steps forward and one step back. That's technically moving forward, but I have personally felt so fatigued and fed up with them that... I just didn't care as much anymore. Yes, in real life depression and DID doesn't just go away like that and their experience in this series is a realistic one. But there's a reason why fiction doesn't follow its real life examples to the letter. I can very much appreciate what Sanderson did and does for the depiction of mental illnesses for and in the fantasy community, as it expands the boundary of fantasy and with it, human imagination. It begs the question though, if this dynamic shifting back and forth, the struggle these characters show with their mental states, if it becomes constant and viewed over a longer period of time, does it not become monotone? A single note, played until it has far since overstayed its welcome? There is a way Sanderson could overcome this obstacle. The old nihilistic adage of what doesn't kill me makes me stronger, only applies as long as what doesn't kill me doesn't break me, as well. That is something Sanderson makes apparent not only through Kaladin, but the heralds and the Fused as well. And they are broken, but these heroes persist despite it all. They are in a way such traditional heroes, that their struggle feels like there are no stakes to them. I was never afraid for any of the characters, my lethargy to their conflicts was so strong that i couldn't even muster an eye roll at the predictable path and resolution they were walking towards. Navani is a bondsmith, no duh. The tower will survive, no duh. Kaladin will survive and regain his strength, saving the day, no duh. Shallan will stay, no duh. If Sanderson would kill of one of the main characters, or at least let Shallan leave, driving in the point above, it would build up the stakes to a similar height that they were in Oathbringer. Though I suspect that was never the point of this book, i feel it will be a big hurdle in the future because that d0es make the book boring. So what is the point of the book? In my honest opinion, Sanderson has a vision for how he wants the first part of this series to end, but in order to achieve it he needs to have certain concepts explained. This book essentially contains a myriad of small info dumps and really make the world come together. I was grateful for this, at first, because he has always been excellent at worldbuilding and it is one of the best parts of SA, but it quickly felt undeserved and, for the most part, unimportant. Roshar is a planet, and there are other planets! And the characters are all like, wow, that's cool, it totally shatters my worldview, but then they proceed as if nothing has happened. This is why i think Shallan of all people should have left with the ghostbloods, because her curious nature combined with the pain from her past could and should have driven her towards them. It just feels so cliche to have her reject that offer and choose the side love and honor and be a good little girl that knows her place. It would have raised the stakes for other characters, showing that Sanderson isn't afraid to stray from his own mould. Instead she slips back into her own monotony, a little better, more complete as a person overall (literally, in her case), but that's more of a narrative trick at this point, than anything else. Speaking of which, i think it's really ironic how he has Hoid spouting off about doing the kansas city shuffle, but then refuses to do anything but the most obvious for all of the characters. Well, with the exception of one. This is of course entirely subjective and maybe I have in my love for Sanderson's work got to know and understand him, at least the writer part. And so i can anticipate his next move. Perhaps that is the burden of knowledge, losing the excitement fueled by curiosity of the unknown. Though I very much hope that, like the Fused, like Raboniel, I too will be surprised. On the other hand, however, there are certain things you might expect from Sanderson that just aren't here. There have been a few theories that people have gone mad over since Oathbringer. The two main ones that i remember the most are that the Sibling is of both honor and cultivation and that it resides in Urithiru, and that the fourth ideal gives access to shardplate. Both of these things are confirmed so anticlimactically that i felt disappointed. Yes, Kaladin still has a pretty epic and emotional acquisition of it, but we all knew it was coming after it was so anticlimactically announced. I didn't expect Taravangian to become Odium. This is again very subjective but I didn't like that part. I mean, i did, i really did, but i didn't like how Rayse has been simply brushed off after three thousand pages, more, of building him up. Though I suppose the stakes have been raised because of it. It shows another problem that happens to a lot of characters where things just feel too convenient for them. From Adolin suddenly thinking of asking for a trial against the spren, to nightblood and taravangian being in the right spot at the right time. And i do understand that there are things involved here, like seeing the future and so on, but it just feels so damn convenient. Sanderson pretty much explains a lot of the world and the underlying principles of the cosmere, except the one that actually matters here, which is how was Taravangian able to draw nightblood without it killing him immediately AND transferring it into the spiritual realm to stab Rayse. It feels so fake to have both of these characters squirm and obsess with what they are going to do next, but then at the last moment they have this shining revelation. Which would be fine, except neither Adolin nor the sympathetic Taravangian fit this character type. Despite the fact that i stayed glued to the page for the last part of the book, I felt that Sanderson has been emotionally manipulating me, showing me the things I want to see, giving me my destination, but the journey felt empty. You can't spend time with characters and not care about them for this long, but this feels more like an old ex trying to play on your emotions to lure you into their embrace, which might feel good for a time, but as soon as the infatuation wears out, you see them for their true, empty self. That is how i feel towards this book. I could go on with describing the sometimes awkward dialogue, but that would be nitpicking, i feel. Though i mention it to further support this next point. Even this awkward dialogue, usually between two people discussing something very personal and intimate, used to serve in Brandon's benefit. In Mistborn it was endearing and kind of cute. Here it's sloppy. Rushed. And that is my main gripe with this book and my main concern, as i mentioned in the first paragraph. This whole book feels like that. It isn't as tight as some of his other works, and considering its his latest, it should be pretty high up on the list. But it's not. Now, I'm not demanding perfection every time, as i feel Oathbringer has been. My concern stems from some of the things Sanderson has said previously as well as on the release party video you can find on his youtube channel. He said that for every story that he tells, there are a thousand that he won't get to. And i think that scares him. Or at least gives him some sort of anxiety. I wholeheartedly empathise and sympathise with him, but i fear its starting to show on his work. Dawnshard was sloppy. Rhythm of War was sloppy. And i can only hope that it's not because of some Brandon's inner termoil, but because of outstanding circumstances. Such as covid-19. He has said that his team worked very hard to get this out this soon, and maybe they got a bit sloppy too. Maybe his speed of writing is making him rush to finish it and as many other stories as he possibly can. I think his team is both an asset and a hindrance for his works, because he is suddenly dependent on them to tell a good story. We have seen something like this influence his writing before, like when he postponed the continuation of Mistborn in favor of Skyward, because he wanted to give his other publisher something to publish. This is something that has been seen time and time again, mostly with big corporations, that as your influence expands you start to become dependent on other people, you start surrendering your power to them. I feel its unfair that Brandon gets all the love for the stories he writes, despite the fact that he does try very hard to get the people who have worked WITH him on them to get some of the recognition. But the more popular he gets, the bigger his team will get and his dependence on their performance increases. If he does not keep a tight grip on the reins, both for his team and for himself, i feel the coming stories will just get sloppier and more rushed. That is not to say that i think this more collective way of producing stories is wrong, quite the opposite. But it comes with a set of weaknesses as well, which one should be mindful of. All in all, I can not see into the future but only speculate on it, and in this world i have seen this same spiraling pattern too many times. Perhaps, and i hope that it will, my pessimism will hold no ground, but that is also the reason why i'm writing this long essay on the subject. I am eager to look at it in the future, seeing how my concerns held up. Perhaps this book is, at least to me, going to be a black sheep, a necessary sacrifice to bring the first half of the series to its spectacular conclusion. Whatever the case may be, i look forward to the next installments and despite my bad rating, this is very obviously a must read for a cosmere/Sanderson fan, and it is despite all its shortcomings, still a very good book. But it's just not a very good Sanderson book.

One of the most boring books I’ve read. A textbook with dialogue. I’ve given it two stars because it’s well written and follows Sandford’s basic plotting system — i.e., the reader knows who the criminals are from the beginning, and the cops do too. There is no mystery. The story is in the chase. But I remember John Sandford’s earlier books as being ironic — full of wit. In this one, except for a bit of banter between Virgil and Rae, there was no humour. I remember the crooks being dumb and getting caught because they were greedy. These Mafia criminals are not dumb. They are eventually caught due to collaboration among major U.S. law enforcement agencies. The story was so boring that I read a few other book between chapters. I just couldn’t continue without major stops. And one of those books that I perused was The Best American Mystery Stories of 2020 (still haven’t read all of it). Behold, in this short story book was one by John Sandford — Girl with an Ax — one of the best stories in it. Great. Classic Sandford. So what went wrong with “Ocean Prey”? Is Sandford tired of the series and/or characters? In a couple of places, he writes that Davenport looks old for his age, and Davenport is Sandford’s alter ego. Was Ocean Prey ghost-written?

Something has happened to John Sandford. After all of my reading of his books, I may have to give up on him. After the very unnecessary death in the middle of the book, it was Iike someone else, or a team of someone else, wrote the rest of the book. It was all tedious diving details and procedural junk, with very little interesting character info. He used Virgil Flowers as an action figure and Rae as a sex object. Lucas had no characterization in the second half of the book. He was mainly on the phone or watching events.

Just because something is the Number one bestseller does not mean it is worthy of fantastic reviews. Much of this novel drags along. Sandford has lost much of his verve. Ok, there are a few cute lines but in general the book is so proforma as to be unworthy of its success.

Very bland. Not offensively bad, but there's nothing to recommend it. > if you are a diver, and you do find a serious error, I would ask that you write it down on a piece of scrap paper, then wad the paper up, put it in your mouth, and chew thoroughly before you swallow. I don’t want to hear about it. I’m asking nice—don’t make me come over there.

It felt like this book was written with the advice of a focus group; make a list of what worked in the previous Prey novels, and give a heavy dose of it. If John Sandford doesn't enjoy writing anymore, this may be a time to stop.

Over the past three years, Bill Clinton and James Patterson have developed a bankable formula: In their previous thriller, a U.S. president went missing. In their new thriller, a president’s daughter goes missing. If this keeps up, someday we’ll have to read a thriller about the president’s lost cat, his missing keys, an errant sock. And why not? “The President Is Missing” was the best-selling novel of 2018, demonstrating that, as in politics, nothing sells like name recognition. Tellingly, “The President’s Daughter” opens with a shout-out to Washington super-agent Robert Barnett, who convinced these two American brands they could cash in yet again. It’s the economy, stupid. Readers expecting a sequel, though, will discover that this new novel offers an entirely different cast of characters. “The President Is Missing” gave us President Jonathan Lincoln Duncan, a former Gulf War hero who battles a dastardly terrorist. But “The President’s Daughter” gives us President Matthew Keating, a former Navy SEAL hero who battles a dastardly terrorist. It’s a change as startling as the shift from tan to beige. With this brave and monogamous hero, Clinton has once again revealed such a naked fantasy version of himself that you almost feel embarrassed for the man. And that’s pretty much where the revelations peter out. The publishers claim that Clinton has contributed information that could be provided only by a former president — or, I would add, by somebody who’s. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...

Embarrassing is probably the best word. Trite, superficial, silly. Big macho super hero above the law believes the end justifies the means as long as his will be done. We’ve come to adopt that sort of culture , it seems, but I long for the culture where community mattered and a couple of friends could shake hands and it meant something. All this psychopathic killing of others in the name of “my” interests seems abhorrent to me. I hate that a former president promotes such a world view. In addition to hating the plot, the flat characters and the theme, I found the writing itself about at the 10 year old level..I’m not meaning to insult literate 10 year olds. This book is just plain atrocious.

I consumed this as an audio book on a family road trip. As I write this, the former Navy SEAL who shot bin Laden has just gone on a talk show to say that he could have gotten all the Americans out of Afghanistan with just nine guys. They'd kill every Taliban in Kabul, and bring all the Americans home. This is pretty much the tone of The President's Daughter, where the daughter of a former president is kidnapped by an Islamist Terrorist. The ex-President, who doesn't let a chapter go by without reminding us he's a former SEAL, becomes fed up with the ulterior motives of his backstabbing, politically-motivated successor. So he assembles a Band-of-Brothers (and one Sister) to--in defiance of the current president--infiltrate Libya, kill the bad guys, and rescue his daughter. It's a love letter to militarism, cutting through red tape with an automatic weapon, and the moral superiority of elite soldiers over politicians. It's casually racist and sexist, but its protagonists would laugh at that criticism, because they know how the world REALLY works, and true nobility is recognized among the warrior cast and those who adore them. It seems like a right-wing fantasy, but as the SEAL on the talk show might point out, what would a person like ME know about what's fact versus fantasy on the ground in Afghanistan. And surely the reason we spent 20 fruitless years there was because of bad political leadership. Or something. As with Patterson's last "collaboration" with former President Bill Clinton, the latter's contribution appears to be a statesmanly speech at the end (in this case, a Presidential transition letter) that has no bearing on the story. As for the story... I could describe how the writing was silly and ham-fisted, but who am I to criticize an author worth $800 million? The chapters are short, and each ends with a mini cliffhanger, pulling you through. It's written for short attention spans, so the main ideas are explained and re-explained. The details practically scream "and this is where I did my research with sources Who Know, so let me info-dump!" Even if you're laughing or cringing, you want to see how it ends.

Hats off to Mr. Patterson for the longer bio at the back of the book than the former president. That speaks to his prolificness and promotional skills (the latter from his time on Madison Avenue no doubt). He sure pumps them out. I would love to know how many words he and Former President Clinton actually wrote. That silly carping aside, let me get down to the real carping. I did enjoy Patterson’s earliest work until he became a factory sped along by co-writers and collaborators. His strength is in concept, not execution. I found recent efforts to be more like graphic novels without the graphics. The President’s Daughter reads like a teenager’s video game. You know, it is actually YA now that I think of it. Patterson certainly knows his audience. This book zings along like a watered-down Tom Clancy but is so pedantically written, that unlike Clancy, you do not need to remember the character’s names. The chapters are never more than a handful of pages. In terms of plot and characters, Patterson reminds the reader of each so often that the most distracted or addled can easily follow along. So much so, that you could read to the halfway mark, wait ten years, pick it up and keep going without missing a beat like a See the President Run book. I found the reminders boring, repetitive and demeaning. If it was kept tight and gave the reader some credit, a hundred pages could be lopped. I really felt bad for how women came off in the book. The former president’s wife has a couple of good scenes but seems totally detached from everything. It would have had made more sense if she was no longer in the picture. The current female president is a vacuous sub-villainess with no claws. There are a couple of supporting female characters but they are completely one-dimensional caricatures. Some heft is given to the book's namesake but it does not make up for the overall impression. The men are little better, clocking in at one-point-five dimensional. Remember how for much of this century that Muslims were the new Nazis and Soviets? Well, here they are again completely misunderstood and given way too much weight in the grand game of geopolitics. There is a Chinese baddie who should get the main role but is a feint. If President Clinton doesn’t know Russia is the ultimate enemy, I’d be surprised. The worst criticism concerns a massive spoiler alert so do not continue if you intend to read the book. The president’s daughter should have remained offed. That was so silly, so trite, that I almost stopped reading. Not that I couldn’t predict the ending, I remained intrigued not for the story but to see how dumbed-down the whole thing was constructed. The ending pushed credibility further. American pluckiness, might and right prevails with absolutely no nod to the country’s real foreign policy. As the last pages wound down, I heard a mix of Lee Greenwood, the soundtrack to Team America, and Homer Simpson chanting, “USA, USA.”

2.75! Abby Jimenez is one of those authors who can just sweep me away by just her writing style, but 'Say You'll Remember Me' fell short in so many ways. I would be lying if I said that I didn't enjoy it, because there were times and scenes that I enjoyed—but all of them were before the 50% mark, when I was actually invested in the story, rooting for the characters, and enjoying it. But as the story moved forward, the erratic decisions, the constant conflicts thrown, and the decisions made and supported in this book pissed the fuck out of me. I can praise Abby's writing to an extent because even that had some problems to some extent, but it was captivating. It did keep me hooked, but the constant TikTok language put me off so much—and the Rhysand mentions!!! At first, I didn’t really mind that much, but there came a time when they got too much, like wayyy too much, and that bothered me so much. It’s very annoying to read a book by an author you love, and you wait a whole agonizing year for their new book, and it ends up like this! Xavier, I liked Xavier quite a lot. He was a vet, he loved animalsss, he was very thoughtful, caring, and basically the whole package—but umm the patheticness was taken up to another notch because while I found the willingness in him to do anything for Samantha cute at the start... it quickly changed into being embarrassing. Because I would not be willing to leave everything for someone I barely know. But besides that, I liked his grumpy nature and some of the scenes here in the book, and the interactions between the characters in them were very well done. Like the whole escape room scene was very cute. Samantha, I really tried to like her, but Abby just does not know how to write female characters, because with the exception of Emma from JFTS, most of her FMCs always do something that is just so unbearable, and honestly, I just could not be invested in Samantha’s character. I appreciated the struggles that were depicted, and also the storyline about her mother suffering from dementia also hit very hard—and I could relate to it because of my grandfather. But the way the whole situation was handled made me so mad. The romance—it was insta lust, but honestly, I did not mind that part because the chemistry between them felt so natural and so good to read. Reading about their interactions and the scenes that they shared together were so fun to read. Honestly, those were my favorite parts of the book because their interactions just felt so easy, and I really thought the romance moving forward would be good. But the long distance, though realistic, made it so frustrating. It took away so much of the screen time off the romance, and like most of it was dedicated to Samantha struggling with her life—and tbh, I don’t mind that when there’s a good balance or when I don’t feel the romance missing. Honestly, this book was so messy because the insta lust made their interactions by the first half feel like everything that could have happened, happened. But then so many conflicts were thrown that the fun romance just lost all its charm. The thing that pissed me off the most was the DAD. The way he was cheating on the mom, and the way it was normalized by him and his children?? And he wasn't even guilty?? And the fact that when Tristan (the son) got mad, the sister stopped talking to him?? And the whole grandma drama didn't really hit me because I was so disconnected from the book. And also the way the dad said that he wanted to put the mother in a nursing home because he couldn't take care of her alone?? All of this was so frustrating to read because first of all, you're still married AND seeing other women and fucking them is still CHEATING, and it is wrong. And the way Abby tried to normalize it was very disappointing. And to say that he could not take care of her alone while the children were there to help as well!! And tbh, I saw my grandmother take care of my grandfather, and it got very, very hard for her sometimes to do that, but never once did she recommend something like putting him in a nursing home. I guess at the end of the day, it just matters how much you love your spouse to be willing to do so much for them. And the worst part was the mom never wanted to go to the nursing home. It was honestly what dropped my rating to a two ___ Dropping everything to start my second most anticipated book of the year 🙏🏻 I just know I'll love it 🤸🏻 ( aged like milk) ___ I'll read her grocery list at this point 🙂‍↕️ -Abby jimenez is yet to disappoint me so high hopes 😋

… here we go. 2.5 stars. Say You’ll Remember Me was, ironically, not very memorable. what to expect: ⁍ a lot of family drama + trauma (family member with dementia, estranged parents, siblings feuding, cheating, etc.) ⁍ long distance relationship ⁍ grumpy x sunshine ⁍ insta love (!!!) ⁍ MMC is a veterinarian ⁍ California / Minnesota settings ⁍ no explicit spice what i liked: ⁍ he loves animals ⁍ it was under 400 pages ⁍ MMC is a natural caretaker ⁍ banter + humor (until i got tired of mustard jokes) yeah, that’s about it what i didn’t enjoy: ⁍ swallowing of the earbud ⁍ more than one Rhysand comparison needed to be edited out ⁍ an abundance of ‘contemplative gazes’ ⁍ um… the dad’s behavior??? absolutely not.🙂‍↔️ ⁍ multi-week and month jumps between chapters (and between our main characters seeing each other) ⁍ literally everyone was miserable for 95% of this book and it was exhausting ⁍ 2020s lingo: lit, mid, hits different, left you on read, be so freaking for real right now, etc. ⁍ i simply couldn’t relate to anyone in this book ⁍ repetitive internal monologues ⁍ i felt like Abby was trying *too* hard to add depth to this book by constantly creating new obstacles, problems, and drama ⁍ not enough build up for the romance + lack of chemistry i can see why people would love this but it just wasn’t memorable, satisfying, or even *FUN* for me.

** spoiler alert ** I’m so sorry but giving this 2 stars only for Xavier and a few quotes that were cute. -1 star for mentioning Rhysand from ACOTAR multiple times -1 star for being too Tiktok-y (can we abolish mentioning current trends and slang in books? please?) -1 star for the cheating dad and the family drama As someone who loves Abby Jimenez’s books, I’m so disappointed in this one. There were a few cute moments but I just didn’t connect with this story like I did with her other books. The way all of my highly anticipated releases this year (with the exception of Onyx Storm) have been disappointing. 😔✋

I WANTED LOVE & GOT A FAMILY SOAP OPERA INSTEAD. 😭 Y’all. My first Abby Jimenez book & I am HUGELY disappointed. The romance?? Barely there. Instead, we get a front-row seat to messy family drama I did not sign up for. No one is talking about this, but Sam’s dad is out here sneaking around, cheating, and planning to move on while his wife—who has dementia —is still alive. EXCUSE ME??? That is NOT love. That is Betrayal. And the worst part? The kids just... accept it. Sam’s sister is like “it is what it is,” Sam stays quiet, and Tristan yells at their dad but does absolutely NOTHING to help their mom. WTF. I just cannot with how the book normalized this. How would YOU feel if your spouse of 30+ years started sleeping around while you were vulnerable & sick? It’s disgusting. And this book treats it like a “life is complicated” moment. Nah. It’s just wrong. 💖Now, the romance... if you can call it that. Xavier Rush is giving Greek god meets soft vet with a kitten vibes. LOVE that for us. But the love story? Fast-tracked. Insta-love on steroids. One magical night, and suddenly, we’re acting like we’ve been through ten years of longing??? Where’s the build-up? The tension? The actual relationship development? 🔹 I loved Xavier (duh, he’s perfect). 🔹 The family struggles were real and emotional, I won’t lie. 🔹 Abby’s writing? Super bingeable. You’ll fly through this. 🔹 But the romance??? Not enough. The drama overshadowed the love story. And don’t even get me started on how many times Xavier was compared to Rhysand. WHY. STOP. It was funny the first time. After the tenth?? I wanted to throw the book. ✨ Final thoughts? ✨ If you love family drama with romance on the side, this is for you. If you’re here for the epic, all-consuming romance that Abby Jimenez is hyped for?? This one falls short. Hard. Would I read another Abby book? Maybe. But this one?? Not it.

I’ll start by saying I am a fan of this author’s other work and have rated all her other books above 4⭐️. I typically find her books to have in-depth characters, well-researched & meaningful inclusion of emotional & physical traumas, great banter, and wonderful nonromantic relationships. This lacked so many of the aspects I’ve come to love and enjoy in the author’s other work and overall was a huge letdown. This book is for fans of insta-love, those who don’t mind an excessive amount of pop culture references and cheesy humor, and who like their happily ever afters to be grand gesture + unbelievable luck created perfection. What I did enjoy… ● There are a handful of funny moments and while I’m not in love with the excessive dad jokes I did giggle some. ● Grandma - she is the best character imo ● The viral video and specifically the families reaction to it. ● Family dynamics and representation of early onset dementia although I will say I think the family was super irresponsible caring for the mother at the beginning of the book ● I think the book’s prose improved vastly in the last 30% Things I did not enjoy ● Insta-love to the max While I think it is possible for strong feelings to develop quickly in the way they did in this book, we don’t actually see much of the two MCs together or their feelings or relationship developing. It makes it very difficult to relate to or understand the relationship. ● This book is severely lacking in tension/angst/chemistry between the two characters Aside from being told how they feel about each other we are not SHOWN any of these feelings. ● On that subject there was an exorbitant amount of TELLING and a dismal amount of SHOWING. I knew how the MCs felt bc the author told us its how they felt, not because she showed us these feelings ● The prose in this book is the author’s choppiest yet Look, the author isn’t know for their eloquent and lyrical writing and that is OK, I like simple basic writing most of the time. But this book? it was choppy. so choppy. the choppiest. Sentences felt stunted. the sheer number of periods. it was outrageous. too much. I couldn’t handle it. ● The two POVs were nearly indistinguishable. I can’t count the number of times I had to double check which POV I was currently in so that I could understand who was feeling what. the only difference between the two POVs was the name at the beginning of the chapter and the change from he/she said ● These MCs felt flat see above, it was hard to distinguish between the two voices and that is largely because these characters had nothing but their physical appearance and past/current trauma to tell them apart. ● Personally, I found the FMC insufferable She was rude to her family, especially her brother. Rude to the MC - excuse me but I think going on a date with someone when (view spoiler) ● Speaking of the MC’s - I found it hard to believe they were in their late 20s and acting this way also both of them desperately needed to be in therapy and I am so surprise that they weren’t… ● Least favorite abby book boyfriend to date ● I am ALL for trauma in my books, I joke that I prefer my romances with a side of trauma - I think (usually) it adds emotional depth and complexity to the characters, it makes them feel real and relatable. BUT…. I did not think the onslaught at the end was needed, nor do I think it added to the overall story ● Maybe its just me but that ending was just ridiculous I like a cheesy perfect happy ending as much as the next person but this required a strong dose of delulu to believe. (view spoiler) Now what I call “how to alienate a group of readers while doing a really poor job at describing the physical appearance of your MMC 101” AKA the use of ACOTAR references (5 total by my count) to describe the physical appearance of the MC ● first, I dislike very specific pop culture references within books to begin with. I think it dates a book, and also it assumes that the reader understands them. As someone that does not keep up with trends, celebrities, or pop culture this alienates me as a reader and forces me out of the story. ● secondly, even if you do not agree that SJM and ACOTAR are problematic there is a whole massive group of people that do. By including references like this in a book you are essentially telling a whole group of people their feelings and opinions are invalid. - On the other hand not including these references offends/hurts no one. On the subject of insensitivity… ● While I’m at it I strongly dislike that the abusive and alcoholic character in the book’s career is… surprise surprise, military - this isn’t the first time I’ve been uncomfortable with Abby Jimenez’s portrayal of individuals in the military, something tells me it won’t be the last. Overall this certainly wasn’t a BAD book, but it was a complete let down when compared to this author’s other books. Maybe it’s not fair to rate it compared to her other books, but it’s my goodreads so I’ll do what I want. 😝 Thank you NetGalley and Forever Publishing for sending this book (eARC) for review consideration. All opinions are my own. 2⭐️| IG | TikTok |

Waiting for this book was like waiting for rain in this drought. Useless and disappointing 😞 (if you haven’t seen a cinderella story we can’t be friends soz)

2,5 stars This book was high on my anticipation list this year but if this book were a person, we’d be arguing constantly. From the start, I found myself rolling my eyes unintentionally every time TikTok slang popped up. It felt like the book was written with virality in mind.The family drama was too much and mostly unnecessary. Instead of enhancing the plot, it weighed it down. The fmc was a bit rude to the MMC in the earlier chapters, which honestly broke my heart,to see him like that. I couldn’t root for the romance when one half of it seemed so unkind. It just wasn’t my cup of tea. Also, what was with the excessive use of “grey in a colorful world” metaphors? It felt like the author ran out of things to say and threw in some Rhysand/ACOTAR and the word “grey” for flavor. The one thing I truly enjoyed was the mmc. He was the only character that felt grounded and emotionally resonant. I think it was good for a beach read.but it did disappointed me at the end

ੈ♡˳ rating: two of five stars ੈ♡˳ summary: say you'll remember me by abby jimenez follows samantha, a woman juggling a heavy load of family responsibilities, and xavier, a charming veterinarian she meets during a rare night out. after a single incredible day together, samantha pulls away—asking xavier to forget her because of all the chaos in her life. but xavier can't let her go. despite the distance and obstacles, he’s determined to fight for her and what they could have, leading to a love story filled with emotional highs and lows. ੈ♡˳ thoughts: i love abby jimenez, but this book… was not it. i had such high hopes, especially coming off of just for the summer, but this one just didn’t deliver the way i needed it to. first of all, why was rhysand mentioned so many times? i’m all for a fun pop culture reference, but it felt like every twenty pages we were being reminded of a court of thorns and roses and it was just unnecessary. it pulled me out of the story over and over again. then there’s the relationship itself. the insta-love made me sick to my stomach. xavier’s obsession with samantha after one day didn’t feel romantic, it felt unrealistic. and samantha?? she absolutely should not have been entertaining him the way she did. answering his calls, letting him fly across the country… it felt selfish and immature given everything she had going on. i love a good second-chance or hard-earned romance, but this? this was just messy and impulsive. the premise sounds cute in theory, but the more you read, the dumber it feels. and don’t even get me started on how overwhelmingly sad this book was. samantha’s nephews literally do not know peace. every scene felt heavy, and it sucked a lot of the joy out of the romance. and then xavier quitting his job at the end to move to california for samantha with no prospects??? be serious. no grown man should be making that kind of decision, and no grown woman should be allowing it. it just added to the list of things that felt immature and impractical about their relationship. this book was an easy read, sure, but it wasn’t a good one. i’m genuinely shocked this is from the same author who gave us just for the summer. ੈ♡˳ tropes: ꕥ insta-love ꕥ grand romantic gestures ꕥ long-distance-ish romance ꕥ emotional baggage overload ੈ♡˳ fave quotes: ➼ “the small memories are the fabric of your life, the ones so inconsequential that you don't even remember them.” ➼ “there is nothing more beautiful than being a witness to someone's life. to know them inside and out and be with them through everything, share the same memories. memories are everything, i want that.” ➼ “the best moments don't have to be big to be forever.”

➳ 1.5 ☆ unfortunately, i am going to be taking a break from abby jimenez for the near future. this is my fifth book from her, and sadly, i do feel like every single book is the exact same as the previous one. i know there are some authors who stick to a formula that they are comfortable with—ex: ana huang, lauren asher, elsie silver, & emily henry. i don't want to come off as a hypocrite so i am putting out a mini disclaimer here. i do enjoy those authors books, however, i understand this is a partiality i have with it comes to abby. compared to some other authors who use this copy + paste recycled formula, abby uses in an inauthentic way which drags the entire story and is a little blaring to read about. instead of writing out my thoughts in a paragraph, i am going to list what worked, and what did not. this is MY opinion. if you loved this, i AM very happy for you. it's never that serious—especially coming from me. ⌞characteristics that worked⌝ ✎ the audiobook was top tier. i loved the duet style and they ate their roles up. ✎ there was a better flow of writing + improved writing style. ✎ xavier is a great MMC. such a sweet and kind man. ✎ i like the cover. ✎ reading this with my best-friends. ⌞characteristics that took me out⌝ × the exact same plotting and narrative as all of her books. × rhysand mentions = no aura. × really jarring meet cute/instant obsession + love. × predictable familial drama. × terrible puns and jokes... (the mustard and the earbuds made me gag). × telling vs showing. × lack of chemistry and believability. × unwanted obsequious adults. × pathetic deportment from developed individuals. × jarring conclusion with no payoff. × why is everyone always a doctor??? please leave the medical professionals alone. please. this actually makes me really sad because i WANTED to love this—we wanted to love this. our main FMC was the central focus of the plot, and the narrative really surrounds her, her struggles, and her journey. the issue with these types of books, is we don't get to spend time with them enough to care. the whole time we were reading, all three of us kept asking—why??? why do we care...why do we want this to work—to get better. since the story starts off with us meeting the main characters meet each other; it is safe to say there is no real connection there besides surface level lust and temptation. it was hard to love their love, as we barley understand it—barley see it and live through it. the characters don't have a solid foundation to build off of either. this was a wasted potential, to be honest. lastly, a huge shout out to my dearest girls. thank you, vee & gry. i am forever grateful i got to meet two of my best-friends through this app. i never could've imagined that making my account public would lead me to both of you. this was so special, as this is the first time all three of us got to read a book together. sadly, this was not on our side, but you both made this experience so much better. you always do. i can't wait see you both in person. i love you both so much—my real-life journals.

Abby mentioned her effing cupcake shop again.

** spoiler alert ** ***SPOILERS*** read at your own risk! I would like to preface this review by saying I love Abby Jimenez’s books. Yours Truly is one of my favorite romances of all time. So I’m devastated to say that Say You’ll Remember Me was a total fail for me. Right off the bat, the insta-love trope did not fare well for me, though if done well I can usually enjoy it. I did not like the push and pull, on-again/off-again (“forget about me! no wait, come back!”) nature of their relationship at the beginning, and it truly felt like Xavier finally wore Sam down to being his girlfriend by not listening to her and showing up randomly. Send a text?? Call?? This isn’t Love, Actually (Annoying Vet’s Version). The reasons for them being together besides “but I like you!” weren’t convincing enough for me. I also did not like that Xavier then upends his entire life just to afford monthly flights to visit Sam, and she seems ambivalent about it all until last quarter of the book. It did not feel like a great romance to me, rather than two desperate, traumatized people using each other in place of therapists. Which brings me to my next point, which is: WHY WAS THERE SO MUCH TRAUMA. I love how Abby’s characters go through tough yet very real and human issues (such as anxiety, abuse, mental and terminal illnesses, etc.) but it just felt like a trauma pile-on here. Everything that could’ve gone wrong DID, and it just felt like one horrible scenario right after another. Sam’s facing a mother with dementia, a cheating father, an emotionally stunted brother who only created chaos and fury, her grandmother dies, she loses her job. Xavier gives up everything he’s worked his entire life for and works himself into oblivion to see this girl once a month, opens up about his domestic abuse, still must communicate with his parents and hear about them against his will, and has his girlfriend compare his abusive, narcissistic parents to her third grade bully who called her “Pinky.” FOR FUCKS SAKE. Don’t get me started on the *extremely convenient* old, retired vet looking to work for free, who then convinces Xavier to sell his business and take on the hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt just to be with her… I was horrified. This is supposed to be the great, big happy ending?? This is a level 5 shitstorm!!!! I wish I could say Sam and Xavier’s growth and character development as individuals and as a couple made it worth it - but I’d be a big, fat liar. The scenes where they’re together are just plain boring and didn’t do much in the way of furthering their relationship or giving us insight into they are as people. They’re mostly trauma dumping on each other while he can’t stop giving her gifts. On the surface, their romance was boring and they were both insufferable. The amount of mustard jokes broke me. I truly can’t believe THIS was my highly-anticipated new release from the same woman who brought me Yours Truly. I am only giving 2 stars instead of 1 *because* she wrote YT. Thank you to Abby and her Facebook group monitors, NetGalley, and Forever publishing for the advanced copy.

Number 18 in the Armand Gamache series has arrived and has already received widespread acclaim. I am, therefore, totally embarrassed to say that I found it to be the least satisfying in the series or next to the least satisfying after ‘The Long Way Home’(#10). It is quite difficult to say why it falls short without giving away spoilers, but it a sloppily put-together, convoluted story that asks the reader to suspend disbelief beyond what I found possible – the hidden room, what happens at the SHU, the copy of the painting, and so on. I feel that Penny is stretching reality way too far these days. The only positive was that I got the clue that revealed the identity of the psychopath that Gamache missed. Wait! Why is that a positive? Is Gamache losing his touch? It’s Louise Penny, and I will read anything she writes and have got so much pleasure from the series. This one was disappointing.

This breaks my heart but this book is a hard no from me. I have read and loved the previous 17 books in this series. In this one Penny takes a hard turn into the dark and gritty and it wasn’t for me at all; it has not one but two different and yet equally horrific criminal story lines. I am so disappointed in this book. Beyond the subject matter, this case was so complex and over the top, I found myself rolling my eyes a few different times. Way too many coincidences were required for this story; and the citizens of Three Pines know absolutely every single random fact. It’s getting old to just have the “crew” sitting together and pieces together super random parts of the case. And my last critique: introducing super close friends and family that haven’t appeared in 17 previous books but apparently the characters are practically adopted, spent every summer with the family, etc. too convenient for the story. I’m ready for Gamache to retire and Beauvoir to take over the series!!!

I was familiar with Louise Penny when she was still a journalist for the CBC. When I heard she quit to become a writer, I was curious and read her first Gamache book "Still Life". I thought it was okay and then moved on. Many years later, when I saw she actually had over 10 books in the series, I thought I would give her another chance - and I was not disappointed. Like all her fans, I got wrapped up in the lives of Three Pines and its residents and visitors. Her story telling, humour, settings and plots were all engaging with a nice balance of familiar and new. I got caught up and for the past few years have had to wait for the next book in the series to be published before going back to Three Pines. So now to this book... I was disappointed, and struggled to finish it. I don't know if her pacing was off, or if she's getting tired of working with these characters, or if she thinks every subsequent book has to be more shocking than the last (in terms of "the crime(s)"), or if it's me. This time, I was bothered by the cute, light-hearted exchanges of the characters juxtaposed by the heinousness nature of "the crime(s)". In her acknowledgments, Penny mentions the theme of the book was forgiveness and that threw me for a bit of a loop - forgiveness? How about trust? The whole book had the question of which, if either, Fiona or Sam could be trusted. (view spoiler) Yes, she managed to shock me - but at what cost? Is Penny now just trying to shock her readers or would she still like to bring ideas to the fore that humble us and make us think? She basically made the reader suspicious of every single character we met and we were only made aware of their innocence (view spoiler) I'm no longer sure I trust Louise Penny to write a story I will enjoy, even if it is set in Three Pines and the food is great. I won't be so eager for the next one and will read reviews before I determine whether it will be worth my time.

A really dark book that is so implausible that it was hard to finish it. There was no light humor or even any sense of bonding in the book. It was better than the last one but the series has veered so far from what it started out as that if one read book 1 and then book 18 I think they would think it was a different author. Lastly, why can't the author write more than two or three word sentences in the book but the afterward is written in 'real' sentences. Not getting this need to have everything be just two or three words... Are readers that dumbed down at this point? Glad I borrowed it from the library... now on to something better.

I had difficulty with this book. Penny had 3 different time lines going at the beginning, with no indication that the scene had shifted. If each time line was a different chapter, that would have been helpful. But it shifted even within the same chapter. It was very confusing, and led to my having to backtrack to remember which scene was which. It was unnecessary. That aside, I've read all of Penny's books and have loved them. But is it me or are her stories becoming more and more complicated? The story was ingenious, but by the time I was coming to the end, I kind of didn't care anymore. Disappointing.

I had the sense that Penny was "cleaning house" as I listened to this one. Anyone who has never imbibed another Penny story may find this one quite enjoyable, but I recall at least four vignettes in this one that I felt like, should I have time, I could find an almost identical passage in an earlier work. I suppose that is technically not plagiarizing, as it is all her work, but I felt a bit cheated at having to wonder, "Have I read this before?"

I delayed writing a review for this to see if I would moderate my initial reaction. I didn't. Judging from the reviews on Goodreads, a lot of people loved it, but I am not one of them. I was, frankly, disappointed. I found the plot unnecessarily complicated, thoroughly unbelievable, and nowhere near as nuanced as I expect from Penny. Yes, there are some great new characters and the settings are well described as usual, but the villain (whom she pulled out of 'The Nature of the Beast' for this outing) is so one-note and over-the-top that the whole thing reads as if written by a different and less experienced writer. Sad. One of the few highlights of the book, for me, was the opening prologue, which, apart from setting up the main plot, is in essence he 'origin story' about the relationship between Inspector Gamache and Jean-Guy Beauvoir, and I both enjoyed and appreciated that. I always struggle with whether to rate Penny's books against the rest of her oeuvre or against everything else I read. In this case, they line up. An Ok book I'll never read again - so a 2.

Gamache versus time, terrorists, and the specter of a Canada-US war - honestly, what more can you throw at the man? Update: I just finished the book and, with all due respect, it was ridiculous. Once again, Gamache is humbly saving the world, and by the end, I just didn’t care about any of it. The resolution felt convoluted and overblown. What used to be an intimate, character-driven series about a cozy town, its inhabitants and a murder has turned into a convoluted maze of politics, conspiracies, and far-fetched theories. I used to love the Three Pines books, but over the last few years they’ve become more and more fantastical. If I wanted to read Dan Brown, I would’ve picked up Dan Brown. Maybe this series just isn’t for me anymore.

I am a huge fan of the series, until the last two.

No, Louise, no! Non! I’ve read every Gamache book and I’ve been a huge fan for years. But this book was truly awful. The plot carries over from the last book, The Grey Wolf, and things get even more insane with even less evidence. But even with the outlandish premise, somehow the book was also boring in addition to maddening. It takes until about halfway through the book for things to happen, but even when they do, there is no tension because the writing is so bad. And oh my gosh, the writing is SO. BAD. Louise! What happened? It seemed like every paragraph is this collection of short, incomplete sentences. “Then fear. And then, later, rage. And hatred. And finally contempt.” Stop! Chopping up sentences and using periods for emphasis loses its effect if it happens on every page. Also, the cliches were so boring and dumb. And the politics she inserted unnecessarily into the narrative were ridiculous. And the new audio narrator is bad! Ugh! I can’t believe I’m giving this 2 stars, but it’s how I truly feel and it makes me sad. :(

I hate to say it but it's not my favorite. I like a book to entertain and this did not do it. Did not like Gray Wolf and didn't like this either. My opinion, too much relating to present day and who needs someone else's opinion in a book. Reading novels should be enjoyable. I don't want to hear opinions from authors, actors or anybody. I spend money on books to be entertained. If I want to read non-fiction I know where to go. I have always loved Louise Penny but I am so done!! You made a mess of a great series. Well done.

A convoluted mess. I think Louise Penny has really lost the plot, and has herself fallen victim to too many conspiracy theories. This entire plot was a rambling swill of misinformation, absurd political theories, and weird takes. I think her story telling has lost its magic.

To my view this lacked some editing. The plot was like a pretzel. Also, minor peeve, how many characters really needed to say fuckety fuck fuck? It got very old and unrealistic.

What a slog. It’s hard to believe that the same Louise Penny whose books I have devoured and reread for pure joy has written these last two books that I have to force myself to read all the way through. Wordy, trite, tedious, this one is another 4000 characters (at least fewer monks?) having long drawn out conversations with Gamache, the only good person and only hope for the entire world. It wasn’t enough that in previous books the entire law enforcement system of Quebec was corrupt, now it’s the entire government ! The bad guys are comically bad, the Three Pines characters are sprinkled in with no context if you haven’t read the whole series, there are gratuitous drops of literature and history/ language that I suppose are meant to provide depth but mostly it’s just SO boring.

Quite a bummer. This is my favorite mystery series and it’s not really a mystery series anymore. She’s trying to do political thrillers and they’re just not that great.

An exhausting read — what could have been a clever mystery turned into a sermon on climate change. I miss the old Louise Penny who let the story, not the speech, do the talking.

I love the people of Three Pines, and the Surete team, when they investigate “cozy” murders. I don’t care for the convoluted quasi-action books these last couple have been.

** spoiler alert ** This is one of Patterson's better collaborations. Well-researched, good pacing, a complex plot with nimble twists, and most of all, well thought out, interesting characters whom I came to care about. That being said, it's a tiresome trope that the Deep South is politically corrupt, intransigently racist, and law enforcement creates a fascist state in a Southern county. Really? I honestly don't know because i don't live in the South, but I'm getting tired of being presented with this as a given. Likewise, while I enjoyed the character strengths and flaws of the Army CID, this racially diverse group was stereotypical as well. Sigh. A challenge to Mr. Patterson: collaborate to write a thriller with protaganists from a diverse group wherein Blacks recite Kant and Chodron and meditate, AmerAsians blast out rap and maybe have some anger issues, hispanics are poets and musicians, and White people are not the courageous and clever ones. Mix it up a little, ok? More like real life. Please.

I did not finish this book. It was confusing and I could not get into it. Very disappointed in this one.

I just finished reading Game On by Janet Evanovich. I was struggling to finish this book. It’s the same thing in every one of Janet Evanovich’s books. Now I know why I don’t read her books anymore. It was boring. I have nothing good to say about the book.

I'm very annoyed at myself. When I finished this book a month ago, I apparently didn't feel the need to write any notes or thoughts down. This should be great... My theory here is my desire to immediately erase any trace of Stephanie Plum books that include Diesel from my memory. Though Game On is not a Between-the-Numbers book, it's way too close for comfort. I've done pretty well with this; I remember very little of what happened here. I do remember that it felt much longer than 286 pages. It seems silly to make it through twenty-eight books before calling it quits. I guess I just don't know that I'm getting anything else from this series. With only slight variations on the same theme, they range from average to pointless, which isn't good enough anymore. Of course, a smart person would've figured this out over twenty books ago... Review originally posted here on Britt's Book Blurbs. Amazon | Blog | Bookstagram | Reddit | Wishlist

Future Kourtney... do not read the next one of these, it will leave you disappointed and wanting your time back. Yes, #27 gave hopes that things were starting to go in a new, promising direction, but it is not. And, why is Diesel back?! I don't think we needed a third person in the mix that is will she or won't she mix. I am wondering if Evanovich just isn't sure how to end it. Yes, half of us will be mad if Plum ends up with person 1 vs person 2, but... isn't that the risk with all books? Here is my thought, and maybe for book #30, I like even numbers. Have Vinnie be kidnapped in book #29, so that #30 is looking for him, or looking for his killer. Have Vinnie retire or exit this world, so Plum can take over the business and become the accomplished person we all know she can be/is. Have her partner with Ranger for business, but get engaged to Morelli and then just end the series... it is time.

How did it came to be that a Stephanie Plum book became boring? No, seriously, I would like an answer. Everything that made these books entertaining and fun, an escape into a world of ridiculousness, slowly crossed into a bland land. If this is how it's going to be I'd rather quit now and forever stay in my Ranger bubble. Over and out

Just Ok Not as good or funny as her previous books. Time to do something different with the characters. Change it up a little bit because the story line is getting kind of redundant.

I’m done. This series will obviously never end and I am breaking up with it. I should have done so long ago.

