if the question "what's in a name?" was drawn out over several volumes you'd get this. I'll be honest, I really enjoyed the first volume of this (The Other Name) but once you get the schtick there's not much else to it. it's "meditative" prose usually feels a bit more tortured than serene. Not to say there isn't a lot to like here. i think that the main issue taken up in these final volumes re: the darkness of art and life alike is resolved in a fairly novel way (even if the optimism seems a bit tacked on).

This wasn’t for me. Affectless. Flat. Disengaged. By design, I’m sure. But we never know much about Istvan. This happens. That happens. Another thing happens. The story ends.

“As long as no one knows about it, it’s like it isn’t really happening. It’s like it exists in the same way that his fantasies exist, as something he’s just imagining. That’s how it seems to him sometimes.” How to describe this book? Maybe Stoner but written in a style more reminiscent of Sally Rooney. I read Flesh because of the Booker and because I sampled it and the beginning seemed interesting. Actually, interesting is a good word to describe this whole book, along with frustrating and sometimes annoying. It's essentially the life story of an exceptionally reticent man who goes through his life having things happen to him, passively allowing himself to be influenced by external factors and rarely seeming to hold the reins. It begins at fifteen, when István is groomed and sexually abused by an adult woman. This moment of powerlessness is a precursor to the rest of his life. As a character study, it's both fascinating and infuriating. It shows without telling almost exclusively, to the point that I would have welcomed more direct information and more of István engaging with his own state of mind. Of course, that's not the point, and instead we observe the consequences of István's passivity with almost clinical neutrality. We get whole pages composed of dialogue like: What’s funny? I don’t know. Yeah? Yeah. Okay. Fine. Nice, isn’t it? Yeah, it’s nice. If you read this book, it is inevitable that you will get to a point where you cannot stand the word "Okay". You may also, like me, feel that some of the narrative jumps were a bit too convenient. The story is episodic— we jump forward months or years between chapters with zero explanation for the in-between. Some of these jumps work fine, while others feel lazy, allowing the author to skip important explanations for how we got from A to B. Though, as much of István’s life seems to occur without rhyme or reason, perhaps that too was part of the point the author was making. Because of the way it is written, with plenty of fragmented dialogue and minimalist prose, it's a super quick read. It's also a quietly painful one about alienation and moral inertia. István's passivity and his inability to communicate were annoying at times, but I felt sad for him. The ending is abrupt, unsentimental and also devastating.

this is a deliberately slim book that still very much is 368 pages long. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... it dares ask the question: what if our protagonist thought, did, felt, and said very little, and his story still managed to be on the lengthy end of average? the writing style of this, also scant, did captivate me, and i read it in two sittings, but i continually felt frustrated by doing so. not just for the reasons i'm supposed to — this guy sucks and so does his life! it's intentional and therefore extreme! — but by how little i was getting back. bottom line: a timeless choice for the booker, by which i mean the kind of book that has won major awards throughout time. (thanks to the publisher for the copy)

Impressively, I read this 350 page novel in two days. Less impressively, many pages are like this “I’m sorry,” she says. “For what?” he says. “You know what,” she says. “It’s okay.” “Thank you.” “Are you okay?” He shrugs. “Talk to me.” “About what?” “What’s on your mind.” “Nothing in particular.” If you happen to run a TV talk show none of the people in this novel are going to be on your list of possible guests. Most common responses to any question by any character are : 1. “Okay.” 2. “I don’t know.” 3. “Maybe.” Could it be that David Szalay read Buddenbrooks by Thomas Mann and said “I will now write the opposite novel to that.” But you are skating on very thin ice when your main character is so very inarticulate. I have seen the words taciturn and phlegmatic used but that is putting it way too kindly. Yes, he is mostly talking in his second language, but we must confess he was no scintillating raconteur in Hungarian either. At some point he joins the army and gets sent to Iraq. On his return he is asked what it was like. “Okay” he says. How did you feel when you were there? “I don’t know.” He says these two things about Everything Single Thing – sex, living in London, committing manslaughter, becoming wealthy, the death of various characters, it’s all okay or I don’t know. Man, this guy. If you were cast away on a desert island and he was your only companion you would be swimming out to join the sharks, they would be better conversationalists. This novel has been wildly overpraised, but still and all, it gives you a cool feeling when you zip through a 350 page book in 2 days, so I kind of enjoyed it for that.

And all that burgeoning physicality is held within yourself as a sort of secret, even as it is also the actual surface that you present to the world, so that you’re left absurdly exposed, unsure whether the world knows everything about you or nothing, because you have no way of knowing whether these experiences that you’re having are universal or entirely specific to you. Winner of the 2025 Booker Prize and read by me subsequent to that, which means I judged it in that context. In many respects this is an ambitious and well constructed novel. Szalay provides in Istvan a sort-of male version of Cusk's Faye, although very different. Here the conceit is that we have little access into Istvan's interiority (the passage above is an exception, but when he's actually trying to empathise with his 10 year old son). Although Szalay leaves open whether the laconic Istvan - his 'OK' the equivalent of another Booker contender's ', the fact that', albeit repeated a factor of 1/60th less times - actually has any interior thoughts, perhaps supressed by life long PSTD (or indeed, realistic vs the 'unrealistically articulate' characters in most novels). And nor, directly, to his exterior, which is never described, but interpreted by the reader based on other's reactions to him, and the feeling of Istvan's own flesh (sweat a recurrent theme). I found it hard not to find the misogyny in the novel somewhat problematic - while Istvan's son and step-son both seem to aim to conform more to Tiktok's Golden Retriever model, he is more of a Doberman. Stylistically, the form of short-stories, which jump in time, works well and is a welcome challenge to the 19th century novelistic form, as Szalay has said: 'that sort of Russian novel that begins with the main character’s grandparents, and slowly works up to their birth about 200 pages in – that’s probably not my favourite sort. I prefer more compressed or concise novels, books that don’t tell you everything'. And one disappointing aspect is the rather odd decision at certain times to switch out of Istvan's point of view, presumably in the interests of adherence to the (rather silly) plot which is seemingly dictated by Kubrick's Barry Lyndon and which is the novel's weakest feature. Overall - 3.5 stars, rounded to 3.

It was unlikely I’d enjoy the chronicling of a man’s life through his (mostly) sexual encounters, but I did it to myself. Compounded with my staggered reading settings in several auto repair shops, Valvolines, Kwik Kars, and the like, I felt life taken over with an aggressive male spirit. Sure my car is fixed, but at what cost? At the cost of imagining every male mechanic as detached in his lustful escapades as Flesh’s Istvan is? Was it worth it? Do I want this perspective? Was the line-like portraiture of this, I’m sure, very real character worth my sanity? Literature introduces us to new minds but I guess I want mine closed. Ugh. Like I literally don’t careeee I don’t careeeee I’m sorry like idgaffffff. Also realizing Booker prize shortlistees are not that good. They’re fine. Audition still 🔛🔝

What, you may ask, is the point of this book and its passive protagonist, just longlisted for the Booker? Here's what I came away with from my read of it: Humans have a deep-rooted need to find meaning. We wonder, grandly, "what is the purpose of life", and are compelled to find things that bring meaning into our own personal lives. As Viktor Frankl famously wrote, "Man's search for meaning is the primary motivation in his life". Whether you believe this need for meaning is planted in us by blind evolution or by a purposeful God (many advantages to believing the latter), we are formed to seek it out. And as far as we can tell, no other animal experiences this drive for meaning; I certainly don't think our cat is pondering the meaning of existence or her life as she stares into space at my wife's feet on an evening, all of her immediate needs met for the moment. Does this lack of need for meaning benefit my cat, or is she missing out? If the need for meaning is connected to the human ability to see ahead, to plan ahead, to consciously live not just in the present moment but in anticipation of the future, as psychology seems to say, while there are certain obvious advantages to having those capabilities, one might think as well that there are benefits to living without all that. I think of Wendell Berry's poem "The Peace of Wild Things", in which he writes that when he is overcome by despair, "I go and lie down where the wood drake rests in his beauty on the water, and the great heron feeds. I come into the peace of wild things who do not tax their lives with forethought of grief." Sounds nice! But it doesn't work that way for us. Frankl came to his philosophy after living through the Shoah, noticing that concentration camp prisoners who lost their sense of meaning became passive and apathetic, and were less likely to survive than those who could hang on to meaning, however they could construct it in such horrific circumstances. Which all is to lead up to observing that this book's protagonist, István, frequently and correctly labeled as "passive" by reviewers, seems to me to lack a sense of meaning. He simply goes through life as external circumstances and his animal-level desires combine to direct him. While that works for my cat, it doesn't work for István. When women desire him - his neighbor when he's still a teenaged minor, or his employer's wife, or a servant in his house, or a bartender later in life after he's lost everything - he goes along. When someone finds him a job - his mother, or a stranger he rescued - he goes along. When his employer's wife wants to marry him, sure, why not, he goes along! All the time he doesn't have much to say about anything; "Sure, okay" frequently being the sum of his conversational contributions. Having recently given a d'var Torah (short talk on the weekly Torah portion) at Friday night services at my synagogue which revolved around the yetzer hara - our "evil inclination", basically our self-centered animalistic desires - as opposed to the yetzer hatov, our higher level good inclination, István strikes me as someone who pretty much lives by the yetzer hara as it encounters the outside world around him. His yetzer hatov, and his sense of meaning, is starving. As any rabbi should tell you, that's not likely to end well. István does hit extraordinary highs for a while, but when he hits bad times and loses nearly everything, he is adrift without meaning. He falls into depression and alcoholism. He (passively) allows his mother to coax him into attending a church for several weeks, a dangerous flirtation with finding meaning, but thankfully "he knows it's not true" and it won't help him. Whew (/sarcasm)! The novel's final line, "After that he lives alone", gives the ultimate sad state of affairs. That's a lot of words to say this is a cautionary tale. You need to have a sense of meaning. You don't necessarily need to read this book, though. It's okay.

Maybe 3.5 // I was obsessed with ALL THAT MAN IS (read it twice it was that good). Also, loved TURBULENCE. However, this latest one ran hot and cold. Sometimes it left its mark, other times it left me emotionally vacant. The uber-minimalist writing style extinguished a lot of the novel’s heft. A lot of tragic things happens in this novel, but I probably would’ve felt it more if the writing had a little more detail and nuance.

I don’t know. If you want to read about a Hungarian man with little to no emotion about some major life events, where the conversations generally are “OK” and “yeah, with an ending that may make you throw the book on the ground, then yes go for it. If you think this about deep book about a man dealing with his inner “manness”, then you might be right. This book just won the 2025 Booker Prize and I don’t know if Sarah Jessica Parker was drunk when she read it, but regardless, I don’t know if I wanna give this four stars. I’m gonna stick to 3.5 stars because I did read it rather quick and I needed to know what was happening to this man, though let’s be real. He’s just a man dealing with some very traumatic events, and maybe this is just what goes through their heads? How deep are we going to get here? I saw nothing that serious with what the author was trying to portray. I just have no idea.

I read this book due to its longlisting for the 2021 International Booker Prize> It is published by Peirene Press From their own website: “Peirene Press is an award-winning boutique publishing house, specialising in high-quality first-translations of contemporary European novellas. We only publish books of less than 200 pages that can be read in the same time it takes to watch a film." And this book is the debut novel of an award winning Georgian screenwriter and film director. It is perhaps not surprising therefore that this book has, at times, something of the flavour of an the pre-script for arthouse movie – with use of the present tense, a first party narrator who acts as something like a camera for us to view the other characters, the other characters are rather bewildering array at time and perhaps harder to differentiate and keep track of in print than they would be on film (it is not even easy for example to distinguish always teachers from neighbours from older pupils from children) and with some cinematic set scenes (an opening scene of a clandestine trampoline escapade which you know will have which becomes something of a recurring motiv and provides the rather inevitable last scene; two contrasting Georgian weddings; a raid on a cherry orchard; an airport scene which is set up nicely in advance). And if I am being honest this made the book not entirely to my taste (I would read 3 times more books in a typical week than I would watch films in a year). However another thing to say on Peirene Press – is that in a small press industry which sometimes seems to be full of keyboard warriors in an echo chamber: Peirene and its founder Meike Ziervogel throw themselves into real and practical social activism via donations (50 p per book to a charity of the year), fundraising (for good causes and not for their own cause), their publishing (deliberately commissioning books addressing social issues) and their actions (with the founder spending lenghy time in a refugee camp). And this also fits what I most enjoyed about the book. In its coverage of the neglect of a group of backward (and in some cases simply unwanted) children in a “Residential School for the Intellectually Disabled”, the bonds they form, the impact the traumas inflicted on them have on their characters, the way they look up to children that “graduate” to something of a better life: all makes this a memorable and heartbreaking book giving a voice to a group largely denied one by an uncaring world around them. Overall I think this has a real chance of making the shortlist – not least as it shares some themes with a couple of other longlisted books – “Summer Brother” and the most powerful stories in “The Danger of Smoking in Bed”.

Now longlisted for the 2021 International Booker The Pear Field is the latest, beautifully produced, novel from the excellent independent Peirene Press, part of the 2020 Closed Universe Series, and is translated by Elizabeth Highway from Nana Ekvtimishvili’s 2015 Georgian original მსხლების მინდორი. The novel is set in a Residential School for Intellectually Disabled Children on the outskirts of Tbilisi. The setting is fictitious but the inspiration comes from Ekvtimishvili’s childhood. The author has said in interviews (http://book.gov.ge/en/book/the-pear-t...) that she grew up next to a boarding school, and played with the children there, listening to some, in retrospect, quite shocking stories: I am amazed how I then calmly listened to them, or how one could co-exist with violations, when next to you such things were happening. Nobody ever believed anything these children said, and if they said that anything like that had happened to them, violence or rape, or if they had stolen cherries from the next-door garden, that made no great difference at the time, and nobody paid any attention. Now I am amazed, and I don’t know what to think, I simply knew all this, people somehow accepted this background of general violence, and it didn’t seem to be any great tragedy. When Georgian novels were featured at the 2018 Frankfurt Book Fair, a report at the time (https://www.dw.com/en/frankfurt-book-...) further expanded this that: “the author played with these children, and remembers them talking about a ritual in a pear orchard, where newcomer girls were raped by the other children,” and added that the author was prompted to write the novel when, 20 years later, she came across some of these former playmates begging in the streets. In the novel, the school, known as the School for Idiots by the local townspeople, is, in the post-Soviet era, also a dumping ground for children abandoned by their parents, and indeed those the state cannot accommodate elsewhere. The story is told from the perspective of Leta, aged 18. She has been at the school almost as far as she can remember and has actually been old enough to leave for 3 years, but with nowhere to go had stayed on, and has a status somewhere between a member of staff and a leader of the other children, who range from 6 to 15. She is so institutionalised that she recognises each area of the school by its own distinctive smell: On every floor there are toilets at the end of the corridor. The wind blowing in through the broken windowpanes carries their stench deeper into the building, making the entire corridor smell like a station toilet. The bedrooms, TV room and playrooms have their own smell, and no amount of fresh air can flush it out. It's the smell of dirty children, or sometimes of clothes scrubbed clean with laundry soap; the smell of musty linen and hand-me-down bedding; the smell of paraffin lamps and, in winter, wood stoves: the smell of old armchairs and sticky tape covering cracks in the windows and Chinese mallow plants lined up on the sill. Leta knows each and every smell, even though sometimes they all disappear behind the acrid stench of the toilet. Within the grounds is the pear field of the novel’s title but this is far from idyllic and stands as a symbol for the moral decay in the school, itself a reflection of wider society, as well as being used (at least before Leta became the senior pupil) for an rape based initiation ceremony for new girls: Between the wash block and the dormitories there’s a wide green field covered in small pear trees. Everyone, young and old, stays well away. The trees produce pears every year without fail and everyone stays away from them too, for the lovely green field is permanently mired in water … at first glance, the water seeping up through the soil is barely visible. The field looks so enticing, especially to new arrivals at the school, who run out on to the field and then slow involuntarily, ominously, as their feet sink into the waterlogged soil, So the pear trees just stand there with their knotted trunks and tangle of low-hanging branches, alone and forsaken, and every spring they bring forth large shiny green pears which nobody touches. The novel, although only 157 pages long, introduces us to a rich cast of characters, pupils, staff and some of the locals who live nearby (as well as some delicious sounding descriptions of Georgian cuisine when the school is used to host wedding feats). The main narrative tension comes from Lela’s twin aims before she will finally go out into the wider world: I’m going to kill Vamo before winter, Lela thinks to herself. It’s summer now. Plenty of time. Iralkli’s leaving in September and once he’s gone, I’ll kill Vano. By the end of the winter. After that it might be too late. He’s so old he might just die, all by himself… Lela can’t bear the thought. She vows to herself Vano will not have a natural death. Vano is the deputy head and history teacher, who abuses the younger girls, including Lela herself many years ago, and Irakli, a 9 year old boy, of whom Lela is very protective. Irakli’s mother is always going to visit him ‘next week’, which of course never arrives, and eventually moves to Greece as an economic migrant. But then a photographer arrives at the school to prepare profiles of the children for an American couple keen to adopt one, and Lela seizes the chance to support Irakli’s case. Nana Ekvtimishvili is perhaps better known as an internationally acclaimed film director (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nana_Ek...) and there is a definite cinematic quality to the text – one that fits well with Peirene’s ethos – “We only publish books of less than 200 pages that can be read in the same time it takes to watch a film” – with its diverse case (at times a little too extensive for my taste, as only a few of the characters are really developed) and told in a relentless present tense. Overall – a beautifully described and paced story although perhaps a little too cinematic for me. 3.5 stars - 3 for personal taste but I book I would still recommend.

Now Nominated for the Translation Prize of the Leipzig Book Fair 2025 Winner of the Booker Prize 2024 This is not for me, but I can see how it is an original, innovative and lyrically crafted meditation on the beauty of earth, and how it could all be lost. Harvey takes the perspectives of four astronauts and two cosmonauts who are looking down from a space shuttle in which they orbit our planet sixteeen times over the span of 24 hours. Don't bother to ask for a plot, there is none (I share the sentiment that plot is overrated, btw). The sentences are moody and ruminative, describing and pondering oceans and land masses while adding extensive philosophical musings. There are also some backstories for the individual space travelers, but they do not meaningfully contribute to the overall artistic vision. The focus here is the view on earth from above, the ideas and sentiments that emerge due to this new perspective and that are captured by both the characters and the omniscient narrator who adds poetic, spiritual layers. "Orbital" is meandering, meditative, and has some moral undertones hammering home the obvious, so it's everything I don't want my literature to be. But Harvey herself refers to it as a "space pastoral", so for what it aims to be, it's very well done, never pretentious, and it offers some beautiful sentences with a strong atmospheric quality (see what I did there? ;-)). So you do you, Samantha Harvey, I respect your artistic decisions.

One of the most beautifully written books I've read. The novel is basically a character study and you live and breathe each character's thoughts as they reminisce and contemplate life. Did I enjoy the book? Nope, probably not. I found I started getting bored less than half way through (it's a very short book) and I was hoping for anything to happen. Or even just a conversation. I think the book only has about 10 pages of conversations. It's just thoughts and eventually it just felt that every chapter was the same as the previous one. It is beautifully written and I can see why so many people love the book. But it either wasn't for me or I just wasn't in the mood for a very slow contemplative novel.

Maybe we’re the new dinosaurs and need to watch out. But then maybe against all the odds we’ll migrate to Mars where we’ll start a colony of gentle preservers, people who’ll want to keep the red planet red, we’ll devise a planetary flag because that’s a thing we lacked on earth and we’ve come to wonder if that’s why it all fell apart, and we’ll look back at the faint dot of blue that is our old convalescing earth and we’ll say, Do you remember? Have you heard the tales? As I started reading this slim novel – which, by definition, is technically a novella – I immediately thought it would turn out to be the literary equivalent of ‘From a Distance’ by Bette Midler. Indeed, Harvey does wax overly lyrical about the sheer physical presence of Earth from space and how inconsequential humanity appears, er, from such a distance. I don’t think I have read so many synonyms for ‘blue’ before. More alarming is how she buys into the ‘progress as destiny’ debate, ignoring how the Space Age started with Von Braun’s V2 rockets, or how technoscience is basically American hegemony in another guise yet again giving short shrift to the Global South, which simply wants to put satellites into space to monitor climate change patterns (and not take control of the world as Americans fear). Granted, Africa probably has a few nutters that would love to get their hands on a few ICBMs disguised as payload rockets – hell, even South Africa had a secret nuclear programme, including a testing phase in the Kalahari Desert – but in general we do not really care about what is up there while down here is such a clusterfuck. So, if you are looking for any nuanced analysis about the Space Age discourse, decoloniality, and capitalism, this book really falls short. Literally. Harvey does highlight the stupidity and shortsightedness of our capitalist-driven political system but does not seem to realise that ‘aiming for the stars’ is simply a search for new markets and territories to conquer and commodify. There is no Grand Design, or any global sense of Manifest Destiny compelling us to head for the Moon, Mars, and beyond. The view that frames the novel is from a low earth orbit space station – which Harvey refers to interchangeably as a spacecraft or spaceship (which it clearly is not). The copy editor deserves ten lashes for that alone. I am really puzzled as to why this won the Booker. I can only fathom that the judges’ brains were fried and so they latched onto a book by a women writer (lots of grumbling about the winner demographics) that you could also read in the bath in a single sitting. Prior to this I read ‘Playground’ by Richard Powers, which is light years from ‘Orbital’ in terms of characterisation (and descriptive writing, by the way). At one point Harvey states that the only “true wilderness” left is space – which is utter bollocks. It is the ocean, of course, that covers so much of our planet, and which remains truly unknown and alien, despite the ravages that climate change has started to inflict upon its depths. So, I think people who do not normally read SF will enjoy this, thinking they have dipped their toes into the genre ocean. It is gratifying that heavy hitters like Powers, Kushner, and McInnes are receiving mainstream recognition for what are quite hard-core SF novels. ‘Orbital’ is one of those annoying middle-ground choices. Look, if it makes more people open to reading SF, all the better. And maybe a short book like this, which is quite topical, and just a tad out of the comfort zone of non-SF readers to think they are being transgressive, might encourage some genre exploration of the final frontier. All kudos then to Harvey for a job well done. And did the judges really read all those books, we ask each year, as their longlist, shortlist, and winner choices continue to confound us.

I fear this didn't really work for me. It is a personal thing: fiction that tries to instill awe in the reader usually does not have that effect on me... In Orbital, the idea is to evoke the beauty of our tiny and vulnerable planet and the lives lived on it by observing and contemplating it from space. For me a good nature documentary has a much stronger impact. If there had been a plot it could have been more interesting and impactful (In Ascension by Martin McGinnes for instance does that). That is not to say it isn't well-written! Many thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for an ARC.

Books like this make it clearer to me that I'm just a cold stone wrapped in human skin.

Rating based on the vibes alone to be honest. This is a collection of loosely connected short stories which all take place in the same Polish village. The characters all talk about and reference each other and things that happen in other stories. There was a weird haunting vibe to it and the whole thing feels quite isolated. I felt a little lost whilst I was reading it and didn’t think much of the actual plot or characters if the stories but I enjoyed the feel of it and think it works well as a collection when they’re all pieced together.

White Nights is a series of interconnected short stories. Most take place in a small village and focus on a family. Past , present and future all collide as the reader forms a clear of the destiny of all the members and friends. I will say straight away that this is a bleak read: suicide, drowning, hanging, it’s all there. In the process there is a snapshot of village life and all it’s harsh conditions. As with every short story collection, some pieces are better than others. Saying that, the quality of most of the stories is high. An interesting book but not my favourite

the vibes were strong with this one and I loved them lots, but as the stories went on they seemed to drift into obscurity and I feel I wasn’t intelligent enough to grasp their deeper meaning

Now Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2025 English: Small Boat Based on the real drowning of 27 refugees in the English Channel in 2021, French philosopher Delecroix shows a female coastguard who takes the emergency phone calls, but fails to help the migrants - and of course, the short text centered on an average woman is a parable for the West failing to solve the migration crisis, an allegory for societal rationalizations. Instead of allowing for abstraction and pointing to institutions and collective systems though, Delecroix conveys the dimensions of personal responsibility, thus questioning the role of most readers in the current situation. Are we trying and failing? Are we looking away while verbally maintaining that we are taking action to the best of our abilities? Are we claiming that others need to step up, not us? Are we lying to others, lying to ourselves? Constructed as a triptyque with the short middle part displaying a detached description of the drowning and the title-giving actual "naufrage" (which means shipwreck - the title of the translation fails to convey that the boat is not the only shipwreck here), the text refrains from morally judging the woman; rather, it shows a person desensitized by regularly getting such calls, regularly seeing refugees die. She points to the question whether others (here: the English) were responsible, she gets entangled in contradictory arguments, is torn between her professional need to not get carried away by emotions and her human responsibility to empathize with the suffering of others, she sees herself and the dead as collateral damage, victims of a machine, as Delecroix explains here. The author intends to show the infamous banality of evil, and highlight the importance of learning empathy: "Mais pour se projeter à la place de l'autre, nous devons aussi développer notre faculté d'imagination" (see here). Frequently, the questioning the woman endures from outside forces, the police and the public, merges with her interrogating herself, grappling with her own moral convictions, her role in her job and as a mother, a citizen, a private person. It shows that the author is a philosopher, as he employs the novel to ponder our morality, but that's also the weakness of the text: It's often unsurprising and rather obvious, the meandering rationalizations of the protagonist make sense psychologically, but did not captivate me. Let's see how far this one will go.

an uncomfortable yet incredibly thought-provoking read. this book is based on the november 2021 migrant boat tragedy between the waters of france and england, which i was unfamiliar with prior to reading this. it’s obviously a difficult story to follow due to the fact that this was a real situation. i liked the structure of this novel. i like that we get a peak into the mind of the woman who was supposed to save the migrants, and how she ultimately failed them. there’s also a level of zooming out and seeing how their deaths were caused by societal failure at large, which is an important conversation to have. however, i did find it difficult to listen to the narrator deflect blame when she clearly was responsible to some degree. that’s certainly a strength from the author; we’re meant to be uncomfortable reading this. it did get repetitive at times. i also found the language to be a bit too flowery to the point of almost being gaudy—i just don’t think it was a necessary aspect to telling this story. tl;dr: a hard read about a very important issue

I might be starting a pattern of reading fiction that would possibly work better as nonfiction? Content/subject matter-wise, this was devastating and important to explore. In terms of execution and structure, this did not quite work for me. Part I is the longest chapter and centers around the questioning of the narrator (the radio operator) by a police investigator. There are compelling moments, though they are buried in nebulous delivery and structure. The pov is of the radio operator. She dips in and out of her presentation of the interrogation, postulates for a paragraph or two off to the side, refutes the investigator (mostly in her own mind), pivots to remembering this or that, and comes back around again (it’s easy to tell that Delecroix is a philosopher). Part II switches povs, and it’s a welcome change. I won’t say much more, but it’s definitely one of the most powerful parts of the novel. Part III brings us back to the radio operator’s pov, and things wrap up quickly from there. I don’t know, I was left wanting something more after finishing this. Maybe I have preconceived notions going into a piece of fiction and was expecting something different? I kept thinking while reading this that it felt so close to being nonfiction that it might have been better off as a collection of essays or a researched and cited exploration of the topic. I’ll have to think about it more, but I’m settling on a 3 for this one at the moment.

I enjoyed this, and thought it did a moving and thoughtful job of approaching the subject matter. I wasn’t wholly convinced by the structure / the sort of ‘conceit’. It’s that kind of Reluctant Fundamentalist oh wait you didn’t realise who was speaking / who you were talking to. I feel like I spent the first half of the book waiting for some kind of twist, which in all fairness did eventually arrive, but maybe by that point I was impatient with it. It brought it all together by the end though and defo worth a read regardless!

A small but powerful book, based on the true story of a coastguard being held responsible for the death of 27 migrants who drowned whilst trying to cross the English Channel. I found the text quite repetitive (and such long sentences!) but nevertheless, would recommend as quick to read, thought-provoking and raw novella

“Perception is reality.” I think that statement is debatable but Tyler’s novel is very much about perception and how our reality can change in a second. A middle-aged man lives his life by adhering to a strict schedule that borders on the ritualistic. An event causes him to reassess his life choices with the corresponding discomfort. Here, too, Tyler excels at taking the quotidian and turning into to something interesting. Deceptively simple, this novel is much more than sum of its parts although the ending seemed slight.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2020 This short, accessible novel tells the story of of Micah Mortimer, a 43-year-old handyman and tech specialist who ponders why he has failed to build a lasting relationship with a woman. Mind you, Micah is a nice, quirky guy, but he tends to be inattentive to social clues, he aims for perfection and doesn't know what he's got until it's gone. During the course of the story, he meets the son of his college girlfriend who assumes that Micah is his father, and his current girlfriend Cassie breaks up with him. Micah, always a close witness to other people's lives as he is in charge of the upkeep of an apartment complex and constantly called as the "Tech Hermit" when IT disaster is impending, he wonders how much of his own life is destiny and what he can do to change it for the better. Tyler gives us a quiet story about an everyman living in a basememt and struggling to find happiness. It is certainly well-written, but it's not very challenging or suprising - granted, not every book has to be, but this is a Booker entry and as such, it falls a little short. This year, the judges seem to have split the list in mainly two categories: Heavyweights Hilary Mantel, Colum McCann, Anne Tyler) and wild, daring debuts (Sophie Ward, Gabriel Krauze, Douglas Stuart) - and in comparison to the newbies flexing their vision and ambition, this seems extremely tame. A worthwhile, moving read, but maybe not a good pick for this (or any) Booker list.

Micah Mortimer is a 43-year-old freelance IT consultant, living in the basement of a Baltimore apartment building, of which he is also the super. He lives each day to a strict routine, heading out for a run at 7.15, starting work at 10.00 and assigning cleaning chores to himself, which are never missed. Even his relationship with girlfriend Cass is quite regimented - she lives at her own place and certain boundaries are very clear. Micah's family, loud and disorganised, are the complete opposite of his personality and tease him about his carefully-ordered existence. Things change when the son of an old flame turns up on his doorstep, believing Micah to be his father. This sets in motion a change of events that cause Micah to question his lot and whether he really is happy with staying in his comfort zone. I've read Anne Tyler before, The Accidental Tourist being a particular favourite. I wasn't that keen on A Spool of Blue Thread, my last encounter with her. This sits somewhere in between the two, if you ask me. She is still a keen observer of human behaviour - you gradually understand why Micah has turned out this way, living a distanced, controlled life (especially after meeting his rambunctious family.) I didn't find it especially profound, and I wasn't wowed by many sentences. But it's a short, easy read, and by the end you will be rooting for Micah to reject his self-imposed isolation and grab that chance of happiness.

Life is simple for middle-aged Micah Mortimer. He has his steady job as a handyman/Tech Hermit, his steady relationship with fourth-grade teacher girlfriend Cass Slade, and his steady routine. Occasionally he’ll be reminded of family by one of his four older sisters and their sprawling families. A quiet, straightforward life. And then 18 year old Brink arrives on his doorstep claiming to be his long-lost son. Wuh-oh! I’ve been meaning to read an Anne Tyler novel ever since Nick Hornby gushed about her in his much-missed Stuff I’ve Been Reading column in The Believer magazine and I’m glad I finally got around to it - Redhead by the Side of the Road was pretty decent. Though I’m not as smitten as Hornby was, I can see why people like this writer. The title is a passing reference to Micah mistaking a red fire hydrant for a child, looking at it from the corner of his eye while driving. It’s summed-up later in the line: “He has noticed that his faulty vision most often reveals itself in attempts to convert inanimate objects into human beings.” This gets to the heart of the novel which is that Micah is too closed-off from human contact and almost treats them like he sees them: inanimate objects. This isn’t a plot-driven novel but more of a character portrait of a man, a (tech) hermit if you will, realising his view of life is “faulty”, that he’s actually dissatisfied with his too-neat world - he’s entrenched in his routine and he needs the warming chaos of other people in his life to make him happy, imperfections included. My only real critique is that there wasn’t a whole lot going on to really grip me. I can’t fault the clever writing, the sharp characterisation, the convincing dialogue, the concept - it’s all executed flawlessly by an obvious master. I also liked the odd quirk thrown in like Micah’s imaginary Traffic God commenting on his driving ability, which was an inventive touch. I just would’ve preferred a bit more drama. The big set piece of the book is a family dinner that goes well - hmm. That and the kinda obvious lesson-learning at the end were the only aspects that felt a tad unimaginative. These things don’t leave much of an impression and made this relatively short book easy to put down. Redhead by the Side of the Road isn’t that memorable though it’s still a pleasant, well-written, character-driven piece that provides a charming snapshot of this person’s life. Not a bad starting-point if you’ve never read an Anne Tyler before and encouraging enough for me to want to read more of her work in the future.

Readers of this novel expecting to read about a damsel in distress by the side of the road who happens to have red hair will be disappointed to learn that it's just a fire hydrant that looks like a redhead to our protagonist who's not wearing his glasses. It's no big deal because our protagonists has jogged past this hydrant before and he knows it's just a hydrant. But this is a hint (to us readers) that perhaps there are some other things in his life that are not what they seem to be to him. Our protagonist is a forty-five year old bachelor who has had a number of girl friends in his life, but they have all dumped him after several years for no good reason that he can perceive. One evening there's a knock on his door and it's a young college student who introduces himself as the son of a former girl friend of his, and he has concluded that our protagonist is his biological father. As it turns out there's no suspense about this possibility because a quick review of the chronology of history rules out any possibility of such relationship. But one thing leads to another and eventually it leads to a conversation with the young man's mother (the former girl friend). He learns in this conversation that the details of their breakup years earlier were not as he perceived them to be. Parallel with all the above happenings our protagonists has a current lady friend who has suggested that maybe they should end their relationship. This lady friend is a really nice person, and the protagonist's sisters seem to like her more than they like him their brother. Is he going to let history repeat? Or is he going to learn from his recent lesson from his past relationship? Below is a comment I have regarding a detail in this story that I've decided to put in a hidden spoiler area because it was revealed near the end of the book: (view spoiler)

I read Tyler's Redhead by the Side of the Road as part of my 2020 Booker longlist read through. It's a quietly incisive book about Micah Mortimer, a forty something man. His character is represented in third-person through deceptively simple passages that in the hands of such a talented writer as Tyler convey so much in just a few lines and well placed words, including, often, in what isn't said or included. Micah runs his own small business as an IT repairman (Tech Hermit) and also works as the super for the apartment block where he lives. You could say he is living an orderly life of quiet although comfortable disappointments. Micah prefers his life very ordered and is perhaps highly functional ASD. He has some problems 'getting others'. His family of sisters and husbands-in-law like to poke gentle fun at his insistence on order. The narrative shows us Micah trying to deal with some disorder that he encounters when his current partner leaves him and a young man unexpectedly turns up on his doorstep and briefly enters his life. All of this results in gentle and kind introspection by Micah about his life and how he interracts with others. It's all sensitively and deftly done. I read it on a sunny winter afternoon, enjoying and admiring Tyler's craft and the overall compassionate sense of Micah and those in his life. But that is about it really. A work I'm somewhat surprised is longlisted for the Booker. In my view other novels that missed, especially Hamnet (Maggie O'Farrell) and Bass Rock (Evie Wyld) are far stronger.

I always nod when someone comes into the bookshop and says they like Anne Tyler, as if I know exactly what they mean. But this is the first time I've actually read her. What a quality writer. Comparable to Elizabeth Strout, she conjures stories from nothing. This may not have been the best place to start, I guess. It's as plotless as anything I've read - to the point where I'm not sure quite what the point of it all was - but it is peopled by believable, rounded, relatable characters. I look forward to reading something else of hers. I imagine when she gets it all right, it's killer.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 Great plot idea, lackluster execution: Aw's main character Jay looks back on the year 1997, when he spent a fateful holiday on the family farm in the South of his home country of Malaysia. His mother Sui Ching, the child of migrants, has inherited the farm near Johor Bahru from her father-in-law, an immigrant from Guangdong who knew about the psychological value of holding dominion over a plot of land. When she travels there with her math professor husband Jack and three children, she seeks freedom within her unhappy marriage (not-so-fun fact: Her husband Jack is her former teacher). The search for personal freedom and self-actualization is a main topic in the text: The farm's manager Fong is Jack's illegitimate half-brother, his wife left for Singapore, he is poor and feels trapped in his own life; 17-year-old Jay's queer desire for Fong's 19-year-old son Chuan reflects his newfound space away from the bullies at home, while Chuan knows about the homophobia in the rural countryside (in an interview with The Guardian, the author has pointed out that Jay is a substitute for him). The characters are trapped by familial expectations, restricted by poverty (the Asian financial crisis plays a role), oppressed by societal prejudice, but their perspectives and attitudes strongly depend on their personal background, be it their geographical roots, financial status, gender, sexuality, societal position etc. This could make for an intriguing narrative about the intersectional restrictions on the road to self-determination, and Aw aims big: This is the first installment in a planned quartet intended to form a family epic. The prose is sparse and throws no punches, and that's what I perceive as the problem: The characters remain detached and emotionally distant, the whole thing is overly controlled and neat. Fellow Booker nominee Seascraper proves that quieter narratives can produce immense emotional intensity, but "The South" fails to do just that, although that would be what elevates fiction from a magazine piece about social status, shame, and intergenerational family dynamics: A novel like that needs to be way more immersive. I mourn that Hollinghurst's Our Evenings, which also deals with class, money, shame, and family was omitted, because that would have been a very worthy contender for the Booker.

“The South”, by Tash Aw 3 stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️ Great concept, and I loved the writing and the storytelling. Such an innovative style of writing different perspectives, evoking emotions and memories, switching between first and third person… There was such a tenderness in the telling. The description of that urgency that teenagers have, the wanting to loose innocence, the hunger to learn, the rush to grow up, the uncontrollable lust, the longings, that search for personal freedom and happiness, the dealings with their parents and friends… quite formidable. I did relate to the character several times. This could have been an epic event. But everything was so uneventful. What started so beautiful and interesting, became boring. I read that this is book one of 4, an ambitious project that I do hope will get better. Anyways, don’t mind my opinion, after all this book was longlitested for the 2025 Booker Prize.

a quiet, atmospheric little novel set in rural malaysia in the 90s, following seventeen year old jay whose family retreats to their failing inherited farm for the summer. over the sweltering days, jay grows closer to chuan, the son of the farm’s manager. it’s a simple and tender coming of age tale, with a focus on the excitement and terror of awakening desire. besides our protagonist jay, the characters are not as fleshed out as they could be, although this may be because this is the first in a planned quartet. through the perspectives of other family members, it’s clear tash aw plans to expand on their stories, but i would’ve liked a little more depth to them here. the writing was the standout, slow and fluid to match the book’s clammy atmosphere, delving into themes of familial expectations, financial strain, environmental crisis, and the struggles of change. i’d like to see how aw expands on these themes and the characters in the next instalments, so i guess he has piqued my interest enough. probably the best of the 2025 booker longlist from those i’ve read so far, however i’m not sure if it’s strong enough as a standalone. i may have liked it a little more if i hadn’t already read seán hewitt's open, heaven this year, which is a similar story, and one i’m sure this will be compared to a lot. rating: 3.75

3.5 stars. I enjoyed this read mostly for its sense of place and time. I lived in Malaysia around the time this was set and I could visualise rural locations like this. I also remember the varied relationships that exist amongst between the main cultural and religious groups in Malaysia. I don’t remember mobile phones being around in 2000, well I certainly didn’t have one so I did wonder about that. The seasons in Malaysia are dramatic being close to the equator. It is not quite tropical throughout but I can still remember the intense rain and searing humidity. I guess I’m not sure the characters will stay with me. They were interesting but not gripping. I don’t think I got enough sense of anyone, apart from Jay, to feel for them. I will probably read the sequel and see if I become more invested but i probably wouldn’t feel bereft if I miss it.

This novel suffered from three things: 1. High expectations for being on the Booker Long List 2. Being the first of an expected quartet 3. Not a whole lot happens, which may be part of point two in that a grand reveal unravels throughout the series itself That said, the writing is beautiful and Tash has won me over for his prose...but I have to be honest, I am not chomping at the bit to continue the story. In many ways I kept referencing Open, Heaven while reading this, a book I very much appreciated for it's look at the youthful realization of who you are and who you love. But whereas Seán Hewitt focused on a single arc, his own exploration of this difficult journey, we have bouncing perspectives that felt dizzying at times in The South. A small change made to the format of simply including the names each character we were being thrown into as chapter heads would have done a world of good. But penmanship is never constant and in the end writing is an art so I appreciate Tash's belief that the reader should be challenged, I suppose. Still don't know what it is about? A family descends upon a struggling farm in the south of Malaysia set in the summer of 1997. Jay, our primary main character, challenged by his father to learn physical ways of working, grows a relationship with Chaun who is the son of the farm manager, growing closer as they work . The biggest arc of the story centers around their realization of love for one another but it is delivered in the most quiet manner you could imagine. Overall this was far too toned down for me and left me sort of uninspired. I am hopeful Tash can expand upon this work in a manner worth reading but it is not one I am chomping at the bits to continue.

I couldn't really get on with The Harmony Silk Factory when I attempted it soon after it came out but I think the author's style has definitely matured, and I raced to finish this ahead of a talk he gave at a local bookstore today. I liked the book well enough but not enough to really shake me up in any significant way, but the end result of this whole thing is that I liked the author a lot more than I thought I would after hearing him speak. I think I'm always wary of local writers that make it big on the international scene with the usual "sprawling family saga set in the tropics where people have no freedom like they do in the West" bs but I'm happy to report that this book doesn't indulge in any of those tropes and that Tash Aw himself was quite vocal about the very many flaws of the West, without having to put the West, which gave him a career, on a pedestal, as many, many (far too many) Asian authors do.

Despite the cultural aspect and intriguing locale, this first entry in a planned tetralogy did not really catch fire for me. There may have been some metafictional aspects which explains the hesitancy, and there really was some lovely prose. But on the whole, I was disappointed in the overall experience.

2025 Man Booker longlist ranking: 1. Love Forms by Claire Adam. 2. The South by Tash Aw. I do not see either of these making the shortlist. So bland.

The South is set in the late ’90s, and that particular moment, on the edge of a new millennium, provides an apt backdrop for a novel about lives on the cusp of change. The story centers on a shy teenager named Jay, who travels south with his family during the school holidays to a farm inherited by his mother. Jay’s coming-of-age is shaped by both societal and familial pressures. His angst and insecurity feel authentic and honest. He obsesses over his future, rebels against his parents’ expectations and their many failures as role models, and quietly navigates his sexuality in a culture where coming out would invite severe judgment and bullying. I admire the way Aw writes about Jay’s emerging feelings as he experiences intimacy for the first time. He captures the glances that linger a moment too long, the heightened awareness of another person’s scent or movement, the way desire can sharpen the world around you. It’s all beautifully observed. The South is a slow burn whose pleasures lie less in a propulsive plot than in the gradual accumulation of detail. At times, the writing is a little overwrought and melodramatic, but these moments never overshadow the richness of the story. Toward the end, Jay reflects that “there are empty spaces inside him that didn’t exist before. This emptiness feels like hunger but it is really a longing, though he doesn’t know what he is longing for.” It’s a fitting close for a story so much about change—about the space between who you are and who you might become.

3.5. So much worked here, and it was easy to get lost in the writing. But, it left an unfinished taste in my mouth. I wanted more. More from these characters and more to be at stake. It was a love story that didn't really establish the love. Everything felt a bit diluted and transactional. Nevertheless, still a solid read and I enjoyed how the author wrote.

This never really held my attention. It is very slow and little happens - probably because this is the first of what will be a four volume Malaysian family saga; everything needs to be set up carefully. I listened to the audio and the narrator is excellent but his Chinese accent is quite strong - when he said 'Later that evening' I understood 'There was no WiFi'... The names were also hard to follow. I recommend a physical copy.

Story set in Malaysia of the 1990s, it follows the move of teenager Jay from the city to the family's inherited land in a rural area following his grandfather's death The farm was left to Jay's mother, Sui Ching, rather than to his father, Jack, or his father's illegitimate half-brother, Fong, who has managed the farm his entire life. At the farm, Jay meets Fong's son, Chuan. Their budding friendship evolves into an intimate relationship which leads them to explore their sexuality. The book largely explores themes of class and family dynamics Looking forward to reading the next book in this quartet series

A fairly breezy, enjoyable read. However, I'm a bit surprised at this being longlisted for the Booker Prize. It hints at a lot of "meaty" material, but it doesn't really delve into them. The queer coming-of-age storyline is fine, if a bit simple. The backdrop of the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the intergenerational family dynamics and especially the shifting POV seemed to be just items checked off a list in order to qualify this as a more serious book, as they're not fully explored. I've read that this is the first in a planned tetralogy so maybe they'll be fully developed later on, and this was more of a teaser for what comes next. I enjoyed this enough so I'll probably check those out as well, but I just found it too simple to be in consideration for a Booker prize.

3.5 stars. Even before the book was widely available locally, there were news reports that its sale would be banned in Malaysia. I suspect, that made readers more eager to acquire a copy. So this a story about an urban family who had inherited a piece of land in the southern state of Johor. The land- supposedly an orchard or farm- was in a state of neglect. When the family decide to stay there during the year end holidays, Jay, the teenage son, meets Chuan, the farm manager’s son. Jay and Chuan spend much time together and there is an attraction between these two young men of v different backgrounds. Concurrently the various family members, feel emotionally disconnected from each other and drift apart. This reflects the difficult times most families are facing- due to the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990’s. Aw writes well, but in this novel there is a somewhat slowish, sluggish tone throughout the story. Maybe it reflects the pace of day to day life in this small town. For all the hype about banning the book, I did not think the writing was shocking or graphic. In fact there was no dramatic revelation throughout the novel. The characters drifted in their mundane lives, and moved in different directions.

I picked this book up when a Malaysian author recommended it, as it's one of the few books set in the dying farmlands of S. Malaysia. This might not be the best way to introduce it but that's what it is - a novel about people and a place dying, the culture disappearing, and how young people who grow up there don't stand a chance. Jay and his parents and sisters decide to go to their ancestral farm for a holiday summer. The land is suffering a drought, the 1997 financial crisis is causing panic, and no one in Jay's family seems to be getting along. Mr Fong, the jovial caretaker, and his son Chao, a few years older than the teenage Jay, try to simultaneously serve, befriend and take care of the family. But even their best efforts - or Jay's father's rigidity - may not keep the place afloat much longer. The South is a beautiful book to read. The prose flows. You'll find yourself immersed in the lives of these characters- the sweet and genial Mr Fong, Jay's annoying and uptight father, his mother who seems to be living in her own world, nonchalant Chao. It describes the setting well, the colorful small town, the farm which has seen better days but is still beautiful, the desperation to get out. Jay is figuring out his own identity as a gay person in a very non-clichéd, realistic, unsensational way. So far the book is extremely readable. However it runs into a major issue and never recovers. About midway, the author completely goes inert. You have all this buildup to something happening, and nothing really happens, except some rather formulaic beats that anyone can anticipate. I looked up the book and apparently it's the first of a trilogy. Probably why the author stopped short of giving a complete outcome. However this means that The South slides from a must read to a book that can be skipped. So I'll say that Tash Aw as an author has definite talent and I'll probably be reading more of his books, just this one is sort of disappointing. 6/10.

My whole motivation for reading the Booker longlist is that it features so many books I wouldn’t have picked up off my own back. I really enjoyed this one. It’s slow moving, and not a great deal happens, but I loved how the family tensions pressed up against each other - constantly threatening to fray. What I really appreciated about Aw’s writing is that he doesn’t treat the reader like an idiot. I’ve been so sick of the hand holding and spoon feeding in recent fiction. This is the first in a series, and I’m definitely intrigued to keep following this family’s story.

I liked the pace of this book, slow and steady, which I felt reflected not only the dry heat of the summer months its centred on, but also the main characters quiet longing. Also appreciated the chapters being written from multiple points of view - although this was a subtle addition and didn’t sway focus from the main plot. The plot however was minimal, more like looking through a window into someone’s life than a book that grips you from start to end.

Ugh this had so much potential and just barely broke the surface right there at the end. I was a bit bored reading and found it somewhat predictable, a lit fic gay coming of age… a secret romance with the slightly more athletic bi boy. I wanted more!!!

3.5 It started very strong, with an interesting setting and premise, but after the 50% mark the story became dialogue-heavy and sentimental. The narrative felt at times drawn out, and at others abrupt, giving the appearance that it's building up to something only to drop the thread all of sudden. I usually like ellipses and I don't mind unconventional narratives, but the effect here didn't work for me, it didn't feel experimental or intentional. It felt like a badly executed classical storyline, unfortunately. I enjoyed Jay's interior life, his relationship with his parents and Chuan. I also appreciated the context in which the story took place.

Listened as an audiobook which was my FIRST TIME. Interesting for sure, I’m not sure what I’ve taken from it so I will be glad to share thoughts with my book club soon.

For the right reader and in the right setting, Claire Keegan's little gem of novel casts quite a spell. I first read this in December, around the holidays, and I was struck by the beautifully told story in little more than 100 pages. Fast forward seven months, and I'm dismayed to report this didn't hold up on a re-read. The spell has been broken. In fact I'm not sure what had enthralled me so much the first time around. I found it overly sentimental and the ending too cute. Almost like a made-for-tv holiday movie. I'm also a bit uncomfortable with the hero of the story being a man when all the other characters (falling on a continuum of victim to villain) are women. I still admire the perfect pacing and spare prose but, alas, the bell no longer rings for me.

I think I liked the idea of this more than the execution. Foster was such a structural gem of emotional perfection, I was disappointed that this wasn't as tight. As short as this was, it took me several tries before I got into it. This may have been an issue of listening to the audio version, but I felt it took a while to cohere. I loved the main character. He was likable and good. I liked that his compassion came from personal experience, and his back story mattered to me. I liked that the corrupt ones were women, as well as the victims. 3.5

“It seemed both proper and at the same time deeply unfair that so much of life was left to chance.” Ooof this definitely falls on the darker side of Christmas reads… As someone with little to no knowledge about the Magdalene Laundries in Ireland, I found this insightful. I’ve done some research after reading the book and just wow... It’s crazy to think this wasn’t all that long ago in the grand scheme of things, where women were treated like this. The only reason I didn’t rate this higher is because it did take awhile to get to the gist of the story considering the subject matter and short length. It looks like this has been made into a movie with Cillian Murphy that I’ll definitely be watching when it’s available. I strongly recommend the audio for this one. Quotes “Keep the enemy close, the bad dog with you and the good dog will not bite". “Surely they only have as much power as we give them.” “Why were the things that were closest so often the hardest to see?”

My deep bow of respect to Claire Keegan for her courage to face a traumatic theme and for making us aware of the crimes committed behind the walls of Magdalen laundries in Ireland. It is crucial to expose the depravity of quite a few members of the Catholic church, and I do not mean their revolting crimes only but also their pretending not to see them when they were being committed by others. I do not think their recent announcements that they feel sorry make much difference to their victims — if they were fortunate enough to survive — and their families. That is why the importance of books akin to Small Things Like These is unquestionable. Unfortunately, the literary form of this novella did not appeal to me very much and I found the author's A Note on the Text at the end, including devastating statistics, more enlightening and harrowing than the book itself. I did not like the mismatch between the horrifying topic and the lukewarm Christmas story entourage. Moreover, I could not connect to the black and white characters. I guess Small Things Like These is a modern take on a biblical parable with a clear message. In this genre, the emphasis is not on describing personalities but on the instructive moral of the story. Nonetheless, I wish the characters were at least a bit more nuanced and individualized. For example, the five sisters practically blur into one. The most bizarre thing was the atmosphere. It was a blend of Christmas Carol and Little Women. Although the story is set in Ireland in 1985, it had a feel of a 19th-century novel. Probably it was a part of stylization but seemed awkward. Besides, I am afraid Claire Keegan was not playing fair. I have the impression she took the easy way while she is predestined for roads less travelled. It is enough to read just a few lines of her novella to realize how talented she is. In my opinion, excellent writers should not win their readers' hearts with cheap tricks. They are capable of much more. I wish Small Things Like These was not a crowd-pleaser, preying on easy emotions, mooching off cliches and tropes that have been already tested successfully many times before. I understand that speaking of tragedies happening to children and their mothers is hard because words fail us then. Still, there are authors who managed to find a method, tactful and riveting at the same time: Valeria Luiselli's Tell Me How It Ends: An Essay in Forty Questions provides a good example. Claire Keegan's distrust of our intellect and sensitivity exasperated me. Because of the Christmas setting, the associations were obvious already, nevertheless, the author made Bill Furlong take barefoot Sara to the manger in the town centre to make things even more manifest. I almost expected to see Sara = Virgin Mary written in the margin. One of the few things I liked about this novella is its cover, with detail of Pieter Bruegel the Elder's painting, Hunters in the Snow (Winter). It matches the book perfectly, with so many mundane things happening at the same time, with so many people immersed busily in their microcosms. According to the protagonist, only small things count in the end, only small choices we make every day. Theoretically, nothing bad is happening in the picture but still, there is something unsettling about it. As if we were seconds apart from something truly evil which is surreptitiously hidden for the time being. There is such a contrast between the menacing hunters accompanied by their dogs and the idyllic calm of the village. Are they really hunters? Small Things Like These made me feel miserable. Not only because of the bleak topic. I realized how messed up and confused our world must be since a book with a message: 'React if you witness evil.' becomes a celebrated revelation. As it seems, we constantly need to be reminded about small things like these. Pieter Bruegel the Elder, Hunters in the Snow (Winter), 1565.

I found myself drifting while listening to the audio version of the book. It just didn’t engage me fully unfortunately. Had to concentrate really hard, but still my mind struggled with going into the story.

This a short but powerful read. Though, as short as it is, I struggled to fully immerse myself in the story.

Listen, guys, it’s not like I didn’t believe the scenario presented here. And it’s not like I don’t like dystopian novels either. What I didn’t like was the writing style. Wait, let me show you how it all starts: The night has come and she has not heard the knocking, standing at the window looking out onto the garden. How the dark gathers without sound the cherry trees. It gathers the last of the leaves and the leaves do not resist the dark but accept the dark in whisper. Tired now, the day almost behind her and the children settled in the living room, this feeling of rest for a moment by the glass. See what I mean? Does this not sound a bit like pretentious drivel? If she’s standing and looking, and the dark gathers the last of the leaves and the leaves do not resist the dark but accept the dark, does this mean that the author (narrator) was there writing everything down as the events unfolded, or was this the only way he could find to create a sense of closeness and urgency? Either way, I found it jarring all the way through. Also, for me, this “closeness” and “immediacy” allied to the poetic but slightly forced and overwritten way in which this was told, instead of creating vivid imagery only served to blur every single scene and character, and I ended up not being able to picture any of it or feel for any of the characters. On a side note, I’d like to mention that I don’t think children in 2023 talk the way they do in this novel. I also feel like some “bad” decisions were taken by the characters only to keep the wheels in motion and get to the point the author wanted to go. I also spotted a few plot holes and inconsistencies, but nothing I couldn’t close my eyes off to. All in all this was an okay read to me - nothing too bad, but also, unfortunately, not amazing either. Stuff like this, and I mean people trying to take over the world by all means, has been happening since the beginning of times, is still happening today and will keep on happening for as long as there’s people on this planet. Some might say it’s only human nature. Others might call it natural selection. I, for instance, call it selfishness.

Now Shortlisted for the 2025 Dublin Literary Award Winner of the Booker Prize 2023 Take current public debates centering on the rise of right-wing authoritarianism through elections in Europe, project the worst case into the future and, voilà, this is the result. It's certainly a worthwhile political dystopia, but surprising, innovative or unusual it is not, it's more like a mixture of 1984 and It Can't Happen Here, but make it Irish. Our protagonist is microbiologist Eilish Stack whose husband Larry, a trade unionist, is abducted by the secret police of the new authoritarian Ireland, leaving Eilish to care for the four children and her father who is suffering from dementia. The family, perceived as traitors as Larry was organizing workers and was thus opposing authority, comes under increasing duress, topics like the loss of objective reality and truth are discussed (after all, Eilish is a scientist), and the aging father works like an oracle, constantly speaking from the depths of his slipping mind but knowing that Eilish should never underestimate the ruthlessness of people and thus the system they have built. The children show different reactions to their loss of freedom, and have to face different consequences. To me, the most interesting aspect was how Eilish struggles to be just in this impossible situation: She wants to stand up to the system and demand her husband back - but will that kill him, if he isn't already dead? Also, is she a bad mother if she fights political injustice, as she puts her children in danger? Should she flee and maybe save her children, but leave her severely ill father alone, a man who is already threatened by the state? The language and style of this novel was much praised, alas, I cannot find the specific beauty in these run-on sentences, these deserts of text (as we say in German when the pages are crammed with letters). I see that there's a punchy rhythm going on, a bleakness that fits the narrative, but it didn't really reach me. So while "Prophet Song" certainly has some things going on for it, it does seem a little conventional for me. You can now listen to our Booker Special (in German) here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/allgemei... (More Booker title reviews on our Steady-Page)

Update : This is the winner. No comment. Now shortlisted for Booker Prize 2023 I am intrigued that we are starting to write dystopian novels about the past, but I don't think the substance is there when the past is fictional.

3.5 I've thought long and hard about this book. I really wanted to like it because friends had all given it 5 stars and raved about it. However I just couldn't engage with it at all. To begin with I never really understood what the original emergency was that led to the authorities turning tyrannical. Was there a war? A national crisis? Someone just got greedy? The second problem for me was Eilis. She behaved like no mother I know. She put her husband's disappearance ahead of her children's wellbeing and continued to do so almost until the end. I found it totally unbelievable. Then there's the way she deals with the increasing military presence and curfew. She seems to consider that emergency supplies consist of chocolate and cigarettes. Other things that bothered me was the substitution of "party types" into a very specific scientific role. Don't get me wrong I am fully aware that Ireland is crammed with extremely highly educated people but to find another scientist (or a lot of them) within such a short space of time felt unrealistic. The only parts that felt realistic was Eilis' reaction to her father's increasing confusion and the way she deals with Bailey. I recently read a book by a real refugee traveling from Africa and what he went through was much more harrowing. It felt like Paul Lynch wanted to go so far but no further - the scenes with Molly at the border come to mind. The actual style I found a little irritating - was it a poem or prose? I feel bad about not liking the book but it was simply unrelenting misery - even the weather was bad every day. Perhaps I'd built the book up too much in my mind? Perhaps I expected too much from a fictional account. Thanks to Netgalley for the advance review copy ahead of the paperback release.

It is difficult to write a dystopian novel that does not stand in the shadow of Orwell's "1984", Atwood's "The Handmaid's Tale" or McCarthy's "The Road". Paul Lynch didn't manage it either. But it is questionable whether his "Prophet Song" can be labelled a dystopian novel anyway: In many African and Asian countries, what he describes is a reality. Only in contemporary Europe - in this case Ireland - is his plot a (supposedly) speculative horror scenario. An obscure grouping has taken control of the state and now regulates the lives of citizens in the style of a dictatorship. Dissidents and those deemed to be dissidents are eliminated. There are curfews, food shortages and a state of war. In this ugly new world, a mother tries to assert herself and fight for her children. The novel often walks a tightrope between urgency and sentimentality. In the passages where the latter dominates, the apocalypse becomes a template. It is also unhelpful that the dialogues are written without paragraphs: what is presumably intended to generate breathlessness creates confusion for the most part and does not disguise some inauthentic conversations. The fact that Lynch consistently pursues his dark vision does not prevent his "Prophet Song" from turning into a discordant jingle from time to time, stating the obvious. It becomes annoying after a while due to its repetitive penetrating nature. At the end, the whole thing fades away with a discordant final chord: yes, our world is out of joint and what is happening in it is unbelievably bad. But what is told here lacks any originality. You only need to switch on the news to hear the dreary tones of the "Prophet Song".

I’m finishing out the year with a string of lower ratings it seems. This is my second encounter with a Booker Prize winner this year that I just found to be a bit mid. I didn’t actually mind the writing style (huge paragraphs, no quotation marks for dialogue, a stream of dense descriptions from a 3rd person omni pov that pushes the story along with lots of reflections and big truths mixed in). What got to me though was how long-winded everything started to feel. I just kept thinking things like “well, you already said something like that 5 times already” or “okay, here we go again with more musings about light and darkness.” It’s rough because I usually appreciate dystopian novels, and this one is even more grounded in reality than others. A lot of terrible things happen, and there’s a lot of importance in conveying to readers how very possible (and as history and the present have shown us, truly real) something like this story is. But this could have honestly been trimmed down to like, 150 pages maybe? And when I think about it next to other great ones I’ve read, it just doesn’t compare. 2.5 rounded up I guess.

Interesting, informative, engaging.

I've always loved mythology and that type of storytelling and have been trying to read more poetry so this was a perfect blend. It was a quick read that had a lot of depth if you looked for it but was also a great story on the surface. I really appreciated the feminist angle that we don't usually get from epic stories!

Great concept, and I love an epic! But I ended up speeding through a lot of it because it read more like a children's story at parts.

'Toward the destiny intimidated in their dreams. And when, after so many trials, they finally arrived, They found that the beauty in their dreams had deceived them, Because now they saw with their own eyes that The beauty in reality was more than they had seen in their dreams.' This book depicts the folklore surrounding the beginning of the Kenyan Gīkūyū people and their values regarding beauty, courage and community. Gīkūyū and his wife Mūmbi escape war they settle at the foot of Mount Kenya and have 10 daughters, the youngest Warigia is lame from birth. Therefore the other daughter's make up the 'perfect 9.' This should be a point of contention but the depiction of Warigia makes her stand out, due to her strength, loyalty and feisty spirit. A good role model for young disabled children. The other sisters are snoringly perfect and all have admirable virtues that blend into each other. Ninety nine suitors come in the hope of marrying them and are set on a quest with the first nine daughters, so the daughters can choose a partner. Much drama pursues, including much battles with ogres; test of heart, mind, wisdom, integrity and courage. Eventually there is only 10 men standing. The story is told in verse and is full of imagery and wonder. It was an enjoyable read, an a privilege to gain insight into another culture. 'Our men had forgotten all they had endured in search of black beauty. '

The Perfect Nine is a book written in verse, which retells the origin story as per the beliefs of the Gĩkũyũ people of Kenya. The story adopts a feminist perspectives to tell the story of the Gĩkũyũ founders’ ten daughters, and the ninety nine men who fought to win their love. Firstly I just need to say how obsessed I am with this cover. How beautiful!! The Perfect Nine is a fascinating encounter with the Gĩkũyũ origin story, but turned on its head. I’d never before read a book in verse and I sadly wasn’t a huge fan, however I think it suited the folkloric content and orality of this story perfectly. On reflection, maybe I should have read this book to myself out loud to see if that changed my opinion. Ngũgĩ wa Thiong’o self-translated his work from the original Gĩkũyũ which I think is an incredible feat, and shows his talent as both an author and translator in his ability to both write and retain his distinct voice in two languages. However, I think I’d been hoping for a little more. I loved the fact that this is a feminist retelling of the Gĩkũyũ origin story but I guess I went in with too high expectations. For me, the morals of the story were great, as was the writing, but I just couldn’t not get into this book. And I can’t really put my finger on what it was, so honestly it may just be a ‘me’ problem. It’s a lovely premise though, and if you’re intrigued I would recommend giving it a read.

I struggled with this Kenyan origin story. If you like the bible this stilted style will be familiar and comfortable as it introduces the characters and their strengths. I started out doubting I could finish it but I read small chunks and after the middle I found it easier going. I liked the strong feminist worldview but it does seem fanciful in the reality of African outcomes. Like Aboriginal dreamtime, you have to be prepared to buy into a spiritual space that is no more or less real than any other set of religions or beliefs. As an atheist I will always struggle with these kind of 'God' books, but reading it does in some ways help reinforce my worldview that humans need comfort, and for many an imaginary friend or friends will help them get through the day. An ogre with a hair on his tongue that will cure all ills is no more ridiculous than water being turned into wine or the resurrection or the parting of the sea, or going to heaven and being gifted virgins. In the end this book should be viewed no differently than any other religious treatises. It's just silly.

Glory is a satirical send-up of the fall and aftermath of the Robert Mugabe regime in Zimbabwe. The country, renamed Jidada for the story, is satirized as a janky outpost republic, caught in a post-colonial cycle of misrule. Each of the characters is portrayed as an animal - an old horse, donkey, pig, goat, tweeting baboon (guess who) - which lends a layer of farce to the proceedings. Life in Jidada is brutal, although for me the brutality is somewhat minimized because the victims, like the perpetrators, are talking animals. I can see, though, how the distancing device may make the book more readable for those who are closer to the trauma. References to Killer Kau’s hit Tholukuthi Hey, the unofficial pop anthem of resistance (iykyk), are punctuated throughout. Ordinarily, I might have appreciated a bit more subtlety, but one of the functions of the book is to lay bare the absolute farce of a strongman regime, particularly for leaders who until quite recently were considered untouchable for this type of satire. On that score, this is nicely done.

Tholukuthi it took the first decade of the donkey's married life for her, by patiently piecing together fragments of the Father of the Nation's nightmares and sleep talk, sometimes including whole conversations, lec-tures, debates, arguments, pleas, confessions, musings, by paying special attention to the intimate talk of the Seat of Power and Inner Circle, to understand that the rumours she'd heard throughout her youth, from those who really know about things, were true — that the Father of the Nation in fact lived with ghosts, that the Father of the Nation, and by extension the Seat of Power, the Party of Power and thus Jidada with a -da and another -da itself, had a complicated history that wasn't necessarily all glory. Glory is a magic-realist style story based on the political history of Zimbabwe, beginning with the 2019 coup against Robert Mugabe and his replacement by Emmerson Mnangagwa, but also, in its more moving and powerful sections, focusing on the Gukurahundi genocide in the mid 1980s, and then concluding with an optimistic prediction for the country's history. This is an entertaining and powerful read. But judged as a Booker contender, it's hard to get away from the fact that the books central concept - that the characters are animals - simply doesn't work, and the reader soon filters that out. And that the main reason for the choice - to make the story more allegorical and hence universal - actually detracts from the book's most powerful aspect, which is the link to real events in Zimbabwean history. 3.5 stars.

Animal Farm meets Half of a Yellow Sun in this clever reimagining of the harsh aftermath of the government coup of Zimbabwe. Filled with animated prose and overflowing with personality, Glory is a powerhouse of both fact-based fiction and real political commentary. An ode to the resilience and cultural expression of the people who will not be stifled by government control, the women who silently carry the hopes and dreams of a nation on their backs, and the youth who will do anything to claim their freedoms, express patriotism on their own terms. Exciting, endearing, and a timely satire of so many nations on the brink of riveting change, and the people who give those nations life, goals, language, and love.

Shortlisted 2022 Booker Prize. Reasonably strong novel but not among my top few favourites for the 2022 Booker. The fictionalised country of Jidada provides a satirical, fable-like lense to explore Zimbabwe's recent history, especially the Mugabe regime and the aftermath of the 2017 coup that deposed him. Bulawayo draws extensively on Orwell's Animal Farm and combines this quite thoughtfully with local folk storytelling traditions to explore Zimbabwae's political and violent upheavals. I'm not though entirely convinced by the use of the animal figures. The fabular form provides a device through which the horrendous violence and suffering can be approached. The violent history is so deep and profound that in many ways it's beyond comprehension. How can it be explained, how can the victims and their families understand what occurred, the violence, the tortures, the genocide, and their roles in it, let alone a nation of people? How can this be narrativised? How can a reader approach such events? Bulawayo's use of the fabular form provides a way of navigating this, of giving those experiences and histories a narrative form through which they can be approached. Never though does the full weight of these experiences feel reduced by or to these narrative structures or experiments. The torture and genocide experienced by Destiny (a goat) her family and her community is heart rending and strains at the narrative. The tension between fable and my knowledge of Zimbabwae's fraught history cuts like a razor through the heart of this work. It's harrowing and heartbreaking yet there's also hope here: hope and promise for change. There's also moments of joy and humor that nurture and honour this hope. Weakness for me is in the uneven writing: the repetition throughout at times for me feels overwrought and clumsy, adding very little and if anything taking away from the strengths of this work. More on this review soon.

Animal Farm meets the downfall and aftermath of Mugabe’s regime in Zimbabwe. Glory is a clever, and quite demanding satirisation of a complex, messy, political environment. Bulawayo digs into some interesting ideas about the impact of colonisation, political corruption, cultural conflict, and international relations with vibrant, original voice. I wasn’t always convinced that the anthropomorphism was doing anything more than a standard approach would, but this approach really comes into its own in the final third. I enjoyed this reading experience, and was challenged by it, but it was inconsistently executed for me.

After starting it last year then putting it down after I got about a quarter way through (shortly after it was longlisted for the Booker prize), I decided to give it another go this year. This is a book I genuinely wanted to love. Truly. Unfortunately, by about the halfway mark, I was more than a little frustrated. In fact, I really just wanted it to end. I was so happy when I finally turned the last page. I don't need to rehash the plot- if you know about the book, I think you know about what happens. I think you will also know about the comparisons to George Orwell's Animal Farm. Where that novella is entertaining and a shining example of political satire, Bulawayo's book is just way too long. It's well-written, I'll give her that, but the repetitious writing style quite frankly sometimes got on my nerves. I wasn't frustrated enough to DNF it, and I'll also admit that it's funny, but I feel like if it were 100 pages shorter, it would have been way more effective. Based on reviews, and what I've heard from other people I know of who've read it, this is probably a book you will either love or hate. I was somewhere in between. There's a section here where a charcter tells a harrowing story of trauma and violence. That part was quite gripping. I wanted more of that. I'm so happy this wasn't shortlisted for the Women's Prize as I'm sure the other books that made it are more deserving of that honour. Maybe one day I'll do a reread of this and like it more.

My final book from the Booker shortlist, and what a journey it’s been! I started off really enjoying this one, the beginning was easy to grasp despite my lack of knowledge of the political history of Zimbabwe. I really enjoyed the style of Bulawayo’s storytelling, I think she has an intelligent and witty way of commenting on society and history, I found myself really gripped by a couple of things said in the book, and how despite being rooted in history it was still telling of the times and relevant to this day. This one, unfortunately, got very difficult for me to follow very quickly. It went from enjoyment and understanding to boredom and confusion after around 70-80 pages which was devastating. I just think this book was trying to do too much simultaneously and probably would have benefited from being stripped down to key messages and ideas, to make what is being conveyed clearer and the message more consistent. It just felt a bit jumbled, and as a reader I struggled to connect with it because I couldn’t fully understand it. My comprehension would come back in waves, but only briefly. The writing also began to get very repetitive. There were many segments in here that could have been cut down, especially pages full of the same word repeated over and over - which happened at least three times. The effect of it started to get old quite quickly. Because of the utilisation of the same writing ‘quirks’ for lack of a better description over and over again throughout, it just got exhausting to read. It made for a novel that ended up several hundreds of pages too long. We follow several characters and it jumps between various narratives in a way that didn’t feel entirely cohesive to me. It didn’t feel like there was a single thread running through the story keeping it all together and on track, it was very sporadic. I think a central character or two, and more focus on what you actually want a reader to take from it would’ve been beneficial. It was just trying to do so much and have a say on so many things that my brain was just full of information and I didn’t know what to focus on, it’s going to end up as a book I retain nothing from. While I enjoy the Animal Farm-esque nature of it, having animals as characters here just struck me as more of a bizarre choice than anything. I understand making us think of these big figures as purely animalistic to give us an idea of who they are and how we should view them, but making them act entirely human and throwing in things like Twitter, WhatsApp and Siri just fried my brain a bit. Definitely a selling point if you like experimental and different narratives, but I think this was the wrong approach for the story. Overall a confusing one, but one I’m conflicted about my feelings on. On the one hand, I think Bulawayo does have immense talent when it comes to writing and commenting on societal issues and I’d definitely read more from this author. Amazing imagination. On the other hand, I feel this was a book that needed serious revision and more focus. It was readable, but just about. Not entirely accessible to a widespread audience I feel.

I'm stopping at a third of the way through this >400 page satire; that's a whole heaping lot of satire for me and I've hit my satire limit and have no further room for more satire. It seems a pretty direct recounting of the Zimbabwe coup that toppled Mugabe and reactions among the population and all in all I'd prefer to read a non-fiction account of all this. That said this is well written for what it is.

DNF after 50%. Like my last read, I am very torn with this book. The story made absolutely zero sense to me whatsoever (but maybe it’s because I don’t really pay attention to politics) but for some reason I seriously couldn’t put it down. I loved the way it was written, but since I was past the halfway point and still had very little idea of what was going on, I decided to move on.

the book was fine but the book club convo I had about it was amaze. perfect book for discussion 10000%

Parts of this book - the story of Destiny, her village and the red butterflies- are incredibly good and incredibly harrowing. However, the long satire sections depicting the inner circle of power in Zimbabwe were more challenging for me. The trope of using animals instead of humans seemed superfluous - as the animals behave exactly as humans do, and indeed in the more emotionally intense sections, I felt that the author simply dropped the conceit only to take it up again later - although I understand from other reviewers that Bulawayo used animals in order to gain some distance and be able to write about these events. I think that satire about tragedy is not a genre that sits well with me. I had a similarly negative reaction to The Orphan Master’s Son, satirizing conditions in North Korea. It may be more to others’ tastes. I have been blown away by the work of Irene Sabatini and Tsitsi Dangarembga, whose novels about the traumatic history of Zimbabwe haunt me even years after reading. Parts of Glory are that good, but other parts seem flat.

Longlisted for International Booker Prize 2025 - It says a lot that this book, which imagines the disappearance of all Palestinians, was actually written in 2014 and has nothing to do with recent events. Unfortunately, the premise is not matched by the novel itself, despite the weight behind such an idea. For me, the most interesting parts were the reactions to the disappearance, from personal to official, but I didn’t feel that there was much evolution in them.

I don't get why a Palestinian author would even want to narrate the ultimate zionist wet dream of having the indigenous people of an colonized land just disappear without a trace. the israeli protagonist is nauseating🤢. this book is scheduled to be translated to Hebrew and I am willing to bet that the irony/sarcasm/satire will be lost on the readers.

3.5 stars (the books impact, however, is undeniable; a star rating can and will never diminish that) the land of Palestine is written as a character – a land whose identity has been ripped away and reconstructed into a hollow shell of itself, the state of Israel. the novel really captures what it means to be an orphan in your own homeland: left with fragments of memory, stripped of rootedness, yet forced to continue existing in the ruins of what was. the Palestinians here are caught in a paradox – belonging so deeply to a place that has been made to deny them, while also being told that their existence is expendable. that sense of orphanhood lingers throughout: the loss of lineage, continuity, and the ability to claim the land as home without it being erased or overwritten. the book refuses to simplify the politics of memory, belonging, and disappearance. instead, it forces us to sit with grief, silence, and erasure. it makes the reader witness how the land itself becomes both a body and a victim – and how its people are left orphaned within it. i am left with grief, anger, and love: grief for what has been lost, anger at the ongoing erasure, and love for a people who continue to resist. leve Palestina och krossa sionismen!!

A great concept but I didn’t feel this was as fully formed as I wanted it to be. Some really beautiful elements of Palestinian culture included though, that I feel grateful to have read about. The translation had quite a few noticeable holes in it too, which took me out of the flow of the story.

The life of Coenraad de Buys, quite the character who lived on both sides of the frontier of the Cape Colony in the latter half of the 18th century. I struggled with the writing style - the language was somehow lyrical yet crude (an odd combination), and at times I didn’t quite follow what was happening. A better grasp of the Cape Colony’s history and the Boer Wars would have helped, which is a reflection on my limited knowledge rather than a criticism of the book. The crudeness and violence got quite repetitive, but I pushed on because I wanted to know what would become of de Buys. What a fascinating person - complex, irascible and very much did his own thing on the fringes of acceptable society. The story of an interesting character, but the florid writing gets in the way - I’d only recommend this if you have a particular interest in (and some working knowledge of) this period of South African history or de Buys. As a side note, this book sparked a debate around homage vs plagiarism - I haven’t read Cormac McCarthy so can’t add to the discussion, but if this interests you, it’s worth looking up, particularly since this involved the extra layer of translating McCarthy’s work into Afrikaans and then back into English (for the English translation, obviously).

big book - complex with historical names, locations and references big man - complete with many manly traits so un-politically correct!! big women - often small stature big presence not to be ignored big love - genuine heartfelt without end but it all ends inevitably red dogs there at the beginning and the end a good book

There were parts of this novel I really enjoyed—the style, the brilliant evocation of late 1980s East Berlin. But wow, did I hate the characters, and I quickly stopped caring what they were doing. Even the reveal about Hans—it just wasn’t for me.

not sure what it was trying to tell me but it did so very well

One topic in a novel which is a bit of a turn off, for me, is adultery. I find it quite boring to read about. Saying that I’m not the type to condemn a book because it’s about something I don’t like. Actually I see it as a challenge as there’s the possibility that the author may do something interesting with it. Whether this is the case with Kairos, we’ll find out. The premise starts with Katharina, in present day receiving two boxes from a previous lover, Hans. While rifling through the contents, she remembers their love affair in the late 80’s. She met him on a bus while she was 19 and he was 54 and married with a child. The book then goes into their love affair, one that is toxic, abusive and contains all the tropes that we have all read before. So what makes this one different? the setting is Berlin 1987, two years before The Wall is destroyed. One could say that Berlin’s situation is reflected by Katharina and Hans relationship: one that is tumultuous and filled with secrets. Plus when the wall is broken, that is when their relationship falls apart, so the symbolism is quite blatant. In that respect the book elevated itself. There’s also a twist that reminded me of the film, The Lives of Others but I won’t go into much detail. The other interesting point was the language. The book does shift perspective and, whereas it can be jarring, Erpenbeck does it with ease. I guess then, Kairos is a middling book for me. I understood the metaphor but, still reading about people cheating on each other just bores me to death so I can’t say that the novel was an enjoyable read.

I struggled with this book and I'm not sure whether I liked it or not. Katharina is a nineteen-year-old girl who aspires to become a stage designer for the theatre. One day, walking along Alexanderplatz in East Berlin, she bumps into an old family friend, Hans, a 53-year-old married writer. He is ten years older than her own father, she notes to herself. They discuss classical music, bonding over Glenn Gould's Goldberg's Variations, and, after stepping off the bus, they quickly begin an intense affair seemingly without consequences: he says he can't leave his wife; she says she doesn't care. They meet regularly, she even follows him on vacation in West Germany, and as she enters into his life, they discuss the war, the concentration camps, and the current Communist government. Katharina is enamored with him and everything he represents. They begin choosing baby names in the event that she becomes pregnant. However, things are not so rosy as she imagines. When she catches up with friends, they say she has lost her radiance. The initial passion disguises the destructive side of their relationship. Soon, Hans starts showing her pornography magazines. One day he asks if he can tie her up. He tells her the first time he experienced arousal was when he heard a woman screaming in the dentist's office. The more he sees her, the more possessive, controlling and violent he becomes: "Sometimes he says, I feel tense—and that means she has to take her clothes off". He constantly tests her loyalty, questioning her, lying to her, insisting on reading all of her diaries. The word love makes him want to vomit. She shaves her head bald. When she can no longer bear that he is married, he demurs in the most cowardly way: "without my marriage, I am not the one you love", a statement which makes adultery the pre-condition of their relationship. But even after his death, after a tumultuous eight-year relationship, Katharina never sees Hans as an abuser but, mysteriously, as a mirror image of herself. Yet Hans is inscrutable—a narcissistic writer, a deluded romantic, a hypocritical sadist, an erstwhile revolutionary, an apathetic cynic. For much of the novel, he is torn between romantic sentimentalism and political rumination. As he approaches the age when Brecht died, he thinks a lot about the circumscribed and ventriloquized role of artists and writers over the 20th century; he thinks about Hitler and Brecht; he remembers the Moscow show trials; he talks to a psychiatrist about Hölderlin who went insane in isolation, possibly after becoming disillusioned with the idea of revolutionary change as he saw the Jacobites start a bloody campaign purging the world of dissidents. When the Berlin Wall falls, Hans, however, isn't happy. His wife, who herself had protested against the Communist government, becomes unemployed. He himself has to apply for welfare. From his childhood in the Hitler Youth to his days as a Communist apparatchik, Hans has always been subject to the roiling vicissitudes of German politics—it's almost as if misogyny is the only freedom he can practice, the only power he can exercise, in a country dominated by ideological purity, nationalism and censorship. Under a fascist regime, philandering is, perversely, the last remaining form of self-determination. Katharina is even more difficult to understand. One day, she tells Hans that she sees him like a mother, "something perfectly unavoidable". Even as she becomes a worldly traveller, she always sees Hans through the admiring eyes of a teenage girl. She knows that he controls her ("what he wants is what she is to want") and yet she cannot break the deep sense of affinity with him. Is it Stockholm Syndrome or some hormonal compulsion? (In a particularly psycho-pathological passage, Erpenbeck describes how "her pituitary gland begins to produce the glandotropic hormone called follitropin, slowly, then faster and faster...") There are some beautiful aphorisms ("order is the fear of disorder", "what you can't forget, you can only celebrate", "the lie is the preferred form of power for those who have no power"). I particularly liked the way the novel captured the fall of the Berlin Wall and the merge/accession of East Germany into West Germany. When Katharina returns home after a week-long vacation in Venice, she is surprised by the ubiquity of Coca-Cola: 'Coca-Cola has succeeded, where Marxist philosophy has failed, at uniting the proletarians of the all nations under its banner," she thinks to herself. For both Katharina and Hans, surprisingly, the fall of the Berlin Wall is a paradoxical moment of liberation but also of indignity and humiliation. It's an unsettling book that has no resolution or thesis, a story of abuse and tragedy and the bigger follies of history.

Jenny Erpenbeck's "Kairos" is a devastating portrait of a doomed romance set against the twilight years of East Germany. With surgical precision and lyrical grace, Erpenbeck dissects the relationship between Hans, a married 50-something writer, and Katharina, a 19-year-old student, as it blossoms and withers in tandem with the crumbling socialist state. The novel pulses with the fever of forbidden desire and youthful idealism, only to leave us with the cold ashes of disillusionment - both personal and political. Like her previous works "Visitation" and "Go, Went, Gone," Erpenbeck demonstrates her masterful ability to weave intimate human stories into the grand tapestry of German history. But "Kairos" cuts deeper, laying bare the raw nerves of a society on the brink of monumental change. It's as if Erpenbeck has held up a fractured mirror to reflect the fragmented identities and ideologies of late 1980s East Berlin. A Chance Encounter Sparks an Affair The story begins on a sweltering July day in 1986 when Hans and Katharina's paths cross on a crowded bus. Their connection is electric, immediate. Hans is captivated by Katharina's youthful energy and hunger for art and music. Katharina is drawn to Hans's intellect and worldly experience. Their age difference hardly seems to matter as they tumble headlong into a passionate affair. Erpenbeck renders these early days of romance with intoxicating sensuality. We feel the heady rush of new love, the stolen moments of intimacy, the shared jokes and private rituals that bind lovers together. Hans introduces Katharina to his world of literature and classical music. They debate philosophy and politics. They make love with abandon. For a brief, shining moment, it seems as if their connection might transcend the constraints of their circumstances. But reality soon intrudes. Hans must constantly juggle his time between Katharina, his wife Ingrid, and his teenage son. Katharina struggles with feelings of guilt and insecurity. The secrecy of their relationship begins to chafe. Slowly but inexorably, cracks begin to form in the foundation of their love. The Rot Sets In As the affair progresses, Erpenbeck peels back the layers to reveal the power imbalances and manipulations lurking beneath the surface. Hans's proclamations of love are tinged with possessiveness and jealousy. He uses his age and status to subtly control Katharina, shaping her tastes and opinions to mirror his own. Katharina, naive and eager to please, sublimates her own desires to match Hans's expectations. The turning point comes when Katharina spends a year away for an internship. During their separation, she has a brief fling with a coworker. When Hans discovers her "betrayal," he's consumed by rage and hurt. What follows is a brutal deconstruction of their relationship, as Hans subjects Katharina to endless interrogations and emotional abuse under the guise of "working through" the infidelity. Erpenbeck is unflinching in her portrayal of this toxic dynamic. We watch in mounting horror as Katharina is slowly crushed under the weight of Hans's recriminations. She's forced to recount every detail of her transgression, to beg forgiveness, to prove her love over and over. Hans wields his pain like a weapon, alternating between cruel indifference and desperate need. It's a masterclass in psychological manipulation, made all the more chilling by how recognizable these patterns of behavior are. Who hasn't, at some point, used love as justification for cruelty? Who hasn't clung to a doomed relationship out of fear or habit? Erpenbeck forces us to confront the ugliness we're all capable of in matters of the heart. A Nation in Flux While this intimate drama unfolds, the world around Hans and Katharina is undergoing seismic shifts. The winds of change are blowing through East Germany. Gorbachev's policies of glasnost and perestroika are creating ripples of hope and unrest. Cracks are appearing in the foundations of the socialist state. Erpenbeck deftly weaves these political developments into the fabric of her characters' lives. We see how large-scale events impact individual destinies in ways both obvious and subtle. Hans, a product of the old guard, clings to his socialist ideals even as doubt creeps in. Katharina, part of a younger generation, is caught between loyalty to her homeland and the allure of Western freedoms. As the Berlin Wall falls and East Germany dissolves, so too does Hans and Katharina's relationship crumble beyond repair. The carefully constructed lies they've told themselves and each other can no longer hold up in the harsh light of a new reality. Their love, like the country that nurtured it, becomes a relic of history - mourned, perhaps, but impossible to resurrect. A Meditation on Memory and Truth In the novel's final act, set years after the reunification of Germany, Erpenbeck grapples with questions of memory, truth, and reconciliation. Katharina, now middle-aged herself, discovers Hans's secret files from the Stasi archives. We learn that he had been an informant for the East German secret police, reporting on friends and colleagues for years. This revelation forces Katharina - and by extension, the reader - to reassess everything that's come before. Were Hans's professions of love genuine, or part of an assignment? How much of their relationship was real, and how much was fabricated? Can we ever truly know another person, or are we all engaged in constant performance and self-deception? Erpenbeck offers no easy answers. Instead, she leaves us to grapple with the messiness of human nature, the unreliability of memory, and the difficulty of reckoning with painful histories - both personal and national. It's a fitting conclusion to a novel that eschews simple morality in favor of nuanced, often uncomfortable truths.

I fell in love with the Starnone of the sharp, gem-like short novels Trust (2019), Ties (2014), and Trick (2016). These multifaceted, compact little suckers are dazzling comic dramas that do so much in under 200 pages. The House on Via Gemito, a much longer novel from 2000, was a different beast. Less wit, a lot more anger. It’s an autobiographical novel, and Starnone didn’t change the names of his characters. He’s the narrator, and his dad Federico is Federico Starnone the famous painter. The painting on the cover of the book is one of his more well-known works, and it features heavily in the story. In this novel Domenico looks back and talks about his dad for 450 pages, what being his child and growing around him was like. It wasn’t pleasant. Federico was a terrible narcissist, an incredibly, unabashedly self-involved artist with tunnel-vision. He was loud, aggressive, mean-spirited, and often violent. He wasn’t physically violent with his children, but he was with his wife, Domenico’s mum. He was a misogynist, a man who would tell his young boys not to ask permission when it came to girls, but to literally grab them and have their way. This novel is about his challenge to free himself from his dad’s dominance and influence, to chase away the words and beliefs that were instilled in him, to try to be the opposite. In his mining of childhood scenes and experiences, and his struggle to put things in order, to see things clearly, Starnone is also writing about memory. This is unquestionably, like the other three fictions of his that I loved, a sophisticated, masterful work. I just didn’t love this one, that’s all. It was too long. I love family novels, and this one was unusual, highly focused on his dad’s behaviour and impact, an endless stream of his dad’s personality. And being largely autobiographical, Starnone was probably indulgent for good reason, he really goes deep. But, yeah… The excellent quality of the writing is there, his sentences don’t waver, but it was just too long for me. Also, it was too long.

Crazy how the tormentors always seem to make you feel more sorry for them than their victims. Grown man carrying childhood wounds then spreading that pain to everyone else, blaming everyone else. I really enjoyed this though. Maybe more a 3.5/4. Gotta think on it for a bit.

Discover the locations in the novel here I feel I should start this review with two things – the locations as the book opens are grim (this is wartime Italy but still) and that the book seems to be written in an odd order. One of the characters confusion is reflected this way but just be prepared. What I loved is the smooth and brilliant translation by Oonagh Stransky who weaves in cultural nuances and phrases so there’s no Italian dictionary in the book. This made reading much more fluid and pleasurable. The plot centres around Mimi and his unhappy childhood. His mother and father were not good parents or good people it seemed. They all lived in a house on Via Gemito, the title of the book) I fear that as Mimi grows up, he is constantly dragged down by his memories and experiences of his family at that house. What does he remember and what really happened? There is a lot of confusion in this book and that although sometimes I was also confused, I felt I was in Mimi’s mind and soul. Not a fan of the father Federi. He sounds awful. He was a waste of space in many ways and evil too as he beat his wife. I realise he was abused by his own father in turn so it just shows how generational trauma happens. This book is a brainstorm, a tsunami of ideas, thoughts and regret. I felt my reading of it taught me many things and showed me a lot about Italy and life at that time. Sadly I felt depressed at the end yet happy that this was in a book and that it’s not real. It could be though and that’s the point. Don’t read if feeling depressed but do read it you want a challenge and an insight into some fascinating characters and family dynamics.

“He spews venom over all the people that she adores.” “Cohabitation required a pleasant disposition. A pleasant disposition he definitely did not have. All his stories, sooner or later, revealed one common element: he hated having to adapt to others, especially when it meant that his true nature and purpose in life were about as useful as withered flowers. It made him caustic and full of regrets.” “Im so afraid of him getting angry, that I keep the lights off even now” “Yes my father can make a person bleed, but he can also amaze people with exceptional words and objects” “Even the sound of his mother or grandmother's voice calling him to attention is part of a series of playful activities that unfold without the slightest shadow of pain. But if his father is home, the child doesn't even try and play. And not because his father stops him (if anyone, his mother does, with phrases like "hush, your father's still sleeping"), but because his presence, whether awake or asleep, erases all notion of play, discourages it.” "The worst idea that God ever had," he once said darkly, "was giving us the awareness of our own death.” “Unimportant moments, bathed in a happy light that colors them without giving them actual colors, like in dreams.”

Winner of The International Booker Prize 2021. I'm tempted to write one of those useless three word reviews that you find at the back covers (instead of good old summaries) of most paperbacks these days. "Brutal. Riveting. Honest." Or how about - "Disturbing. Dark. Brilliant." But honestly it's not brilliant. Unless you consider comparisons of war trenches with women's genitals brilliant, in which case, I'm afraid I don't share this particular fetish. However there's still a lot to be said for it. First of all, the book should come with Trigger Warnings: graphic depiction of violence, unhealthy masochism, trauma. At its core this book confronts the nature of dualities, it hovers on the chasm between life and death while questioning the validity of both. As we witness an already deranged protagonist's quick descent into what could only be complete insanity, we are left reeling at the vicissitudes of truths and falsehoods within the story. Despite the monotonous narration and gory-ness, our gaze and attention are constantly drawn to the text through the use of poignant, repetitive phrases like "God's truth" and "I swear". And of course, no review of this book is complete without praising its sharp commentary on colonialism and wars. Diop does a terrific job of illustrating the debilitating effects of wartime atrocities on ordinary men. But in the end, I think this book was too gruesome and hyper-masculine for me.

“Yes, I understood, God’s truth, that on the battlefield they wanted only fleeting madness. Madmen of rage, madmen of pain, furious madmen, but temporary ones." Set in the trenches during WWI, I was immediately drawn into David Diop's novella, At Night All Blood is Black. Our protagonist, Alfa, is a Senegalese soldier who fights with the French army. After the gruesome death of his best friend who he has refused to mercy kill, Alfa begins to sneak across enemy lines on a nightly basis to gut a German soldier. He then returns with the victim's hand and rifle. At first, he is lauded for these exploits, but after the fourth trip his fellow soldiers ostracize him and begin whispering that he is a soldier sorcerer. This is the beginning of Alfa's descent into madness. While I found this intriguing, and I liked the non-Western perspective from the trenches, it began to feel quite repetitive. Concluding with a drawn out sex scene with a woman whose name he didn't know (really an extended metaphor for the violence in the trenches, but way too long) also detracted from the things I really liked about the work. Interesting, but sometimes frustrating as well. 3.25 stars “Temporary madness, in war, is bravery’s sister.” “Until a man is dead, he is not yet done being created.”

| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | | At Night All Blood is Black is a short yet certainly not breezy read. David Diop's novel reads very much like the increasingly feverish confession of a man whose every-day reality is permeated by violence. He is both victim and perpetrator, cognisant of the violence that dominates his life yet somehow unwilling to truly consider the brutality of his as well as other men's actions. Alfa Ndiaye's first person perspective makes for an extremely effective narrative as it forces us to glimpse his violence through his own eyes. After Alfa, a Senegalese soldier fighting with the French army during WWI, witnesses the death of Mademba, his "more than brother", he decides to avenge him by enacting a brutal ritual: he severs the hands of the "blue-eyed" German soldiers he kills. Alfa's guilt towards Mademba's death makes him relive that painful scene time and time again. Although his 'trophies' initially earn both black and white soldiers respect, after the fourth hand they cease to be congratulatory. Through a style that verges on the stream-of-consciousness Alfa details his time before and after Mademba's death, allowing readers to see the way in which 'inhumanity' was forced upon him (the French army demand that soldiers such as Alfa perform the role of "savage") and the repercussion that his own violence have on his psyche. The repetition of phrases such as "I know, I understand" and "God’s truth" give Alfa's mental meanderings an anguish sort of rhythm. Alfa's grief and guilt threaten to his sanity and alienate him from his fellow soldiers. There were many raw and harrowing passages that were incredibly effective as they conveyed—almost to an unpleasant degree—Alfa's pain, sorrow, and thirst for revenge. I was not a fan of the role female bodies play in this story. A trench is described as "open like the sex of an enormous woman" and there are one too many references to Alfa's "insides" being "inside" a woman. At times the novel seemed to place more importance on style than substance, which is a pity as I wish Alfa and Mademba's relationship had been explored in more depth. Still, given how short this novel is it did not 'drag' on. The repetitive language was no always too my taste as it sometimes stood in the way of truly understanding/seeing Alfa. While I wouldn't necessarily recommend this to a lot of readers as this novel's subject matter and style may not have large 'appeal', I would encourage those who are interested in reading more translated fiction to give this one a try.

Longlisted for the 2020 International Booker She looked at my doubtfully, passed me a cup of hot liquid and said ‘tea’ in English, assuming, correctly, that I wouldn’t know the word. ‘Tea’ she said to me, and that word - which in Spanish, ‘ti’, sounds like a gift ‘to you’, ‘for you’ - is apparently a daily custom in England, and that’s how I learnt my first word in that language which was my mother tongue. And tea is what I’m drinking now, while the world seems beset by darkness and violence, by a furious noise that is in fact just one of the frequent storms that shake this river. Translated by Fiona Mackintosh and Iona Macintyre from Gabriela Cabezón Cámara’s 2017 novel Las aventuas de la China Iron, this book is part of a (welcome) recent trend to retell classic literature from a different perspective. Here the foundational Argentinian epic poem, by José Hernández, about the gaucho Martin Fierro is re-told from the viewpoint of his wife, mentioned only briefly in passing in the original, and the whole, including Fierro’s own story, given a LGBT+ perspective. At the start of the novel, Fierro having been forcibly conscripted, his wife meets a red-headed Englishwoman (or possibly a Scot - as the translator's note, English/Scottish/British are used rather interchangably in the original, reflecting an Argentinian view), Liz, whose husband was also taken. Fierro's wife has no parents (and is likely an illegitimate child of a landowner father with someone from a different social class), and doesn't know her real birth name. She is known by her husband as'China', which as Liz points out is a generic and not particularly flattering term meaning woman/girl/servant [*] rather than a personal name, and so she ends up known as China Josephina Star Iron - Josephina an adopted name and Star and Iron the Anglicization of her dog's name and her husband's surname Fierro. [* for the English reader, the similar but different sobriquet 'China' in Cockney rhyming slang does cause some confusion] The two women travel together across the pampas, reaching a fort, and then on into Indian territory, seeking their husbands (rather half-enthusiastically in China's case) and some land that Liz and her husband had come to Argentina to farm, eventually finding them all, although not in the way they, and the reader conditioned by the original epic poem, might suspect. The set-up of the novel is excellent, and ambition admirable, and the execution is also very well done, but I didn't find it a particularly satisfying personal reading experience. I found both the first and third sections of the novel dragged a little. They are filled with lots of nature writing, plus, in the final section, a rather magic-mushroom-fuelled idealised view of the pan-sexual nature-infused lifestyle of the Indians they encounter. The intention, showing the beauty of both the local flora and fauna and the indigenous culture, and the harmony between them, before this was spoiled by settlement and industrialization, I understand but the subject matter didn't hold my attention. I rather more appreciated the middle section, at the fort. The fort turns out to be run by a Colonel José Hernández, here, in a meta-device, reinvented as a keen enthusiast for economic development, as well as having stolen the songs of the gaucho Fierro, and published them, profitably, as his own. And for the English reader, his admiration for the blueprint presented by the English industrial revolution and the development of the railways, makes for an interesting point of reference. But herein I think lies my personal issue, my own failing not the book's, with the rest of the novel. In this section, the authorial link to the original poem is very clear, but it made me suspect I had missed much of the intertextuality elsewhere. This Spanish language review (https://www.enestosdias.com.ar/3333-l...) suggests a proper appreciation requires much greater familiarity with the original poem than I have. And this knowledge gap was, I think, exacerbated by the translators, understandably, deciding to use their own translation where Cabezón Cámara quotes from, or alludes to, the original, rather than the classic 1935 Walter Owen version (https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedi...). I can see their rationale, but it does make cross-references harder to spot - e.g. Liz's husband Oscar is referred to as what Fierro called (in his famous song) a ‘Jimmy-gringo’ from Britain, but I am not sure what this refers to in the Owen version. In the Owen version, when Fierro is conscripted, others caught up are: A gringo hurdy-gurdy man, With a dancing monkey there, Was doing his bit to help the fun; They roped him too, though he tried to run; A big soft-looking fellow was he,— And he cried for sheer despair. And an English digger of ditches too, That had dodged the draft before, By telling the Justice, I understand, That he came from 'Inca-la-Perra’ land,— He took to his heels and got to the hills By the skin of his teeth, no more. Which, if either, is the Jimmy Gringo, I am unsure. So overall - 4 stars for the conception and execution but 2.5 for my personal experience.

3.5 stars The Adventures of China Iron (pronounced as cheena, meaning : wife of/ Lady) must have been the book that I have come across the most while scrolling through #womenintranslation on Instagram back in August. Written in Spanish by Gabriela Cabezon Camara and now translated into English by Iona Macintyre and Fiona Mackintosh this is a novel which reclaims an omission in narrative using alternative history.⠀ Set in Argentina, this book is the feminist response to the legendary Argentinean epic poem penned by José Hernandez. The eponymous character of Hernandez’s poetry, Martin Fierro (Fierro translates to Iron in English), has always been considered a hero and his wife a nobody who is merely mentioned in the poem. This book shifts the spotlight to his wife - a teenage girl, now abandoned and left to tend to herself and her kids alone. The story begins when China decides to join Elizabeth, a Scottish woman who came looking for her husband. Soon she disguises as a man and renames herself as Jo and travels with her new friend Elizabeth and her pet dog Estreya into a world of new found freedom and sexual awakening. Told in first person singular, the narration has beautiful descriptions of the Pampas lowland of South America and an equally beautiful writing. This novel written in vignette style, even though convoluted & ambiguous in some places, is a tribute to nature and a feminist response that deserves to be read widely .⠀

The Birthday Party is a clear indication that Europeans have a way of doing things which separate them from the rest of the world. I’ll explain myself. The Birthday Party takes place in a farmhouse in a French hamlet. The family consists of father, Patrice, mother, Marion and their child Ida. Also there is the neighbour Christine, who is close to the family. Unfortunately the love between Patrice and Marion is dying and Patrice is conscious of that. In order to rekindle any flame, he decides to hold a surprise party for Marion’s fortieth. As things are being set up three men hijack the party and keep the family hostage. Throughout their stay we understand the motives behind this disruption, which in turn, reveals deep secrets about each family member. This builds up to a shoot out. As one can see The Birthday Party is about the hidden lives we have and that it takes tragedy to bring them out. The book also delves into the many layers of the human psyche and how we all react in troubled times. Plotwise The Birthday Party is not dissimilar to American author Ann Patchett’s 2001 novel bel Canto: A party is disrupted, the bad guys are semi comical, there are thrilling moments but it also a book about hidden pasts. HOWEVER Mauvignier’s book contains 200 pages of pure exposition. He takes ages to build up the characters and their way of life. Then there are pages and pages of deep analysis of the characters – the delinquent Stutter, Patrice’s shady past, Marion’s actions. Each motive and thought is dealt upon with the rigor of twenty sessions at a high end psychiatrist. Not to mention the long sentences. It all is a tiring book. Patchett on the other hand, is direct goes to the action quickly and manages to examine her characters thoughts without wasting any time and still keep the thrill factor high. I’m not saying that one way is better than the other but we Europeans tend to faff about in both literature and film. As for my personal feelings about The Birthday Party, I felt that for a 500 page book, it wasted too much time on exposition, while the actual story worked well.

So you just gon bring me a birthday gift on my birthday to my birthday party on my birthday with a birthday gift

** spoiler alert ** This one turned out to be a bit of a letdown. I definitely enjoyed it and it kept me engaged throughout its 450 pages, mainly due to the delicious prose, which is the book's biggest strength by far. Mauvignier writes in lovely, winding sentences that twist in and out of various character's minds throughout the novel quite deftly. Unfortunately, he used this ornate prose to convey a story that left me cold. The plot is pretty much a stock home invasion plot. As the book progresses, the reader is made privy to more and more secrets about the characters' pasts. This slow unwinding of backstory kept me reading, but I found myself disappointed over and over with the revelations--revelations that mostly landed with a dull thud instead of the sound of glass shattering. The mom has a past, where she was into drugs, sex work, and had a violent boyfriend? Heard it before. The violent ex-boyfriend blames the mom for his imprisonment and has returned for his revenge? Bit of a yawn. He's got a mentally unstable brother who is a loose cannon and has never gotten the respect he feels he deserves? Come on, Laurent, you've got to give me something here. The most embarrassing part was the classic, "I didn't realize my life was so good and I wasn't able to embrace it because I didn't feel I deserved it due to my troubled past" epiphany that Marion experiences near the end. It all felt too pulled from a human emotions 101 textbook, and I needed some deeper, more complicated, or subtle emotions from these characters. I see the tension of the novel described as a strong suit by many reviews. There was tension, but as these revelations continued to fall flat, I found the tension ratcheting down throughout the novel--and I'm pretty sure that's not how it was supposed to be. I honestly did not find the brothers very intimidating. Yes, of course, being held at knife/gunpoint by a trio of unstable jerks is going to inherently be scary, but they just didn't have personality. They were just "the scary guys who take you hostage." There was no Anton Chigurh character--maybe too high a standard as one of the most interesting and terrifying villains ever, but there was nothing even remotely close. The villains could have been cardboard cutouts and would have served more or less the same purpose. Ultimately, I think part of the lack of tension was that I genuinely didn't care much if anything bad happened to these characters. Since their personalities and back stories were so generic, the book could have ended up with all kinds of murder and carnage and I think I would have just put the book down and gone, "oh well." (Which is basically what happened, without saying to whom the murder and carnage applies.) The one character whose point of view I did really like was Ida's, the daughter. I thought Mauvignier did a great job of inhabiting how a ten-year-old would interpret and interact with the world around her. Although, I will say she was pretty equanimous for the situation she found herself in. At the end of the day, this book was worth it for the beautiful prose, I just wish Mauvignier would have applied it to a worthier subject, or put more effort into the psychology of his characters. Maybe I'll read something else he's written and see if he applies that talent to subjects I may connect with more.

This novel is a psychological literary thriller set in the French countryside over the course of just a couple days. A married couple and their young daughter live with a middle-aged female artist and her dog in an isolated cluster of houses. Unbeknownst to most of the characters, the shady background of one of them brings a few criminals to their doorstep. I really enjoyed the unique structure of this novel. The story is told through shifting perspectives, which flow from one character to another, often within a single paragraph. In this novel, time progresses very slowly, and author Laurent Mauvignier takes a lot of space on the page to describe all the details, from the characters’ inner thoughts to the external surroundings (the food, the clothing, the art, etc, etc). This was all very masterfully done. As a reader, I could appreciate this while reading, but, on a more visceral level, I was also a bit bored by the glacial pace. So, I can respect what was done here, but it didn’t entirely hold my interest. I had to push myself to finish this one.

This might have been a 5 star at 300 pages. At 600 pages it's a 3. Laurent Mauvignier writes a dense literary-noir-thriller of the type that I really appreciate. Normally the length of a novel is not an issue for me, but here I found the length of the novel detrimental to its development. There seems to be an excessive effort to cultivate a high-brow literary standard with undulating and dense prose, while at the same time attempting to create an atmosphere of claustrophobic menace and a high level of suspense. The literary effort is a success and we do get a commendable literary development of rich and complex characters, of the intruders as well as of the family and their artist-neighbor. There are also the requisite, although quite obvious, twists. Ultimately the suspense-driven thriller falls victim to the literary prose and rather than building up the suspense the novel is bogged down, for way too many pages, in a drawn-out event that loses momentum and becomes tedious.

I’m giving this novel a rating of 3.5 stars. Reading it is akin to having dinner with an incredibly intelligent friend who insists on dragging out what could have been a fascinating story. Reading THE BIRTHDAY PARTY requires the reader to focus and be patient.

Good writing. Relevant. Thrilling. Thought provoking. The book started good and somehow it becomes too many stories all at once. Not complaining.

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐ Genre: Fantasy + Cultural The Lovely Bones meeting Lincoln in the Bardo. This is the basic concept behind the story of The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida. Set in Colombo in 1989, Maali is killed. He has no idea who killed him and why. He is in the afterlife and he has the period of seven moons to figure things out. The concept of the story is brilliant. I thought this would be a new favorite because many of my friends who read it loved it a lot. Unfortunately, it was not the same case for me. I appreciate the kind of subjects that the author has touched on in this novel but I have problems with the way this novel has been executed. The first thing is the narration. I feel using a second-person narration did more of a disservice to the character and the story. Maybe the author wanted the reader to be Maali and be in his shoes but that did not work for me. I feel for such a story a first-person narration would’ve made me closer to the character. I don’t want to be the character, I want to know him and how he feels. I felt detached from him. The other problem is there are many characters. Maali meets many many ghosts and has conversations with them. While the subjects they discussed held my interest, the characters who were talking did not! Sometimes I felt the book was getting slow and tedious. This could be much shorter and have a better pace. I expected a lot more from the book. Maybe that is why I didn’t enjoy it that much. It is a decent story. If you are OK with the points I have mentioned, then you might like it.

44th book of 2023. 3.5. I originally started this on audio a long time ago, my first experience with audio, and it was horrible. As my first, I can't comment on the narrator himself, but I don't think I'm an audio-listener. I was constantly having to rewind and listen to things again because I'd zoned out or the background noise drowned out a sentence or two. The voice, after about fifteen minutes, began to get on my nerves and I threw my hands in the air thinking, I wish I could just read this on the page! My friend has assured me that other audio experiences will be better but for now, I can't imagine ever doing it again. So, I finished the final 200 pages today, finally getting the hardcover from the library so I could cease listening to the horrible audio. I enjoyed it a lot more without the audio. So, sadly, this felt like the longest 400 pages I've ever read. A shame. The book is imaginative (though when I explained the plot to someone recently I thought, Huh, it's like the god-awful Lovely Bones), funny, sad, dark, political and personal. The start is fantastic, the ending is also poignant. The middle is overly long. I wish it was The Four Moons of Maali Almedia: seven is a bit too many. It is repetitive, meandering, as others have said but I think it deserved to win the Booker. I read most of the list last year and this tops all of them.

Man Booker Prize winner 2022. I feel as if I should have liked this more, but, well, I just didn’t. A Sri Lankan war photographer at the height of that country’s civil war is murdered, then rises into an afterlife and told he has seven days (moons) to complete the tasks necessary to enter the light and avoid rebirth. He is more interested in such earthly concerns as discovering who killed him, ensuring his photos revealing nefarious political secrets are released, and helping the loved ones he has left behind. The author does an outstanding job of depicting the utter chaos of the times. For instance, the photographer often has no idea who he’s taking pictures for, as factions are buried within factions and everybody lies and has much to hide. The blame is apportioned equally. Tamils and Sinhalese butcher each other mercilessly, with civilian populations bearing the brunt of the conflict. Factions kill moderates on their own side for not being hard-line enough. And of course foreign governments have operatives inserting themselves with impunity. Arms dealers are everywhere. You get the picture. The problem for me is the whole superstructure of the afterlife, peopled by a hierarchy of ghosts, ghouls, monsters, demons, bureaucrats (yep) and so on. It just didn’t interest me, and there was so much of it. There was a constant tension for me of wanting to follow the story to its conclusion (who killed Maali Almeida of the many likely candidates?) but being so irritated by that afterlife framework. I had to force myself to finish. P.S. I’ve just realized I didn’t mention some of the most salient elements. The novel is a ferocious satire, with plenty of energy and rage fuelling it. It didn’t make it any more palatable for me. And there is a major LGBTQ thread. It’s very dangerous to be a gay man in Colombo.

Colombo, 1990 - Maali Almeida - war photographer, gambler, and closet homosexual - is dead. He doesn't know how he died, when or where he died, or even if someone killed him…intriguing right?! 🧐 This book has a very unique narrative; somewhat confusing, especially at the beginning. However, I slowly warmed to this original piece of narrative. To its credit the storyline was definitely innovative and focused on a vast array of topics. These included a balanced mix historical fiction, religion, dark humour, fantasy, and LGBTQ+. However, it was written in such a way that none of these topics were overwhelming, it just seemed to flow naturally. But, the big question is: WHO KILLED MAALI and WHY? ‘Call unto Me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things, which thou knowest not.’ - Jeremiah 33:3 Meet Maali. He is told from the outset that he has seven moons to set his affairs in order before he needs to walk towards the light. There's just one thing that Maali wants to do - lead the two people he loves most towards a hidden stash of controversial photographs. I have a love/hate relationship with this book. There were parts I thoroughly enjoyed reading, and was totally captivated by, and others (the whole middle section) that I found boring and repetitive. There is no doubt that Shehan Karunatilaka knows his country in and out. His depth of knowledge is reflected in the narrative, and comes from an authentic perspective. I personally feel, although this could only really be confirmed by a Sri Lankan themselves, that he captured the essence and culture of Sri Lanka. The complexity of the narrative was displayed not only in the setting but also through each character. It was a little overwhelming at times because there were too many characters and a lot of different scenes and timelines. The attention to detail was brilliant, although I felt it discussed the local political culture in too much depth, leaving me totally confused 🫤 Over the course of the book I actually grew fonder of Mali’s friends, rather than him; Almeida is not the most likable of characters. I wanted answers for them, more than I wanted answers for him. After all, it is the ones left behind that suffer the loss; and it must be even greater without knowing where or how their deeply beloved friend died. However, the thing I found most difficult to get my head around was the second person narrative. It screwed with my head and I had to keep reminding myself who was speaking. In the end, I was satisfied with the mystery’s conclusion as to the cause of death. It sure was a unique piece of work but I can’t say I would recommend it. ‘Jaki and DD still have breath and, even though that won’t make up for this whole damn mess, it is something. And, without a doubt, that is the kindest thing you can say about life. It’s not nothing.’ 💭💖✨ 3 🌟🌟🌟

I was always an outsider to this country of my heritage. I guess I should feel blessed to read this book as an outsider not having lost anyone I personally knew, lost any place that was wrought out of luck, inheritance, wealth or will, not have my freedoms become non-existent because it was passed in some legislative building. Maybe this is why I don't hero or human worship. I have no faith in man to do the right thing at all times. The repetitiveness was daunting, the gore and macabre sit upon each page. The humour is half hearted. But there is a want for hope and happiness on such a cursed island. Looks like no one gets to rest in peace.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2021 Mary Lawson gives a lesson in how to craft a story told from three perspectives that also jumps between timelines - when such a grifted and controlled writer does it, it feels completely effortless. Set in a small town North Ontario in 1972, we first meet seven-year-old Clara whose elder sister has run away; then there's her elderly, frail neighbour Mrs Orchard, who is currently in the hospital; and the last perspective is that of Liam, an accountant in his thirties who lived next to Mrs Orchard when he was a small boy. Of course, they all are connected - but the question how exactly is what drives the narrative, so I won't spoil it. Suffice to say that all characters are drawn with great empathy, their trials and tribulations are portrayed in a convincing and touching manner (especially when it comes to Clara who struggles with the world of the grown-ups around her). All storylines center on love, loss, and longing. Lawson has complete control over her material and does a great job displaying human emotions in a calm, but intense manner - the comparisons to Anne Tyler are fully justified. But is this Booker material? It's a timeless piece, told in a traditional manner, and there's nothing wrong with that per se, but if the Booker wants to highlight timely material and cutting-edge literary aesthetics, this is not the novel to point out. My guess it that it will be a puzzle piece in a diverse array of texts that the judges want to present this year. Let's find out and tackle the rest of the longlistees!

There were two streets at right angles to each other, one running north-south, parallel to the lake, the other running east from the lake for a couple of blocks before petering out altogether at the edge of the woods. Apart from some small farms, a new-ish secondary school all on its own in the middle of a field, a sawmill and a lumber camp a couple of miles out of town, that was it: Solace, Northern Ontario, as of September 1972. A Town Called Solace is a touching, human story told expertly in three distinct voices, and despite the fact that I can’t really find fault with its plot, philosophy, or construction, I have no idea why it was longlisted for the 2021 Man Booker Prize. Author Mary Lawson certainly displays skill and an empathy for the human condition, but when it comes to the town of Solace and its occupants, I’ll hearken back to Gertrude Stein and complain that there’s not a lot of there there. This was a nice little read, not a necessary one. I couldn’t sleep myself. I lay there trying to reason away fear. To rise above it. I tried to think in universal rather than personal terms, to shrink the importance of “me” and see my life as merely part of the great flow of time. I imagined myself at home, standing outside in the dead of night (that is an interesting phrase, don’t you think? The “dead” of night?), looking up at the brilliance of the sky, and attempted to place my paltry seventy-two years alongside the billions of years of the lifespans of the stars. You know when you throw a log on a bonfire how there is a fleeting rush of tiny sparks? Not the ones that soar joyously up towards the heavens but the tiny ones that spring up and die almost instantaneously? That was my life measured against the stars, my love. Gone instantaneously. Over before it began. The plot revolves around the third person POVs of Clara (a nearly eight-year-old who employs self-destructive magical thinking in an attempt to both bring her missing older sister home and to keep watch over the house of an elderly neighbour who has been sent to hospital) and Liam (a thirty-something recent divorcé who has been lured to Solace by an inheritance), and the first person POV of the elderly Elizabeth (aware that she will not be leaving the hospital again, she has a running mental conversation with her dead husband as she reviews a life of challenges). In a story about family connections and loss and loneliness, I did appreciate the three distinct perspectives and voices (and especially little Clara’s), and between being set in 1972 (a time in my own childhood memory) and rotating between a northern Ontario lake town and scenes set in Guelph and Toronto, this is all familiar and relatable territory to me. There is real tension in the plot as we wait to see what has happened to Clara’s sixteen-year-old runaway sister, Rose, and while there is a secondary mystery to the plot (Elizabeth hints that she did something damaging to Liam when he was a child, and Liam himself doesn’t understand what happened in his early childhood that placed an unbridgeable “river” between himself and others), that thread didn’t really play out to any great effect. These are ordinary scenes from ordinary lives and Lawson makes it all believable. Driving home he was struck by the thought that, increasingly, his life prior to coming north seemed to be taking on the quality of an old movie, one in which he'd been deeply engrossed while watching it but which now seemed trivial, unconvincing and profoundly lacking in either colour or plot. Solace had colour and plot in spades, maybe too much. In every way it was coming to seem more real than Toronto, with its endless malls and traffic jams and high-powered jobs. Though maybe, if he went back to Toronto, the same would be true in reverse. Maybe when he'd been back for a couple of months he'd find that it was Solace that seemed unreal, its unremarkable streets and stores like something from a dream, its dramatic landscape fading to nothing, like a holiday photo left in the sun. Lawson herself grew up in Ontario before moving to England as an adult, so it’s understandable that this novel has a nostalgic feel for a bygone time and place; and although I’m a generation younger than the author, I felt the pull of nostalgia as I read this. Again, I felt that the writing was skillful, and although thoughtful, not particularly deep. It feels like I’m damning with faint praise, but that’s probably just due to the curious Booker nomination; this is a fine read that ought to have wide appeal. I have stopped trying to erase the past, my love. I see now that it is part of the story, and the story is me. Denying it is denying that I am who I am.

Fair. I like a character driven story. I like the format of different chapters being related by different characters. But honestly, I felt like I could have written this book. The most interesting parts of the book were off to the side, and the main thrust was really not much of a cliffhanger. It's like if I go out to a restaurant and have a meal, at the end of it, I definitely DO NOT want to feel like I could have cooked the same thing at home, for half the price. That's the feeling I had upon finishing this book. Crow Lake was definitely better. In small town, Solace, Rose runs away from home. Her younger sister, Clara, is understandably distressed about this situation, but she promised to feed the neighbor's cat while the neighbor was hospitalized. The hospitalized neighbor, Mrs. Orchard, is ten times more intriguing than the story about Clara. Unfortunately, her story is not really the focus. There are a lot of scenes of everyday details, but they aren't really presented in an interesting way, nor do they seem like they are really illuminating the characters much. There's also a lot of telling while the most interesting parts of the story are mostly left untold. (view spoiler) Everything I really wanted to know was either explained in a paragraph (telling, not showing) or not explained at all. I'm giving it three stars because I did like sub plot idea of what might happen when a childless woman gets too invested in someone else's child. Also, on a more personal note, I really don't like reading a book where one of the perspectives is a child's unless it is written very creatively . . .this wasn't. I like children, but their inner thoughts are not very complex, and their unreliability comes from innocence.

Booker Longlist Challenge (6 of 13) A TOWN CALLED SOLACE by Mary Lawson A quaint small town story about a middle aged man, Liam, who inherits a house from an old family friend in a small town in Northern Ontario. Liam quickly gets drawn into the town’s intrigues and the disappearance of a teenage girl who lived next door. Interspersed with the accounts of the girl’s younger sister and the older woman who gave him the house, Lawson slowly reveals the mysteries that explain how Liam ended up gifted this house. Compared to Anne Tyler, A Town Called Solace is a fine piece of literature, an easily consumed story, delving into the problems of family and relationships. But it was just fine. Nothing really special in the prose, in the character building, or the themes explored. The Booker always includes a few titles that are more accessible and that is fine, but this still pales compared to the bolder story telling I’ve read so far.

3.5 stars. The Land in Winter is a beautifully written novel set during the harsh winter of 1962–63. It follows two neighbouring families whose lives slowly overlap as the snow deepens and isolation sets in. I usually enjoy quiet, character-driven stories, but I never really connected with these characters. Not a bad read, just one that probably won’t stick with me for long.

Nominated for the Booker Prize this year, this is a story set in the 1960s in England. I feel this was another book that didn't align fully with the synopsis given. Additionally, there were some mental health aspects touched on and toyed with, but not developed to the degree I would have liked to have seen. The writing is unquestionably beautiful. But I agree with what another reviewer on Goodreads said: it's very cold and clinical. I felt each of the 4 main characters was encased in their individual world; the limited interactions between them were shallow and distant. I was expecting more here overall, and I didn't receive it. 11/19/25 - The writing is unquestionably beautiful. But I agree with what another reviewer said, it's very cold and clinical. I felt each of the 4 main characters were encased in their individual worlds; the limited interactions between them were shallow and distant. I was expecting more here overall, and I didn't receive it. Will probably write more on it in the future.

Now Longlisted for the Women's Prize for Fiction 2026 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 Listen, I like novels that are experimental and meta, but - unpopular opinion! - the new Kitamura just doesn't have enough meat on the bone. Sure, all the world's a stage (As You Like It; later sociologically investigated in The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life), but that this novel in two parts that lets its protagonists change roles asks, as the description of the book suggests, who we are to the people we love seems like an empty promise to me. In both parts, our narrator and protagonist is an actress with a curious tendency to treat life as literature, meaning that she ascribes meaning to every word, every object, every movement, every sound as if an artists put it there after carefully thinking about it - which drives her crazy. In the first part, a young man contacts her because he believes her to be his mother, which isn't the case - in the second part, she IS his mother. In the first part, she cheats on her husband - in the second part, you guessed it, he cheats on her. In the first part, she struggles with a theater scene - in the second part, she mastered it, and so on. Constantly, she is performing her professional and social roles, responding to the outside world as if it consists of props and prompts, and the effect is truly unnerving and claustrophobic. This is juxtaposed by a playwright she meets, one who, as she slowly comes to understand, has no idea what she has written: The play of our life is a contingent mess, there is no coherence or pre-defined meaning. Who are we if we have no screenplay, but masks? Sure, that's an interesting question per se, but to me, Kitamura's plot, especially the last chamber play section so reminiscent of The God of Carnage, left me cold: Nothing much happens, except vibes and an actress acting all the way through her existence. It didn't captivate me, and I mainly pulled through because Kitamura's language and scene composition are of course first class. You can listen to our podcast gang discuss the German translation Die Probe here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

The summary of my review? Read Intimacies first. That’s a taut gem—smart, efficient, introspective, sad, hopeful, unique. This is also unique, but much more difficult to absorb. I highly recommend reading this with a buddy (which I didn’t do). Here are some of my issues: 1. As I was starting to sink into these characters and premise, (where a famous actress is approached by a young man who thinks he’s the son she gave up, but the reader is confided in as to why this is impossible), Part 2 comes and shifts the whole reality. It’s just as interesting and well-written a reality as Part 1, but it means I was jolted out of the intimacy we were establishing, and sent back to start all over again. 2. The interior of the main character in this one is harsh compared to Intimacies’ hazy, vulnerable lead. Here I wondered if she was even capable of empathy, and my stomach was in knots at times. There wasn’t the humor needed to mitigate this. Before I got to feeling the empathy-lack, the voice was reminding me of Rachel Cusk. I loved Cusk’s trilogy, but was surprised by the distance I felt Kitamura wanted to keep here. 3. The interior musings in Intimacies were deep, yet efficient. Here, as early as Part 1, I was already feeling we were going over and over some things too compulsively. So, why these alternate realities for these characters in this particular way? I could come up with all kinds of theories that involve storytelling and writing, wish-fulfillment and facing who you would be, even within the path not taken. But I don’t really know, and it all feels like a creative exercise rather than a naturally occurring emotional synthesis. ——- I did love the question of whether or not it matters if an actor feels good about their performance. My first job was ASM to an off-Broadway show, and I remember distinctly being less impressed with the performances where the actors felt they had total control. The ones where they would beat themselves up for losing the thread always contained the most riveting, human moments. And there’s lots to think about in this novel about preparedness and control of one’s entire body as a trained performer, and whether that leads to excellence in life and art. I also loved how the actress faces herself and her assumptions about who she is in relationships intermittently—that felt brave and true. Kitamura is still an artist with her prose. I’m happy I read this, and happy she’s experimenting with the form. I just usually feel this magic moment of synthesis when I read literature where themes come together, and the truth underneath the details emerges fresh and whole. I still look forward to reading A Separation, and anything else Kitamura writes. My reading experience with Audition still makes me want more. ————— And I must share her prose, with some examples of her quiet dread: “I was aware that Xavier was watching me closely, with a hunger that sat too close to the surface.” “I felt, in his departure, a feeling of regret so pronounced it seemed to exert a gravitational pull, it seemed to pull me to the ground. I could have gotten to my feet and called him back. I could have run after him, tugged at his arm. But there had been something that stopped me.” “Anger surged through me, a sharpening of all my instincts. The situation was more dangerous than I had previously understood, below the surface demands and obtrusions of his personality was a ruthlessness I had not perceived or prepared for.” [this is how I ended up feeling about the narrator. Deliberate projection?] “…I had learned to live with greater discipline, to inhabit a certain quietude, so that I no longer fully remembered what it felt like to be so open to the world, to take such pleasure in throwing myself onto the crashing waves of other people’s temperament.” “When he was younger there had been something grasping in his manner, which was not unusual in someone so ambitious, someone who wished to make his mark upon the world and who cared what people thought of him. But as he attained further success in his work, he became less interested in what other people thought, his ego no longer requiring external reinforcement, and then less interested in other people more generally.” “Said had a successful gallery career that was predicated on small shifts in his practice, sufficiently minute that his market remained untroubled, but together substantial enough to create the impression of artistic revolution. Lately, however, Said had talked of making larger changes in his work, he was tired of pandering to the market, even if it had made him enormously wealthy.” “There are always two stories taking place at once, the narrative inside the play and the narrative around it, and the boundary between the two is more porous than you might think, that is both the danger and the excitement of the performance.” [this seems key thematically, but I still can’t make sense of the whole]. “…the success of the film happened to coincide with a change in the culture, in the writing, a change in the way of seeing. For the first time, I was allowed to be human. I could even be at the center of a story. And later still, there were parts that consumed me, so that I could say the life that was performed, on a set or in a theater, could at times feel more real to me than my actual life.” I think she’s hinting at something with that last quote, too, how strange a profession acting and writing must be to so fully inhabit characters in a fictional world. 3.5

Full disclosure, I have trouble with Riverhead books. While I enjoy them, I don't think I'm smart enough for them. I recognize the majority of them are extremely well written, and I connect with parts of them, but they don't feed me, if that makes sense. I love Manhattan. I love Asian diaspora lit. I love messy families and confusing truths. I much preferred the first half of this book to the second. That's not to say I didn't enjoy the second half. I just didn't quite connect with it, and that's fine. This is almost evocative of EXHIBIT, also by the same publisher, which I felt similarly about. 📖 Thank you to Viviann at Riverhead Books

i’ll probably always be confused by this one but i didn’t hate it. it had some pretty great writing at times, and a lot of super symbolic writing, im just a little dumb for it lol. this is written in a way that really leaves you guessing where it was going with the plot

“What was a family if not a shared delusion, a mutual construction?” I’m a sucker for narratives that play around with form and structure, so I couldn’t wait to pick this up. This is one of those super cerebral novels that I don’t entirely get, that is smarter than I am. And there’s something so alluring about that. I didn’t love it. I wouldn’t recommend it to most people. But I also couldn’t put it down. I appreciated the challenge and ended up finishing it basically in one sitting. What’s it about? The roles we perform in our everyday lives—in the most literal sense—and the inevitable distances that exist in even the closest relationships.

Now Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2023 Now Nominated for the National Book Award for Fiction 2023 This is not a bad book, but I don't see how a novel told that conventionally and offering almost no ambiguity can possibly be the best English-language fiction of 2023. The plot is based on the historically true destiny of the inhabitants of Malaga Island (in the text: Apple Island) in Maine: They lived as an integrated interracial community until 1911, when they were forcibly evicted by the state and had to live in a segregated America. Harding introduces us to a whole cast of (fictional) islanders, many of them descendants of the first settlers, a runaway slave named Benjamin Honey and his Irish wife who came in 1792. Then, the state representatives, proponents of eugenics, enter the picture and the tragedy begins... The strong suit of the text is Harding's ability to gracefully and empathically depict the destitute people on the island who live in a strong community, but far from any comfort, healthcare and with almost no access to information on the outside world. The most interesting character is a former missionary though who came to educate the children and spread Christian morals on Apple Island, and while he tries to save Ethan Honey, a gifted young painter, he largely stands by when the other Islanders are deported from their homes, prompting the question what he should have done, and in how far he was a messenger of white supremacy. The government officials cite scientific reasons (namely eugenics, like, you know, the Nazis) to displace locals and steal their property, as well as to forcefully sterilize, socially ostracize, and generally humiliate them. It's true that Harding's language is lyrical: This is a prose that ventures into the bombastic image, the adjective-heavy evocation of atmosphere, the visceral appeal to the senses. Perspectives change, time collapses, and all of this is expertly done, alas, experimental or particularly contemporary this is not. It's the kind of prose that could have been written exactly like that 50 or even 100 years ago. It's very controlled and thought out, there is nothing particularly daring or innovative to see here. And again: That's not necessarily bad, but how many "Oprah's Book Club" vibes do you want on a Booker list? Another aspect that got me thinking were the thoughts of the wonderful Danez Smith, who remarked that the Black/mixed characters are shown as people to whom things happen, who don't have lots of agency. They come up with the explanation that living in an Eden-like place demands a degree of ignorance, but I would argue that Apple Island was never a pure Eden in the first place: Yes, the people live in a (for the time) progressive interracial community, but they also live in dire poverty, and as outcasts - they have paid an unfair, cruel price from the get-go. The nuances are not explored deeply enough in the novel though, the text does, as Danez suggests, sometimes remain a little simplistic (read Danez' piece for the NYT here). So all in all, this is solid storytelling, but it did not surprise me on the aesthetic level, and it did not challenge me content-wise. It's a conventional historical novel and well done as such, but riveting this is not.

Now shortlisted for Booker Prize 2023 Longlisted for 2023 Booker Prize Beautiful language, but I don't think the author has enough curiosity about the place he writes about to make it come alive. Maybe that's why, instead of seeing the huge opportunities he can find in a mixed-race community from 100 to 200 years ago, he focuses more on how the outside world reacted to this setting. Meh.

It’s Apple Island! It is Apple Island! Benjamin Honey looked at his wife crying to him — fierce and true. But she was wrong. His orchard, so fair in appearance, was a folly; his half-remembered Eden no sooner restored than carried off by a little wind and rain. This Other Eden opens with an epigraph that states: Malaga Island was home to a mixed-race fishing community from the mid 1800s to 1912, when the state of Maine evicted 47 residents from their homes and exhumed and relocated their buried dead. Inspired by this historic tragedy, author Paul Harding imagines his own such mixed-race community — the first settlers, a runaway enslaved man and his Irish wife, having arrived on the fictional “Apple Island” in 1792 — and although, by design, the reader knows where the plot must lead, Harding seems to be using the storyline merely as a scaffolding from which to hang his incredibly pretty words. On the one hand: I am a sucker for just this kind of rhythmic and lyrical wordcraft; and on the other: knowing that this was based on true events, I don’t know if Harding did right by the memories of those whose lives he mined for inspiration. I savoured the reading experience, but it left a sour taste in my mouth; my heart wanted to round up to four stars, but my brain says three. Terrible, she thought, making her way home as Charlotte and Tabitha and the Sockalexis children criss-crossed in front of and between the line of adults walking away from the schoolhouse along the path. Terrible how terribly good intentions turn out almost every time. As the novel opens in the early twentieth century, there’s something like sixteen residents living on Apple Island: all of mixed race and a range of colours; many the result of inbreeding, consensual and otherwise. In the first scene, we see the Honey family (the direct descendents of the island’s first settlers) as they tell stories and try to keep warm in their crude cabin; cold, hungry, threadbare, but loving. We eventually meet Matthew Diamond: a retired minister who comes to the island every summer in order to teach its children, and although he appears to be a charitable and Christ-like man, he will eventually reveal a hidden ugliness. If Apple Island is Eden, Diamond is the serpent; his proffered fruit of the knowledge of good and evil necessarily leads to the Fall. Yet: if Diamond is the villain for eventually bringing government inspectors (and their new excitement for eugenics) to the island, Harding doesn’t exactly portray the pre-contact society as a paradise. The inbreeding has had an effect on some of the residents (one little girl seems little more than animal), they are living hand to mouth in unhygienic conditions, and summer school doesn’t seem sufficient for the handful of students that, somehow, include a maths genius, a Latin scholar, and an artistic savant. The fact that intervention (as per other information in the epigraph) leads to bad outcomes for some residents doesn’t actually seem to argue against the need for some kind of intervention. This would have been more tragic if Harding had made the islanders seem more like ordinary people who simply chose to live apart from society — if their mistreatment had been more clearly linked to racism or paternalism or eugenics — instead of peopling this outpost with the old man with a religious mania for carving Biblical scenes on the inner walls of the tree he lives inside, or the man who wears his dead mother’s dress and dead father’s clerk apron and obsessively acts out what he remembers of their roles in life, or the little girl who won’t eat people food but bites the heads off snakes and vermin. I guess what I’m saying is that there’s nothing philosophically interesting about the plot — because of the way that Harding used his source material — and ultimately, that didn’t feel respectful to those who actually lived this. As for the wordcrafting, many, many scenes play out like the following; odd phrasing and syncopation that worked for me (but could wear on another reader, for sure): Put the haystacks in the sky, bristling and sharp, rasping across the lowering blue. Stack the clouds in piled rows across the meadow, simmering, hovering, combed fog stitched by the bottom to the short shorn grass, vegetal, green, drying in the day, dehydrating in the sun, sweet and wet then dry and sweet and perfuming the meadow, the deep gray purple morning clouds with the shorn dark green morning grass waving like tide grass in salt creeks then leaching white and straw as light sheers to high white noon and hangs from the pinnacle of the day, suspended in the heat and high white and white hay, suffocating, asphyxiating in breathless angelic light. How to get dawn, noon, and dusk all at once. How to get the heat. The forms and light and colors describe themselves to Ethan with perfect clarity and harmony, without explanation or reason, and he copies them down onto the canvas with the paints. There is a nice bit in the middle that sees this self-taught painter — Ethan, who can pass for white — sent away for instruction by the meddlesome Matthew Diamond. But as much as I was enjoying the change of scenery, we are eventually brought back to Apple Island and the eviction of its residents, and I don’t know if at all hangs together. But again: This really isn’t about the plot; it’s about words and rhythm and mood and I felt like Harding succeeded in what he was aiming for. But again: Knowing that this was based on the lives of real people, it leaves a sour aftertaste. Art, but problematic.

Reading "This Other Eden" is like eating a lukewarm soup with too many ingredients that - inexplicably - is still tasteless. The novel tells the historically verified story of the inhabitants of Apple Island, a small island in the American state of Maine. They were all descendants of slaves and refugees of all skin colours and established their own small society over several decades. The story is told from the perspective of various islanders, but you don't really get close to any of them. Where the interpersonal dramas take place and you are startled out of your half-sleep, you are quickly interrupted in favour of the description of the waves and the building of huts. Sometimes the biblical-bizarre scenarios - like for example the hurricane and the flood - are impressive, but mostly the spasmodically artistic evocations of the archaic situations are not very captivating. The stylised close-ups seem reluctant to be squeezed into a poem - despite the self-indulgent onomatopoeias and accumulations and polysyndetones - and hang a little lost in the air. The obligatory artist character, Ethan Honey - the secret protagonist within the island genealogy - remains also strangely pale and his drawings are more interesting than he is - although they are mainly still lifes of dead animals, shells and plants. And then there's a love story that leaves you completely cold. Esther, the most interesting character, mostly sits in her rocking chair and rocks. It's a bit of a shame, as the material would have had so much potential and what has emerged from it is far too rarely fascinating. Perhaps it would have been more honest with the islanders to dispense with the finger exercises of the literature lecturer and tell the story in a less ambitious way. I may have finished the soup, but I wouldn't recommend it.

A terrific concept that, unfortunately, failed to entertain me. The storytelling could have been better. The writing was a bit pretentious, and I did not connect with anything, perhaps because there was no depth in the characters’ development. I was completely bored. I did finish it because it’s a small book, just about 67k words. This book was shortlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize.

Thanks to NetGalley and WW Norton and Company for this advance reader copy of The Other Eden in exchange for a fair review. Heartbreaking and maddening, this Historical Fiction work brings to life the unknown (to most of the country) tale of a small island off the coast of Maine that was settled by a couple (he Black, and she Irish) and was occupied for more than a century. During the time of Eugenics, the powers that be in Maine decided that these people, now generations later and having survived the harshness of the coast of Maine with little help from the outside, must be insane or feeble minded and are evicted from their home. Harding imagines a school teacher who saves one boy, a white skinned artist, as the most likely one to thrive in the mostly white Northeast. This is a true story in the eviction of these people, but fiction in the individuals themselves as their stories have faded. I struggled with this one. I was captivated by the story and characters that had drawn me in from the beginning. The writing style was difficult for me, as I was trying to read it not for myself, but for the average book reader who likes historical fiction. This book is one chapter. Many of the sentences are a paragraph long. The voice of the book is like a storyteller who might embellish the story mid sentence or follow a twig of the story but loops it all back in the end. I've heard these story tellers speak, and my husband will accuse me of doing the same, as they weave intricate stories and using their entire bodies to enthrall an audience. The down side of the writing is that you can't really put the book down anywhere without losing your place. I got lost a few times, shaking my head but carrying on. This style of writing was difficult for me. 3* for the story itself, the imagery, and the characters themselves. I'll leave the rest for you to decide.

98th book of 2023. 3.5. A seductive little book. I was chatting to Alan the other day about Harding (he's read the Pulitzer Prize winning Tinkers) and we both agreed that there is something enchanting about his prose though it isn't anything we could actually put our fingers on. I kept reading, sort of swept along by it, like the floods alluded to in the text. This Other Eden is about Apple Island (Malaga Island in reality) and steeped in historic fact, none of which I knew. In 1792 a freed slave and his wife make their home on the island, and we read, for the rest of the book, about the interracial inhabitants who still lived on the island at the beginning of the 20th century. A man comes as a schoolteacher to bring education and 'modernity' to the island, but gradually, prejudices begin to twist his original intentions. The story focuses a little on the single boy who is 'saved' from the island and sent away to learn painting. The schoolmaster remains and, like the snake in the original Garden of Eden, changes it forever. I can't say why I haven't given it 4-stars. As seductive as it was, there was something missing, though I'm not sure what. A powerful and beautiful little book that holds a piece of American history to the light and scrutinises it.

Imagine the transformation of a forsaken island when an enslaved man arrives on its shores accompanied by his wife. This island slowly evolves into a sanctuary, not just for them, but for a mixed-race community. The island's narrative unfurls as the echoes of solitude alter the harmonious rhythm of diverse lives living together. This Other Eden by Paul Harding presents a fictionalized narrative centered around Malaga Island and mirrors the reality of the interracial community after America's Civil War. The community thrived there until 1912, when the Maine state authorities enforced their expulsion. As indicated in the introductory note of the book, the deceased were also subjected to the unsettling process of exhumation and relocation. I anticipated a substantial depth from a Booker nominee, my expectations were notably high. While This Other Eden does succeed in delivering substantial content, it is regrettable that Paul Harding's depiction of both the inhabitants' psychological intricacies and his own linguistic expression didn't match that level. I fully understand the gravity of this subject matter. Frankly, I was previously unaware of this entire incident and the struggles faced by the community deserved a much-greater recognition. Apart from a scant few pages dedicated to portraying their anguish as societal outcasts and the pervasive undercurrents of racism, the book ultimately falls short of its potential, leaving a sense of disappointment in its wake. I hold no objection to reading This Other Eden, and I certainly won't deter you from considering this book. It's plausible that Harding's narrative might pave the way for forthcoming writers to delve deeper into this subject, potentially ushering in new perspectives and insights.

There are lots of biblical parallels here, with the Garden of Eden, obviously, but also Noah's ark. But after finishing it, I'm still not sure what the message is supposed to be. The eviction of these residents of Apple Island was horrific, and the prejudice and mistreatment by state officials is sadly all too familiar. But is an isolated island of inbred, sickly, impoverished recluses really Eden? I just don't understand what Harding is really arguing with this work. If you've read it, what am I missing?

Straightforward plot and tone: nothing and nobody will surprise you, all written from just the perspective you’d expect. The predictableness could make it dull, and make a reading of a solid piece of reportage on the actual events that inspired the novel the better choice, but for Harding’s prose style. It’s an ornamental decorative prose, seemingly always looking for an opportunity to burst the banks with more, more, more. At my most sympathetic it conjured up for me something admirably Whitmanesque. Sometimes it was just tiring, which I reckon is also something Whitmanesque! Here for example is a character realizing he’ll miss his home: Eha’s life and the lives of everyone on the island and everything they’ve done and enjoyed and suffered and nearly starved from and all the full moons and bright suns and green grass and blue skies and rain and snow and wind and clouds, tin cups, lead sinkers, cod and lobsters and clams and whelks and driftwood all begin to erupt in slow motion from the infinitely dense black point in Eha’s thought that is the meaning of this eviction, which at first his brain could not divulge to his understanding but is splitting open and disgorging as he sits looking at his house remembering so many things. Here he is earlier having reached a decision about something important: Eha sits on the stool, silent, eyes directed to the tabletop but seeing what who can tell and he suddenly seems so dense of matter to Matthew Diamond as to be monumental, the stool beneath him about to explode as if a block of marble has just been lowered onto it and it only remains to be seen along which exact grains in the wood it will explode and collapse beneath the monolithic man. Always reaching for the dramatic, the exuberant, the prose is something like a bougainvillea threatening to overgrow its container, beautiful in a sectional closeup yet possibly too immoderate for its own good. It’s certainly for me the main reason for the thing, its argument, its claim, far more so than the history lesson, its admiration of the artist, or an alleged thought-provoking philosophical quality.

What an excellent topic - the expulsion of a tiny mixed-raced community from a small island off the cost of Maine, but more than that, the abhoring exploitation of other races by white people, this toxic ideology going as far as eugenics. And what a waste of a great topic. There are no strong scenes. Even the most crucial moments lack intensity. It's like the author doesn't invest himself at all in the story. Beautiful language, interesting references to the Bible and to Shakespeare's characters, but no energy.

3.5 stars I really did want to like this more but having read North Woods earlier in the year I couldn't help but draw unfavourable comparisons. I know it's based in fact and the story is enough to make one seethe but I found the telling somewhat all over the place. I kept losing my place, couldn't get a grasp on the characters and it gave me a bit of a headache. Still it was a Booker shortlister and plenty friends have loved it so I'm thankfully in the minority. As with all books I've not got along with I sincerely hope that everyone else enjoys it.

In writing this book, the author took the facts that were available about this actual incident in our American history and using his imagination created a story as it might have happened. It has been described by others as lyrically beautiful and as a book of astonishing poetic prose. I feel compelled to clearly state in the beginning that I did not find the prose astonishing or the story beautifully written. In fact, it was quite a struggle for me to read it. I guess this book just was not meant for me. I am indeed grateful, however, that the First Impression program of Bookbrowse.com gave me the opportunity to read Paul Harding’s book and thus initially introduced me to a part of the history of our country that I otherwise would have missed. As a result of being introduced to the existence of such a community, I have since researched the history of Malaga Island and have confirmed for myself that this totally fictionalized story was indeed inspired by an actual historical event. During my research, I discovered that another author took those same facts and imagined an entirely different sequence of events. I am reading that other book now (The Shadow in Our Bones by Tamara Merrill). In my opinion, this author is a much better storyteller and I feel confident that when I finish reading her book, I will give it a 4 or 5 rating. The story in Harding’s concerns an interracial community that successfully eked out a living in peace and harmony on a small island off the coast of the state of Maine for several generations from the late 1700’s until the early 1900’s. Then, in the hey day of the eugenics movement, a group of such believers convinced the governor of Maine that the community was a threat to society and all the people living on the island must be removed (using force if necessary). Otherwise, according to the group, the state of Maine would find that the mixing of the races had produced future generations of imbeciles, morons, and degenerates. The truth is that there were some perverse relationships in the community and some eccentric citizens, but the findings of the eugenicists overlooked the fact that the current young people living on the island also included a mathematical genius, a little girl who was fluent in Latin, and a boy with an amazing artistic talent. My problem with the book is the writing style of the author, however, I must admit that I probably don’t have the credentials to criticize his style of writing when the authorities named him the winner of the Pulitzer Prize for his debut novel which, as far as I can determine, was written with the same writing style. Nevertheless, I found that many of his sentences were a source of confusion. Many of them are a paragraph long and at times during a sentence the author drifts off subject to throw in other extraneous information. Further, it bothered me that the author did not follow the normal pattern of writing such as use of quotation marks when appropriate. I have decided to give this book a rating of 3 – but this may be an inflated rating.

I have read THE BEST Booker-longlisted book about an island and its isolated people whose traditions are jeopardized when outsiders bring their well-intentioned but prejudiced efforts ashore. It was called The Colony by Audree Magee. And I'm still very bitter that that amazing book was not only not shortlisted, but failed to take the whole Prize last year. Hell, I might even argue it was the best overall nominated book in the last decade. Well, someone was paying attention, because this year's long list features a book with a very similar premise. Hell, the young man who is most affected by the outsiders, the one who can potentially bridge the gap between the two cultures, is a very talented painter. It's almost as if I've read the same book! Except I haven't. This Other Eden takes place off the coast of Maine, on a fictional island inspired by the real life Malaga island. Malaga Island, like its fictional counterpart here (Apple Island), was the site of a racially integrated community, one of the first of its kind in the 1800s. So there are obvious differences right away between The Colony with its isolated Irish island and the island of The Other Eden. But the biggest difference is really in the quality of the story. This Other Eden has its moments of greatness, but much of this story drags on. Magee was clever with The Colony, using every word skillfully, creating a plot with multiple layers. She created an entertaining story that could stand on its own, but which doubled as an thorough exploration of the ills of colonization without being heavy handed. This Other Eden is not that kind of story. It is one where the writing is overwrought much of the time. Is it full of beautiful and visceral strings of adjectives and descriptions? Absolutely. But a story also needs to be alive, and I did not feel that Harding embraced his characters or was close enough to the story to really capture it. Certainly, as a reader, I never really felt I connected with the occupants of Apple Island. I recommend This Other Eden for fans of historical novels saturated with ornate descriptions and impossibly complex sentences, e.g. the works of Marilynne Robinson or Geraldine Brooks. For most readers who are curious about this storyline, I suggest checking out The Colony.

Sigh….. I really wanted to like this book, it had rave reviews, was shortlisted for a Booker, and was on an interesting subject. But it was tedious for me. It wasn’t a plot driven book, which is fine because I usually like character driven ones, but it wasn’t that either. It was more like a 200 page book that consisted of 175 pages of descriptions. Often inconsequential descriptions. Sure some were lyrical, but I didn’t really find many to be vivid and poetic. Some just listed things, things in a room. In a room where no part of the plot will actually occur. I still felt empathy and outrage for what happened to the islanders, but did not feel like any of the characters were well developed and very little actually happens in this book. Most things are just implied and you’re left to fill in the blanks. I don’t mind a little filling in, I don’t need everything spelled out. But there was no meat to this book. Just a long, very long descriptions of scenery. I guess I can appreciate the art of it in itself, but if he was trying to go for humanizing a real historical event, that it did no lt achieve. I can understand why the literary world might eat it up, but it wasn’t what I was expecting, it wasn’t for me.

3 stars for the beautiful writing that Harding does so wonderfully, but unfortunately this book was a disappointment for me. The writing was so slow, if I had been reading a physical book it probably would've resulted in me giving up on it early on in the story. It took me so, so long to get through an audiobook, which is insanity to me. Unfortunately, it was just pretty unmemorable as a result.

what a strange little book. and im still processing if i liked it or not. there really isnt a plot. i got to the 60% mark and had no idea where this book was going, if anywhere at all. its basically a reflection of daily life on an island where things disappear. thats it. theres the memory police (who enforce people forgetting the things that disappear), which i guess could serve as an antagonist, but people mostly accept the situation, so their presence is a little underwhelming. i do think the concept is interesting, i just wish more had happened. its a very simple story. so if you want to read a sci-fi book that explores what living in an alternate world might look like and its effects on the individual, then definitely pick this up. ↠ 3 stars

3.5 stars An unnamed woman lives on an island that's losing objects, one at a time. As the story opens many things - like ribbons, stamps, gems, hats, bells, perfume, candies, and boats - have disappeared. Once an item is gone, the islanders lose all knowledge of it, and no longer recognize it or know its purpose. Exceptions to residents with mass amnesia are a small number of citizens who can remember everything. One of these 'rememberers' was the woman's mother. When the woman was young, her mother would tell her, "Long ago, before you were born, there were many more things here. That's just the way it is on this island. Things go on disappearing. The island will soon be nothing but absences and holes, and when it's completely hollowed out, we'll all disappear without a trace." The mother would then allow her daughter to take out a 'vanished' item hidden in a cabinet, and would tell her all about it. People with intact memories are persona non grata on this island, like Jews in Nazi Germany. Once the 'rememberers' are identified, they're taken away by the Memory Police, and then disappear or turn up dead. Some of these unfortunate folks try to hide, but the Memory Police search for them relentlessly - and cart them off when they're found. This happened to the woman's mother. Fifteen years ago the mother was told to report to the Memory Police for an interview. Her body was returned a few days later, with a story about a heart attack. The woman's father then passed away also, and she was left all alone except for an elderly family friend called 'the old man.' As it happens, the woman is an author, and the narrative is interspersed with chapters from her novel. The woman's book is about a girl who's lost her voice, and can only communicate with her boyfriend via typewriter. The woman's manuscript is being carefully vetted by her editor, a man called R. The woman realizes that R can remember things that have vanished, and she fears for his life. Thus the woman gets 'the old man' to help her fix up a secret room in her house. Reached by a trapdoor from the second floor, the little chamber is kitted out with a bed, a desk, a chair, some shelves, a toilet, a ventilation system, and a string phone made with funnels. R moves into the room, leaving his pregnant wife behind. Things on the island continue to disappear, one by one, and the citizens robotically cooperate by burning their corresponding possessions. So when books vanish, the residents burn their literature. Before long the region is almost bare - with very little food and constantly falling snow. When photographs vanish - and the woman feels compelled to get rid of her pictures - R implores her, "You don't have to burn your photographs. Important things remain important things. Their essence doesn't change. If you keep them, they're bound to bring you something in return. I don't want to see any more of your memories lost." The woman responds, "No. Nothing comes back now when I see a photograph They're nothing more than pieces of paper." In fact most of the island residents are really not bothered by the disappearances. They're not frightened and they don't miss the things that are gone. As the situation on the island worsens, the situation for the mute girl in the woman's book worsens as well. The tale is almost relentlessly downbeat, though the girl, the old man, and R try to stay cheerful, and even have a tiny birthday party. For me the authoritarian regime that governs this island is very puzzling. I understand the rationale for fascist leaders in the REAL WORLD - like Hitler and Mussolini - whose aim is to control the population, expand their territory, and increases their influence. Mussolini (left) and Hitler The government on the island, however, seems bent on destroying the whole shebang, which seems like a self-defeating goal. But maybe that's the point.....no one actually cares. The author may not have had this in mind. but the book's theme makes me think of human despoliation of the Earth, global warming, and the extinctions that result. Like the novel's islanders, a segment of the world's population seems indifferent....or even happy to enable the changes for their own advantage and profit. 🥺 The book, originally written in Japanese, has a quieter vibe than dystopian novels by western authors, and is more mysterious. The novel is well worth reading if you're in the mood for something different. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot....

The Memory Police is a dystopia set on an unnamed island where a totalitarian government 'disappears' different objects, such as perfume, birds or roses, and the entire population forgets about it. Only a few people retain their memories of the old objects and the Memory Police round them up. The protagonist in the story is an unnamed novelist who forgets the disappeared objects like everyone else. Then there's a kind old man who is the closest thing she has to a family. Later, she finds out that her editor, R, remembers everything, and afraid of the memory police finding him, she hides him inside her house with the help of the old man. Things keep disappearing on the island while the characters and the story ruminates over the importance of memories. There's not much of a plot in the story. It's atmospheric. The pace is very different from traditional dystopian fiction. It's slow, somewhat serene and the horrors are less obvious. It will make you sad and ponder over the allegories. But while there are beautiful elements in the writing and the tone, the story did not wrap up enough for my liking. I had too many questions about the world that's built here, about why things are happening, about exactly what the story wants to say. It had me hooked to the pages for the first half, but I hoped for more clarity by the end of the story, which I did not find. I loved the idea but not so much the execution.

I had a hard time finishing this book. Ogawa is a great writer, but this book just got more and more implausible as it went on. We have an island, seemingly off the coast of an Asian nation. It is controlled by the Memory Police who can force the residents to have items disappear and can pick up residents for being associated with certain matters. Nobody protests, and it gets a bit over the top bizarre. Nothing seems to happen to the Memory Police, as if they are not subject to disappearance. Also, who is in charge, who determines what is going to disappear. And when body parts start disappearing it is time to say Adios!

I've read everything by Ogawa in English. While there are crystalline moments of strange imagery in this one, her latest novel makes use of a flawed concept in my opinion. Ending inconclusively, the world of the book was not developed into a story I much cared for. Still, I'm a big fan of her other novels and novellas. Her sparse prose can be haunting, especially when she decides to be subtle. The magical realism in this one was heavy-handed, though the atmosphere was built up well. Whenever I read about a novelist main character, especially one who struggles endlessly to put words on paper, I begin to roll my eyes. Same thing happened in Mieko Kawakami's newly translated novel this year. As a fellow writer and productive member of society, I don't buy this artistic depiction of a writer wrestling with the incredible difficulty of storytelling, and making a book out of the process. Try digging ditches, or having a regular desk job. Then I would believe that the days feel endless. The whole publishing and editing process here is as unrealistic as in Kawakami's and Murakami's works. You get editors knocking on your door, reviewing your work with you line by line, suggesting changes, making astute observations about character development and world building. Has that ever existed? The central concept, introduced in the first chapter, revolves around the evaporation of memory, the enforcement of police state conditions, and physical objects disappearing from everyday life. It's very Aimee Bender, but raises far too many questions. The Diving Pool and Hotel Iris are better places to start. They capture the uncanny cleverness of the author's imagination. The surreal, dystopian aspects of this novel were interesting enough, but the main character failed to get me invested.

‘[F]or the first time she wondered, with a fear that threatened to break her, whether she was standing on a world that it was ever possible to escape. Dr. Sherry Turkle has an anecdote she likes to tell about the moment she went from advocating for technology as an advancement for socialization to distrusting its benefits. Turkle escorted her class to a local long-term care facility where robotic pets that could react to human emotions were assigned to the elderly residents to provide company. As she watched people confiding their life stories and having an intimate friendship with these pets, she realized in horror that this was a disservice to people and that they deserved authentic emotions and care. Little Eyes by Samanta Schweblin (wonderfully translated by Megan McDowell) feels like the natural progression in electronic pets from what Turkle describes with her newest novel comprising of a dozen or so narratives all surrounding a new invention: the Kentukis. The kentuki is an electronic pet with two ways to play. An owner can purchase the robot and allow it to live with them but on the other side of the camera eyes is a dweller: a person who purchases an activation account that allows them to control a kentuki. Nobody can pick who they are assigned and so now there is a social network of human on their computers dwelling as pets in homes all over the world. The concept is simple and rather believable. Where her earlier novel Fever Dream was a tension-building triumph of eco-horror, Little Eyes tackles the psychological traumas of technology in a way akin to something like the series Black Mirror. The horror in Little Eyes comes from how grounded in reality it seems as she examines all the ways this can, and inevitably will, go poorly and how this all plays into human psychology of loneliness and social media addiction when one opens themselves up to trust another person they do not know. Schweblin makes you feel like this is plausibly already happening all around you. ‘Technology is seductive when what it offers meets our human vulnerabilities,’ writes Turkle in her book Alone Together: Why We Expect More from Technology and Less from Each Other, ‘and as it turns out, we are very vulnerable indeed.’ The way technology affects our mental health and well-being is a topic of frequent study as humanity plunges itself deeper into social reliance on the connectivity offered by technology. In the past few months of 2020 we’ve seen an abrupt global reliance on video conferencing in order to continue functioning as a society and reports have trickled in around the world about the privacy risks associated with use and the vulnerabilities we open up existing in a social media network. Despite the warnings and frequent news of stalking, bullying, catfishing and other dangers when we engage in digital communities, people continue to become more invested in online platforms and are sharing more personal information at an exponential rate. This is the perfect realistic setting for Schweblin’s world of the kentukis. Opening with a stand-alone anecdote where three teen girls in South Bend, Indiana are blackmailed by their kentuki who has recorded footage of them nude as well as of their parents and sister, Schweblin launches into an array of stories all rotating in short bursts of people’s experiences with the new toy. We see locations all over the world to remind us of the vastness of social media we welcome into our homes whenever we share personal information online, and here are people quite literally inviting strangers into their homes to live with them. The stories are well nuanced and varied, such as a lonely, aging woman given an account by her son, a woman who purchases one as a companion as she feels increasingly distant from her artist boyfriend, a man hoping to use kentuki’s as a get-rich-quick scheme, a young boy who simply wants to touch snow or a recently divorced dad instructed by a therapist to get a kentuki for the well-being of his son. Schewblin keeps the narrative focus on only one side of each kentuki, leaving the reader to dwell within the same mysteries of what is occurring on the other side of the camera as each character. In turn, she probes the psychological state of each character and the way their experience with the kentukis can affect their lives. There have been studies that do promote technology as a way to benefit our lives and well-being, such as a 2013 study at the University of Auckland in New Zealand that found electronic pets--such as the PARO therapeutic robot described by Turkle--have shown to assuage loneliness in elderly patients in long-term care facilities. Other studies have show that playtime with a digital pet shows an increased level of empathy and responsibility in children. Turkle herself was originally a big proponent for increased technology use as a benefit to socialization. However, there have been numerous studies, such as one conducted at the University of Michigan and others around the world showing that increased social media use leads to both less moment-to-moment happiness and less life satisfaction. Moderation might be key here, as the more a user, for example, scrolls Facebook per day, the more it exacerbate mental health problems such as anxiety and depression and leads to a feeling of perceived-isolation despite being more connected with others. This perceived-isolation is almost like self-gaslighting and increases stress hormones that can cause illness and premature death. Much like the short stories of Ted Chiang (who also has a novella, The Lifecycle of Software Objects, dealing with the psychology of digital pets and attachment), Schweblin never takes anything to an extreme but instead plays out each narrative like a thought experiment to it’s natural conclusions. Most of what occurs for the first half of the novel is fairly mundane but really grips the reader in the mental states of each character and constructs very realistic scenarios. Horror stories and wonders about kentukis mostly occur as snippets of information people hear on the news or tell each other, which helps to build a feeling for each character that “these are things that happen to other people, not me,” which is a very natural stance to take in the real world when we hear about social media traumas yet continue to use it as normal. 'Why were the stories about kentukis so small, so minutely intimate, stingy, and predictable' one character wonders, so desperately human and quotidian.' We hear about pedophiles using them for mischievous purposes and one character even discovers there are online pornography communities revolving around kentukis. An interesting theme Schweblin plays with is one of boundaries and how establishing them or not has an effect on each narrative. We see some people who create ways of communication (kentukis have no way of communicating beyond yelps and purrs) such as ouija boards or simply writing down their email/phone number for the kentuki and establishing a further connection. There are some, such as the young girl in Germany we watch through the eyes of a kentuki dweller, who prefer to have as little contact opportunities as possible. These boundaries are great natural examples of the way people set parental controls or may limit what they share on social media, but while some of the book concerns how lack of boundaries can turn tragic, other aspects show how even despite boundaries a person can come to be violated. Additionally, Schweblin looks at the ways we let our guard down as more and more becomes normalized in our lives. When things begin to go bad--and they very much do--it is easy to shake your head and say they invited that in. 'If there were abuses by some kentukis,' a character muses right before she realizes how deep she herself is in, 'it was only because of their keepers' negligence. Boundaries were really the foundation of these relationships.' But that is exactly the point, we slowly slip until we’ve become trapped in a cage of our own making. The progressions in each narrative feel natural and earned, and we watch the ways kentuki use can become addictive, lead to feelings of isolation or questioning of self-worth and the ways the toy becomes otherwise invasive toward personal space and mental health. The last segment of the novel is deeply disturbing and Schweblin makes good on her promises of terror that she established in her earlier work. You will genuinely feel for these people and come to question how society so easily walks into these snares. On ending in particular is extraordinarily shocking. Not quite a twist ending as much as catching you off guard by subverting what you think you know, Schweblin unveils a small detail that left me gasping. The brilliance is that as you read it you can only trust the information given to you (she doesn’t even pull an unreliable narrator trick) and the twist makes you realize how misconceptions or assumptions can have tragic outcomes. Who is on the other side of these toys and for what purpose? I found myself saying out loud “oh fuck, no no no no” when the moment hit. Schweblin expertly strings the reader along into a feeling of complicity and the effect is pulled off remarkably well. While not as white-knuckle gripping as Fever Dreams or quite as elusive and surreal as Mouthful of Birds: Stories, Little Eyes is a successful examination of social media and the ways it consumes our life and leads us to the slaughter. Trigger warnings here include stalking, sexual assault, pedophilia, and child abuse, so reader be warned this book gets into some uncomfortable material. The real magic and terror is the way this book is so completely believable, so much so that if you saw a kentuki at the store tomorrow it wouldn’t even surprise you. Little Eyes is an addicting psychological horror that will leave you questioning your own complicity in social media. 3.5 / 5 'How did this nightmare disconnect?'

Now Longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2020 Split in short chapters set in different parts of the world, "Little Eyes" is a techno dystopia just one step away from our current world of smart devices that are potentially spying on us (like Alexa and other electronic gadgets that record and process language and images). In Schweblin's text, the new craze is called kentukis, small electronic animals that look cute and are equipped with a camera and a long-distance control option so they can roll around and utter sounds. The crux: The owner of the physical kentuki, the "keeper", is monitored by and interacts with the person who owns the control option and steers the kentuki, the "dweller" - thus strangers are randomly connected, and the dweller learns about the most intimate habits of the keeper. The novel plays out this scenario in different countries, illustrating different motivations and situations of keepers and dwellers, young and old, male and female. As readers, we witness (not unlike kentukis) scenes in Croatia, Ohio, Hong Kong, Senegal, Peru, Brazil, Oaxaca, Antigua, Norway, Germany, Tel Aviv, Vancouver - a panopticum of places we visit and re-visit, of plotlines that emerge, converge, diverge. As the kentukis become more and more popular all over the world, they are put to different uses, and business-savvy individuals start to sell customized connections where people can choose who they will be connected with - for better or worse, with or without the consent of the keeper. The themes of the book are apparent: Surveillance, the atomization of society, digital counterlives, all the things we are talking about today. So the basic idea of "Little Eyes" is certainly good and I also enjoy disparate texts, but after the elaborate exposition, I expected a more exciting, more challenging story arc and more narrative drive. Schweblin takes us through rather predictable developments and constellations, and the outcome isn't bad, but it's also not particularly exciting. Compared to, let's say GRM: Brainfuck which also discusses the repercussions of surveillance and digital alienation, the novel remains tame. All in all, a good book, but nothing groundbreaking.

Winner of the International Booker Prize 2020 In this grim, claustrophobic novel, Marieke Lucas Rijneveld masterfully evokes an increasing sense of doom - on this Dutch farm, the apocalypse is nearing. Our narrator and main character is 10-year-old Jas who grows up in a strict religious family who owns a dairy farm. When she detects signs that her father might slaughter her favorite rabbit, she begs God to take her older brother instead - the plea of a child momentarily upset by her sibling. But then, the brother really drowns, the parents are paralyzed by grief, their marriage is under duress, the mother gets depressed, the farm is (also due to circumstances beyond their agency) in decline, and Jas and her two remaining siblings are more or less left to their own devices and their inability to deal with the loss of the brother. The story gradually becomes more and more graphic and frequently rather disgusting (which is of course intentional): From the harsh reality of stock rearing to children torturing and killing animals, children being molested, harming themselves and others and experimenting with their developing sexuality, this novel is not for the faint of heart. The pastor in the novel says: "Discomfort is good. In discomfort we are real.", and Rijneveld tests this theory on their readers. The parents hold on to their religion to explain and make sense of their experiences, to deal with reality, and the children also cling to narrative frameworks when seeking direction: For them, religion is also an important frame of reference, but Jas also invokes Anne Frank, she contemplates what she might have in common with Hitler (Jas, just like the author, has the same date of birth as the dictator), she plays mind games about Jews hiding in their cellar, she obsesses over the fairy tale of Rapunzel, and she relates to TV star Dieuwertje Blok. Again and again, we hear about dangling ropes on the compound, and we get lots and lots of info on Jas' constipation. Lego bricks and The Sims are recurring motifs, games that focus on building new worlds, and Jas dreams of leaving the farm (which, in a way, her brother has done...). Jas' coat (which features prominently on the cover) becomes her armor, and she doesn't take it off anymore. Rijneveld grew up in a reformed farming family in North Brabant and still does some work on a dairy farm. Their own 12-year-old brother was run over by a bus when they were a young child, so this book can probably be read as a roman à clef about the author, a fictional autobiography. You can learn more about this fascinating, talented Dutch writer here and here. I can see why this novel is lauded, but I have to admit that for me, reading it turned into a chore after around 15%. The book finds intense, unsettling images to discuss grief, trauma and the dark urges of adolescence, but personally, I didn't find it emotionally immersive, but rather exhausting to read. The vibe of the book and especially the shocking ending reminded me of another debut originally written in Dutch, Lize Spit's bestseller Het smelt - although de facto not excessively long, it felt like a very, very long book that spelt out its descriptions and motifs over and over again. So all in all, this is a very impressive, effective novel, but it's not the kind of literature I personally enjoy. (The book is also available in German: Was man sät)

Winner of the 2020 International Booker Prize. I nod and think about the teacher who said I’d go far with my empathy and boundless imagination, but in time I’d have to find words for it because otherwise everything and everybody stays inside you. And one day, just like the black stockings which my classmates sometimes tease me about wearing because we’re Reformists – even though I never wear black stockings – I will crumple in on myself until I can only see darkness, eternal darkness. Having been chosen with a group of other Goodreads friends to read “Tyll” as part of the Reading Agency’s shadowing of the 2020 International Booker Prize, I decided to read the rest of the shortlist – something I had previously decided not to do and instead concentrate my reading time (severely hampered by COVID-19) on the Women’s Prize longlist. I had some concerns about this book before I began given: one of the same friends had abandoned it; another marked it as “difficult to enjoy … gratuitous … an exercise in breaking as many taboo’s as possible” Barry Pierce in the Irish Times describing it as part of a trend of novels that “focus on .. grotesque characters written almost grotesquely”, a genre he describes as “abject fiction” with as its “ur text” Eileen Mosfegh’s “Eileen” – possibly in view the most execrable book ever to be longlisted for the Booker (albeit as much due to the ridiculous plot as the scatological writing). It is a genre which I seem to strongly dislike and avoid on Philippians 4:8 grounds; although genetically I seem pre-disposed towards it (my clone being a particular fan of Patti Yumi Cottrell, a persistent practitioner - and of this book). The story of this autobiographically influenced book is simple. Jas, is a 10 year old girl, living with her two brothers, sister and strict Dutch Reformed parents on a dairy farm in late 2000 through to 2001. The book opens immediately with tragedy – her brother Matthies drowns after falling through the ice in a long distance skating race (the author’s own brother dying when the author was 3)– and the book examines the fall out of this tragic event on the family, functioning as an examination of dysfunctional grief. Jas blames herself for the death – having struck a bargain with God to save her pet rabbit (which she was convinced was being fattened up ready for Christmas). Her mother reverts to a form of eating disorder – repeatedly cutting out elements of her diet in a form of self-purging/fasting. Her father sinks even further than ever into anger and silence, something provoked still further by the destruction of his dairy herd after Foot and Mouth sweeps from the UK across Holland. And the children descend into experimenting with a mix of self-harm, animal abuse and sexual exploration. The imagery in the book is strong – Jas drawing strongly on his farm experience to try (and normally fail) to make sense of the world around him. The sight of his brother’s dead body is “Matthies’s face was as pale as fennel” As he struggles with his inner demons: “There weren’t any words to take the edge off fear, the way the blades of the combine decapitated the rapeseed plants to keep only the bit you can use.” Or as he makes sense of how his non-communicative parents could have got together, while also ruminating (an excellent choice of words by me!) on what he understands of sex via what he sees on the farm: It’s still a mystery how our parents found each other. The thing is, Dad’s hopeless at looking. When he’s lost something it’s usually in his pocket, and when he goes to do the shopping he always comes back with something different than what was on the list: Mum’s the wrong kind of yoghurt, but one he was happy enough with and vice versa. They’ve never told us about how they met – Mum never thinks it a good time. There are rarely any good times here, and if we have them we only realize afterwards. My suspicion is that it was exactly like with the cows, that one day Granny and Grandpa opened my mum’s bedroom door and put Dad in with her like a bull. After that they shut the door and hey presto: there we were. From that day on, Dad called her ‘wife’ and Mum called him ‘husband’. On good days ‘little man’ and ‘little woman’, which I found strange, as though they were worried they’d forget each other’s sex, or that they belonged to each other. But these excerpts are some of the few highlights. Increasingly though she draws heavily on the dark side of what sees around him in nature and in farming – her language increasingly filled with imagery of decay, blight, excrement, the mould on the left-over bakery items his father buys, rotting vegetables When we arrived at the mangels, some of them were rotten. The mushy white pulp that looked like pus stuck to my fingers when I picked them up. And to be honest, as so often with this genre, the sheer repetitiveness of the gross imagery turns what could be shocking into something increasingly tedious. The writers in this genre have never subscribed to the “less is more” theory of writing. The writing becomes very predictable and easy to satire – early in my reading of the book I posted on a discussion forum The book is growing on me like the mould on the rancid dead hamster festering in my brother’s bed, mould that reminds me of the patches my mother scrapes off our buns in turn uncovering the currants that remind me of sores on the pestilential back of our sow. As my father quotes from Leviticus “a persistent defiling mould; the novel is unclean” Only to find to my amusement that a decaying hamster and currants (in this case like drowning beetles) featured later in the book. The other part of my spoof quote was Biblical, Jas has been thoroughly immersed in the Bible and as any discussion in his family dries up, it’s the language of the Bible that he repeatedly reaches to. I’ve got so many words but it’s as if fewer and fewer come out of me, while the biblical vocabulary in my head is pretty much bursting at the seams. I found this a much more successful piece of writing by the author (themselves with a strong religious background) – the high point being this excellent analogy: Suddenly I realize what’s going on. Everything from the recent past falls into place, all the times we were fragile, and I say, ‘This is another of the plagues from Exodus, it must be. Only they’re coming to us in the wrong order. Do you understand?’ ‘What do you mean?’ ‘Well, you had a nosebleed which meant water changed into blood. We’ve had the toad migration, head lice at school, the death of the firstborn, horseflies around the muck-heap, a grasshopper squashed by Obbe’s boot, ulcers on my tongue from the fried egg, and hailstorms.’ ‘And you think that’s why there’s a cattle plague now?’ Hanna asks with a shocked expression. She’s laid her hand on her heart, exactly above the Barbie’s ears, as though she’s not allowed to hear what we’re discussing. I nod slowly. After this, there’s one more to come, I think to myself, and that’s the worst one: darkness, total darkness, daytime eternally clad in Dad’s Sunday overcoat. Unfortunately, the book then descends further into gratuitousness and repetitiveness – but this time its in the narrative action rather than the analogies. The (as described earlier) self-harm, animal abuse and sexual exploration is described in rather sickening detail – in a manner which I felt added little to the book and subtracted much from any ability to appreciate it. The practitioners of this genre also do not subscribe to the “show not tell” theory of writing. When they do, I think the book is more convincing – no more so than in the powerful ending. There are a few other areas of the book which I find less convincing. The first is fidelity to the set-up: a book set in 2000-01 has a narrator whose brother listens to an album from 2003 and how herself anticipates the 2006 demotion of Pluto as a planet, while also seeming to change age from 10 to 12 in only a few months (skipping 11 altogether). More generally I did not find the age of the narrator convincing. Most attempts at writing children seem to me to over-estimate the maturity of the children; this book seems the opposite – Jas I find reads more like an 8-year-old than 10-12 year old, for example when (at least) 12: I’d nervously shaken my head: once Mum was behind the glass of the TV set, we’d never get her back, or maybe only in pixels when the screen was snowy, and what would become of Dad then? But maybe this is simply a narrator on the cusp of adolescence and caught between adult experimentation and childlike fears – and lacking supportive and loving parents to allow her to navigate this transition against a background of grieving. The most touching part of the book speaks to this: Promise me this will stay between us, dear toads, but sometimes I wish I had different parents. Do you understand that?’ I continue. ‘Parents like Belle’s who are as soft as shortbread just out of the oven and give her lots of cuddles when she’s sad, frightened or even very happy. Parents that chase away all the ghosts from under your bed, from inside your head, and run through a summary of the week with you every weekend like Dieuwertje Blok does on TV, so you don’t forget everything you achieved that week, all the things you tripped up on before scrabbling to your feet again. Parents that see you when you’re talking to them – even though I find it terrifying to look people in the eye, as though other people’s eyeballs are two lovely marbles you can continuously win or lose. Belle’s parents go on exotic holidays and make tea for her when she comes home from school. They’ve got hundreds of different sorts including aniseed and fennel, my favourite tea. Sometimes they drink it sitting on the floor because that’s more comfortable than sitting in a chair. And they horse around with each other without it turning into fighting. And they say sorry as often as they’re nasty to each other. While most of the imagery is drawn from the bible or the farm around her, I was not sure if this quote was a failure of writing (unpleasant imagery drawn from outside those two areas) or bad translation of locusts: When Mum and Dad rescued the beans they had just frozen, they lay wet and floppy on the kitchen table. The little green bodies looked dismal, like an exterminated plague of bush crickets. One thing that is interesting about this year’s International Booker Prize shortlist is that (unlike some years where my impression is books are picked which were relatively obscure even in their homeland) they have picked a number of books which were very popular in their original language – this book for example (translated by Michele Hutchinson) selling 50,000+ copies despite its incredibly challenging style. I wonder how many of the 50,000 copies were actually quietly put away well before being finished – this is a book which despite its merits I would find impossible to recommend. If you read it you may also quietly decide to abandon part way through. Lots of people want to run away, but the ones who really do rarely announce it beforehand: they just go.

Read my full review of this on the Irish Times: https://www.irishtimes.com/culture/bo...

When I was in my twenties I used to actively seek out books that would shock me, real taboo breakers. However as I grew older, the novelty wore off. Saying that now and then I don’t mind reading eyebrow raising books now and then, as long as it is done properly. The Discomfort of Evening was a big hit in it’s native Holland back in 2018 and I can see why. This is a novel that is designed to make the reader feel uncomfortable, to squirm and be amazed at the perverse actions of the human race. Jas is ten years old and is narrating the story. She lives on a farm which is not doing too well due to the sick livestock and is brought up in a strict religious manner. In the early chapters she loses her brother because she would rather have God take him than her father kill her pet rabbit for dinner. At first she takes the loss well but as more implications start to occur, her life spirals out of control and she commits one controversial action after the other, animals, siblings, friends – no one is left unharmed. At first I did feel uncomfortable but then it quickly felt empty and a lot of the set pieces were designed purely for shock value, then the book became boring in places. It was more a case of ‘ok this is in a cow’s rear end – next!’ ‘ooohhh that must have been painful’ next. Personally if I want to be shocked I need a deeper reason. Sure this is how Jas expresses herself as a way of showing her grief and breaking free from her parents’ religious restraints but I felt that it wasn’t executed that well. Compare The Discomfort of Evening to other books of it’s ilk such as Brett Easton Ellis’ American Psycho or Lionel Shriver’s We need to Talk about Kevin. Those have a strong underlying story which provide support for the controversial parts. Did I like The Discomfort of Evening? In a way I did as I couldn’t put it down. I definitely cannot say that it was an enjoyable read or that I would pick it up again. As a part of the trangressive literature genre, I have read better, I wouldn’t give this a miss but do approach with caution.

2.5 Winner 2020 International Booker Prize. I'm still not sure what to make of this one: it's disturbing and clearly written as transgressive fiction, playing on the boundaries of the abject. There are passages that are shocking describing quite gratuitous violence to animals and some nasty, even repulsive, sexual experimentation among children. It's all very dark and just gets darker as the novel progresses. The Discomfort of Evening, narrated by ten year old Jas, certainly has an unusual perspective on the world. If there's a redeeming quality to the work, an artistic value, it's the moments of darkly dazzling writing that convey this particular experience of the world. The imagery at times is surreal, mixing in religious references and allusions with the scatological (lots of repeated images of anuses, bum holes, excrement, constipation, fingers in anuses, etc.). The context for all this is that 10 year old Jas, living with her family of devout reformed protestants in a rural Netherlands community (they are dairy farmers), is stunned and unmoored by the death of her older brother Maathies in 2000. While ice-skating he's trapped under the ice and drowns. From here the book arguably is about grief and how dark it can get. In this case it's just unrelenting. The family is basically dismantled by it, the mother almost fades into the background, becoming essentially absent in terms of caring for Jas and her siblings, the father tries to hang on but is devastated further by losing his herd to foot and mouth. Her brother, Obbe, becomes something of a sadist and his violent practices are a kind of acting out to deal with the pain of losing his brother. Here's the thing, while I admire the quality of the writing, although it's uneven, and the unusual narrator perspective of Jas, I just don't see the point of it beyond experimentation to shock and disgust. Perhaps one could argue it's trying to confront us with these emotions and ask us to question how we experience disgust, abjection and grief all filtered through a rather disturbing childhood. Fine. But at the end of the day all a little too boring and trite for me. Probably a 2.5 for the qualities of writing that I do admire, but undermined by all the pretension to shock and disturb that for me doesn't really end up transgressing anything in much of a new or even interesting direction. I mean there's nothing much here all that different from say Bataille's work on disgust and abjection other than an effort to ramp it up a notch perhaps by linking it to a child's perspective. All too pretentious for me. But that’s me (a younger me would have revelled in a book like this) and I do get why it has its admirers.

i fucking hate bullies

Life is about compromise. I don't think it should be - for example, you can make brown-butter chocolate chip cookies with sea salt on top anytime you want, and there is absolutely no compromise on deliciousness there - but apparently, it is. And for me, this book is about compromise, seeing as it'ss half a kind of book I hate (detailed and long-winded renditions of the suffering of innocent people, in this case children) and half a kind of book I love (philosophical musings). What it results in, instead of an unholy level of yum that you can replace your dinner with if you're determined, is an extremely absurd collection of conversations between kids where they are mouthpieces for mature and complete worldviews on good vs evil, innocence, morality, nihilism, and the meaning of life. I didn't hate it but that's the nicest thing I can say. Oh wait - the ending was lovely. That's the nicest thing. Bottom line: Odd! But most things are. ------------ pre-review i hate books with plots like this one, but i love mieko kawakami...let's find out which will win! update: neither! review to come / 2.5 or 3 stars ------------ reading books by asian authors for aapi month! book 1: kim jiyoung, born 1982 book 2: siren queen book 3: the heart principle book 4: n.p. book 5: the hole book 6: set on you book 7: disorientation book 8: parade book 9: if i had your face book 10: joan is okay book 11: strange weather in tokyo book 12: sarong party girls book 13: the wind-up bird chronicle book 14: portrait of a thief book 15: sophie go's lonely hearts club book 16: chemistry book 17: heaven ------------------------ tbr review love to love a book by an author, wait a year, randomly add another to my tbr, and continue to not read it

I am cautiously optimistic regarding Mieko Kawakami's literary future. She is a rising star of popular Japanese fiction, but I see her writing style suffering from common traits plaguing the English translations we are getting within the past several years. It is a kind of commercial dumbing down of the prose. Contemporary Japanese books are sliding into the mainstream perhaps, and losing some of that Mishima-level literary refinement. You don't get anything on the level of Ryu Murakami anymore, and a lot of these super-young, female literary writers are appealing to the same crowd as Haruki Murakami whose pop celebrity status spawned a new generation of imitators. If the style of this novel resembled her short stories from the publication Monkey Business, it would have easily merited more enthusiasm from me. Yet, it would be easy to slide this into the YA category. Like her recent Breasts and Eggs, she wrestles with important and emotionally trying topics, boasting a wealth of subtext, but employs a utilitarian style I can only describe as bland. I realize this book takes place from the perspective of a 14 year old, but I would've liked to read something more developed than straightforward, childish thoughts and internal argument. The conversations are surface level, and the atmosphere is poorly established. The syntax is so literal, unadorned, sloppy, straightforward and fast-paced it felt like reading a newspaper. I would have to put this in the same category as Snakes and Earrings, which is pulp, adolescent fiction, not challenging in any way. This is simply my opinion, and I will read anything Kawakami puts out into English. She is certainly capable of establishing a similar output to Banana Yoshimoto or even Dazai, but not if she chooses to continue taking the easy route to popularity. I would like to see her recapture the bent toward magical realism you'll find in her short stories, and strive toward producing complex portrayals of modern life. To bolster my argument, I'll have to look at the book's interior logistics. You get a few main characters. The bullied kid with a mild deformity, a visibly poor friend, and the self-justified douche of the school bully. Nothing revolutionary in this set up. The kids confront one another. There are graphic scenes of creepily sadistic bullying and one or two scenes utterly inappropriate for children. I wouldn't care, except who exactly, is the audience for this novel? If it is really YA why does she include the graphic sexuality - especially when it is not relevant to the story, and if it is for adults, why is it so simplistic and forced, so underwritten? I wish I could say it was more than a disposable read, but I have seen all of these themes explored elsewhere with more lyricism and depth. You get plenty of examples and moral arguments here, but their context is so very contrived. A confounding mixture of heartstring manipulation and weak writing.

3.5/5 hard to read. two teenagers relentlessly bullied by their classmates for what seems to be no reason at all (not that a reason would make it ok but maybe easier to understand) so much emotion caught in such a short story.

❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ 3 ½ stars A few weeks ago I read Mieko Kawakami's acclaimed Breasts and Eggs and suffice to say that I was not a fan. While Heaven was clearly written by the same author of Breasts and Eggs (both novels implement similar imagery and even use the same metaphor comparing the legs of a young girl to poles) I was able to appreciate it a lot more. In spite of its brevity Heaven is by no means an easy-going story, in fact, it often verges on being Misery Porn™: large chunks of the narrative depict in minute detail the bullying our fourteen-year-old protagonist is subjected to. The novel raises some interesting questions about bullying and nonconformity. Why do some become perpetrators while others are victims? Should our main character respond to the deluge of abuse he receives from his classmates? Why do the other boys in the class torment him? Is it because of his appearance? While quite a few of the discussions between the teenage characters did not come across as all that convincing (they expressed themselves in a way that seemed far older or that suggested a worldliness that went at odds with their experiences so far) I still found myself engaged in the narrative. There are a lot of scenes that verge on being gratuitous: we get painfully detailed descriptions of our MC being beaten, humiliated, and harassed. His friendship with Kojima, a classmate who is bullied by the female students, provided some welcome respite from the sections relating the bullying. The two bond quickly, and in spite of their attempts not to discuss school and the way they are treated by other students, they do eventually confined in one another. Kojima's view of the whole bullying 'thing' while by no means healthy enables her to make 'sense' of her circumstances. As with Breasts and Eggs we have characters giving seemingly endless monologues that last pages at the time. While I did not mind learning more about Kojima, her home life, and her peculiar philosophy, I did not care one bit about Momose's spiel towards the end of the novel. The narrative seemed intent on making him seem mysterious and mature but I thought him shallow. He did not really come across as a credible fourteen-year-old, more like a parody of the worldly teen who already speaks so many truths about the world (puh-lease). Our main character does a lot of navel-gazing but unlike in Breasts and Eggs, here it seemed fitting. He is young and going through a lot so it seemed natural for him to try and make sense of what was happening to him. The ending was slightly disappointing and I probably would have given this a higher rating if I hadn't been for that predictable 'show-down'. I would not necessarily recommend this to those who have a low threshold for narratives depicting bullying (extensively and graphicly). Thanks to a manga series by Keiko Suenobu called Life which kind of traumatised me when I first read it around the age of 12 I am somewhat inoculated against this kind of stuff. While Heaven was by no means a breezy or perfectly executed read I did find it to be poignant and for the most part realistic. If anything it has elevated Kawakami in my eyes. ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.

the act of finishing a book can feel oh so mind emptying sometimes. it just so happened to hit me after reading this book : the heartbreaking parts were balanced with moments of beauty, (specifically at the very end), yet it left me feeling so torn that all thoughts seem to have disappeared from my mind. it wasn't necessarily a memorable book, but it was interesting and almost good whilst it lasted.

Need some time to think before I rate this one. 3.5⭐️

i dont really know how to feel about this one. there are some really profound moments where kawakami explores suicidal ideation/the way people deal with and process abuse/othering (or inflict it) through the characters but there are also a lot of cartoon villian level antics that, for me atleast, take away from the high points and did more to distract than enhance

A disturbing slow burn about bullying and philosophy. Heaven is to the point and doesn’t shy away from the brutal reality of bullying and how it can affect how one navigates their entire existence. The ending is both somber and uplifting, the characters growth is a journey that is authentic and compelling, heart breaking and one in which we yearn to become a part of the story, the offer comfort within the pages. The religious and philosophical conversations are thought provoking and raw. A short but valuable read.

The story of an unnamed 14-year-old boy with a lazy eye who is mercilessly bullied at school. He begins receiving letters from a girl called Kojima who is also bullied for being scruffy and poor. They meet and develop a friendship that is predominantly lead by her, and, as such, she proffers a philosophy that weakness is good and that the beatings and cruelty they suffer are a necessary experience. As the bullying continues (often bordering on torture porn), the book culminates in the bullies discovering their friendship and a final showdown. I found this easy enough to read with very straightforward writing. There are occasional moments of beauty in the prose but mostly it's standard stuff, as such, you're relying on the story and the characters to keep you interested. For the most part, they did but I wasn't really excited by anything until chapter six when Momose -- essentially second in command of the bullies -- meets his victim in the hospital and they discuss why he and his friends bully him. His argument is interesting (and even convincing to the bullied boy) and essentially revolves around a principle of 'might is right.' People either do what they want or they don't. It's not a question of right or wrong. They do what they can get away with. People are hypocrites who would be appalled if their daughter were in porn but will just as happily masturbate to someone else's daughter in porn. You either do what you want or you don't. Regardless of any sense of morality. And so on... It was an interesting idea and one worth looking into but the book barely scratches the surface of its implications. Plus, it's difficult to believe that a 14-year-old boy would possess such a cynical worldview or articulate it so effortlessly. The speech would have made more sense in the mouth of an adult and, as such, could have allowed for greater exploration of the idea itself. Ultimately, I interpreted the ending as the boy accepting the fundamental truth of this argument. He agrees to get his lazy eye fixed (a thing which Kojima is explicitly against) which suggests the he has given in to the notion that strength, no matter in what prosaic form it comes, is a requirement for happiness. A decent read but nothing exceptional.

“What is dying anyway? I let this impossible question fill the darkness of my bedroom. I thought about how somebody was always dying somewhere, at any given moment. This isn’t a fable or a joke or an abstract idea. People are always dying. It’s a perfect truth. No matter how we live our lives, we all die sooner or later. In which case, living is really just waiting to die. And if that’s true, why bother living at all?” Heaven was written in 2009, and its English translation was published in 2021. It is the second novel by Mieko Kawakami to be translated into English. Mieko Kawakami is a prize-winning Japanese literary author who does not shy away from controversial issues. Another internationally best-selling novel by her is “Breasts and Eggs” in which she was described as writing “with a bracing lack of sentimentality”. In this case, the novel is centred on teenage bullying, and written straightforwardly, so that the prose is simple and easy to read. However the theme is unremitting, and some episodes are described graphically enough for it to be called by some “torture porn”. We begin with a 14-year old unnamed narrator, who is constantly bullied at school and called “Eyes” because he has a lazy eye (strabismus). He finds a note from someone saying “we should be friends”. After some thought he responds, and it turns out that it is from a classmate called Kojima. Kojima is also bullied, because she comes from a poor family, has kinky hair, does not like to take baths, and has dirty clothes. The two victims carry on their friendship mainly through written notes. They do meet up (and you can imagine the fallout from their tormentors) but never discuss the bullying episodes or abuse they receive. The bullying increases in intensity as the plot continues. I found it hardhitting and heartbreaking in equal measure. Both the narrator and Kojima seemed to be in a cycle of passive acceptance. “Even if something happens to us, even if we die and never have to deal with them again, the same thing will happen to someone, somewhere. The same thing. The weak always go through this, and there’s nothing we can do about it. Because the strong never go away. That’s why you want to pretend to be like them, isn’t it? You want to join them.” The main bully is a popular boy, Momose. Ninimoya, his friend who complies and falls in with Momose, tells Kojima that bullies act that way, just because they are able to do so. We know that for this age group, social pressures mean that all their peers are tempted to side with, or look away from, the bullies. Ninimoya is handsome and well-liked, and no adult seems to be concerned. Oddly, no parents or teachers notice Ninomiya and Momose’s swaggering demeanour, nor the clues which denote a bullied child. Were the adults fearful for some reason? Then I realised that the book is about a culture of bullying, and a mindset where acceptance denotes strength. This novel is set in Japan, in 1991. I have learned that bullying is not seen as a problem, as it is here in the UK. Indeed it is brutal, and common in Japan, and there is an extremely high suicide rate. Teachers even have a name for “normal” children; i.e. those who are deemed accepted. “Mina-san” means “everybody”, but anyone who is different from the accepted convention would be excluded from this description. Inclusivity of differently abled children, or anyone who has special needs, does not exist. Uniform normality is the aim, and children are encouraged to reject anything else. The Japanese author Haruki Murakami has called Mieko Kawakami his favourite young novelist, which is quite telling. When I realised that I would not complete this read, I considered the wider significance of this book, and the influence of Nietzschean philosophy. The blurb says: “These raw and realistic portrayals of bullying are counterbalanced by textured exposition of the philosophical and religious debates concerning violence to which the weak are subjected.” Heaven is a bleakly savage read, which has been called “a raw, painful, and tender portrait of adolescent misery”. Momose’s view is nihilistic. One child eventually resists, but there will be no true winners in this novel. I did not complete reading this book, as I found it too disturbing. My rating stays at my default, based on the quality of the writing and the insights of the author, but I had no wish to put myself through the wringer any further. “But I wasn’t crying because I was sad. I guess I was crying because we had nowhere else to go, no choice but to go on living in this world. Crying because we had no other world to choose, and crying at everything before us, everything around us.” “Because we’re always in pain, we know exactly what it means to hurt somebody else.” “Listen, if there is a hell, we’re in it. And if there’s a heaven, we’re already there. This is it.” And the title? It is after a painting in the story, to which Kojima gave a new name. She believed that accepting bullying helped to purify her, although the author of Heaven makes it clear that this attitude harms Kojima. Not for me.

Winner of the inaugural Sky Arts Awards Literature category Winner of the inaugural Nero Gold Award - Book of the Year 2023 Winner of the inaugural Nero Book Awards Fiction category as I predicted pre shortlist Winner of the Irish Book of The Year Award Shortlisted for the 2024 Writers Prize. Shortlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize #11 in my Booker Prize longlist rankings after reading all the longlist books twice. My Instagram post on what worked for me, what did not, my favourite quote and of course a book-themed Golden Retriever photo here: https://www.instagram.com/p/CxKYpvygp... Longlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize - I originally read this around two weeks ahead of the longlist announcement as it has been included in some Booker speculation - of the nearly 80 eligible books I pre-read I ranked this below 60th. Having said that, and after re-reading it, I do think it’s a very possible winner -it’s certainly an early Bookstagram favourite - and in terms of the popularity of the prize a far from unreasonable winner. It strikes me, of all the longlist books, as the one readers might most readily press into someone else’s hand and say “you must read this” … although that was really the historic criteria of the Costa Prize for which I think this would have been a better fit, and this therefore may well be a strong contender for the inaugural Nero Prize. On literary merit though - I don’t think it’s Finest Fiction, which should be the Booker criteria. On a second read I found the Imelda section a little disappointing. It really did not I think fully capture her supposed scattergun non-sequitur filled way of talking that Cass describes. And it is definitely where the book gains in size (it’s a very lengthy section) what it loses in focus. For all the exhaustive dissection of Imelda’s life - most of it supposedly occurring in flashback around the time of a Lion’s Dinner honouring Maurice which takes place in the same venue as her wedding to Dickie, many of the key elements of that day are withheld until a later section. I did appreciate though the way in which Mike appeals to Imelda via a shared experience of extreme childhood poverty, and the Cass/Elaine dynamics remain strong. And the folktale of the man who parties with the fairies only to find on returning to the world that 100 years have past and all he loved - one I slightly struggled with first time as it applied to character’s individual lives - worked best second time for me when I interpreted it as a metaphor for the Celtic Tiger years in Ireland and for Western consumerism/late capitalism and climate change (the latter subject which is also cleverly linked to the Magdalene Laundries). But it’s the ending that still does not work for me, when viewed through a literary/finest fiction lens. Not the final scenes (although that is rather too clunkily signposted from the first line of the book) but the pages leading up to it where there are too many coincidences (just a couple of examples but Cass while in Dublin attends a talk by Willie where he talks - unknown to her - about her father, and a few pages later is unknowingly next to Ethan in a shop), too many last minute interventions and far too many of the characters converging in the last pages including some long thought lost. We need to take off our masks …. And that's hard, after a lifetime of hiding away, it's existentially hard, take it from me. But once you do it, the world is transformed. Once you take off your mask, it's like all the other masks become transparent, and you can see that beneath our individual quirks and weirdnesses, we're he same. We are the same in being different, in feeling bad about being different. Or to put it another way, we are all different expressions of the same vulnerability and need. That's what binds us together. And once we recognize it, once we see ourselves as a community of difference, the differences themselves no longer define us. That's when we can start to work together and things can change. ORIGINAL JULY 2023 REVIEW A more than 600+ page family tale switching over a year (albeit with frequent flashbacks) or so between the viewpoints of four members of a nuclear Irish family, for whom the Irish financial crash had uncovered buried tensions and secrets of the past, and one which takes place against the emerging threat of climate change. Initially I found this an engrossing read, the author’s ability to cleverly capture the four different voices and the way in which we gained insight and different perspective over time impressive; the repeated imagery and stories intriguing; but the book took for me an unwelcome turn, rather overstayed its welcome (the amount of plot did not at justify in my view the book’s length which seemed more a product of lack of editing) and had an ending which was stylistically clever but for me ill-judged in a narrative sense. The family are father Dickie, his wife Imelda, his daughter Cass and son PJ. Dickie runs the family motor dealer business set up by his father Maurice (now semi-retired in Portugal). Dickie had a younger brother Frank, a renowned GAA participant (particularly at Gaelic football) who died when Dickie was at Trinity – we also learn that Frank was initially engaged to the Imelda – beautiful but from a poor background - and the sequence of events which lead to her then marrying Dickie shortly after (already pregnant with Cass) and Dickie then ending up back in the family business, as well as the ghost of other lives that may have occurred for both of them, lies heavily on their lives and across the novel. It has to be said that the idea of choices made – and the imagining of alternative future pathways becomes a little too common as the book goes on. At the start of the book – the business is failing badly in the second-third year of the economic downturn, Dickie seems powerless to run it around and Imelda (something of a consumerholic) despairs at having to start selling everything she has accumulated over the years. All this is seen through the voice of Cass – one of the brightest girls at her school and coming up to the Leavers Certificate she expects to win her a place at Dublin, but increasingly obsessed with Elaine – the beautiful but capricious daughter of the other local businessman Big Mike a cattle dealer turned property developer. We then change voice to PJ – who spends much of his time online chatting to a friend Ethan on a Game Board, his school days avoiding bullies – particularly one who claims Dickie owes his family money and that he will badly beat up PJ if he does not get the money - and the rest of his time worrying about his family situation – wearing too small shoes as he does not think they can afford new ones and oddly obsessed that his parents will get divorced and/or send him to boarding school. In both sections Murray’s ability to capture the voices and inhabit the character of a older teenage girl and a rather nerdy 12 year old boy is impressive – and there is a light undercurrent of humour despite the travails of the family and the personal anguish of the two children. Next up is Imelda, desperate for Dickie to ask Maurice for help. We learn via flashbacks much of her early life (in a desperately poor family with a violent ex bare knuckle fighter father - her only real ally her youngest brother Lar) and how she met Frank – whose sporting prowess charmed her father just as his poverty and violence rather repelled Maurice. This is in many ways a powerful section, and written in a rather breathless as well as unpunctuated style meant to capture both Imelda’s lack of formal education and her rather scattergun style of speaking/thinking. A number of media reviews have referred to this as a stream-of-consciousness style and invoked Molly Bloom but I think that is misleading and not intended by the author. The fourth voice is Dickie – and while the move to a rather conventional voice matches Dickie’s much remarked upon bookishness. I did not really feel the storyline worked – telling of Dickie’s move to Trinity to study, a friendship with an eccentric other student Willie (which becomes much deeper over time), the truth behind a traumatic incident when he was apparently struck by a bus on the first day of his third year (note that the book is rather too full of famous incidents which are not what they seem – the truth about the titular event which meant Imelda wore her veil for the entire wedding to cover her swollen eye emerges later on) and then a, for me, rather surprising relationship he forged when he returned. A fifth section of the book then adopts a stylistically impressive second person voice - and using it switches rapidly around each character as we learn more of the past and see how the present develops: Cass for example now at Trinity, Imelda deciding what to do about the attentions of Mike, Maurice who has returned from Portugal finding holes in the garage accounts, Dickie freed from the garage spending his time with Victor – an eccentric but driven end time prepper who drags Victor into his plans and helps transform a shed on Dickie’s family land (a shed which has different meanings to various of the novel’s characters). Other characters include a mysterious Polish mechanic who obsessed a number of the family members, Big Mike’s Brazilian housekeeper and sometime lover, Imelda’s ageing seer Aunt Rose (with who she lived for many years) – and at the end - in a sequence which transitions further to be written more like a play - a series of rather unlikely events (at the least in their simultaneity) and part misunderstandings causes pretty well every character to converge on the shed – in a section which I really felt was not a great way to end a literary fiction novel. Overall for me - as my initial comments said - a book which despite its considerable merit, just failed to either live up to its huge promise or really justify its length.

Here’s a fact about the universe, maybe the number one fact: it’s impossible to comprehend how much it doesn’t care about us. 2.5 stars. I really enjoyed this in the beginning, but towards the end I found myself getting tired of it and wanting to skim. I felt like the book and its characters sort of overstayed their welcome and that Murray could have wrapped this up in a much more reasonable 400 pages. But, then again, my issue was not just one of length but an overall dislike with the experimental turn the book took in the later chapters. To be honest, I think the only books that should be 650 pages are ones where a lot of plot happens. Introspection is great, but only so much of it. Tragedy can be fun, but only so much of it. The Bee Sting is misery-heavy, which I am usually fine with, but at this length it's just an unrelenting barrage. I could actually feel myself getting wearier of reading what was pretty much the same story from different perspectives. Each one lost a little more of the spark. I was super into Cass and Elaine's friendship drama and Cass's insecurities about her family's financial problems, and I also liked PJ's perspective as he struggled to pay off a bully. Imelda's punctuation-light stream-of-consciousness was where I first started to lose interest, and Dickie's meandering narrative followed by the experimental and increasingly fragmented chapters towards the end just cemented my misgivings. In a way, it was perhaps worse that the book started one way and then ended up somewhere completely different. I adore dysfunctional family dramas, which was what the book started out as, and I felt disappointed that we moved toward playing with different styles and literary techniques. Also: it irks me that literary fiction is the only place people shun punctuation to look clever. As many others have pointed out, the ending is left ambiguous, which feels especially dissatisfying after trudging through such a lengthy book.

Before reading the second-to-last and last chapters, I found this book rather unremarkable. However, the impact of the final chapter, which consists of only one page, was so sudden and powerful. The tension and intensity of the penultimate chapter were already impressive - unlike the rest of the book, which features long monologues, this part is like a drama with characters quickly switching scenes, all heading towards a stormy night in the forest. I was left wondering which of the two armed characters would shoot and at whom. Family tragedies have been depicted extensively, but this book introduces a new layer of tragedy. Paul Murray presents the subtle and real gaps between people and the turmoil beneath a seemingly calm surface. Without political unrest or war refugees, others are like hell, while self - imprisonment is also present. Toxic friendships, jealousy, selfishness, cowardice, deceit, and the desperate attempt to cling to anything, regardless of what or who it is, are all explored. Starting from the first chapter in the present timeline, up to the midnight forest scene, about a year passes. As the story progresses through the alternating perspectives of the four family members, the past is gradually pieced together. Everyone is both a victim and a perpetrator (except PJ, who is truly innocent). Murray’s ability to write such an extreme yet innocent tragedy is impressive. However, I can't help but wonder how a family can fall apart to such an extent without external wounds. Perhaps it is the uncontrollable undercurrent, rushing towards destruction once a small crack forms. Murray writing is excellent, not with complex words or advanced metaphors, but by straightforwardly conveying character perspectives. The rhythm and style change slightly with each character, especially Imelda's segments, which are written without punctuation, perfectly capturing her unease and lack of sophistication. When writing Cass, it feels like Murray himself went through such a teenage phase - the contradictions, the oscillations, self-loathing, and blind admiration are all incredibly believable. While reading, I often felt a sense of suffering, witnessing characters standing on the brink of an abyss. Sometimes they fell, sometimes they turned away. The title The Bee Sting seems to be explained in the first chapter - Imelda is stung by a bee on her wedding day, disfiguring her and forcing her to wear a veil, symbolizing life's bee sting pain - momentarily shocking but ultimately trivial, only slightly inconvenient. But the final revelation shows that the bee sting is merely a superficial cover for deep pain. If the cover itself is so unbearable, wouldn't the real end be destruction? And Murray adds, "it is for love. You are doing this for love." An OK read. 2.8 / 5 stars

Phew 😮‍💨 Boy am I glad to see the end of that whopper of a book. Great start and even better sending but the middle was incredibly boring. Back in hospital so apologies for the disjointed review but here we go…. 🌟🌟🌟 We begin with a man. A man who killed his family. Then turned the gun on himself. What kind of man was he? That is exactly what everyone was talking about. Rumours swirled as expected. Some were surprised, others were surprised it didn’t happen more. It was a small town in Ireland. The kind where ‘you can’t even buy a sausage roll without having to tell someone your life story…’. The townsfolk were interested in farming and Gaelic games - that was the height of it. Cass and Elaine were as close as two friends could be. Elaine hated GAA and sports in general. Cass didn’t care for it much either. I like Cass’s character the best. Her controlling mother was a member of the Tidy Towns Committee. Cass complained she just wanted to live somewhere where people don’t ’look like they were made out of mashed potato’ 😂 When Elaine asked her father for pictures of her parent’s wedding, after much digging, she was confronted with ‘There was a bee’. She had been stung so bad, they had refused any pictures of their big day to be taken. As it turned out the bee was actually stuck inside her mother’s veil!! There was a quiet tense moment of silence before the girls were rolling around on the floor laughing at the audacity of it. The book was split into Parts and each Part was told by the POV of a different character. I found this really interesting and refreshing to continue along the storyline but through different peoples eyes. However, the downside of that is that you’re always going to have your favourite and least favourite sections to the book depending on how you feel about the character. Mid way through my concentration took a deep nose dive and I struggled to keep myself engaged with the storyline. I was also a bit confused…had we gone back in time? It was all a bit of a guessing game but I definitely preferred the first 2 parts to the 3rd. ‘It must be a shock when your whole life is in books to find out you have actually done something in the world for real…’ and suddenly my interest peaked once again; she was pregnant…” it’s alright I will destroy it” she said, but despite his shock ‘ he winced, he hated harming anything. He had told her once he felt bad putting bleached down the toilet because he felt sorry for the bacteria.’ And then before long, we are launched back into present day, under Cass’s POV. There was too much about the characters I didn’t like and not enough about the characters I did like. The last 150 pages were are my favourite. It was clear whose point of view you were reading and it was generally much more captivating and interesting to read. The chapters were short, to the point and no extra fuss was added. These pages started with a chapter from Dickie’s POV whereby he started “You become pure presence. You are diffused among the tress, in the ground, in the air, the water… everyday the Earth seems new, you too are new.” The final chapter was intense as the format quickly changed to an almost play like format. I only wish the rest of the book could have lived up to the last 150 pages. But I am glad to leave it on a high note. Although what I cease to know is why the book started with the shocking few sentences I spoke about earlier…I don’t understand the connection with the rest of the book. “it is for love. You are doing this for love.” 🥰

Shortlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize A period of isolation would bring about gradual changes in the collective gene pool of each isolated region. This would disrupt the genetic flattening caused by an overabundance of humans on the planet, leading to the formation of groups with their own distinguishing genetic characteristics. Eventually, through mutation within, or perhaps interbreeding between these different groups, there should appear a new humanity, with new genes, and the potential for further evolution. Under the Eye of the Big Bird is Asa Yoneda's translation of the 2016 Japanese original 大きな鳥にさらわれないようby 川上弘美 (Hiromi Kawakami). The Japanese title has, I believe, more a sense of "Don’t let the big bird get you", which is a line used in the story whose title is also given to the novel. The author's Strange Weather in Tokyo (published in the US as The Briefcase - more literally would have been Sensei's Bag or The Teacher's Bag) was longlisted for the 2014 Independent Foreign Fiction Prize (the previous name of the International Booker) as well as the Man Asian Literary Prize. Kawakami has said - see below - that she has a preference for short-stories as they examine the micro changes of a particular moment, rather than a more macro accumulation (I particularly liked her mathematical take - short stories as velocity, and novels as absement), and this novel is a perfect illustration of her preferred technique - layering individual short stories together to form a full-length work. Under the Big Bird indeed consists of 14 stories, set in a post catastrophic population collapse world, over thousands of years, a world whose nature becomes more clear as the novel progresses and the different snapshots cohere into a whole as to how humanity tried to avoid extinction: Many nations had already vanished. Those that still remained were barely functioning as states. Jakob's plan was a last resort: an option that had, by then, ceased to be a choice. Communities of humans would be separated into a number of regions and isolated from one another completely. Watchers would be placed in each region to maintain continuous observation over the population. All reproductive taboos would be lifted, while mechanisms of competition would be managed carefully in order to mitigate the effects of survival of the fittest and preserve as much genetic diversity as possible. Putting the plan in place had been straightforward, given that the greater part of human religion, philosophy, and ideology had already been lost. In this world, humans are part bred but part manufactured or cloned, under the benovelent (?) eye of Observers, and the care of non-human but humanoid Mothers. The stories roam over different communities - sometimes the same characters occur (e.g. the stories 'Love' and 'Changes' are the same incident told from two perspectives), but in some cases what seem recurrent characters - e.g. two individuals Ian and Jakob whose ideas drive this new world - are actually clones of much earlier generations, and the stories we read previously are now told as legends. At times the stories feel rather whimsical (think Ishiguro's Klara and the Sun, to me perhaps his weakest novel), but the last two stories provide another dimension. The penultimate story Destination retells the Ian/Jakob 'origin' story from another angle, and touches on Artificial General Intelligence, and the last 'Are You There, God?' brings the story neatly full circle and indeed makes us question the set up we've witnessed from the first story. Once you had the ability in hand to create neural networks with the same intellect as a human brain, there was no real chance of you being able to resist the temptation to see what they could do. You initially called it experimental. Indeed, to begin with, Al was used tentatively, on a small scale, in limited spaces, within defined groups. You had no specific aims for it. Or perhaps you avoided giving it a purpose, whether intentionally or unconsciously. Then some conflicts arose among you - and of course there were constant conflicts. Waging war is one of your abilities, and you are naturally eager to wield the powers you have - and you started to count on being able to use these enhanced processes in warfare. You then called it essential. Words are convenient. You base your values and affect on words, but the same words are already defined according to your inclinations. Meaning that your values and affect are constructed along the lines of your preferences themselves. Up until the last chapters, I found this a little disappointing but a strong end - 3.5 stars, rounded down for now. The judges' take Hiromi Kawakami’s Under the Eye of the Big Bird tells the story of humanity’s evolution on an epic scale that spans as far into the future as the human imagination could possibly allow. In each of its chapters, separated by eons but gracefully unified under the crystalline clarity of Asa Yoneda’s seemingly timeless translation, a variegated cast of posthuman characters each interrogate what it means to be not an individual or a nation but an entire species, that unit of being we currently and urgently struggle so much to grasp, much to the cost to the planet we live on and our own survival. ChatGPT translation of a report on an interview with Kawakami What was particularly interesting in the interview was Kawakami’s perspective on capturing “moments” within her literary world. The world she weaves—one that is fleeting, permeating, and ultimately dissolving—is born from her drive to capture various sensations of passing moments. She referenced the works of Shinichi Fukuoka in relation to her creative approach of “trying to show things that vanish in an instant.” Fukuoka describes a biological view in which, although the molecules composing the body appear constant, they are actually in a state of ceaseless turnover, changing instant by instant. Kawakami remarked that this concept resonates deeply with her own creative awareness. That is, her literary world is imbued with the consciousness of grasping ever-changing moments within an apparently unchanging whole, a characteristic that is vividly inscribed and overflows throughout her works. This obsession with "moments" also extends to Kawakami's creative process. For her, as someone who preferred writing short stories, a short story involves carefully examining a particular moment in detail and capturing the changes within that moment (which she compared to differentiation in mathematics). In contrast, a novel is a method of constructing an overall picture on a macroscopic scale, expressing the accumulation of the flow of time (which she likened to integration). Because of this, while she could fully savor the joy of writing through short stories, she found writing novels to be more challenging. Regarding this creative struggle, she shared the behind-the-scenes story of how she eventually became able to write novels—by layering dozens of individual short stories together to form a full-length work.For her, as someone who preferred writing short stories, a short story involves carefully examining a particular moment in detail and capturing the changes within that moment (which she compared to differentiation in mathematics). In contrast, a novel is a method of constructing an overall picture on a macroscopic scale, expressing the accumulation of the flow of time (which she likened to integration). Because of this, while she could fully savor the joy of writing through short stories, she found writing novels to be more challenging. Regarding this creative struggle, she shared the behind-the-scenes story of how she eventually became able to write novels—by layering dozens of individual short stories together to form a full-length work.

Probably beautiful, probably brilliant, probably hard won in the permeating persistence of its dreamy ethereal substance but like… holy CRAP I was bored. I haven’t been this bored since I last tried to scroll through one of Oprah’s book club’s meet the author instagram posts.

I requested this review copy because I thought it sounded sooo frick'n good, but instead it ended up being a little bit of a let down. Less novel, and more a series of interconnected stories depicting the near extinction of the human race, Under the Eye of the Big Bird is a cautionary futuristic tale spanning hundreds and thousands of years. After a series of not completely clear catastrophic events, both human and AI driven, those remaining were forced to isolate into separate societies, which then set off interesting and unpredictable evolutionary chain reactions. The stories are not told in any particular order, and while I enjoyed each one on its own individually, it was easier to find the connective threads between some, and was much much harder with others. Honestly, having finished the book and knowing what I know now, I'm tempted to give it a second read because I am certain it will all come crashing together more cohesively and the order in which each story takes place will make so much more sense. And it might even earn a higher rating from me. But sadly, my gigantic TBR is calling, and I cannot afford to spend time rereading a book just to make it all make more sense. Onward, my fellow readers. (though, if you do end up reading this one, and after having a similar experience decide to reread it in order to make it make more sense, I'd love to know if that works!!) (and also, can I just say how much I dislike this title? It makes me think of "under his eye" from Handmaids Tale and Sesame Street. Sigh.)

As with any novel-in-interconnected-short-stories, some segments hit harder than others. As a whole, this is quite enjoyable and admirably imaginative. I love some soft speculative fiction, and this is especially gentle.

3.5* Under the Eye of the Big Bird is a collection of speculative, dystopian short stories that offer a bleak glimpse into the future; into a society where children are produced in factories, clones and AI mothers run breeding programmes and society is under vigilance by the “watchers”. Many of these stories are absolutely harrowing and eerie, leaving you with a lot of food for thought about the state of our future… one of my favourite aspects of this collection is how many of the short stories are in conversation with one another: topics and characters that are touched upon in the beginning are reintroduced in later stories, albeit in different contexts, which amount together to build a deeply rich world of a decrepit society. this was really fun as a reader as overtime you begin to piece together the puzzle of kawakami’s world. some of my favourite stories include “Keepsakes”, “Green Gardens”, and “The Lake”. i love the myriad of ways in which they explore what it means to be human!!! in truth, i struggled slightly with the translation for this one. i found many of the sentences to jump or end abruptly— it was almost like reading an amalgamation of different narrative styles— which ended up creating quite a disruptive reading experience for me. the language almost didn’t feel quite cohesive or smoothly executed (?) but it was quite an easy read. In between these disjointed passages, however, there were seedlings for incredibly immersive ideas that would stimulate great group discussions— so it’s definitely worth the read! overall, this was a really fascinating work of speculative fiction and a very accessible short story collection! Under the Eye of the Big Bird is ideal for fans of Tender is the Flesh, I Who Have Never Known Men, and Dune.

book 5/6 from The International Booker Prize 2025 Shortlist speculative fiction written as interconnected short-stories. at first, i enjoyed the sense of mystery and the elusiveness of each story, but admittedly i started to feel a bit frustrated by this after a few hundred pages. when the stories do connect somehow, and we get more context, i didn’t feel like the execution paid off. still, i did enjoy kawakami’s writing, there was a quality of serenity and detachment to it that i found wonderfully fitting for a story centred around AI and its perception of humanity. the prose makes this an immersive and atmospheric novel, and managed to hold my attention to the end despite the puzzling storytelling.

I don’t disagree with most of the criticism of this book, but somehow, I didn’t hate it. Yes, cliched characters and inconsistencies abound and the narrative seems to be plodding in a circle, much like the characters, but the mother/daughter dynamic kept me interested. The idea of resenting the selflessness that is often expected of motherhood, and having a primal love for someone you don’t like all that much, kept me engaged in a story I would otherwise have lost interest in early on.

In a world polluted by over-population, the human race has been confined to huge cities with a large area of restricted wilderness to protect what's left of nature. 8 years ago 20 people were approved to live in the wild, with a whole book of rules as a government experiment. Bea and her young daughter who is struggling to survive in the smog of the city are 2 of these people. This novel follows their relationship, the differences in growing up in civilization vs. the wild, and survival against all odds.

There used to be a cultural belief, in an era before she was born, that having close ties to nature made one a better person. And when they first arrived in the Wilderness, they imagined living there might make them more sympathetic, better, more attuned people. But they came to understand there’d been a great misunderstanding about what better meant. It’s possible it simply meant better at being human, and left the definition of the word human up for interpretation. It might have only meant better at surviving, anywhere, by any means. Bea thought living in the Wilderness wasn’t all that different than living in the City in that respect. The New Wilderness is set up like a dystopian cli-fi — people are crowded together into the smog-choked City, the last natural areas are patrolled by the power-crazed Rangers, both ruled over by the nebulous Administration — and the reader can tell by all of these capitalised nouns that things have gone very, very wrong in our not-so-distant future. Into this reality, an experiment is introduced: Twenty ordinary people are dropped into this last (and vast) natural area (called the Wilderness State), and following strict rules set out in their Manual (no settling in one place, clear each campsite of microtrash and cart it out, no splintering) and monitored and directed by the Rangers (who send the Community on foot to farflung Posts in order for them to receive and send mail, have their trash weighed and associated fines assigned, receive addendums to their Manual), the group must adopt a nomadic hunter-gatherer lifestyle in order to...something or other. Author Diane Cook has set up a pretty interesting concept — and the first few chapters had me very interested as I tried to figure out what was going on — but the whole thing is ultimately pretty pointless: The Community walks from Post to Post for years, eventually meeting Newcomers and Trespassers and other Mavericks (as the City becomes increasingly unlivable and people become desperate to break into what they believe to be a new Eden), but there’s never any insight into the politics or the climate events or the social changes that led to this point. For some reason, a population of unknown number had been corralled into a City of unknown size and twenty people have been given a chance to live a nomadic lifestyle under strict, and sometimes arbitrary, rules. Because of these rules (and other interferences by the Rangers, under orders of the Administration), the Community doesn’t organise itself organically (so there’s really no insight into how such a group might have actually lived at some point in our actual human history), and with only a few of the twenty serving as “main characters” (I don’t think I could name everyone in the Community even after just finishing this; why were there a couple of kids named Brother and Sister if they’re only mentioned maybe three times — and never doing anything important — over all the years covered in the book?), and with those main characters not necessarily behaving in ways I understood, Cook provides no real insight into how individual members of such a nomadic group might have survived. HOWEVER, despite not learning anything from The New Wilderness, and despite some frequently uninspired writing, this is not among the worst books I’ve ever read — it was fine. (But on the Man Booker shortlist? That I don’t understand.) In the beginning there were twenty. Officially, these twenty were in the Wilderness State as part of an experiment to see how people interacted with nature, because, with all land now being used for resources — oil, gas, minerals, water, wood, food — or storage — trash, servers, toxic waste — such interactions had become lost to history. But most of the twenty didn’t know much about science, and many of them didn’t even care about nature. These twenty had the same reasons people have always had for turning their backs on everything they’d known and venturing to an unfamiliar place. They went to the Wilderness State because there was no other place they could go. That’s about as much explanation as we get for this experiment, but we also know: Glen (probably an Anthropology Professor?) worked at a university, and when his stepdaughter, Agnes, became deathly sick from the air in the City, he championed the Wilderness experiment, and when it was approved, he, his wife Bea, and five-year-old Agnes were among the twenty dropped into the Wilderness State. The story begins several years into their experience (for some reason, no one keeps track of the months or the years as they pass, so we never know exactly how old Agnes is at any time) and the narrative alternates between third-party POV focussing on either Bea or Agnes. Bea is a survivor and a natural leader, and as the story goes along, she is prepared to do anything to protect her daughter — even if Agnes can’t seem to ever understand her mother’s rationale for anything. This mother-daughter relationship is really the heartbeat of the story, and by showing how hard Bea’s own mother fought to keep them in the City and away from the Wilderness State (and before that, how hard Bea’s grandmother — one of the last people to live in a private home — had fought being brought to the City when she could no longer care for herself), Cook develops this theme of mothers and daughters forever misunderstanding one another until their roles reverse; I did mostly like these bits, even though they could feel overwrought: Agnes stiffened, withdrew her limbs, her self, and crawled back under the corner of the pelt, curled up. She did not want her mother’s aggressive overtures of love. She wanted her back rubbed, her cheek caressed. She wanted murmurs against her neck. Her hand held lightly. She wanted to not have to ask questions. To be confused. She wanted confessions she didn’t have to demand. She hated her mother’s fierce love. Because fierce love never lasted. Fierce love now meant that later, there would be no love, or at least that’s what it would feel like. Agnes wanted a mild mother, one who seemed to love her exactly the same every day. She thought, Mild mothers don’t run away. I could go on and on about all the parts that just didn’t make sense, about clumsy writing and the lack of a through theme that made some kind of a point, but again, this was fine; I kept reading to the end because I wanted to know what was going to happen; I could almost even say that I was entertained.

The New Wilderness was an interesting enough read for me. It’s premise has a lot of potential; a survival experiment in the “last” wilderness reserve in a world that appears to be suffering from climate change and overpopulation. There’s scope here for great stories about survival at both a micro and macro level. Cook did have a lot of individually interesting things to say about what people are willing to do to survive and there are the bones of some really diverse interesting characters here. Unfortunately for me, the realisation of this was hampered by what ended up being a somewhat unwieldy narrative. Cook didn’t seem to know where the story was going, or how long it was going to take to get there; at times meandering over nothing much and at others jumping from one super significant plot redirection to another. As a result, I never really felt I knew or understood anyone other than Agnes or Glen. This book left me feeling good but not great.

My fourth book from the Booker longlist book. I was intrigued, then bored, then I think I liked it, but also it‘s not really memorable. This book does an odd, maybe accidental, thing of promising a lot of fun it‘s not going to offer. We open in some weird wilderness where a woman, Beatrice, clearly with some awareness of civilization, gives stillbirth by herself in a desert area, then returns to her cave with her partner and her daughter. We learn there's a group, and then we learn there are rangers - rangers that live in the "normal" world. I was thinking this sounds like a variation Jumaji and was kind of intrigued. Slowly the outside world is revealed in way just enough so that we understand it's bad, and these "Jumanji" people came here by choice and live as nomads under enforced rules. That is this is a future where all land is exploited except this one carefully preserved, very Oregon-like, wilderness. Our group of about 20 live in this wilderness by choice as nomads under strict rules, enforced by wilderness rangers. The rules are followed even as the group is exposed to great danger, and some of them are killed in various accidents. And no one wants to leave this wilderness. So the rest of the world must be pretty bad. At this point in the novel, having picked up this curious setting...and set my mind on Jumanji...I was expecting some other weird stuff, some crazy world building or something of that sort. But the setting doesn't really evolve much from there, and the story just story of stumbles along. The book slows down, and as a listener, I was forced to re-evaluate what is going on. There was a lot of time to do this, to the point my interest really wound down. The end comes with some touching moments and an exploration of motherhood from a daughter's evolving awareness. I did like that, and I can see now how the whole book was structured for that aspect, but it's not what I set out thinking about, or what I was thinking about through, say, 90% of this. I stalled on how to review this because after a lot of disappointment I actually really liked how it ended and I figured I need to think about this a while. Well, nothing has really come of that except that I've started to forget things and don't feel bad about that. Recommend only for Booker completists. ----------------------------------------------- 58. The New Wilderness by Diane Cook reader: Stacey Glemboski published: 2020 format: 12:46 audible audiobook (416 pages in hardcover) acquired: Oct 9 listened: Oct 30 – Dec 5 rating: 3½ locations: future unspecified. but Oregon-ish about the author: lives in Brooklyn

In the beginning there were twenty. Officially, these twenty were in the Wilderness State as part of an experiment to see how people interacted with nature, because, with all land now being used for resources – oil, gas, minerals, water, wood, food – or storage – trash, servers, toxic waste – such interactions had become lost to history. I thought this book was well written – especially her descriptions of the fauna, flora and landscape – descriptive but with no frills. As with most dystopian novels the focus is on the group dynamics in a situation where strangers must figure out their role in a group. But unlike other novels the complex relationship between mother and daughter is highlighted in The New Wilderness, and I thought this was one of the strongest elements in the book. Being a daughter and having a daughter myself I know that even without the pressure of a survival situation, this can be a complicated relationship. The fact that the community was forced to adapt to a nomadic lifestyle added another interesting layer to this book. The reason TNW does not receive a higher rating is that I did not feel an emotional connection to any of the characters, and there were big parts of the story that could have been edited I thought. Still worth the read if you are in the mood for a very realistic adult dystopian. The Story: The New Wilderness is Diane Cook's debut novel that brings to life a wildly imaginative and terrifying dystopian story of a mother's battle to save her daughter from a world ravaged by climate change.

Diane Cook’s first novel joins a long list of recent dystopian novels focused on the ravages of climate change and the catastrophic future toward which the world seems to be barreling. With US society and its infrastructure having fallen into a miasma of filth, decay, and crime, a small group of volunteers joins a government sponsored project to see if humans can live in nature without destroying it. The group is settled in an isolated wilderness area in the West, and must follow a strict set of guidelines, including the fiat never to settle in one place for more than a few days. They are to be nomads, hunters and gatherers. Transgressions are severely fined, though it’s never clear what those fines are. The novel focuses most tellingly on the fraught relationship of a mother and her daughter, both of whom eventually emerge as strong, capable leaders. The group certainly needs forceful leadership, as over time the wilderness denizens become progressively similar to the other wilderness denizens—that is, the animals, whose lives are consumed with one overriding concern: survival. We’re not exactly at the level of Lord of the Flies, but the novel’s thrust is certainly toward that level. Think more of the TV series Survivor, where loyalties are tenuous and usually disguised—and where, as the title underscores, there is finally only one loyalty, individual survival. As one finds in watching that show, the most compelling aspect of the novel is trying to sort through the characters’ shifting loyalties and motives, which in the end almost always prove to be calculated and self-serving. The detective work the novel demands of the reader in this regard is quite enjoyable and at times compelling, which in large part explains why the novel gets better as it goes along, as internal dynamics becoms more slippery and complex with mounting external pressures upon the group. Sounds intriguing, yes? Well, in many ways it is, though the novel in the end fails to live up to its tantalizing promise. In a review in The Guardian, Tea Obreht declared The New Wilderness as a dazzling debut novel, though there’s really nothing dazzling about it, including the descriptions of nature which are entirely mundane but which Obreht inexplicably finds particularly compelling. (I really wish publications would restrain themselves from relying so heavily on fiction writers to review other writers’ fiction—there’s too much friendly praise, too much in-house group loyalty, kind of like what you would expect if you asked a policeman to review publicly his or her partner’s performance.) It’s not just that Cook’s prose is so uninspiring (it’s adequate, nothing more), it’s that too much of the novel is merely people talking. Talk, talk, talk over time grows a bit wearisome, particularly in a novel of this sort. Finally, the logic behind the whole wilderness enterprise is entirely suspect—I mean, why with the world falling apart would the government send 20 people into one of the nation’s last wilderness areas to live as nomads? Huh? Makes for a good story until you start thinking about it. It’s a rather ridiculous plot device, nothing more. So, despite being very interested in the issues raised by the novel and despite having gotten caught up in trying to predict how several of the twists and turns would work out (particularly near the end), I came away rather disappointed. To put it simply: The New Wilderness is a promising novel that doesn't fulfill its promise.

Not bad, but I just couldn’t get into it.

What a long ass book. I have a lot of complaints especially when this book is being sold as a climate change book, but it is not actually a book about climate change, just a story set in the backdrop of climate change. They had seen a lot of death. They had become hardened to it. Not just the community members who had perished in grizzly or mundane ways, but around them, everything died openly. Dying was as common as living. They worried about one another of course, but when one of them ceased surviving for whatever reason, they closed ranks and put their energy into what remained alive. This was an unanticipated outcome of living in the wilderness but it happened quickly and cleanly. The book starts with a bunch of people in the Wilderness state who are there for a study. Glenn, Agnes and Bea are a part of this group, and the reason they wanted to be a part of this study was that Agnes had respiratory problems in the city. That's how the book starts. But all the more, it does not talk about the climate of the city, there is no description of the city as such, the city is just a far-fetched concept that people in the Wilderness state want to leave behind. Also, the book is super slow and things only happen waaaay in the end. The book focuses on a strained mother-daughter relationship. This book is NOT about climate change but about a group of humans who are trying to escape climate change by staying in the wilderness. A good concept, but a misleading selling point. In Conclusion A super meh book. Clear your expectations before getting in.

Ugh. I didn’t like it at first, loved it from the 1/3-3/4 mark, and then the last chapter was just gut wrenching. Also, it KILLS ME when readers are not told what happens to characters and that’s how this book ended. Basically not knowing anything about anything. Bleh. If it had an ending on it that wrapped everything up in a nice little bow I’d give it 4 stars easily. As it is it just feels like I was told half a story.

For me, reading ‘The New Wilderness’ by Diane Cook was like finding myself among people who have a very different outlook and set of interests than I can ever understand or want for myself. I have copied the book blurb: ”Goodreads Choice AwardNominee for Best Science Fiction (2020) Bea's five-year old daughter, Agnes, is slowly wasting away in front of her. The smog and pollution of the City--the over-populated, over-built metropolis where most of the population lives in buildings on top of buildings, where there is no room for parks or plants--is destroying her lungs. If they stay in the City, Agnes will die. Across the country is the Wilderness State, a huge swath of protected land, remote and unwelcoming, a refuge for wildlife with nowhere else to go. It is a place of open spaces and clean air, wild animals, trees, forests, desert plains. No people have ever been allowed into the Wilderness State. Until now. Bea and Agnes will be among the first. Along with a handful of others, they are invited into the Wilderness State, to live as nomadic hunter gatherers. This motley group of twenty people are part of a study to see if humans can co-exist with nature and not just dominate it as they have always done. Can they be part of the wilderness and not put too heavy an imprint on the land? They spend their days wandering through this grand country, hunting, gathering, avoiding animal attacks, bickering among themselves, and doing a surprising amount of paperwork. Their nit-picking overseers, The Rangers, wrangle with them and badger them into adhering to the rules of the Government, the most important being Leave No Trace. They slowly learn how to live, and survive, on the unpredictable, often dangerous land, and they build a new kind of community, fighting among themselves for power, betraying and saving one another. Each day they will walk to another point on the horizon and try to make sense of new lives they now spend closer to their animal soul. Bea discovers that fleeing to the Wilderness State to save Agnes means that she loses her in a different way. Agnes grows wild and belongs to the landscape while Bea, raised in the City, will always be of that place and drawn to it, no matter how many deer she skins. The real bond between mother and daughter will be tested by their growing difference. As these modern nomads come to think of the Wilderness State as home, this land will come under attack from the Government which plans to develop it. Do the Settlers stay on as renegades, or move back to newly created urban areas? This mild dystopian book is about some city people who feel a desperate need to do things like hike, camp, sleep out under the stars, to cut wood and hunt deer for their meat to eat and their skins to make clothes. They are willing to leave their apartments and jobs in the polluted and cramped city and learn how to survive in a forest. They are willing to endure hardships, injuries and death from living in the wild. Parents are willing to bring their young children with them. Because they have agreed to form what they call The Community, they travel together as a tribe. They decide to have a democracy, more or less. Decisions on rules of behavior, sharing, hunting, division of labor, how to hike together, are all decided after debate. Couples break up and form new relationships. They have babies in the forest. They love living this way, no matter what other reasons they may have had to join the experiment of becoming tribal nomads like aboriginals from millennia ago. The novel is also about a mother and her daughter. Agnes is only eight years old when Bea joins the experiment of living in the forest. Bea is trying to save her daughter’s life. From a brief description, I think Agnes has some sort of lung disease. After living in the forest for three years, she is cured. She also becomes adept at living the life of a forest aboriginal. She is a wild child of the forest. She vaguely remembers her city life. Agnes loves her mother, but she finds herself often angry at her mother too. Agnes feels deserted by her mother sometimes, and there are more and more things they disagree on as time goes on. There is a final break socially, and Agnes and Bea go their own ways. Agnes, being a wild child, attuned to the forest, is very capable of taking care of herself there. Bea longs for some of the things that are only available in the city, although she also has become adept at living in the forest. The book is beautifully descriptive of the wild forest. The author is lyrical and elegiac by turns in writing of the wonders of plants and streams, of woods and animals. I have sometimes gone on short walks in national parks on marked trails and the book brings those experiences to life. But while the writing is always extraordinarily illustrative and picturesque, I got tired of hundreds of pages describing The Community’s hiking and camping, of their enchantment with the wild. I am not enthralled with any kind of camping. I dislike camping. A lot. I don’t want forests or parks to destroyed! I want them to continue to exist and I believe they need to be protected for their beauty and animal life as well as for controlling global warming! But I really do not enjoy living in them for any length of time. I am a city kid through and through. I also am a bit of a loner. The tribe’s socializing and tiffs and judging each other’s every habit or lack of enthusiasm for some assigned task made me claustrophobic. The group’s dynamics changed by necessity over the years because of the deaths of some influential people and the rise of others who wanted more control over decisions only increased my sense of claustrophobia. I never had kids, so I tend to empathize in Bildungsroman plots with the kid more than the adults, but not in this case. (view spoiler) In fact, I was not able to really empathize or connect with any character in the novel. In the end I did not enjoy the novel although I continued to see that the writing is excellent from the first page to the last. I have a physical condition called EDS - Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome affects connective tissue, primarily the skin, joints, and blood vessel walls. Symptoms include overly flexible joints that can dislocate, and skin that's translucent, elastic, and bruises easily. In some cases, there may be dilation and even rupture of major blood vessels. I do not have the stamina most people have. I get tired and need to sit down on the ground if I stand up for about an hour, like waiting in a line to see a movie. Although I exercise regularly, I have to limit how much I do because if I do too much I feel ill. I have been weaker than the people around me all of my life. Because my ligaments have too much stretch, my muscles cannot get the opposing force they need to build up like they do when people without this condition work out. When I was a kid, my body operated more like a cooked spaghetti noodle. I could put my heels behind my neck. During physical education classes in school, the PE teachers were well aware I could never be an athlete. I didn’t know why I was like I was until a few years ago, when a physical therapist named my condition, gave me a diagnosis. There is no cure. The older I get, the less stamina and muscle strength I have although I am no longer as flexible. Instead, I must wear compression sleeves on my knees and elbows to be able to bear weight on my joints, to be able to lift, open cans with a can opener, etc. I can no longer do bicycle rides or even walk very far before my joints hurt too much. My joints feel as is they are going to pop out of their sockets unless I am wearing compression sleeves. One of my knees sometimes bends too far the wrong way, sideways, when I turn in bed. It hurts a lot. I’ve had to pop it back where it should be in the joint. So. I do not enjoy the forest. I enjoy parks because they are made comfortable for day walkers, with amenities nearby. I do not like hikes because they are tiring and often painful for me. I don’t like being in areas where bugs abound because I am unfortunately one of those people bugs love more than other people. Being in bright sun has always made me sick for some reason if I am out on sunny days for an hour. I break out in a rash on my arms and face from sunshine over time. I can’t stand hot days at all. Anything over 78 F and I need to lie down or stay immobilized under a fan. I could not understand why I had so many more issues than everybody else whenever hiking, camping, swimming, etc. My skin has always been on the thin side, so I easily am scratched and bruised. I could not have fun when I was feeling utterly exhausted, with itchy bug bites all over, and far too hot, feeling sick. Even going to fairs or amusement parks exhausted me. And then - I was diagnosed with EDS. So. Now I know why I don’t have fun like everyone else. I feel absolutely miserable in forests, fairs, amusement parks, etc., if I am there doing stuff too long. Ultimately I was bored by all the words describing camping life in the woods. I like beautiful writing and I wondered what would happen to Agnes, so I finished the novel. But instead of being connected to Agnes in any way except by my curiosity about her fate, ultimately I couldn’t join her in her enthusiasm for dirt, grime, weather and hiking a lot. But I suspect a lot of literary readers and mothers and daughters with fraught love/hate relationships who enjoy reading books about similar relationships will like ‘The New Wilderness.’ Of course, underlying the story, is the prediction of a future dystopia, of how losing the wild to the overpopulation of humans and our cementing over forests and killing wildlife for building houses and polluted cities is a terrible loss of beauty and a reason for humans to enjoy being alive at all. At least, for poor humans. Rich humans will always be able to build and buy their houses and land in a forest.

Winner of the 2021 Warwick Prize for Translation and (for Jackie Smith and editor Bill Swainson) the US Society of Authors award for First Translation. A book with a great preface but uneven execution. I read this book due to its longlisting for the 2021 International Booker Prize. The first thing to say about this book is that it is beautifully produced – with a lovely dark “marble-effect” cover and a series of similar plates at the start of each chapter. The latter at first glance look black-with-effect but on closer examination have an image which matches the subject of the chapter and captures its lost nature. This is no accident. Firstly the author is also a book designer and some of her previous books (most noticably “Atlas of Remote Islands”) have, if anything, been even more beautifully produced. Secondly the idea of the “inseparability of form and content”, the way in which a print book (as opposed to ephemeral electronic version) can be a way to capture and preserve ideas and experiences – or even further to give them something of a life-after-death is fundamental to the concept of this book, as the author explores in the preface. The second thing to say is that the preface – like the rest of the book, extremely naturally translated to English by Jackie Smith to the extent that the book has both a wide ranging but entirely natural scope of language - is brilliantly written. It introduces and then explores the concept of lost and discovered objects in an erudite and expansive way – backed up by a topical foreword showing how these concepts occurred even as the author worked on the book. The third thing is that the book is made up of 12 identical (16-page) length chapters – each starting with an object (in the broadest sense) which is now lost, each introduced like an exhibition/museum piece and then explored – sometimes directly and sometimes tangentially - in a mixture of essay, fiction, fact and digression. The fourth thing is that unfortunately the body of the book does not live up to either its production or its preface. For me the chapters were very uneven in their impact and even in their fidelity to the book’s purposes (at least as I saw it). Some worked really well. Here I would pick out: - The opening chapter (starting where “Atlas of Remote Islands” leaves off) on the possible Cook Island of Tuanaki – which explores the disappearance of both Islands and indigenous culture (as well as very different world views) - A brilliant chapter on Hubert Robert, one time Piranesi understudy and brilliant artist whose main subject was semi-fictitious impressions of classical ruins (a nice analogy for Schalanasky’s work) - A chapter on Sappho’s poems which combines a relatively standard but still well written discussion of how lesbianism was written out of history (and even the legal world) with an exploration of ellipses in poetry - The last chapter - a kind of half historic, half futuristic tale of a botanist/selenographer seemingly wrongly credited (or perhaps later wrongly discredited) with discovering a moon crater, who in the story ends up setting up a lunar based archive of terrestrial objects But some failed for me badly. Here I would include: - A chapter on the Caspian tiger which ends fighting with a lion in a Roman arena - the idea here I think is to show how even from 2000 years ago man-made actions lead to the disappearance of other species and not even for survival purposes, just for entertainment and circuses. And there is a rather clunky link to Claudius as last of his line. But this does not justify for me a 16 page anthropomorphic feline “Boss fight” - A chapter on a loss film, told, extremely tangentially as a first person dialogue by Greta Garbo (this a link to her famously reclusive personality I assume - and the rather cliched "I vant to be alone") which I found completely disinteresting - A completely (deliberately?) overwritten nature journal describing a walk by a river with excessive amounts of flora, fauna matched only by the equally excessive amounts of adjectives, similes and metaphors used to describe them. This reads I felt like some form of written exercise - or like someone had been let loose with a Descriptosauras Some chapters were somewhere in the middle - particularly the rather unremarkable building-inspired short stories (for example the Von Behr Palace, the East German Palace of the Republic) or, while interesting (for example a chapter on the founder of Manichaeism) seemed to me to lack real impetus. Too often I found myself flicking forward to see how many pages I needed to read through to get to the next chapter (and to decode the next blackened image) - it seems odd that a short 16 page chapter could lose a reader’s interest but too often it happened for me where the chapter’s lacked any real progress or discernible development. Overall a book I dearly wanted to love but could not. But still a fascinating addition to the longlist and one very much worth buying and keeping.

I love that a book about lost things exists; I love the daring-do of disparate genres wholly or tangentially connected to those things. I was here for this, and parts of it dazzle, from the first essay on death and absence, to the story about the lost island, and the meditation on Sappho and punctuating the unspoken. I loved SO MUCH of this, and yet, there were sections that slogged and where the experimentation seemed like, well, experimentation. What you take from this wholly depends on you; the three stars are entirely subjective, but through some of it, I was well…lost. And maybe that was the point.

"This book, like all others, springs from the desire to have something survive, to bring the past into the present, to call to mind the forgotten, to give voice to the silenced, and to mourn the lost. Writing cannot bring anything back, but it can enable everything to be experienced. Hence this volume is as much about seeking as finding, as much about losing as gaining, and gives a sense that the difference between presence and absence is perhaps marginal, as long as there is memory." To a large extent, the blurb and promotional framing of the book have been misleading. I was expecting it to directly hone on loss and what it entails but it's circular and evasive. In fact, there is much variation across the twelve chapters or essays and one struggles to find a truly overarching thread that binds them all together. Many of these "stories" do not even focus on the loss, going around and over it. I see the whole project as a pseudo-Romantic exercise. The losses are not the point but the feelings or story or memory they elicit within the observer or contemplator. The object or organism or location isn't the subject, just a trigger for a tangential exploration. The lofty preface makes bold claims that I don't think are met. I must draw attention to Schalansky's formal range. Some chapters were memoiristic, a few resembled creative nonfiction pieces, some outright essays & some were proper stories. The language also changed with every piece to showcase its content best. Jackie Smith has done a great job at the translation. With every piece, I had no idea what I will get or how Schalansky will approach that particular loss. So even if it didn't work for me, it was interesting to see the framing. Also in terms of book design, it's very beautifully produced. It was a really uneven book and a very shaky reading experience. The worst thing here is perhaps the chapter on Murnau's 1919 film titled The Boy in Blue. It really had nothing to do with the film and was actually a first-person narrative from the point of view of Greta Garbo (who attended his funeral and had his death mask on her desk, really not morbid at all). It was unflattering, to say the least, and I found it distasteful, to be honest. The second piece that did not work for me was on Greifswald Harbour, written almost as a parody of nature writing, swimming in this heavily descriptive language. There was another on Guericke's Unicorn which mentioned the unicorn just twice and had nothing to do with the creature in general. Every chapter is of equal length (nice and artificial at the same time) but some truly felt excruciatingly longer than the others. I was ambivalent towards a lot. Among my favourites were the chapters on Sappho's poetry and Villa Sacchetti. If only the other pieces rose to that level in my estimation. Ultimately, I do think it was an interesting read, if not perfect in many respects. It's a shame as it was conceptually brilliant and I really wanted to love it. It didn't make either shortlists which didn't come as a surprise. (I am on the 2021 Booker International Shadow Panel and was sent a physical copy of the book by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.)

Schalansky's first book, Atlas of Remote Islands, is a pleasant inclusion in my bookcase. It is a beautifully designed book with fine images, but light on text; the islands she chooses are fascinating also, and the few words, though well-chosen, did not answer enough questions for me, and I found myself resorting to the internet. In her new 'novel', longlisted for the International Booker Prize, it is as if she has heard my criticism.. This is her selection of historical objects now lost, 12 vanished tiny wonders of the world. As well as writing, Schalansky is designer of books, and once again, that ability really shines here. Each of the objects has an essay, or short story, attached to it, sometimes factual, sometimes fictional and sometimes fictional-based-on-fact. But these were of interest only fleetingly, I personally didn't find the mix worked very well. I had expected an entire work of non-fiction, and assumed there would be plenty of juicy facts to be unearthed from research, but maybe not. Without looking in any details at the book, from my presupposition, it had surprised me that it had made the Booker longlist. And to be honest, it still does..

International Booker 2021 Book #10 An Inventory of Losses by Judith Schalansky (tr. Jackie Smith) “This book, like all others, springs from the desire to have something survive, to bring the past into the present, to call to mind the forgotten, to give voice to the silenced, and to mourn the lost. Writing cannot bring anything back, but it can enable everything to be experienced. Hence this volume is as much about seeking as finding, as much about losing as gaining, and gives a sense that the difference between presence and absence is perhaps marginal, as long as there is memory.” Here Schalansky has given us a preface that is both brilliant and erudite, the kind of writing that drinks to philosophy, science, and history and enraptures the reader with the vast universe of knowledge. What follows this introduction are twelve pieces focusing on different lost or forgotten things, and unfortunately, these pieces are quite mixed, not fully living up to the preface and book design (which is stunning). Schalansky’s voice shines in the realm of non-fiction and stumbles when veering too far into fiction or relegating the object of a given piece to a minor role. Overall, I found myself disappointed by the failed potential of the book, but the flashes of brilliance made it still a worthwhile experience. 3.5 stars

Blog Tour Sunday is neurodivergent in the same way as Molly The Maid is. However, she's a little more self aware of her differences. As someone with a constant inner monologue, hearing her inner thoughts put me at ease. On certain days, she eats white foods. She has an etiquette handbook. She is oddly into Sicilian folklore. It's a thing. This cast of characters also includes Sunday's daughter, Dolly, and their new neighbors, London couple Vita and Rollo, who are honestly so pretentious. But, I suppose that's the stereotype. I enjoyed Sunday mimicking their accents in order to further understand them. Accents, and language, are something I enjoy about people. Things appear carefully ordered in the first half, the half I enjoyed more. The second half is where Vita and Rollo begin to show their true colors. A childless couple, they begin to spend more and more time with Dolly, even beginning to think of her as their own. But, she's not their own. She has a mother... 📱 Thank you to NetGalley and Algonquin Books 🎧 Thank you to NetGalley and Algonquin Books

Of course, now I know Vita’s little bird-heart, I remember those one-sided conversations differently. I see that my frequent muteness was a convenience to someone who was soft-feathered and sharp-eyed. And who sang away to herself in my presence, happily and without interruption, for she knew I had no song with which to call back. Initially, I was thoroughly charmed by All The Little Bird-Hearts: Told from the POV of a neurodivergent main character — the story is set in 1988, so she has no diagnosis and has spent her life being told to try harder and act normal — and written by debut author Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow, who happens to be on the autism spectrum herself, I found the setup to be fresh and authentic and intriguing. But as the plot progresses — after initially being warned that this is the summer that the main character’s world will be blown apart — there was a lot of repetition, no real surprises, and a corresponding drop in charm. I continued to appreciate the authenticity of (and the privilege of being given this insight into the mind of) the main character throughout, and might have given this four stars overall, but the ending didn’t pull together for me, so I’m rounding down to three. Still: I’m really glad that this book exists and that the Booker longlisting will bring it to a wider audience. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) The year of Vita began as a demonstration of sunshine, a visual performance of summer without real heat. Those early days were memorably bright with a hazy quality of light promising a warmth it did not provide. On reflection, that time seems now like something of a dress rehearsal for what arrived later that year, for the explosion of heat that paced up and down our hazy streets, with a fixed grin and outstretched arms aflame. Sunday Forrester is the single mother of lovely sixteen-year-old daughter, Dolly, and they live together in the Lake District in the house that Sunday inherited from her own parents when she was sixteen. Sunday knows that her quirks are hard on her daughter: she prefers to eat and serve only bland “white” foods, she quotes often from her two favourite books (a 1950s etiquette guide and a book of Sicilian folklore), and although Dolly is the light and pride of her life, Sunday’s monotone/affectless presentation can be cold and embarrassing for the teenager. And although Sunday is mostly socially isolated (except for her friendship with the deaf young man at the greenhouse where they work together), she becomes fascinated with the wealthy couple who come to rent the house next door: Vita (flaky, charming, gregarious) and her husband Rollo (sophisticated, handsome, mostly away “in town”). Vita insists that Sunday and Dolly start having dinners with them on Friday nights; and while Sunday is mostly distracted by trying to solve the puzzle of these new types of people, Dolly is completely captivated by their charm and glamour. As Dolly spends more and more time with the couple next door, Sunday doesn’t have the social acumen to recognise the danger her little family is in or the ability to prevent what has been signalled to the reader from the start. Again, I appreciated everything about Sunday’s interior life: how she tries to suppress her natural reactions (tapping out the syllables of others’ speech; wanting to repeat words in curious accents); how she pauses before responding to everything — filtering possibilities through what her mother instilled in her, what the etiquette guide would recommend, what she had noted as natural for others; how she loves her daughter with everything in her but knows it doesn’t get transmitted. There is something very special about having this reality shared by a writer with autism. On the other hand, there was a lot of repetition that ground on me. Not just the repetition within the plot (the Friday dinners especially), but phrases: characters were forever speaking “with their palms facing upwards” (in theatrical surrender…in a gesture of openness, or perhaps, impatience…the pose could have been that of an evangelical speaker, or of someone trying to catch stray pieces of something falling from above...) And while I was intrigued by this novel’s title when I first encountered it, it’s used many times throughout (his was a different kind of bird-heart…I lived for and loved a bird-heart that summer; I only knew it afterwards…the King’s little bird-heart bears only his own lovely image…) and it soon lost its charming singularity. But I think what bothered me most is just how awful most of the characters are. Vita and Rollo are the antagonists, so it’s understandable that their motives should be veiled and incomprehensible to Sunday (even if the reader sees their angle from the start). But Sunday also has to deal with an awful ex and his parents (whose behaviour in the end didn’t make sense to me); the memories of Sunday’s parents are awful (they may not have known how to deal with a neurodivergent child back in the 50s and 60s, but their behaviour bordered on evil); and ultimately, Dolly was pretty awful, too (and her behaviour in the end didn’t make sense to me). It’s natural that Sunday’s character doesn’t understand what motivates the people around her — that’s one of the novel’s greatest charms — but you get the sense that the author didn’t understand their motivations either (which is not me making any assumptions about the author’s diagnosis, but the characters did not behave like real people to me). I did like my life, and I did not want to live like her, or like Vita, however easy they found it. Everything came effortlessly to them, and was therefore replaceable and without value. Dolly does not know if she has it in her to struggle, I thought. Or even to try hard at something, or with someone. She does not know what it is to be misunderstood, or disliked, or simply not adored. When I put my hands on my plants, or immerse myself in Sicilian culture, I am gifted with something more than I really am. The awkwardness of being no longer exists when I am part of these other worlds and aligned with something bigger. I would rather be a tiny person who wonders and trembles at their surroundings than rule over everything, manipulate it to my preference, and in doing so, come to despise it. As hard as Sunday’s circumstances seem, we’re not made to feel sorry for her: hers is a life rich with purpose and meaning — perhaps with even more meaning than those around her who exhaust themselves in social games — and again, despite not really believing in the storyline, I did believe in Sunday’s responses and it was a POV I feel privileged to have shared.

"I am a stutter of a person, a glitch that flickers; I am the air blurred by the summer sun." Sunday is a single mother, living with her teenage daughter Dolly in a rural English village. She's neurodivergent and prefers to live life to her own particular rhythm. Social situations are difficult for her - in fact she uses an etiquette guide from the 1950s to help navigate such events. Most days Sunday works in a greenhouse, enjoying the solitude and calming atmosphere. Her parents have passed on and her sister Dolores died tragically, so Dolly is her only family, but even she is beginning to tire of her mother's peculiarities. Their world is upended with a new arrival next door. Vita is everything Sunday is not - loud, vivacious and incredibly posh. In spite of their differences, the two women enjoy one another's company. When Vita and her husband Rollo invite Sunday and Dolly over for Friday night dinner, a friendship blossoms. But Dolly begins to spend more and more time with her new friends, and Sunday feels like she has no say in where things are headed. This is a solid debut with a memorable protagonist. I've since learned that the author is also autistic and she gives us a fascinating glimpse of what life is like as a neurodivergent person. It's not hard to feel sympathy for a character who finds everyday interactions so much more difficult to manage than most. Sunday has had to put up with a lot and the layers of her sad history are gradually peeled back - I found the conversations with her ailing mother particularly heartbreaking. I did feel like the pacing of the story was a bit off: the first three-quarters of the book are a slow burn, and then a lot happens towards the end. But maybe that also chimes with Sunday's gentle life being upended so dramatically. It's a fine beginning from Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow - I'm already intrigued to see what she does next. Favourite Quotes: "Sometimes I imagine how it would feel to access the effortless communication that Dolly and Vita enjoy. Oh! I would say, shocked at the ease of conversation. I see! I know what they mean, understand what they all want. What would it be to live without the laborious work of translation, to hear and instantly know what you have heard?" "I was born with this intolerance of noise and light, and an accompanying greed for touch and smell." "It is impossible to understand the need to deviate from repetition, this ceaseless desire for the new and the colourful. Yet people’s yearning for variety touches me, too, as a demonstration of hope, or perhaps it is faith. Whatever it is, I am without, and wanting. Their childlike belief that there is always something as yet untried, but superior – a different dress, or house, or menu – only to be discovered by those who keep looking, keep trying." "I would rather be a tiny person who wonders and trembles at their surroundings than rule over everything, manipulate it to my preference, and in doing so, come to despise it." "If loud noise and artificial light do not pain you, you cannot know the sublime relief of silence, of dullness."

Booker Book 6/13: 5/10. interesting because written by an autistic author and her depiction of how her autistic main character perceives, and interacts with, the world is revelatory. Unfortunately, the other characters are far more cliched and the book’s denouement such as it is is telegraphed from the outset but takes many often repetitive pages to get there - there are no surprises along the way, and nothing in the way of character development. The book is a quick breezy read, written in pleasing but unchallenging prose, more characteristic of a beach read than a Booker longlist choice. I leave the merits or demerits of using the prize list as a vehicle for inclusivity to others. What books belong on such a list is inherently subjective.

Hoezo is iedereen zo cruel tegen Sunday??? (Buiten David, we love David) Quote: I would rather be a tiny person who wonders and trembles at their surroundings than rule over everything, manipulate it to my preference, and in doing so, come to despise it.

Booker Prize 2023 #1 I found this debut novel to be beautifully written. It was enjoyable and very easy to follow. I particularly liked the unique perspective of the autistic protagonist, which seemed very authentic. The book was also surprisingly humorous, which I always appreciate. However, at times it felt too soapy, and I found the ending simultaneously messy and underwhelming. While the autistic perspective offered something different, the book as a whole felt quite conventional, a decently written novel, but not necessarily a literary masterpiece. I also think that the plot could have been more developed. I understand that this is a slow character-driven book, but some surprises or unexpected turns wouldn’t have hurt. As it is, the whole story is quite predictable and most of the plot points are already described in the blurb.

3.5 such an interesting but heartbreaking book. Told through the perspective of a mother with autism in the 80s. You watch through her eyes as she’s slowly taken advantage of by her eccentric new neighbors. It was unique to hear her descriptions of her interactions and then interpret how she was really being treated by the people around her. I’m definitely glad I read it but wouldn’t necessarily recommend it.

I was really excited for this one when I saw the FMC was an autistic single mother with a teenage daughter. Unfortunately I found the story really slow moving and while the neighbors moving in next door who try to influence her daughter away from the mother were insidious and dislikable, I ultimately just wasn't that invested. Okay on audio this was overall a miss for me. Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an early digital and audio copy in exchange for my honest review!

This book has great potential..daily didn't end being one for me.. found it hard to get into the story, writing style and the book. Finished at 60%. I think this is a book you will either live or not for you. Give it a chance. Thanks to the author, the publisher and Netgalley for an early release of this book.

sarah perry's writing is lovely, and there are some beautiful passages here, but sadly i found the actual storytelling to be severely lacking. i just never got this story. it felt disjointed and unevenly paced, missing a critical sense of flow that would've made it feel more cohesive and effective as a narrative. it's a long novel: we jump a lot from character to character (some major, some minor), and cover a broad span of time, and altogether i didn't feel like, structurally, these shifts were done very well. i also just found the characters to be extremely frustrating. i didn't understand their decisions, and it's because i didn't understand them. i don't know. sarah perry is such a stellar writer that i wanted to love this. and though i did genuinely love parts of it, as a novel it just never came together for me. (thank you to Mariner Books for the eARC!)

A complex, rich, intelligent novel that possesses all the ingredients for a smash hit for this reader: gorgeous prose, an original premise, nuanced characters, old-fashioned sensibilities that hold the most exasperating elements of modern culture at bay. And yet it just didn't gel for me. As enamored as I was of Sarah Perry's stunning sentences, I was nearly equally stultified by a belabored story.

Of the two Booker longlisters I’ve now read that deal with space this is the one that felt more claustrophobic while I was reading, moreso than the one that was actually set on an orbiting space station. It is so peculiarly mannered. I enjoyed the rich characterization of its two protagonists yet I never believed in their interactions, it always felt false. At scattered times the narrative became compelling yet overall it never struck me as a pressing matter to pick it back up.

Booker Book 7/13: 6 or 7 out of 10. I loved the first part of this book. Although it starts slowly, it picks up steam, becoming a surprising and engaging portrait of a strictly religious family (father and aunt), their rebellious daughter, our "hero", a gay man bonded to the girl and with one foot in and out of the religious community, an eccentric Romanian drunk, and the "normal" men both the gay man and the girl love. These interesting characters hold our attention, and develop in ways that surprise us. (Oh yes, there's a delightfully smarmy villainess as well). The book loses steam, somewhat, in the 2nd half. The quest for the mysterious unhappy Romanian woman who lived in the local manor house in the 19th century and ties to the book's themes of astronomy and unrequited love never quite becomes a driving narrative force. It's always there, but the reveals are not very exciting and we don't get caught up in the thrill of the chase. At the end, her story is still very thin. The struggles with faith that are central for many of the characters are not a theme that normally compels me, and Perry only intermittently made me care about them here. And the themes of astronomy and the way the characters' movements mirror those of stars and comets was admirably done, but didn't compensate for the feeling that the book was petering out rather than urging the reader to a conclusion.

Thank you #partner @bibliolifestyle @williammorrowbooks for having me on this tour and for the finished copy to review. I enjoy this author’s books, and Enlightenment was no exception. The audio was fantastic, and I loved the overall themes of love and friendship. It is told over the course of 20 years, with a bit of astronomy and magical realism worked in, as Perry’s books often have. The prose flows wonderfully, and I do think at times it can be a little over my head, which is why I was glad to have the book to go along with. Speaking of, the cover is just stunning for this book too.

I am in two minds about this book, it is beautifully written there is no doubt about that, but I struggles with the story. It is told in three timelines 1997, 2008, 2018. The main character is Thomas Hart, he is a newspaper columnist from a town in Essex. As the story begins I felt Thomas seemed old before his time, his dress is old fashioned although very smart. He worships at Bethesda chapel in town, the community is made up of people with strict beliefs in the bible, and they are trying to live away from everything in the modern world. I kept thinking the time had gone backwards, as in before 1997 a long time before that. The newspaper editor asks Thomas to write an article on Astronomy, Thomas meets James Bower who runs the local museum. They become drawn into the mystery of nineteenth century Romanian astronomer Maria Veduva who had vanished, known as the Lowland Ghost. Whilst looking into Maria Veduva’s history Thomas is drawn to James, but he realises that James doesn’t see him in the same way. Thomas is a closet gay. He lives a strict life at home but goes into London to meet Thomas knows Grace Macauley from the Bethesda chapel where they both worship, when Grace is first introduced she is a teenager she is old fashioned and direct, slightly eccentric. Grace is the daughter of the community’s preacher, her mother had died whilst giving birth to her. Thomas watches over Grace, like a godfather, he loves her, but not in a sexual way more as a fatherly figure, he wants her to see both sides of the world not just Bethesda where it is not just protective but also has very strict boundaries.Thomas wants to make sure she could survive in the world outside of Bethesda. The passing timelines show Thomas growing old and Grace growing up. Grace meets Nathan whilst in the sixth form, he has no connection to Bethesda, and lives in what is like another world the wilder side, without the constraints that Grace has. But can such a relationship work? With different types of love and faith. One single moment throws all of them apart. Ok, what I found difficult is that at times it was like reading a historical novel, but I think it’s partly to do with Thomas’ pieces he writes for the newspaper. Throughout, the story is about different types of beliefs, whether that be religious, astronomy or love. Or unrequited love. The consequences of one small thing that can have a huge impact on life. How love can be lost and found over and over, but different types of love. I found it very difficult to actually connect with any of the characters, it’s not that they weren’t believable, I just couldn’t connect. I am a reader who likes a character driven story, one where I am rooting for the character and in this I sadly didn’t find that. It took me a while to actually get into the story, I think this is a book that needs your full attention, concentration to take it in. I did like the relationship between Thomas and Grace. I am sure that others will absolutely love this. I just don’t think it was one for me. Thank you so much to @vintagebooks for an ARC it was very much appreciated.

3.25 🌟 Parts of this book were fascinating and invited me into a state of wonderment about love and astronomy and loneliness. The writing style and ethos of Essex were both very Victorian, which was discordant with its 1997-2017 timeline. I both wanted more and less from this story ...it was unevenly told. I loved Thomas's newspaper stories that were spread throughout.

3.5 stars out of 5. If this had been 200 pages shorter I suspect I would have found it much more affecting. Tighter word counts generally force you to really clarify what you want to express, and I think this book was let down by a lack of just that clarity. At first I was very impressed with the thing as a whole, and I remained impressed with some of it. The characters, for example, all really feel like distinct characters. And I was really taken with the way the characterization also "grows" as the characters age, whilst also remaining identifiably.... them. A lot of books that have time skips this large tend to either feel like they're presenting essentially the same character (e.g Joe Bloggs at 30 seems the same as Joe Bloggs at 12, only with a 9-5), or two entirely different characters (e.g Joe Bloggs at 12 becomes someone else at 30). Not so here. Also, speaking of the characters--- many of them have a wonderful sense of being extraordinarily life-like in the way only the best fiction can convey. I think Sarah Perry's sense of the nuance of each personality was wonderful, both sympathetic and clear-eyed. Some of the writing was very beautiful, particularly when describing landscapes or snatches of urban scenery. But the more I read, the less I liked. To me, it felt like the book shifted tone quite substantially 1/4th of the way through, and then.... stayed like that. There's no real development of the characters in relation to the plot after the first half. It's like they go away to their separate lives, grow as people in isolation, and then come back to the main story where nothing changes. There's also not any substantial change in the stakes or boundaries of the plot itself. We start with two key dramas (Grace and Thomas with and against life, and Grace and Thomas with and against each other) that never really evolve beyond a restatement of the essential conflict: they're unhappy with each other, with themselves, in general.... and that's it! I don't know if that was the point--- if Sarah Perry is trying to link the recurrent sameness of comets/lunar cycles etc to the way people change, but stay the same. If it was, it didn't really land for me. I read in a review somewhere that the plot relies an awful lot on coincidence; that is a fair charge. It does, and I think that undermines the force of the story. It aims for tragedy but never quite gets there, in no small part because the whole driving force of the last third relies more or less on happenstance. If the tragic element is that our lives are destined to orbit some fundamental sameness that is intimately bound to our very character, then why do things only get pushed along by chance?

I was very conflicted about what rating I should give this book but two stars seemed too harsh. Because it is a wonderful story about love and friendship and astrology and all the pain that comes with the human condition and it has a beautiful message and an even more beautiful prose but. We follow two main characters Thomas a gay godly man in his (at the beginning of the novel ) 50s and Grace (17 at the start of the novel ) a child inside his congregation who he’s known since infancy and the story is about their relationship with each other and with the world around them as they age. My main issue with this book is that it takes place across 20 years we start from 1997 with these characters and we end on 2017 and they have stayed EXCATLY the same. None of them grew none of them changed at all I had to keep reminding myself that time was in fact passing because they -and I cannot stress this enough -didn’t. Have. Any. Growth. Which is a massive problem in a story and the author in fact did point this out on several occasions but more so as a passing comment so that we’re aware that she (the author) is aware of it too. two of these characters (Grace and Nathan a boy she became friends with) were 17 when we start this story and they’re close to 40 when we’re done and I can’t in good conscience feel for people that while grown adults act as if they’re literal children petty and cruel and unrealiable and stupid. Again , I enjoyed so much of this book Thomas the main character was a delight to read in his quiet mischievous presence and pride even as a gay man with religious shame. I have respect for how she handles being a homosexual that was born and raised in the church and doesn’t shy away from the conflict that comes with it and the hard questions. But I don’t have respect and can feel nothing but contempt for a character like Grace who uses that Shame to punish him and get her revenge and hurt the only solid father figure she ever had. and as a gay woman who grew up in a church I find that unforgivable and can no longer care for their relationship or how it Mends. as a result the back half of the book instantly becomes irrelevant and irritating to me seeing as she is one of the main characters. All this to say I enjoyed a lot of this story at its core, how Thomas even as he was, found joy in his existence along with his shame and guilt and how difficult it is to do and how in the end god is whatever we see in this world that makes us want to keep going. There was also a wonderful snarky ghost that followed them around like an exasperated older sister would which was a complete delight So. 3 stars and a rampage is what I give this book and that’s all I have.

3.5 rounded down Perry was famously snubbed for a spot on the Booker long list a few years ago with the match acclaimed the Essex serpent. She finally got herself on the list with this complex mystery that delves into themes of cosmology, faith and love. Thomas is a closeted newspaper columnist who is asked to report on the impending arrival of a comet. This opens up a mysterious question of who first saw this celestial object in the sky and becomes Thomas's obsession for three decades. This story is intertwined with complicated relationships he has with a museum curator, James, whom he falls in love with, a young girl named Grace who he becomes a father figure for. The emotions that are stretched and pulled within these relationships intertwine with his mission to find the true founder of the comet. Although I'm not a huge fan of Perry's prose style, which I find overly ornate at times and which can be quite exhausting for readers, I eventually warmed up to the mood and messages that this novel was trying to convey. Not my favorite of the longlist but still something is there that's worth exploring. I definitely recommend the audiobook that I think lets one push through the more arduous sections of the novel

The Guardian review that said something about how Sarah Perry would have written the same book whatever era it was set in was right. 1997 never really felt like 1997, same goes for 2008 and 2017. Maybe it doesn't matter all that much. And maybe the omnipresence of the narrator was suitable for a novel that orbits religion so much, but it didn't quite work for me, though there was a lot to like about the writing and characters in general.

This strange eventful history that made a life. Not good or bad — rather, both good and bad — but that was not the point. Above all, they had been, for so long, wildly curious. Just to see, to experience all that they could, to set foot anywhere, to speak to anyone, taste anything, to learn, to know. This Strange Eventful History is “inspired by” the stories of author Claire Messud’s family (she stresses in an afterword that this is a work of fiction, but that “the Cassar family’s movements hew closely to those of my own family”), and initially, I thought that that would be fascinating: the novel begins with a mother fleeing with her children back to the Algeria of their birth at the dawn of WWII as her Navy officer husband watches France fall to the Nazis and awaits orders from his diplomatic posting in Greece. There was a nugget of something very interesting in that — a white family whose ancestors had been in Algeria for over a hundred years, and who thought of themselves as 100% belonging there and also 100% French citizens — and after the African country gained independence in 1962, these “pieds-noirs” had to make a home elsewhere in the world (along with the “harkis”: the reviled indigenous Algerians who had fought on the side of France in the war of independence), and this was a history I didn’t know and was eager to explore. But that’s not really what this novel is about. Instead, this reads like a domestic drama as we follow three generations of the Cassar family — from France to Australia, Argentina, and Canada — and delve into their educations and relationships and careers; flitting among a largish cast of characters in a book that ultimately felt too long. I was often bored, recognised that many long stories were probably included because they were based on real events (although with little literary or entertainment value), and when something startling did happen, I recognised it as one of those “truth is stranger than fiction” situations that probably shouldn’t be included in a novel. This might have worked better as a straight memoir — with plenty of Algerian history included — and while I can’t deny that Messud writes lovely sentences, this was, overall, just okay for me. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) I’m a writer; I tell stories. I want to tell the stories of their lives. It doesn’t really matter where I start. We’re always in the middle; wherever we stand, we see only partially. I know also that everything is connected, the constellations of our lives moving together in harmony and disharmony. The past swirls along with and inside the present, and all time exists at once, around us. The ebb and flow, the harmonies and dissonance — the music happens, whether or not we describe it. A story is not a line; it is a richer thing, one that circles and eddies, rises and falls, repeats upon itself. François was eight when he travelled with his mother and younger sister to Algeria to wait out the war, his father writing to him that, “it was their place, the part of France where they belonged, that they were still building and perfecting.” And although François would eventually move to Paris for his education, when he received a Fullbright scholarship to Harvard, he was determined to perfect his American accent and reject his Frenchness; eventually marrying a Canadian woman and (after several other adventures) settling down in the States. François aspired to an academic career, and although he made it to grad school, having a wife and responsibilities forced him to compromise his dreams; becoming a corporate stooge, an alcoholic, and an unhappy bully to his wife and daughters. Meanwhile, his parents — who had a perfect, storybook marriage — joined the expat community in Argentina with the daughter who felt responsible for taking care of them, and when they visited François’ family in America, it gave the only opportunity to revisit the question of the French in Algeria. François’ teenaged daughter Chloe (as “the writer of the family”, I assume she’s a stand-in for Claire Messud herself) “volunteered the accepted truism that the French presence in Algeria had been fundamentally wrong”, and while her Aunt Denise would bristle, “De Gaulle threw away our lives and our history because it was expedient, because of public opinion, the opinion polls of arrogant people in the metropole who couldn’t find Algeria on a map, who didn’t even know we spoke French, for God’s sake,” Denise and François’ father, Gaston, had a more provocative response: “When France embarked upon the Algerian undertaking, it was in the spirit, exactly, of the British in America or Australia…Might we not acknowledge that Australia and the United States are simply more successful examples of settler colonialism — no less unjust, no less brutal, simply with a fuller obliteration of the native cultures?” Naturally, like all of us in North America (and, one presumes, in the antipodes as well), Chloe doesn’t like this comparison, but that’s pretty much the end of the debate — and I would have liked much more of it. Again: what we do get is a lot of writing on the domestic; from the lingering death of François’ father-in-law to Denise’s secret diaries (found by Chloe after her aunt’s death and shared with us here because, “surely she’d hidden the notebook there for someone to find, the stuff of novels: if she’d wanted it never to be found, then she would have thrown it away. What was writing for, if not to communicate? There was no such thing as writing that did not signify.”) There was a mundanity to it all that gave the sense of real life: and although in the prologue Messud writes that bit about constellations and connections and everything repeating upon itself, there were just too many “characters” swirling about in this, doing ordinary things despite an extraordinary backstory, for a wholly satisfying novel (and, again, I would not have minded all of the minutiae if this was a straightforward biography.) To be sixty-five was to know that you dreamed the lazy lunch beneath the plane trees and window shopping along the Croisette, but that death was what was real; to be thirty-two, as Chloe was, meant you could still pretend the inverse was true. And still, why not, for the afternoon, dream? As the novel ends, the fourth generation is running around while their forebears wink out one by one: this is a long way from WWII and Algeria and France — these kids are fully American and divorced from their pieds-noirs roots. For this reason, I can appreciate why Messud would want to memorialise her family’s history for future generations — and why she would want to include so many people who don’t really affect the “plot” — but I found it a bit of a slog to get through.

This novel sounded so wonderful – the story of a displaced Algerian (French) family from WWII to the present day, written by Claire Messud (a woman who knows how to write) and based upon her family’s history. However, for me, it fell a little short of my expectations – and I know I am an outlier in this viewpoint. We follow the family from the invasion of France, at which time the mother and children (Francois and Denise) are returning “home” to Algeria, while the father remains at his posting in Greece. We watch as, after WWII, Francois studies in France and the United States and marries a Canadian. Meanwhile (after the Algerian revolution) his parents move to Buenos Aires. Francois’ professional life takes his family to Australia and, ultimately, to the northeastern United States. Throughout his life, Francois searches for home and, unable to find home in either a location or his family (his Canadian wife had a close, complicated relationship with her mother), he journeys though life as a sad and displaced person. Denise’s life also reflects her constant displacement. She turns to alcohol as a refuge and has difficulty sustaining meaningful relationships. The underlying theme of the novel is the effect of constant and lifelong uprooting and displacement, which, of course, some family members handle better than others (Francois’ parents have a lifelong loving relationship and seem happy anywhere in the world). By reading this book, I learned a lot about Algeria, France and life after WWII in places like Buenos Aires. Unfortunately, for me, the novel read like a non-fiction family history. There is a reason I read fiction: I like the imagination created in deeply drawn fictional characters, beautifully described setting and interesting plots. I like to wonder “What is going to happen next?”, and that just didn’t happen with this novel. That said, Claire Messud did an excellent and important job of portraying the plight of her displaced family.

This would have worked better as a family memoir.

It took me some time to properly embed myself in this novel. It is a slow burn, a story of family, independence, war, dispossession, colonialism, post-colonialism, separation and the ties that bind. The novel largely covers the twentieth century within a French Algerian family. The first generation, born in poverty, roams the globe which only proliferates through the generations with long sojourns in France, Middle-East, Argentina, Canada, USA, Australia and England. Whilst the deep roots at the heart of the story lie deeply in Algeria it seemed to me that for different reasons they were torn apart, leaving only fragments as world events, escapes and opportunities were forged. I recently have read the first two published volumes of Leila Slimani's Moroccan trilogy which fictionalises (as does this book) her family story. Both Morocco and Algeria were considered departements of France until independence, after which the "French" population was left homeless. Each deal with their narratives differently. Messud writes her story in one volume which moves between generations and time slots. Because of the global scale and points of view this gives a rather clunky, peripatetic immersive step into one life before the reader is required to change gear and re-calibrate for the next section. Slimani moves in a more linear way with the rising generation taking the lead in each book. This is a challenging book yet one that grew on me. I found many sections overly complicated with superfluous detail. Whilst I accept that building a realistic picture needs substance, this was over-egged, in my opinion and the story lacked traction in these large sections. The long view on colonialism however was hugely rewarding. Is the reason, asks our Algerian grandfather, that the US and Australia are not taken to task as vehemently as European colonialists, because they largely decimated the first inhabitants, not attempting any level of sharing a society or integrating? I think this novel will toss around my head for some time With thanks to NetGalley and Little, Brown UK for allowing me to read and review

I feel kind of ambivalent about this book…it didn’t draw me in but at the same time there was enough there that I came back to it. It’s a family saga that begins during WWII, and is about a French family in Algeria and their later lives in different parts of the world. The family’s story is told in chapters set every decade or so following different characters and that’s probably where it failed for me, these short interludes where it’s inside the head of one character who seems to be grumbling about something or other. It’s mostly melancholic and I get it’s about displacement and belonging but I found it hard to feel for the occupier or the mining executive. The relationship issues and other minutiae are focussed on rather than the broad sweep of history which I’m sure is the intention, everybody’s life is a ‘strange eventful history’ of disappointments and periods of happiness. Many of the characters are unlikeable (for me both Francois and Barbara are awful and they feature in many of the chapters) but I was intrigued by Denise and young Chloe (older Chloe chapters are told in first person so I assume based on the author) so parts of it were interesting and emotional.

Grand in ambition, this multigenerational saga was decent but I had hoped for more emotional punch and for me the writing felt cold and almost too precise to really move me.

Did not make the shortlist of the Booker prize. My first Longlisted Booker Prize book read of 2024. It certainly is a strange eventful i! I really enjoyed this reading about the historical story closely based on the authors family. What an interesting life but I must admit I kind of lost interest 3/4 of the way through. Despite that I liked learning of the dysfunctional family traits. It begins in Algeria 1940 and ends in USA 2020 then backtracks at the end to Algeria 1927 after the narrator finds an amazing hidden diary of what life was like during that time. This is true to the life of the author and she has incorporated her family’s history into making this a work of great fiction. It covers the turmoil of WWII and how it affected all walks of life. Some parts, it was so descriptive I felt I was there … I felt the emotions of each character. That is a true author. One who can draw you in and experience what she is writing about. I do hope this makes the short list despite it is a bit long but she had so much to cram into the story. Francois had such a divided life being away for work and missing his wife. So much happened to him throughout the book. His wife well I wasn’t sure what to make of her and the two girls but they both rallied round at the end. This review is a bit disjointed but it’s a hard book for me to give it credit in a few paragraphs. I hope you enjoy it too. Good luck to Claire Messud if it makes the Short List!

2024 Booker Longlist I decided to DNF this about halfway, first of the Sydney Chapters in the 1970s. There's just too many easy to correct mistakes. I'm about the same age as the narrator in that Chapter. A "posse" of Kangaroos, it's a "mob". Berrima was already a pretty hwy tourist town in the 1970s and it's treated like it's the outback. There was not the awareness of Indigenous people in the 1970s that there are now. Although we probably were taught about The Rainbow Serpent and possibly Tiddalick the frog at school. It would have been unusual to stop at the Hamilton Hume House back then, which these characters do. Driving through flood water, maybe they are new to Australia. Saying that the Murrumbidgee flows all the way from Lake Burrinjuck to Canberra. No the Murrumbidgee flows past Canberra into Lake Burrinjuck. My summer holidays in the 1970s were spent at Lake Burrinjuck, although I've only been to Wee Jasper once or twice. Then there was talk of Great Whites in Sydney Harbour when it's the Bull Sharks are the usual ones to watch out for. The 1970s in Australia is probably not my favourite time to read about. Sadly, these little points took me too much out of the story and made me wonder what was incorrect in the other settings. I just can't continue reading it. I was enjoying bits of it until then. It's also due back to the library tomorrow. Not sure if I will pick it up again, there are too many other great books to read.

Long meandering story of several generations of a family over 70 years. I found it hard to engage with any of the characters.

*Thanks to NetGalley for the review copy.* In "This Strange and Eventful History," Claire Messud delves into the complexities of identity and dislocation through the Cassar family, whose story is inspired by Messud’s own roots. Spanning several decades and multiple countries, the novel chronicles the family's experiences as they navigate the tumultuous aftermath of World War II and the Algerian War of Independence. While Messud's writing is eloquent and evocative, the structure of the narrative presents some challenges. The story leaps through time—often skipping a decade or more—leaving readers to piece together character development and relationships that feel underexplored. Despite moments of intrigue, particularly in the second half, I found it difficult to connect with most characters beyond Denise, whose struggles resonated more deeply. The title promises a narrative rich with "strange and eventful" occurrences, yet much of the story centers on the mundane aspects of life, which can feel disjointed. The themes of displacement and the longing for belonging are certainly potent, yet they are overshadowed by a lack of depth in character exploration and plot. Overall, while the book offers poignant reflections on familial ties and identity, it ultimately leaves the reader wanting more in terms of emotional engagement.

starting reviews bc why not! i’m rounding up to 3 stars, but i would give it a 2.5 if possible. i really thought this book would be up my alley, being that it’s a generational family story told from multiple perspectives that takes place in beautiful places (think homegoing, family lore, kantika) but it honestly took me forever to get into and was very slow. none of the characters were particularly likable either. i would not bother with this one, sorry to say!

Oh, Book Review Time! (Sorry, I couldn't resist) Lucy is going through a transitional time in her life--Her husband, David, has just died, and Lucy is thinking through her life. At the same time, her first husband, William, is going through a difficult patch in his life as well. These two team up and go on an adventure together. Oh William! is a bit of a mixed review, thus, the three-star rating. The positives: Oh William! had some really interesting and complex relationships (which were not all clichés). This book also didn't have a tremendous amount of characters. The main characters, Lucy and William, really carried the book. Oh William! is the third book in a series; however, while I had not previously read the other books, this book was pretty easy to pick up. What could use improvement: The prose was poorly developed, and the book was short, but it felt long, largely as a result of the author having paragraphs which were too long, and the entire book is exactly two chapters (not an exaggeration). There were too many sentences with "I". Although the storyline/plot was enjoyable, the book was missing quotable quotes. Finally, this book wasn't light at all. It definitely gave off "The Ride Share" vibes (a couple embarking on a hilarious road trip together), but this book lacked the funny. Overall, a short read that packs a punch but better editing would have made that punch much stronger. *Thanks, NetGalley, for a copy of this book in exchange for my fair and honest opinion. 2024 Reading Schedule Jan Middlemarch Feb The Grapes of Wrath Mar Oliver Twist Apr Madame Bovary May A Clockwork Orange Jun Possession Jul The Folk of the Faraway Tree Collection Aug Crime and Punishment Sep Heart of Darkness Oct Moby-Dick Nov Far From the Madding Crowd Dec A Tale of Two Cities Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐ ½ Genre: Literary Fiction This is the third book in the Amgash series which tells the story of Lucy Barton. Lucy has a complex kind of relationship with her first husband, William. Through her story, the reader becomes a partner with Lucy on this journey of family secrets, sadness, happiness, love, and pain. I don’t recall I have read a series before in this bizarre way! This has nothing to do with the series itself. Instead of starting with book one, I started with the last book (Lucy by the Sea), not knowing it was part of a series. And now, I’ve read book three because it is on the shortlist for the Booker Prize! I don’t think it can get more absurd than this! I loved Lucy by the Sea a lot. For some reason, I found the story richer and offering a lot more than this one. Not sure why despite the writing still being fantastic in both. I enjoyed Lucy’s voice a lot. Appreciate what Elizabeth Strout has done with this character and the amount of complexity and simplicity added to her. Yes, sometimes I felt Lucy was a simple person, and at other times she felt like this character who is multi-layered and quite complex in nature. She felt so real and that is what kept me interested in the book despite the plot in this installment not being as strong as the fourth book. Overall, this was a nice read.

This is the third book in Elizabeth Strout's Amgash series, after My Name Is Lucy Barton and Anything Is Possible. An accomplished author, now in her sixties, Lucy is the central character once again. These days she's living in New York city and mourning the loss of her second husband David, a cellist. But the novel is mostly concerned with William, her first husband, with whom she retains a complicated relationship. Lucy and William have two adult daughters and remain on amicable terms. In fact, they often call each other and meet up for advice, which William's new partner Estelle doesn't seem to have a problem with. Lucy still has some feelings for William but she also thinks back to the problems they had during their marriage, which caused her to leave him. Over the course of a few days, William receives some shocking news. For one thing, it turns out he has a half-sister that he never knew about. He decides to travel to Maine to see if he can make contact with her, and asks Lucy to join him. The journey stirs old memories - Lucy remembers why she fell in love with him, but she also recalls all the ways in which he infuriated her. The story is told in conversational style, which I'm not all that keen on in this instance. It consists mostly of Lucy telling anecdotes from her childhood and about her adult relationships, which makes it rather one-sided and doesn't have the same moments of insight or perception that a more balanced book like Olive Kitteridge has, for example. However, it does examine subjects like old age and marriage in a nuanced manner. And I admired the sensitive way it addresses childhood trauma - Lucy still bears the scars of her difficult, poverty-stricken upbringing, but she has learned to live with it. Overall, the book feels like catching up with an old friend, listening to her tell you about her joys and woes. And though she has some sad stories to tell, it is a pleasure to be back in Lucy Barton's company once again. Favourite Quotes: "Grief is such a— oh, it is such a solitary thing; this is the terror of it, I think. It is like sliding down the outside of a really long glass building while nobody sees you." "People are lonely, is my point here. Many people can’t say to those they know well what it is they feel they might want to say." "As we drove I suddenly had a visceral memory of what a hideous thing marriage was for me at times those years with William: a familiarity so dense it filled up the room, your throat almost clogged with knowledge of the other so that it seemed to practically press into your nostrils— the odor of the other’s thoughts, the self-consciousness of every spoken word, the slight flicker of an eyebrow slightly raised, the barely perceptible tilting of the chin; no one but the other would know what it meant; but you could not be free living like that, not ever. Intimacy became a ghastly thing."

Now Shortlisted for the 2025 Dublin Literary Award Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2024 This short Argentinian novel thrives when it comes to creating an intense and brooding atmosphere, full of foreboding and mysterious threat. On the surface level, it's a story about two friends, Enero and El Negro, who take the teenage son of a deceased friend fishing at the Paraná River where his father died in a boating accident. There, they play out whatever comes to mind in the narrative catalogue of toxic masculinity, in this case particularly manifesting in shooting (!) a giant stingray and hanging it in tree, then discarding it in the water - much to the dismay of the (equally hard-drinking and misogynistic) male locals, who plot revenge... What renders the story interesting is how Almada works with magic realism in the form of ghosts: Not only does the spectre of the deceased friend / father loom large over the fishing buddies, there are also the ghosts of two deceased girls roaming the text, and a fire metaphor illuminates violence and announces destruction. This supernatural element as well as the evocation of atmosphere are excellent... ...but: There is also a lot of smoke here for a rather under-complex message. The men perpetrating the violence are often no more than chiffres, and thus psychologically flat and ultimately boring. The victimized women have no interior lives either. And for the life of me, I couldn't find the political angle to neoliberalism the author claims to have included: In an interview, she connects the story to the Argentinian rendition of Thatcherism and the latest rise of right-wing politics in Argentina, especially the destructive force of La Libertad Avanza, and if that's a point she intended to make, the strategy is misguided. The dynamics between poverty and marginalization and the rise of far-right powers is not illustrated in any persuasive way here, which is a shame, because as someone who actively rallies against the German AfD, I would have loved to learn about the situation in Argentina. Then again, you could absolutely argue that the author's intention is irrelevant for the strength of the result, that a novel stands on its own, and that's very valid - but then, the whole thing is too long for what it is. Be it as it may, "Not a River" does have many merits and I applaud the experimental angle. You can listen to our discussion on the podcast (in German) here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

Not a River (⭐3.5/5) by Selva Almada Almada's short novel is anything but straightforward. It glides between past and present with ease and makes you lose yourself in its flow. but unlike a river, it doesn't flow in one direction. It takes the point of view of various characters while focusing on their past traumas and corresponding emotional ghosts that still live with them. Like many other similar spanish (and Japanese) work, I feel like some of it gets lost in translation. The expression of very complex emotions somehow gets subdued because of which, some characters appear unnaturally mechanical. Still, the book does an amazing job describing how past traumas and mistakes have the power to haunt not only people but also a place that saw it and how because of this, it becomes bound to repeat the cycle of darkness again and again.

I can’t say I loved the only book I’ve read by Sebastian Barry before this one. And I can’t say I loved this one either, by the way. Despite being a well written and quick read, I could tell right from the start that this was going to be one of those stories that rely on a “trick” instead of straightforward storytelling. And besides, that same “trick” has been played out millions of times before, not only in literature, but also in cinema and television. I dare say that this book was too clever for its own good. It could’ve been a harrowing story about grief and the pains of getting old but as it turned out it was all just a game.

101st book of 2023. I tried to read Barry's Days Without End years back and was almost instantly put off by his pseudo-Faulkner prose, or whatever he was trying to do. I clicked more immediately with this one, a sort of Joycean close-third stream-of-consciousness. It's Booker gold if you look at previous winners: it's the unreliable narrator with things in the past slowly coming to light throughout the narrative. We've read it all a thousand times, but I guess it's constantly being redone, remade. This time it's redone to attack the church. No pulled-punches, Barry writes some fairly flinch-worthy sentences about a six-year-old girl who is repeatedly raped by a priest, at one point. It's not comfortable reading, at all. I was waiting for a brilliant end in Tom's mental landscape, dementia riddled, perhaps, with some skeletons in the closest, but instead I got an almost laughable ending. Hollywood action to finish, really Barry? Can't give it more than 3 for that.

There are so many enthusiastic reviews out there and they all seem to be alike, it makes me feel as if it´s a copy-paste thing. I like Sebastian Barrys' novels. They aren´t the easiest ones to read, but I enjoyed them. This one I find difficult. Not because of the story itself (sexual abuse, trauma), but because of the writing. Many people describe it as ´sublime´, but I just don´t see it this way. The book is divided into chapters and each of them is just one stream of text with almost no paragraphs, just tiny bits of dialogue rarely thrown in between the lines. This isn´t necessarily a bad thing, I've read many books written that way, but here there are so many digressions, the author sways off the topic, and jumps from one thing to another. And you never know what is a fantasy, what is a memory, what is a dream. It just made me tired.

2.5 rounded up (Listened to the audiobook) I was disappointed considering this book was shortlisted for the Booker prize. I found the character unbelievable and unrelatable. So much of it could have been more interesting but fell flat.

A strong-headed and often selfish mother and divorcee—Tara—slowly being bogged down in dementia; a visual artist and former's daughter—Antara—who worries about her career, her marriage, and the tension-filled strings weaved in the relationship with her mother who is gradually losing her memory; a narration spilled through dual timelines—one painting the current events against the backdrop of a modern Indian city, and the other recounting years marking Antara's childhood. ➵ consider reading this review over on my blog! Like sugar that's caramelizing, this shortlisted title for Booker Prize 2020 is dangerously scalding while it entangles a mother-daughter relationship in unmet expectations, lost dreams, unhappiness, and years of neglecting sensitivity, love, and passion that every fulfilling relationship demands. And like caramelized sugar searing on the flames, Burnt Sugar can scorch with painful evocativeness around abuse, loneliness, and post-partum depression wrapped in the flawed characterization of a woman. Despite the very many invigorating and individualistic themes with potential to manifest empathy, understanding, and relatability, and equally important depictions of timely tensions like classism and religious strain, this debut fails to let a reader indulge in the absolutely realistic mess due to the lack of a compelling voice, an excessively floundering narration, and unnecessarily cliched portrayal of disturbing instances, nauseating descriptions, and the typically gross, pathetic, and filthy rendering of India—not to say there aren't issues in the country or stray dogs or pervert gurus, but the way Burnt Sugar paints the picture of this third-world country is wildly acclimatizing to the western audience and so-called intellectuals with awards to give. —if you wish to support: blog | ko-fi | twitter

Why am I giving this book 3 stars instead of 4? Because I realized that my standards for the 4 stars have been all messed up and I've been giving it away almost for free. I'm sorry, Avni Doshi, this has nothing to do with your writing and everything to do with my lack of measure. This is a book that I wouldn't usually go for but I'm glad the universe had other plans for me. Although I have a positive and healthy relationship with my mom, it was easy to relate to Tara and Antara because Avni Doshi's writing is so immaculate. The characters are very well built and so are their conflicts. The way the story was told made perfect sense and it unfolded in a beautiful way, even though the ending wasn't exactly up to my liking.

‘I would be lying if I said my mother’s misery had never given me pleasure.’ Wow, what an opener. That sentence alone really just captures the essence of the novel perfectly. Written so carefully and with such power, I couldn’t help but consistently appreciate how talented Doshi is at writing stunning prose. Having said that, I’ve given this book a lower rating than I initially anticipated as I didn’t feel I connected with or understood it in its entirety - though I can still appreciate it for what it is. This narrative was beautiful, but with a constant melancholic undertone. Some of it confused me, I’m unsure how we as readers were supposed to perceive the narrator and how accurate the narrative was told. I think maybe that’s part of the beauty of it, but I don’t think I properly appreciated it as much as I could have because I wasn’t reading between the lines enough. Either that or there was nothing /to/ read between and I should’ve just taken it at face value. I’m not sure. It started off so strong but the more I read, it struggled to hold my attention quite as much. I found myself getting a bit distracted when I was reading and caring less the more I progressed through it. That being said, it’s very character focused and while I usually like these types of novels the characters here didn’t really compel me enough. I enjoyed the depiction of a taut mother/daughter relationship, but I didn’t feel connected to them as individuals at all. It just felt like something in the characters was missing for me.

3.5 This was fine. Definitely well written and engaging, although the narrator's voice, sense of entitlement, irresponsibility, candor, was very off putting at times and although the "twist" at the end may explain some of this (still not sure I completely understood what happened) it meant that I never became as emotionally invested. The ploy at the end felt gimmicky as a result.

3.5 stars. A highly observant well written story about a difficult mother-daughter relationship. The gradual release of backstory information maintained the atmosphere and allowed the reader to understand the animosity that existed. Ultimately I think the reveal was not that unexpected. A solid and engaging read.

Mother. An assorted collection of short stories by Bora Chung. The cover was enough reason for me to jump into it. Some really nice finds, some not. My toilet is no longer the safe place I once knew, and I’m never touching a bunny lamp no matter what. A great start with some really outstanding stories, the momentum gradually diminishing until by the end I was just eager to finish to move on. Go for the Best, consider the Good, whatever the Meh. The Best : ★★★★★ "The Head." [4.5] ★★★★☆ “Cursed Bunny.” [3.5] The Good : ★★★☆☆ “Snare.” ★★★☆☆ “The Embodiment.” [2.5] ★★★☆☆ “Goodbye, My Love.” [2.5] The Meh : ★★☆☆☆ “Home Sweet Home.” [2.5] ★★☆☆☆ “Reunion.” [1.5] ★☆☆☆☆ “Scars.” [1.5] ★☆☆☆☆ “Ruler of the Winds and Sands.” ★☆☆☆☆ “The Frozen Finger.” ----------------------------------------------- PERSONAL NOTE : [2017] [251p] [Collection] [2.5] [Partly Recommendable] ----------------------------------------------- ★★★★★ The Head. [4.5] ★★★☆☆ Cursed Bunny. [2.5] ----------------------------------------------- Madre. Una variada colección de cuentos cortos por Bora Chung. La portada fue suficiente razón para aventurarme. Algunos muy lindos hallazgos, otros no tanto. El inodoro ya no es el lugar seguro que alguna vez conocí, y nunca voy a tocar una lámpara con forma de conejo, no importa qué. Un gran comienzo con unas verdaderamente sobresalientes historias, el impulso gradualmente disminuyendo hasta que para el final solo deseaba terminar para seguir con otra cosa. Ir por lo Mejor, considerar lo Bueno, loquesea lo Meh. Lo Mejor : ★★★★★ “La Cabeza.” [4.5] ★★★★☆ “Conejo Maldito.” [3.5] Lo Bueno : ★★★☆☆ “Trampa.” ★★★☆☆ “La Encarnación.” [2.5] ★★★☆☆ “Adiós, Mi Amor.” [2.5] Lo Meh : ★★☆☆☆ “Hogar Dulce Hogar.” [2.5] ★★☆☆☆ “Reunión.” [1.5] ★☆☆☆☆ “Cicatrices.” [1.5] ★☆☆☆☆ “Amo de los Vientos y Arenas.” ★☆☆☆☆ “El Dedo Congelado.” ----------------------------------------------- NOTA PERSONAL : [2017] [251p] [Colección] [2.5] [Parcialmente Recomendable] -----------------------------------------------

2.5 stars An entire month has already passed since I finished this weird, disturbing collection of short stories. Mostly what stuck with me since then are the first two stories – “The Head” and “The Embodiment” (and a couple of others.) I thought I was in for a wild, thought-provoking ride after these two! If you are a thrill seeker and have ever frequented amusement parks, then you may know that it’s best to save your favorite, most exhilarating rides for the end. Otherwise, what could have been a day full of fun memories turns into a hot, grumpy kind of day when all the best things happened when the gates first opened and the heat of the sun didn’t burn your skin and suck you dry. By closing time, you have a wicked headache and a queasy stomach. You can’t even remember what the fuss was all about and wish you had spent the day doing something else instead. “What hour could be so dark? And where in the world…” Okay, maybe I’m getting carried away with this silly analogy, because Bora Chung does have a clever mind and quite the imagination. Many of these stories will appeal to those who enjoy moral tales and a strange cocktail of horror-science fiction-magical realism. I’m just not that kind of reader, no matter how hard I try. Having said that, I had some wickedly entertaining discussions with my buddy and two of my co-workers who were enticed to read the first two stories when I wouldn’t shut up about them! The side effect is that weeks later we are still running around calling each other “Mother”. (You have to read “The Head” to find out what I’m talking about.) Chung has a lot to say about capitalism, the patriarchy, greed, motherhood, feminism, and body image. There’s also a story about robots, “Goodbye, My Love”, that I enjoyed quite a lot that spoke to the process of aging. “The human body begins to decline dramatically at the age of sixty, but they live on for ten, twenty, even thirty more years. We were developed to aid such humans and enhance their quality of life… Just a few replacement parts or a software upgrade could help us serve you for a decade longer, but we’re treated like trash as soon as there is a new model.” Lovers of offbeat, somewhat eerie tales will likely have a ball with this collection. Overall, the discussions were much more memorable than the actual stories themselves, but for all that Bora Chung deserves a bit more than my tongue-in-cheek comparison to a bunch of carnival rides! I’ll round up for the lively chats this generated. Check out some more reviews of this one to make an informed decision. “Those who are unaware of their lives slipping away while they are ensnared in the past… are in the end, whether alive or dead, ghosts of the past.”

The first two stories were original, let’s say, though macabre enough. And I was not impressed by the relatively flat ending in both cases. The rest of the collection made me fall asleep. But i have to admit that since being a tiny child, I’ve never was big fan of fairytales. This has not changed with the age even if they are grown up, revenge driven and anti-capitalist by parts. One story has reminded me the trope with a dragon fight, another - plain “Frozen” only set in the desert. And the story about the robots - how many times it has been done before? What saved it all for me was the last story “Reunion”. There was an element of fantastic as well, but it was deeply poignant with profound, less fabulistic symbolism. This last story has reminded me of Bruno Shultz somehow.

the first couple stories were great, but the rest lost my interest almost immediately. my favorite story was definitely the first one called "The Head."

The first two stories are clear standouts here. Wonderfully surreal and grotesque (can definitely see the influence of Nikolai Gogol), and told with this pristine, cinematic clarity. Unfortunately the quality plummets after the first two and I felt myself zoning out a few times in the later stories. Definitely interested to see what Bora Chung does next.

[RATING: 3.5/5] Shortlisted for the international booker prize 2022, Bora Chung plunges readers into the realm of speculative fiction. With skilful translation done by Anton Hur, these short story collections are shockingly bizarre yet delightful to read. I absolutely loved the implicit narrative and hidden metaphors and allegories Bora Chung uses to discuss societal issues. My personal favourites include: The Head Cursed Bunny Goodbye, my love Ruler of the Winds and Sands However, I did feel a sort of inconsistency with this short story collection. I found the ones in the beginning to be the stronger ones, more intact in form and structure. Meanwhile, the stories at the end seem to be a bit too long and dragged out along the way. Some stories felt more character-driven while others seem to heavily rely on the plot. I sometimes even found myself lost in figuring out what the overarching themes are between the stories and how it comes (not sure if it does), together at the end. Although I'm not that big of a fan of short story collections, I'm glad I picked this one up. I definitely enjoyed most of the short story collections, while found myself struggling with some. If you're looking for a brainy book to shock and baffle you (in a good way, of course), definitely pick this one up!

She turned her worst nightmares into this book and we respect her for that.

Now Nominated for the PEN/Hemingway Award for Debut Novel 2023 Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2022 At 20, Mottley could become the youngest contender to ever win the Booker: Growing up the daughter of an author, she started writing this debut aged 16, because she wanted to tell a story representing Black girlhood with a complex, vibrant protagonist - and she succeeded. Young Kiara grows up in the projects of Oakland, her father, an ex-Panther and ex-convict, has passed away, the mother is in a halfway house after a suicide attempt and a stint in jail. Her beloved brother Marcus dreams of making it out of poverty by becoming a famous musician, and Kiara is stuck with the role of provider - but what is a 17-year-old high school drop-out supposed to do? Right: She sells her body. For Mottley, the pressure on Black women to take care of men and their communities and how that expectation can crush them is a key topic of her text. The novel, set in 2015, was also inspired by a real police scandal that was uncovered in Oakland during that time, and which the then-teenage author was following in the media. But while the story is mostly grim, including paragraphs and conversations brimming with doom and several graphic scenes of rape and other forms of physical as well as emotional violence, the story also highlights the power of solidarity between people. Mottley refrains from reducing her protagonist to a mere victim cliché and gives her a rich inner life, individuality, and thus dignity. The language is very precise, the descriptions are apt and the evocations of moods work pretty well. Still, the story didn't really grab me: It partly felt rather slow-moving and lengthy to me, some important scenes towards the end (which I will not spoil) felt too hasty, while others were too drawn out. All in all though, I'm looking forward to reading more novels by Mottley, because she is a writer of great talent with an important agenda. You can listen to Mottley talking to Seth Meyers here, and to Trevor Noah here (kudos to those two for frequently inviting interesting writers to their late night shows!).

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐ Genre: Literary Fiction Kiara is a seventeen-year-old girl living with her brother Marcus in an apartment in Oakland, California. All Marcus is thinking about is launching his music career, leaving all the hard work of money earning to Kiara. The girl has to do something so they won’t be evicted from their apartment. Being a high school dropout with no resume makes it even more difficult for her to get a job. One night, something happens to Kiara, which leads her to become a prostitute as a last resort. We follow her story, her struggle, and all the hardships this black girl endures. This is a good debut novel for a 19-year-old author (her age when she wrote it). I think Leila Mottley will have a strong career if she continues writing on hard-hitting subjects like this. Being picked by Oprah's book club is a big recognition in itself. Then the book successfully made it to the longlist for the Booker Prize. So there is a lot going on for this author. The story is gripping and deals with dark subjects. The characters are quite strong too. The writing was sometimes poetic and, at other times, it felt too descriptive and different. I am not sure how to explain it, but it is apparent that the author has written this at different stages of her life. There is a polarity between the chapters when it comes to the writing. At times, this novel might disturb you because what you are reading about are things that actually happen in our world. So beware of the trigger warnings because they are many.

Letting the streets have you is like planning your own funeral. I wanted the streetlight brights, the money in the morning, not the back alleys. Not the sirens. But, here we are. Streets always find you in the daylight, when you least expect them to. Night crawling up to me when the sun’s out. Nightcrawling is fine: Teenaged debut novelist Lelia Mottley stuffed this gritty urban tale with just about every inner city social issue imaginable, and with the writing style dialled up to eleven, there are many fine lines, many fine scenes, but also an unrestrained exuberance that made me a bit impatient. Nightcrawling has been longlisted for the 2022 Man Booker Prize — meaning people whose opinion counts more than mine does found this novel to be among the best released in English, worldwide, this year — but it didn’t really engage me on a literary level. The nomination may have led me to expect more from this novel, and I have to admit that the writing does not betray the author’s young age, but overall, this was just fine. Slight spoilers (not much beyond the publisher’s blurb) from here. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) There’s not a thing Daddy could’ve done that would’ve made me hate him. When he died, I thought maybe it was a consequence of not resenting him more, not playing into karma like Marcus had so the world wouldn’t have had to kill him to keep the good-evil balance in check. That was before I learned that life won’t give you reasons for none of it, that sometimes fathers disappear and little girls don’t make it to another birthday and mothers forget to be mothers. Nearly eighteen-year old Kiara and her older brother, Marcus, live alone in a seedy East Oakland apartment complex — their father is dead and their mother is in prison — and when their rent is doubled, Kiara doesn’t know what to do: She is about to lose the few under-the-table shifts she works at a liquor store and Marcus is refusing to get a job beyond recording the rap album that he’s convinced is their ticket out. When Kiara gets drunk and a man mistakes her for a sex worker, Kiara accepts as inevitable that she’s going to need to start walking the streets to keep her brother and herself safe. And when the mentally unstable, drug-addicted woman downstairs abandons the ten-year-old son that Kiara has always felt affection and responsibility towards, the stakes are raised even higher. I did appreciate the agency that Mottley gave to Kiara in this decision (beyond that first encounter) — she never feels sorry for herself or loses respect for herself for doing what she feels she has to do for her family — but Kiara loses that agency when she is picked up by the police and forced to work private parties for them, for which she isn’t even always paid. (The police angle is based on actual events and it was this news story that first prompted Mottley to write Nightcrawling.) How Kiara deals with this exploitation, and her efforts to support her brother and the boy from downstairs, are the bulk of the plot. “We still family, Ki.” And I think he means it, beyond words, beyond this moment, beyond the things our parents did to leave us broken. I nod and, for the first time, I think about what I did, about the panic that sets in when anyone else touches me the way Marcus just did, how many guns have been pressed to my skull, fingers scraping my skin, fists in my hair. In this room, with these golden boys, all the things I’ve done feel vulgar, devastating, like I do not deserve to be loved good again. There are plenty of shocking events in Nightcrawling — the sex work, drug abuse and trafficking, police brutality, suicide, guns, child neglect, roadblocks to justice for the powerless — and colourful details from the Black commmunity — the Black Panthers, basketball, rap, braids — but shocking events and colourful details, on their own, don’t add up to a deep dive into a community to me; this all felt so surface, even with the exuberant sentences. Mottley obviously has big ideas: in the afterword, she writes, “Like many black girls, I was often told growing up to tend to and shield my brother, my dad, the black men around me: their safety, their bodies, their dreams. In this, I learned that my own safety, body, and dreams were secondary, that there was no one and nothing that could or would protect me.” And I found that very provocative — not something I had heard before — and while I can see that this is an idea that Mottley was exploring through Kiara’s story, I would love a deeper, while more subtle, literary exploration. Again: More important voices than mine have singled Nightcrawling out for praise; this is naught but my small contribution to the conversation.

Oddly, this felt like a very long 288 pages for a book where quite a lot happens. It did grab me initially with its graphic, gritty opening. The authorial voice also worked for me - - managing to be both poetic and street-wise. But for all the unrelenting misery that was the plot, I didn't feel much. There was one scene toward the end that should have been completely heart rending, and I just felt nothing. I'm not sure if I just became inured to the horrors because there were so many of them, or if it was a problem with the character development. Personally, I lean toward the latter. On some level, none of the characters felt fully realized to me. Maybe that's because it was written strictly from the narrator's point of view, but I'm not sure that should matter? At any rate, I was bored after the first third and had to push myself through. I know I was skimming by the end, because I had to go back and re-read certain sections that were referenced later on. Apparently, this author is quite young, and I was impressed by the expressiveness of her writing, but unfortunately the storytelling didn't really work for me.

Life is hard for 17-year-old Kiara Johnson. She lives in a studio apartment with her older brother Marcus and they can't afford to pay the rent. Neither of them are employed - Kiara left school early and no supermarket or restaurant is willing to give her a start, while Marcus is focusing his efforts on a rap career. No parents are on the scene - their father died years ago and their mother is in a halfway house after committing an unforgivable act. And if that wasn't enough, Kiara has taken on the responsibility of looking after Trevor, a young neighbour whose mother is a crack addict. Kiara visits a strip club one evening to see if a friend who works in the bar can get her hired. There is no luck on that front but she drowns her sorrows in some free drinks. Feeling buzzed, she walks outside where a man takes advantage and has sex with her. He pays her $200 and she can't believe how easy it is. Suddenly she has a solution to her money worries. She decides to try this line of work full time, but she has no idea of the kind of trouble she's getting herself into. For a first novel from a 20-year-old writer, I have to say that Nightcrawling is a pretty impressive debut. Leila Mottley grew up in Oakland where the story is based, and she displays a keen eye for documenting the city's problems. Poverty and police corruption are two of the main issues that are addressed, and they are so oppressive that it feels like there is no hope for these characters. But Kiara is brave and resilient, the kind of girl that is easy to root for. The writing did get a little florid for my liking at times but I reminded myself that this is a young author still honing her craft. I'm glad that the Booker committee decided to longlist Nightcrawling as this kind of talent deserves a leg-up. Her best work may still lie ahead of her - I predict a bright future for Mottley.

3.5 Longlisted Booker Prize 2022 This debut novel (written when she was just 17-19) by Leila Mottley sears with its ferocious intensity and anger. It burns and seathes with the injustice for how too many black women are mistreated in the USA. In this respect it's an important book and an unsettling read. Nightcrawling tells the story in first person of Kiara Johnson, a 17 year-old young black woman struggling to keep her life together on the streets of Oakland. Her father has died and her mother is in detention. Kiara's life is a daily struggle to make ends meet, trying to pay the rent and put food on the table for both herself and her older brother, Marcus. Marcus has checked out somewhat on his responsibilities pursuing a dream of making it big as a rapper. Kiara also finds herself the defacto carer for a young boy, Trevor, who has been essentially abandoned by his mother . This relationship between Kiara and Trevor is a highlight and the loving humanity of it provides some hope in this otherwise gritty and dark work. Kiara finds herself resorting to prostitution to make the long over-due rent payments. She ends up exploited and abused by a group of police officers and much of the novel concerns the implications of this. The description of this abuse and its impact on Kiara is brutal and crushing. There are though moments of tenderness, including in her relationship with close friend Ale. This account of police abuse and corruption is grounded in events surrounding the Oakland Police Department in 2015 involving police participation in the sexual exploitation of a young woman and the cover-ups surrounding this. The voice in this work is powerful, a scream at the socio-economic reality in which such abuse lives and thrives. "Mama hooks her fingers in my mouth and spreads my jaw open like a door with hniges, until I make an oval with my lips, keeping her hands on my cheeks and telling me to scream. The screech comes out in bursts, spasms of sound morphing their way from an eruption of rage to an infant's cries, moans and whines and all the in-betweens of woman and child. The sky takes each flurry and sends it right back with just a hint of music lingering in the echo, a belt from some invisible trombone, the lowest note on an organ drawn out. Sound after sound flooding from my body like war-zone fire on a cold day. Here you get a sense of the poetic sensibility threaded through this scream of a work. So why the 3.5; partly because as I read this book I had a strong sense of still developing potential, not yet quite fully aware of the imagery, voice and strcutures she's working with. The writing is uneven, with paragraph after paragraph trying to wring out too much affect, at least for me. Mottley is an emerging author that I'm very much looking forward to seeing what she does with future books.

A disturbing but entirely relevant novel that is based on a real case of police corruption and exploitation. Nightcrawling examines the bleak truths of poverty, the disproportionate incarceration of black men in America, and the drug epidemic. Though harsh and candid, it is also a story of experiencing joy and love in times of hardship, and of finding the courage to stand up against abuse and intimidation, no matter the result. A powerful debut that packs a punch of truth and emotion.

Motley is definitely a gifted writer and I think she will go far as she progresses with her writing. That being said, I couldn’t connect with this through out the whole book. Some parts were great and absolutely heart wrenching and other times I was just bored. Definitely an important and real topic that should be discussed but I can imagine it to be triggering for some. Thank you to Netgalley for an advanced copy of this book!

3.5/5 ⭐️ - This book was so sad. It was a cruel reminder of how harsh the world can be. It’s a hard book to rate because if you’re reading for pleasure, it’s not a fun book to read. If you’re wanting to learn more about the world and like to learn about the intricacies of society, this is a good one to pick up. - The writing is fairly lyrical and easy to read, but wasn’t my favorite. Something was missing in the writing, but I can’t quite put my figure on it. This would be a great book for a class or book club because it would be great to discuss. This book is so important to read sociologically and economically. You’ll learn so much. - The book is fictional, but is loosely based on real events which makes the book even more powerful. You really feel the struggle to get out of this world that Kiara is in which I think is the point of the book. Check trigger warnings before reading because it’s a tough read.

An example of a "vibe" read. The novel is set in a fog shrouded, coastal town called Longferry and took place around a single day. The narrative revolves around Thomas Flett, a 20 year-old shanker, also known as shrimp dredger where his days are made out of scarping the shorelines searching for shrimps build upon by the duty passed by his father, and his grandfather to his father. Like everyone else, Thomas has aspirations and his is to be a folk musician. Thomas' world is then rocked by the arrival of Edgar, an enigmatic American film director, who offers Thomas the chance to be his guide while scouting for locations in his town. In essence, it's a coming of age story and Thomas really just wanted some form of escape, be it from a cart pulled by a horse to a boat or just creating something artistically and away from the laborious life he has now. Beside the many description towards the town and the effortless, vivid imagery of the town and the townsfolk sense of being, Wood does show a lot of Thomas' work as a shanker which I really appreciate and it's something that I find very lacking in a lot of modern literary fiction novels. It's easy to just place Thomas' life in a monologues or referenced the tiring work using metaphors but Wood gave the literary attention to the mechanical, repetitive and unglamorous work that Thomas does and through it, Wood's exploration of the themes of the book were shown through the writing in this method. The example of themes explored were on the working class nature of Britain folk in a working class town, the exploration of creativity, the advancement of technology between the boats and scraping the beach like Thomas does and lastly, of duty vs dream. Through this, Wood also showed what kind of person Thomas is and that's loyal, as seen from his bond with his horse as well as sticking to duty to help ease the burden of his mother, reserved but observant, as seen by his conversation with Edgar or the way he described his mother's snoring. Beside Thomas, there are only really two other characters of importance and they are Lillian Flett and Edgar Acheson, the charismatic American filmmaker. Lillian is the physical manifestation of constraint and family obligation. She symbolizes the socioeconomic and familial constraints as well as the cost of repute that actively prevent Thomas from pursuing his dreams, anchoring Thomas to the hardscrabble existence in Longferry. A lot these are shown, not tell, not cleverly express through metaphors. These can be seen through her objects that are worn and static as well as the men she interacts for being a call girl. Edgar oozes Hollywood glamour but is also a complex misfit who is passionate about art and strained relationship with his own family. But there's a clash between his glamourous propositions and pronouncements that are also vague. Despite loving the vivid imagery and sensory rich prose and a great deal of showing instead of telling, the novel feels more of vibe read because of it and most of the things I find lacking is more because of the short length of the novel that it hardly explore the minor or secondary characters. Like Joan, a girl Thomas has a crush on. It also prevents a more deep exploration of the characters and it the end, the novel is also lacking as a character study because of it. The mood, the atmosphere and the writing does the heavy lifting. Just sad that it wasn't more to it.

seascraper is a simple novel following twenty year old thomas, who lives a repetitive life in a small coastal town with his mother, working in his late grandfather’s trade as a shrimp ‘shanker’. when a mysterious american film director shows up at his door, thomas begins to imagine a different future for himself. the novel is quite claire keegan-esque, very slow and meditative, with beautiful and precise prose. wood perfectly captures the claustrophobia and monotony of life in a small town, where everyone lives the same day over again and works the same job for years. nothing big happens, but it doesn’t need to - it’s a novel about quiet people who live quiet lives, with the hope and courage to dream of more. rating: 3.5

‘I want to go as far as we can get into that fog, Tom. Can we do that?' 'Yeah, but if it thickens up too much, the horse is going to fret.' ‘Then how about we find the sea so I can get a proper look at it? We needn't hang around too long. Just head up to the edge and back.'

A mix of 3.5 and 4 stars. Atmospheric seems to be the word best to describe this book, led by Thomas who “scrapes” the sea to gather shrimps in order to make a living. The setting could be in the 60s, though at times the loneliness felt like it could be in the present tense. When Thomas meets Edgar, a filmmaker, both lives intertwine in the most unexpected ways. Seascraper is meant to be read in a single setting. Once I put it down, I would reread the previous page so could recall what was happening. There are sad moments, but Thomas’s inflection will also make you laugh. Serious growth happens over the few days this book occurs. The writing is nice enough, but I left feeling slightly empty.

This book presents a compelling and well-argued examination of how gender bias is embedded within the structure of the English language. It challenges the widely held assumption that English is neutral, demonstrating instead how everyday linguistic patterns can subtly shape perceptions of authority, identity, and power. The author draws on feminist linguistics to make a persuasive case that language both reflects and reinforces social inequality. What makes the work particularly effective is its accessibility. Complex linguistic concepts are translated into clear, readable explanations that can be understood by a non-specialist audience without losing intellectual depth. The inclusion of a practical approach to more inclusive communication gives the book a strong applied dimension, making it relevant for educators, professionals, and advocates interested in communication and social change. While some readers may feel that the proposed solution is intentionally simplified, the book succeeds in its primary goal: encouraging critical awareness of how language influences thought and behavior. It is both reflective and action-oriented, offering a meaningful contribution to discussions on language and equality.

This work offers a thought-provoking exploration of the relationship between language and gender, arguing that English is not the neutral system it is often assumed to be. Instead, it demonstrates how linguistic structures and common expressions can carry embedded biases that influence how authority and identity are perceived. The writing is clear, engaging, and deliberately accessible, making it suitable for readers outside of academic linguistics while still grounded in scholarly research. One of its strongest features is the way it connects theoretical ideas with real-world communication, helping readers see how language choices operate in everyday contexts. The book also introduces a practical framework aimed at promoting more inclusive communication. While this approach may appear simplified to some, it serves as an effective entry point for broader reflection and discussion. Overall, it is a timely and relevant contribution to conversations around language, power, and equality.

This is an insightful and accessible examination of how language can shape perceptions of gender, identity, and authority. The book challenges the idea that English is neutral, instead highlighting the ways in which historical and cultural patterns have influenced its structure and usage. The author succeeds in making linguistic concepts approachable without oversimplifying their significance. Readers are guided through the ways in which everyday expressions can carry implicit bias, often without conscious awareness. This makes the book particularly relevant for educators, writers, and professionals interested in communication and inclusion. The inclusion of a practical framework for more inclusive language adds value, positioning the book as not only analytical but also action-oriented. While the central solution may feel condensed, it serves as a useful catalyst for reflection and further exploration.

This work by Vivian R. Probst is a compelling and thought-provoking exploration of how language shapes power structures. The author masterfully uncovers the subtle yet pervasive ways English has historically centered men, influencing identity, authority, and societal norms. What sets this book apart is its balance between academic rigor and accessibility. Drawing on years of linguistic research, the ideas are presented in a way that is both engaging and easy to understand. The introduction of a practical six-word shift offers readers not just awareness, but a clear path toward change. This is an essential read for educators, writers, and advocates of gender equality. It challenges readers to rethink everyday language and empowers them to communicate more inclusively and intentionally.

In this insightful work, Vivian R. Probst delivers a groundbreaking analysis of linguistic bias and its impact on women’s empowerment. The discussion highlights how deeply ingrained gender biases in English continue to shape perception and limit expression. The concept of transforming “he-powered” language into “we-powered” communication is both innovative and actionable. Rather than simply identifying the problem, the author provides a tangible framework for change through the introduction of “WEnglish for WEquality.” Well-researched and highly relevant, this is a valuable resource for anyone interested in language, gender studies, or social change. It’s not only informative but also deeply inspiring.

This work offers an intriguing perspective on linguistic gender bias, supported by a passionate argument and a simplified reform model. Vivian Probst’s dedication to the subject is evident, and the central idea is communicated in a concise and engaging manner. However, the work may invite skepticism from readers familiar with mainstream linguistic research, particularly regarding the scale of the claims and the practicality of implementing systemic language change. While the six-word solution is innovative, its real-world applicability remains uncertain. Nonetheless, it serves as a compelling starting point for dialogue about inclusivity in language.

What impressed me most is the patience behind this book. Fifteen years is not a short research cycle. That level of commitment suggests conviction rather than trend-following. The writing is accessible without being simplistic. Probst explains linguistic patterns in a way that non-specialists can understand, while still maintaining intellectual rigor. I appreciated that the book does not attempt to shame readers for unconscious habits. Instead, it invites awareness and intentional change. That approach feels constructive rather than divisive. This is the kind of book that sparks conversation long after it is closed.

This is not a light read. It requires attention. But it rewards that attention with insight. Probst demonstrates that English is not merely a communication tool, it is a reflection of historical power dynamics. Once that lens is introduced, it becomes difficult to return to neutral assumptions. I particularly valued the practical orientation of the final sections. Rather than ending in critique, the book ends in proposal. That forward momentum is refreshing. Whether one agrees fully or partially, the conversation it initiates is necessary.

3.5 stars. I really enjoyed the graceful, almost subdued writing and thought Hisham Matar's descriptions of the many facets of friendship (especially in a group of three) were heartfelt and authentic. But what spoke most to me is the main character's sense of being unmoored from everything and everyone he loves - his two friends are the only connection to his history, country and culture. Even sadder is that he seems to be stuck in a moment, too scared to make any changes in his life. I just wish that I felt more while reading this, I never developed a connection with any of the characters. The Story: A novel about three friends living in political exile and the emotional homeland that deep friendships can provide.

(Book 8 of my Journey through the booker prize longlist ) 3 ⭐️ When I saw that the booker prize longlist came out I decided to challenge myself to read as much as I can before the shortlist was decided, I find it so exciting to be able to try and predict the winner, so far it has been a very interesting journey, reading a couple 5 stars and one DNF, this personal challenge is proving so fruitful. Narrowing this down to a shortlist is going to be difficult… I am not envious of the judges. Picking up my next potential favourite… along came My Friends. A story of exile, its April 1984, an angry demonstration commences outside the Libyan Embassy in London, students flock to express and protest political leader Muammar Qaddafi. When suddenly shots are fired, one person killed and 10 wounded, one of the wounded being our main protagonist Khaled. A story of friendship. hardship, political exile & identity. The book stands out for its deep exploration of how friendships shape our understanding of the world and ourselves. Matar’s writing paints vivid portraits of the characters and their relationships...However, I felt like the story fell through a little bit for me, whilst it was beautifully written I struggled to feel connected to the subdued tone of the narrative voice & characters by the end, this felt like it was great at the start but that original pacing fell flat by the end. I think this is a personal issue as this is historical fiction and notoriously that has not been a genre for me lately, so take this with a grain of salt.

Review to follow at thereadersroom.org. Will post here later after Booker season. Let's just say I am not sure why this is the book leading the pack amongst readers, but what do I know? I didn't understand Milkman either. From thereadersroom.org: If the title of the book was say Exile maybe I would have gone into this one with a different frame of mind. But marketing the book as a novel about friendship seemed like a stretch. The setting and concept were original, and I appreciated the spotlight on the strains of being far from home and family and the challenges of that. But, the book premise is spoiled in the first three chapters, leaving very little suspense. I didn’t really buy the friendships either; the three men were solely bound together by country and politics, and I didn’t see any depth to relationships. Maybe that’s how male friendships are, and I just don’t get it? There were three scenes, out of 108 short chapters, that grabbed me emotionally, and that’s not enough. Writing quality: 4/5 Originality: 4/5 Character development: 2/4 Plot development: 2/4 Overall enjoyment: 1/2

The story of a man who lives through the lives of his friends, this was both melancholic and mournful. Torn from their homes in Libya and trying to make a life in the UK, I could feel their constant loss and desire to go back home, to change something. Khaled seemed stuck in one place, unable to find a life in the UK. I felt he became little more than a quiet observer of the changing lives of his family and friends as the decades passed by. The story drew me in slowly, and it wasn't until I read the last page that I realised how emotionally invested I'd become.

A very informative and beautifully worded story that interweaves reality and fiction incredibly smoothly. Matar’s writing is intellectual, thorough and lyrical, though the long sentence structure became a little vague and tangential throughout the book. However, this does reflect the protagonist’s thoughtful and frustratingly dispassionate meandering through life, which ultimately made me not feel particularly invested in his life and therefore the book(!) All this being said, Matar’s depictions of being an outsider (sometimes to yourself), separated from home and unable to return, grief, loss, love, the shifting sands of friendship etc were very powerful. Would love to read more of his writing

another read i thought id love. it dealt with themes im glad i learned more about but ultimately did not connect with the writing.

A slight novel about grief, family, human connection, and sport. I found this meditation on the myriad ways we process grief, and the complexity of family dynamics thoughtful, easy to read, and at times affecting. In the end, the narrative whole felt a little directionless or underdone, and maybe that was the point but this reader left this story feeling like something was missing.

I am not a fan of sports. I don’t like reading about sport, playing them or watching them. If a sport based book manages to actually transcend my hatred for sports, then I consider that a feat. The question is, did Western Lane, which is about squash manage to do that? The central theme of this book is grief. A family consisting of three sisters and a father lose their mother. As a way to channel this loss, the father decides to turn his three children into squash champions. As two of the sisters are not to keen, the focus is upon tweenager Gopi. At the same time, Gopi is going through the trials of growing up, especially young love. Gopi is not the only one who is going through life trials. Gopi’s older sister is assuming the role of a mother figure and her father is ‘seeing’ another woman, namely Gopi’s friend Ged’s mother. Over all these family changes, Gopi’s mother spirit is firmly part of all the happenings. Between all of this there’s lengthy descriptions of squash, which bored me to death and ruined the flow of the novel. While I liked the family drama, the parts about squash, not so. I understand it’s a metaphor for death and each chapter starts off with a squash technique which reflects a theme in the chapter but, unfortunately, I found it difficult to focus on the descriptions. On the whole though it’s an ok novel and does the job.

This was okay but was it Booker prize worthy? Not really. All the books on this longlist are so mid. The characterisation of the narrator was so non-existent it felt like there was a huge disconnect between her emotions and what we were reading. The pacing was a bit off for example when the main character decides to move to a different city and then two paragraphs later she is already there and there’s just nothing else discussed about it. The ending with the squash tournament was exciting but that’s about it.

3.5 rounded up

I can't help feel i would have appreciated the book more had it not been shortlisted. It comes across as a rather underwhelming coping of grief by distraction and bottling up. Is it realistic - sure, but is it something that gets you invested - not so much. The story revolves around a family that has lost the mother. The father (Pa) with his three daughters tries to find his means of coping taking support from extended family and friends and his own love for squash. He takes his daughter Gopi under his wings and the story then centers around her. The dynamics of the family gets reduced to consolation or contemplation. Coming to the squash court - I found the expression of grief through the sport a bit vague. Except for one episode involving the father and daughter on the court, it seemed more like a moving on with Ged and getting of a new racquet from her sister's earning. Also the status of her equation with Ged or Pa's dynamics with Ged's mother is an all new development which may or may not be related to grief. Also, the short size of the book constraints the author from exploring the dynamics a bit more. Like how is the grief of the sisters adding to the family situation or how the coping mechanisms contrasting. I also didn't understand the later development involving uncle/aunt when Gopi expresses her concern about her Pa. Not to belittle personal grief, but the scale and size of the storyline maybe did not create enough impact (in comparison to books that tore you apart - like Prophet Song or Pearl).

This was lovely story about a father daughter relationship. It develops as Gopi, her sisters and father come to terms with the death of their mother. It felt like their mother/wife was the lynchpin and they are all struggling to seek a new balance of authority and autonomy. The analogy of squash players finding their inner strength and understanding of how to return difficult plays provides an interesting backdrop. I think I may have been expecting a bit more climactic ending, I felt it lost momentum at the very end and some important plot lines were left unresolved.

An intensely sombre, and somewhat intentionally incoherent depiction of an immense grief, that can only be articulated truthfully through its reticence. The emotions never precipitate, they remain suspended within the void of a silence which refuses to be provoked. The atmospheric melancholia pervades the inexorable evolution of desires - muting them to the extent that they mutate into fugitive escapades. The allegory of the sporting venture masks time within time, creating motion within numbness, transgressing from the stifling despair towards an alternative vitality.

"I knew from his silence that he wasn't going to move first, and all I could do was serve and volley or disappoint him. The smudges on the wall blurred one into the other and I thought that surely I would fall. That was when it started up. A steady, melancholy rhythm from the other court, the shot and its echo, over and over again, like some sort of deliverance. I could tell it was one person conducting a drill. And I knew who it was. I stood there, listening, and the sound poured into me, into my nerves and bones, and it was with a feeling of having been rescued that I raised my racket and served." Western Lane follows the story of 11-year-old Gopi, whose mother just passed away. Gopi, together with her sisters Mona (15 years old) and Khush (11 years old) are now under the care of their father. They are all Jains, which is part of a Gujarati community. Aunt Ranjan (the wife of Gopi's uncle, Uncle Pavan) is of the view that the sisters should be disciplined so that they do not run wild. Since Uncle Pavan and Aunt Ranjan have no children of their own, they are willing to take in 1 sister from Gopi's father and live with them in Edinburgh. Gopi's father decided that the sisters should pick up squash at Western Lane (a sports center near their house in England). There, Gopi met 13-year-old Ged, the white son of an employee at Western Lane, and a romantic relationship developed between them. Soon, they found out that Gopi's father is dating Ged's mother, and Mona (who seems to take on the role of the sisters' mother) seems to disapprove of their father's relationship with Ged's mother. In view of the aftermath of her mother's death, everything seems to fall apart and perhaps Gopi's resort to squash (a sport where she really shines and shows her talent) is the only way to deal with such grief. Every year we will get to see a novel written by an Indian author on the longlist of the Booker Prize. This year's one would be Western Lane by Chetna Maroo and to be honest, after reading this one, I am not sure why is this debut being preferred over some other great works from Indian authors. Western Lane is branded as a "quiet", "coming-of-age" novel premised on the young girl's loss of her mother and her family's way of dealing with such grief. This seems to the favorite theme of this year's Booker judges as there are 3 books from the longlist dealing with this theme. I have no issues with this them and in fact, I am a lover of quiet novels which are able to leave a huge emotional impact on me after reading them. This one just doesn't do that. What Maroo succeeded in doing here would be the voice of the young protagonist is quite accurately portrayed and it is rather hard to do that (even the great Stephen King, who loves to have a young protagonist in his novels, doesn't portray their voice accurately sometimes). The descriptions of the squash aspect of the novel are rather well done too, especially when Maroo opens her novel with this beautiful description: "I don't know if you have ever stood in the middle of a squash court - on the T - and listened to what is going on next door. What I'm thinking of is the sound from the next court of a ball hit clean and hard. It's quick, low, pistol-shot of a sound, with a close echo. The echo, which is the ball striking the wall of the court, is louder than the shot itself". But the coherency of the squash aspect, the ample references to Jahangir Khan (a former Pakistani squash player, who is deemed to be the greatest squash player of all time), and the grief as well as the family's immigrant experience, is not executed well enough, IMO. The characters seem to be a little two-dimensional and at times, they are rather vaguely developed throughout the story. Unfortunately, this is only a 3/5 star read for me. I always think that quiet or atmospheric novels are the ones that are able to strike us hard with emotions, but Western Lane to me, is only quiet minus the emotions. Grief (especially from the perspective of a young protagonist) is perhaps a great theme for authors to showcase their ability, but I somehow feel that Maroo missed something here.

I'm not quite sure how to describe it, but this book felt like England. Cold, sad, rainy and grey. A bit boring. Even the Desi bits felt British, the daal cold and stodgy, the gulab jamuns hard and too sugary.

After one of these silences, we heard Pa asking Ged’s mother if she didn’t feel, sometimes, that there was too much time. He asked her if things terrorised her, like hours, or the expressions on a child’s face, or the clattering of lids on pans. Maybe she moved in some way that told Pa she understood. He was quiet, and then he said: “The children. The girls. Sometimes I look at them and I think they will eat me.” His voice was calm. Sitting below him, I felt that some unpleasant sound would come down on us next, something that had been inside Pa for a long time, but there wasn’t anything. I think they will eat me.

She had looked forward to being in a large building of uncertain design and groping her way into a strange room This book has been longlisted for the International Booker Prize. It is a collection of short stories by an author not afraid of analysing and promoting her own work – like many famous sports and acting stars she is fond of talking of herself in the third person, placing herself in legendary company and criticising the inadequacies of those who have not yet reached the same level of appreciation of her genius. Like though those stars she has some justification for her views – her work is widely regarded as already being under consideration for a Nobel Prize. Many of the stories in this collection are available on line – so to get an idea of her work, I read those, and then, it seemed appropriate to allow the author to review her own work (and capture my own reaction to it) in the words of each story. Our Human Neighbours http://www.conjunctions.com/online/ar... baffled, she asked me, “It’s impossible to understand what’s going on in people’s minds, isn’t it?” I absolutely agreed with her. I certainly couldn’t understand what I had just experienced The Old Cicada https://www.wordswithoutborders.org/a... … his expression complicated by his bizarre thoughts. Crow Mountain https://www.asymptotejournal.com/fict... you gave me such a bizarre experience. Now I really wanted to go home Euphoria http://www.conjunctions.com/print/art... So she was puzzled most of the time. It was OK to be puzzled, but she did long to be oriented Venus http://www.conjunctions.com/print/art... You don’t understand. You don’t get it.” Her cousin waved his hand, revealing his annoyance.

Longlisted for the 2021 International Booker Prize In my mind, a voice kept asking, What in the world happened? I didn’t know. Really didn’t know. Everything was baffling. ... So she was puzzled most of the time. It was OK to be puzzled, but she did long to be oriented. I Live in the Slums is a collection of stories from Can Xue (pseudonym for Deng Xiaohua) translated by Karen Gernant and Chen Ziping. This is Book 10/13 for me from the International Booker Prize longlist. I commented on book 9, Summer Brother, that the blurb was a little misleading (a good thing as I preferred the actual book). Here the blurb includes: Can Xue’s stories observe no obvious conventions of plot or characterization. That is the only rule they follow. Instead, they tend to limn a disordered and poetic state given structure by philosophical wonder and emotional rigor. which is much closer to the reader’s experience and from past experience of the author, she likely wrote herself. Can Xue certainly has deserved international recognition. The same website that correctly called Louise Gluck as the 2020 Nobel Prize winner - profitability for me as one of only two people to place a bet with Ladbrokes on this - based on books checked-out from the library to which the Swedish Academy members have access, also had Can Xue as a likely shortlistee. But her biggest fan does seem to be herself based on interviews, which I’m never sure are or are not partly tongue in cheek: Speaking of her pseudonym in the third person she has said (https://www.asymptotejournal.com/inte... Can Xue's works are truly exceptional; I feel that the most important skill my translators can have is to read the original intensively, thereby having a thorough grasp of the deep underlying humor and general feel of the language in my works. How precisely they express something in their translations is closely connected with their power to feel and their ability to grasp logic, because these kinds of fictions have already surpassed the profundity of philosophy. My work belongs to an especially advanced kind of literature, far more ahead of its time than Kafka was to his readers in his day. The author has placed herself in the line of Dante, Bruno Schulz, Kafka, Borges and Calvino ("My literary works are the same as theirs: every piece has a solution, a taut emotional logic", interview in Bomb (https://bombmagazine.org/articles/can...). She also acknowledges Shakespeare, Cervantes, Goethe, Tolstoy, Dostoevsky and the Bible. And has admonished her readers: “Reading my fiction requires a certain creativity. This particular way of reading has to be more than just gazing at the accepted meanings of the text on a literal level, because you are reading messages sent out by the soul, and your reading is awakening your soul into communication with the author's...Most of my readers stop at the level of “dream reading,” which is still a conventional way of reading. I have previously read two of her novels, both translated into English by Annelise Finegan, and felt I didn’t quite get to, let alone past, dream reading: The Last Lover (2014)- winner of Best Translated Book Award for 2015, as well as being longlisted for the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize (forerunner of the International Booker): https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Love in the New Millennium (2018), longlisted for the 2019 Man Booker International: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Other Can Xue translations which I haven’t read include Blue Light in the Sky (2006), Five Spice Street (2009), Vertical Motion (2011), and Frontier (2017), all translated, as it this, by Karen Gernant and Chen Zipin, as well as earlier translation by the team of Ronald R. Janssen and Jian Zhang. The 16 stories in I Live in the Slums were published in the original between 1996 to 2018, and several have been previously published in English translation, most notably in Conjunctions Indeed I think only 4.8 (Catfish Pit, Lu-er’s Worries, I am a Willow Tree, The Outsiders and The Queen, plus 4/5ths of The Story of the Slums) are new in English translation. The first, Story of the Slums (original publication 2006-7, 85pp), is the longest, at c.85 pages a novella, written in five parts that were published serially originally. It is narrated by a creature somewhere between a rat and a rabbit, but who seems to reject that identity (echoes of Kafka’s Metamorphosis?) Then what was I? People called me “Rat,” but I wasn’t an ordinary rat. I was much larger. I was a maverick, a loner. I had only faint memories of my parents and wasn’t interested in the opposite sex, and so I wouldn’t have descendants. I was a thing that looked like a rat but wasn’t a rat. I was a pilgarlic who had sponged off others on stoves in the slums and had carelessly fallen into the tunnel under the slums. The story that follows sends them on a Dantesque journey through the slums, which she tries and fails to escape with stairs into a city of glass above, and then down into the tunnels beneath, infused with their memories of their ancestral home on the grasslands. One interpretation of the story would be an allegory for urbanisation and development, although I suspect that would be a mere dream reading. And it features a rich cast including a house-mouse with a taste for human flesh, a portrait that comes alive, brothers each of whose eyes look at their other eye rather than outwards, an eclectic collection of old people, a wicked goat, a vicious scorpion who can grow four times in size, a boy with a magical spinning-top, poisonous ants, roosters that emit thermal radiation, a flying squirrel with particularly smelly farts, and much more. As often in Can Xue’s work, the narrator seems as baffled at times what is going on as the reader (What in the world happened? I didn’t know. Really didn’t know. Everything was baffling), indeed they don’t really even try to make logical sense of it all (The slums were my home, and also the hardest place for me to understand. Generally speaking, I didn’t make a deliberate effort to understand it.) If the identity of the narrator of Story of the Slums is unclear even to them, Our Human Neighbours (2016, 14pp) spells it out in line oen: I’m a middle-aged magpie who lives in the suburbs. And the next story The Old Cicada (2010, 9pp) while narrated in the third person, focuses on a near neighbour of the magpies (albeit that story was written 6 years later), the elder of the cicadas. The Swamp (2013, 28pp) has its protagonist, Ayuan, attempting to locate the ancient swamp that lies beneath the modern city, through a series of surreal adventures, before concluding the swamp is wherever you wish it to be, and was one of my favourites in the collection. She sat down and asked Ayuan to buy her a drink. Her mind was somewhere else while she stared at the wineglass. “They put too much pressure on him,” she said. “Do you mean Liuma?” Ayuan asked nervously. “No, I mean myself. I always refer to myself as ‘he.’ Although this is a little frightening to ‘him,’ it also has an advantage, for ‘he’ can go all out in struggles. Back in my home village, this isn’t unusual. If a person goes all out in struggling with a crocodile, the person is likely to win.” “What time is it now?” “Two o’clock in the afternoon.” “It was night when I arrived. Why am I still here?” “You’re the one who’s been hanging around. These empty bottles are all yours.” “Who are those folks?” he asked, pointing at two sneaky people wearing white straw hats. “Lower your voice a little. They’re outsiders who raise turtles. They arrived in the morning and they’ve been waiting for you ever since.” Sin (1996, 16pp) is the earliest story and is, by Can Xue’s standards, relatively conventional - a story of a woman whose father left her a mysterious box (when he gave it to Mother, he said very seriously that the contents of the box were confidential. He meant to open it himself when I was grown up, for it contained something important having to do with my future) but which remains unopened and she forgets until a cousin who the family dubbed ‘Killer’ hints that it may contain details of a family ‘sin’ passed down the generations. The Other Side of the Partition (2018 - but actually the English translation was published before the original in 2016, 7pp) is the shortest in the collection, about a mysterious kitchen that seems to exist on the other side of the partition wall to the communal kitchen in a residence, only accessible at midnight. Shadow People (2010, 17pp) has similarities to Story of the Slums as people in the narrator’s city, fleeing the blazing heat from the sun, retreat indoors and gradually become literal shadow people (At first, because of inner extrusion, people gradually became thin, and then even thinner, until they turned into shapes like flagpoles. Although there were no flags, a little something did seem to be fluttering at the top—neither quite like people’s hair nor quite like hats. Later, even these flagpoles retreated shamefacedly indoors. … Where had the people gone? We hadn’t gone underground, nor were we hiding inside the hollow walls. If you carefully investigated the foot of the bed, the back of the bookcase, the corners of the room, the backs of the doors, and other similar places, you would discover pale shadows flexing and twisting ) although the narrator fails to find acceptance from their shadow compatriots as the narrator has a corporeal tail. Crow Mountain (2011, 12pp) has the narrator attempting to enter a building that at face-value appears to be a small municipal office, but which is referred to as Crow Mountain and seems to transform once inside. Catfish Pit (2012, 18pp) is a neighbourhood of two-story dwellings due for demolition to be replaced with a skyscraper. The only resident not initially anxious is Widow Wang who is too busy making her kimchi. “What do you think of the proposed compensation?” the young man asked. “Fine. Whatever. Please leave.” The man stole away like a cat. Bending her head, Woman Wang continued working. She added greengage plums, beans, gherkins, Sichuan pickles, and other things to the kimchi crock. Euphoria (2013, 10pp) has the elderly but euphoric Ms. Wen exploring a building, from the outside ostensibly a 6-story place for senior citizen’s activities (chess, card-playing) but on the inside one that becomes stranger and stranger with my mysterious rooms and one day becomes a bungalow shaped like an octopus and on the next visit has twenty-five floors (and on the top floor the only stairs lead upwards), so she was puzzled most of the time. It was OK to be puzzled, but she did long to be oriented.. The story rather feels a metaphor for the readers experience of Can Xue’s own work, although Ms. Wen benefits at times from a tape-recorded voice that helps explain where she is. Lu-er’s Worries (2012, 18pp) has a teenage boy concerned about whether he’s living up to his father’s expectations, whether village life is really for him … and the fact that half of the local mountain has disappeared overnight leaving a vertiginous drop, and no-one else seems to have noticed. Her Old Home (2013, 18pp) has a 55 year-old woman returning after many years to visit her old home from 20 years earlier, to find the person she sold it to has bought copies of all her old furniture and is essentially trying to live her old life. I Am A Willow Tree (2013, 17pp), as the title suggests is another with a non-human narrator, a dying, young willow tree who discusses the failings of the gardener responsible for his care with the other plants in the garden (the strange thing was, as far as I can tell, none of the other plants complained about him. Rather they considered their injuries badges of glory). The Outsiders (2012, 19pp) has a girl, during a snowstorm (oddly she leaves no footprints in the snow) visiting a village of outsider, Mosquito Village, near to some tombs including her brother’s, and where she encounters a creature that seems a form of “rat” (echoes of the Stories in the Slum). The Queen (2018, 24pp) is the most recent story, and tells of a woman living alone in the wilderness outside a village who is venerated by the fascinated locals. She is the daughter of, so people say, a knife-sharpener who left the village, came back rich and returned calling himself king (after the old king and his queen died, the Wang villagers quite naturally began calling the couple’s only child Queen) and the story that follows get increasingly, well, CanXuesque. Venus (2013, 13pp) starts Qiu Yiping, a thirteen-year-old middle-school student, was secretly in love with her thirty-five-year-old cousin with the whimsical name Xuwu. An orphan whose parents had died long ago, he was a scientist researching hot-air balloons, and he seems more in love with his balloon and his claim that when he flies he almost reaches Venus. Overall: Voice wise I slightly preferred Annelise Finegan’s translations, where she lives distinctive Chinese onomatopoeia (typically doubled) rendered phonetically in English, which I missed here. But I prefer Can Xue in the short-story form where the sense of bafflement is more bearable. That said this is perhaps a collection to dip into rather than read every story - The Swamp, The Old Cicada, Shadow People, Crow Mountain and The Queen would be a good sampler, some of which can be found online. 3 stars.

I went into this book expecting some sort of narrative thread. I understand that absurdism is at the core of it, but I was a bit disappointed by the ending. At the beginning, my attention was caught impressively well. I had read other books with sentient rats as characters, so I was ready for more surrealist action. The setting is eerie, absorbing. The human characters were intriguing and, honestly, the only thing that kept me reading. Don't get me wrong. I enjoyed the story until it was approaching the end. It felt like it kept dragging on the same themes, situations and emotions. How many times did the rat pass out? There must be other literary devices to accomplish the same thing... I just ended up trying to read the story as a writing exercise/experiment. Good prose, good images and good setting. It had so much potential though.

Thank you Yale University Press and NetGalley for the Advanced Reader's Copy! Available May 19 2020 An anthropomorphic collection of tales, renowned Chinese author Can Xue's "I Live in the Slums" is a dreamlike subversive exploration of China's many slums. This English translation reads like Animal Farm or other metaphorical tales with simple, yet disturbing, turns and twists. Whether it is a rat who is fending for themselves in neighborhood of hungry butchers or a magpie's obsession with cleanliness, these tales are by turn amusing and horrifying. They work both as individual stories taken at face value or deeper critiques of the Chinese regime and its inability to provide for its people.

A few of these stories I loved and the rest were just alright. I really enjoyed the different perspectives.

2.5, rounded up for a POV mostly unfamiliar to me and thus welcome. If it was up to me however I'd throw out the sections consisting of the mostly inane observational snippets of a security guard on the job. There's a few decent ones which have mostly been shared in other reviews which gave me the misleading impression they would be at least interesting overall; they are not. Then I'd take the sections describing the lives of the West African men who've immigrated to Paris, which feel like a sketch for a novel, and turn them into a novel. But that's me.

Novel of security guarding in PARIS The title takes its name from the vocabulary of the security guard – and here, it is a look at the lives of the undocumented workers from the Côte d’Ivoire, who work in the security industry across Paris. It looks back to the 1960s from more or less the present day. There are snapshots of observations, of the nationalities who pass through metal detector gates at Sephora, amusingly differentiating the responses of the different nationalities when the alarm is triggered. Clothes labels are detailed, sizes, customer idiosyncrasies and the shopping vibe. The rhythm of the story varies. After a series of short paragraphs, each titled with a snappy headline, there is a series of longer passages, detailing the lives of the guards back at their lodgings and how they come to negotiate the city. It is clear that the Parisian economy couldn’t manage without their contribution. I can see that the book endeavours to inform, in an insightful and amusing way.Alberto Prunetti is quoted on the back cover: “A pataphysical ethnography of consumer society written with exemplary critical humour” Hmm. I had to consult the dictionary to understand that one. I guess as a cohesive book, it didn’t really work for me. It is beautifully translated, it is thought provoking about the lives of the incomers, but I just couldn’t connect - I breezed through and struggled really to take much away from the reading experience – apart from a short immersion in good prose. I also wonder about the wisdom of printing the book in what have become the Ukrainian colours of yellow and blue. I checked the flag of the Côte d’Ivoire (assuming it maybe too sported blue and yellow) but comprises orange, white and green. I guess the cover design took place well before the Russian invasion of Ukraine…. At least I now know what the flag of the Côte d’Ivoire looks like.

"In the Ivoirian community in France, security is a profession so deeply rooted that it has spawned a specific terminology, one inflected with the colourful expressions from Nouchi, the popular slang of Abidjan. Standing Heavy: designates all the various professions that require the employee to remain standing in order to earn a pittance." Standing Heavy (written in French by debut Ivoirian author Gauz' and translated by Frank Wynne, the chair judge of last year's International Booker Prize) consists of 2 main narrative structures. The First Narrative Structure: consists of perhaps 3 interconnected stories where we follow the POVs of Ferdinand (who arrived in Paris from Côte d'Ivoire in the early 1970s, i.e. the Bronze Age), Ossiri (who arrived in Paris as an undocumented immigrant in the 1990s, i.e. the Golden Age of immigration) and Kassoum (where, as an undocumented immigrant, he experienced a huge change after the 911 incident). The Second Narrative Structure: consists mainly of the observations of unnamed security guards working in Sephora on the Champs-Élysées. The First Narrative Structure touches on aspects of French historical events such as the death of President Georges Pompidou, the 1973 oil crisis, the French Presidential Elections in 1974, and the Sans-Papiers Movement which resulted in the expulsion of approximately 25,000 illegal immigrants. This part is definitely an eye-opening reading experience as I am not familiar with the long history of France's long history of immigration. However, I do note that there is a lack of coherency between the 3 "short stories". The Second Narrative Structure is the more interesting one for me. Consisting of snippets of observations by security guards at Sephora, Gauz' explored themes of consumerism, racism, classism, the East and West cultural dichotomy, and consumer habits based on race and culture. The observations are witty, sharp, and unapologetic. The dark humor and satitical elements somehow remind me of Viet Thanh Nguyen and Aravind Adiga's writing style: "'%' like a cock nestled between a pair of balls, the symbol '%' printed on the countless banners that hang from the false ceilings, hovers above the heads of all these women aroused by sale prices"; "In front of the shopping mall, a pot-bellied old man in traditional Hindu dress stands ramrod straight, holding a sign: "Rose of Kashmir, Indian and Pakistani dishes." In Paris, the Kashmiri struggle for independence has been transformed into a rose simply by putting India and Pakistan on the same plate. Mahatma Gandhi would have loved the Champs-Élysées"; "Seven seconds, including the time needed to enter the PIN, this is how long it takes the HSBC ATM on the Champs-Élysées to spit out twenty euros. It takes forty-three seconds for Credit Lyonnais on the rue Louis-Bonnet in Belleville to perform the same task! On the Champs-Élysées, money is quickly dispensed, and just as quickly expensed...In poor neighbourhoods, even the cash machines are reluctant to hand over cash". While the Second Narrative Structure is a more effective one to me, I also note that there is another lack of coherency between the First Narrative Structure and the Second Narrative Structure as both read like separate novellas. I would still applaud Gauz' for attempting something different as he is perhaps penning down his personal experience as an undocumented student who worked as a security guard in Paris before returning to Côte d'Ivoire. Standing Heavy is a 3.5/5 star rating to me and an interesting addition to the shortlist of the 2023 International Booker Prize.

Standing Heavy ~ Gauz (tr. Frank Wynne) Standing Heavy is a punchy and short political satire that explores colonial legacies and consumerist culture. The satire was a little hit and miss for me, but when the book hit I really liked it. The book follows several immigrants from Cote d'Ivoire across the 1960s and the 1990s who come across to France hoping for a better life and many of whom fall into security work. This is interspersed with the short, sharp observations of a security guard in the 2010s working in high end shopping chains like Sephora and the vapid nature of many of the individuals trawling through the shop seeking their next purchase. I found some of those sections the most hit and miss on the humour. Standing Heavy is a clear reflection of Gauz's own time as an undocumented student and security guard working in Paris as Ossiri and Kassoum in the 1990s follow the same path. They also take the reader through the fallout of 9/11 and the change this had on security roles and checks to be a security guard, immigrants on rules and the strain this puts on the undocumented. What I really enjoyed were the astute lines and observations about class, race, colonialism and capitalism. Sometimes I did wonder if things were supposed to be funny and I wonder if some of that was down to translations. Overall though I found myself pretty absorbed in this short book and I can see why it made the booker international longlist. I think my view would be I enjoyed it but didn't love it.

Interesting writing style… full review soon! Thank you to Biblioasis Books for my gifted review copy!

I let myself be impregnated by her way of speaking and being. I adapted, made my own version of it, let her change me forever. That’s all there is to the self, or the so-called ‘self’: traces of the people we rub up against. Longlisted for the 2024 PEN America Translation Prize Shortlisted for the 2024 International Booker Prize - not one I would normally think of as shortlist worthy, but justifies its place from the list. The Details (2023) is Kira Josefsson's translation of Ia Genberg's Detaljerna (2022), winner of the August Prize in Sweden and shortlisted for a number of other awards. The August Prize citation (translated) "In The Details a burning fever becomes a portal to the past and those relationships that once meant everything – in a life that no longer exists. With melancholy, precision and humorous undertones, Ia Genberg conjures the fragments that make up a person, and allows her voice to resonate with its distinctive tonality. In this highly perceptive feel for the small details, an entire world comes alive." The narrator of the novel is a believer that we are, or at least she is, shaped by those she has known and, particularly loved, and tells her non-linear story by portraits of four significant people in her life. Technically it is reminiscent of Rachel Cusk's annihilated perspective although not followed through with quite the same convinction. Literature is key to the novel and the narrator's first pen portrait, of a former lover Johanna, starts with their literary similarities and differences: Literature was our favourite game. Johanna and I introduced each other to authors and themes, to eras and regions and singular works, to older books and contemporary books and books of different genres. We had similar tastes but opinions divergent enough to make our discussions interesting. There were certain things we didn’t agree on (Oates, Bukowski), others that left us both unmoved (Gordimer, fantasy), and some we both loved (Klas Östergren, Eyvind Johnson’s Krilon trilogy, Lessing). I could tell how she felt about a book based on how fast she worked her way through it. If she was reading fast (Kundera, all crime fiction), I knew she was bored and rushing to be done, and if she was going too slow (The Tin Drum, all sci-fi), she was equally bored but had to struggle to reach the last page. She thought it was her duty to finish a book she’d started–just as she finished all her courses, papers and projects. Perhaps this was another issue I had with the novel, as the literary references are either unfamiliar to me (a succession of Swedish authors) or against my taste (no to Kundera and Grass, but the two share a love of Paul Auster). The narrator also comments that Some books stay in your bones long after their titles and details have slipped from memory. But here a number of Goodreads friends who read this novel previously have commented that while they remember enjoying the book at the time, little remains with them, and even a day after finishing the novel I already feel that way. Perhaps, as with the literary references, this was a function of three of the lives portrayed not being terribly of personal interest (millenial tales of casual relationships and socialising), with the third, the author's mother, whose personality was largely shaped by the ongoing trauma from being raped at a young age, more of interest but a slighly uneasy fit with the rest of the story. On the positive side, the pen portraits are precisely and efficiently sketched, caricatures by necessity in the length available, but ones that bring the narrator's significant others to life (although the narrator has a irritating tic of psychoanalysing them by modern standards the vulnerability-stress model we use today to explain how traumatic experiences have such a different impact on different people would’ve helped me understand her better). The prose, in Josefsson's translation is excellent, compelling and propulsive, with run-on sentences (apparently even longer in the Swedish original) and the length of the novel is perfect. On the other hand I often reward short novels by immediately re-reading them, and I wasn't particularly inclined to do so for this, as it wasn't clear this was a novel whose incomplete puzzle (in the narrator's closing words) would be any more resolved by doing so. When I was younger I often thought I should travel more and farther, spend more time in foreign countries, that I should be in a constant state of velocity so that I could get out there and truly live, but with time I have come to understand that everything I was looking for was right here, inside of me, inside the things that surround me, in the money jobs that became my actual jobs, in the constancy of the everyday, in the eyes of the people I meet when I allow my gaze to linger. I’m writing again after the fever, as if an old, welcome wound has opened and started to bleed, and I guess it’s an incomplete puzzle, these pictures of others and whoever they end up portraying. So mixed views - on the cusp of 3 and 4 stars and one I need to let settle, and perhaps revisit in the context of the wider list.

42nd book of 2024. After a few days of the virus in my body I come down with a fever, which is followed by an urge to return to a particular novel. It’s only once I sit down in bed and open the book that I understand why. There’s an inscription on the title page, made in blue ballpoint and inimitable handwriting: So starts The Details. And despite reminding me of the opening of Sebald’s The Rings of Saturn (whereby the narrative begins after diagnosing illness (in Sebald’s case, ‘emptiness’)), people are quick to call this Proustian (of course, anything that deals with memory must be Proustian). If any writer-adjective is chosen, it should be Cuskian, though it isn’t as profound as the Outline trilogy it resembles. But it does propel itself along simply with life stories. The four parts of the book are dedicated to four people from the narrator’s life. In that way, the whole novel is comprised of character studies. It's very readable, you could read it in one sitting without a struggle. It does have its issues. The penultimate line of the first part referring to the ‘details’ of said character felt too ham-fisted and I had a horrible fear that she would end every part with some variation of this, closing off each with a remark about their ‘details’, but thankfully that wasn’t the case. I like novels that make allusions to other novels and several are referenced in this: The New York Trilogy, The Man Without Qualities, and If On a Winter's Night a Traveller. I’m surprised it made the shortlist because it seems quite mundane, but then, it's universal in its mundanity. Easy to read, enjoyable, but I wasn’t blown away. 3.5.

I liked this concept more than the execution, but still breezed through it. A raw, human reflection on the memories and people that linger with us. As the title suggests, Genberg focuses more on the minutiae than on the overarching journey of the narrator's life. We learn about the narrator in passing, largely through the perspective of the others, and aren't left with a grandiose conclusion about her own mortality. The novel is split into four sections, each recounting her relationship (both romantic and otherwise) with people from her past. Despite losing connection with the individuals she references, they demarcate sections of her life and make up formative memories. I was left wanting more connection between the entries - Genberg directly addresses the loose sense of linearity and chronology as unimportant, which I do agree with to some extent, but it leaves the novel feeling more fragmented than cohesive. This style reflects the reality of our own experiences, but I'm not sure it fully translates well into a story. I'll have to dwell on that. Regardless, Genberg's prose is strong, and she offers many existential questions within a slim volume. The fleeting moments we share with people quickly drift into memories, and memory is a finicky thing. Who is to say what memories will bubble to the surface when we find ourselves in a similar situation to this narrator?

A quiet little book that at times reminded me of something by Rachel Cusk or maybe Katie Kitamura. It’s definitely one of the stronger Booker nominated books that I’ve read recently (I’ve gone through a few duds). I found chapter 1 (Johanna) to be the strongest out of the quartet. It had me feeling seen and a bit shook. I thought that the exploration of the relationship between the narrator and Johanna was super interesting, insightful, and painful (hits too close to home lol). Chapters 2 and 3 started to bore me a bit unfortunately, while Chapter 4 brought things back around. I’m hoping more of the author’s books are translated into English in the future.

Meandering and intimate

Just maybe, someday I will find a Booker Prize winning book which I would be thrilled to have read. The search will have to continue as this one was not that yet again. This is a set of 12 short stories, all of which, centre on the women’s perspective in Muslim families. The characters do call out to you in anguish. While a lot might have changed/improved over the years, there is a long way to go in terms of gender equality. Below is a very short story summary, my impression and rating. 1) Stone slabs for Shaista Mahal (4.5 / 5) – Iftikar & Shaista are friends of Mujahid & Zeenat. Iftikar loftily claims he would build a monument for Shaista, but is his love really that strong? Good characters and impressionable finish. 2) Fire Rain (4.5 / 5) – Usman Saheb, a mutawalli is irritated at his sister Jameela for demanding a share of the property. The community becomes obsessed with exhuming and reburying one Nisar who died recently. A neat twist near the end. 3) Black Cobras (3.5 / 5) - Hasina, Munni and their mother Aashraf are at a mosque hoping for intervention. Yakub has married again since Hasina could not bear him a son. A tragic and heart-rending story. 4) A Decision of the Heart (3 / 5) - Yusuf, lives with his wife Akhila and mother Mehaboob Bi. Akhila resents his closeness to his mother and Yusuf can think of only one way out. A painful story, and I thought there could have been other ways to progress it. 5) Red Lungi (3 / 5) – Razia and her husband Latif Ahmad organize a camp for kids. A later realization dawns on Razia that not everything becomes easy with money. An unusual story but lacks depth. 6) Heart Lamp (3.5 / 5) - Mehrun with her kid visits her parents’ place. Her husband Inayat has gone off with a nurse. What support can Mehrun expect? A painful story which could have had more possibilities. 7) High Heeled Shoe (2 / 5) – Nayaz Khan is fascinated by his sister-in-law Naseema’s shoes. He wants to gift shoes like that to his wife Asifa. Unlike most of the other stories, lacks direction & depth. 8) Soft Whispers (1 / 5) - Abid visits another family to invite them for the Urs festival. A pointless story which includes an avoidable episode of bird cruelty. 9) A Taste of Heaven (3.5 / 5) – Bi dadi, Saadat's widowed aunt lives with Saadat and his wife Shameem Banu. There are tensions at home. Some light moments in the later parts of the story. 10) The Shroud (4.5 / 5) - Altaf whose mother Yaseen Bua died comes asking for a kafan to the house of Shaziya, husband Subhan and son Farman. Good characters and interesting background to the kafan ask. 11) The Arabic Teacher and Gobi Manchuri (1.5 / 5) – A family engage a young Arabic teacher to teach their daughters. The teacher has some food preferences which he is constantly on the lookout for. A different story but directionless. 12) Be a Woman Once, Oh Lord (3 / 5) – A woman who feels like an object after marriage cries out in anguish. A strong message though the character development is minimal. The stories carry a passionate plea for gender equality, understanding & compassion. The stories feel similar atmospherically though they do vary a little in depth & character development. I would have liked to see some multi-cultural aspects, though I know that can come with its own problems. The stories would have benefited with more variety covering more themes & situations. A few stories make a feeble attempt at introducing some lightness but mostly fail. The book ends with a silly translator’s note. In the polarized times we live in, it might appeal to some or many – as it carries a lot of wokeism & hallucinations. My rating for the book averages to a little over 3.

3.5 in my journey to become an enjoyer of short stories, this was a pretty good one! so many stories of men being absolutely horrid and the women around them suffering because of it. this collection is drenched in emotions and will not leave you unaffected. i did find it difficult to get into each story at first. however, once i was in, i was in. although this wasn’t the best short story collection i’ve ever read, i definitely understand why it won the 2025 international booker prize—it certainly has merit. tl;dr: short stories to shed a tear to

my rating is impacted by the fact that i read a thousand of this exact formula for my thesis. yes, some stories were very powerful and evocative but the premises usually felt a bit tired. i loved the 2023 international booker winner SO much and would love a return to selecting similar literary standouts

I went into Heart Lamp with a lot of expectations even though I am not a fan of Booker Prize winners. But this was an anthology and I love them. So I picked this up. Heart Lamp was... not exactly disappointing, but I don't know why it won the Booker Prize. There are 12 stories that offer a glimpse into low to higher class Muslim women in South India. However, the general understanding is that they can be transformed into any other woman of any other religion and the outcome would be the same. We often see comments on social media by religious Muslims about how Islam teaches equality to women. But what was said 1400 years ago hasn't remained the same. Women covering their head and body as a submission to God is now a tool for oppression. Sisters asking for equal rights in property is seen as a rebellion against men. These changes may or may not be seen in other societies but in South East Asia, the cultural influences of different peoples and religions have massively reshaped the Muslim society. In fact, it can be said the every person from every religion has been influenced in some way or the other. The underlying thread of patriarchy, however, remains unchanged and has, in fact, grown stronger over the years, even with the various feminist movements. Where once the Prophet praised the birth of daughters - indeed, he had only daughters and, out of them, Fathima is one of the most highly regarded in Islam - now, the birth of a daughter is seen as a burden. The Prophet also preached multiple marriages for a man but also stipulated that he must do so only if he is able to provide equally for all his wives. Over the years, only the first part of his preachings - the multiple marriages part - has remained, while the equal provision part has somehow mysteriously been overlooked. Of course, there is nothing really mysterious about it. Heart Lamp does manage to convey the message but I felt some stories were too preachy. Stone Slabs for Shaista Mahal was one such. When Iftikhar declares unending love for his wife yet sees her as a vessel to carry his children, we know what is going to happen next. Other stories like The Shroud, A Taste of Heaven, and High-Heeled Shoe didn't seem to have a direction. They started somewhere and ended somewhere else. Same with The Arabic Teacher and Gobi Manchuri. Maybe it was I who couldn't understand them - I don't pretend to be a scholar but I believe that if you start with a person's high blood pressure complaints and then insert a Haj trip and a shroud into the narrative without a satisfactory ending, that does not make a good short story. Some characters in the stories also behaved in some ways that felt totally weird to me. Why would a man be so enamored with a high-heeled shoe, make his wife wear it, and then just walk away? Why would a son arrange a marriage for his widowed mother, seeking grooms and even fixing the date, but not even talk with her about it at all until the eve of her marriage? Another point that annoyed me to no end was the translation. Whenever I read a translated work, I give a lot of leeway for language. There are some emotions and some words that simply cannot be translated into English. But when you write stuff like "the auto went away making a barrrrr sound" or "she began to sniff loudly making sarraa-harraa noises," I begin to lose faith in your translation. Yet another thing is that most Indian languages (at least the ones I know) have the tendency to repeat certain words, especially numbers, for emphasis. For example, we might say, "naan rendu-rendu tharavai ponen" in Tamil or "chaar-chaar roti khaayi usne" in Hindi. But when we say two-two or four-four in English, it seems very childish. The translator's note has included a word in the end for her choice but by the time I reached there, I was fed up with the usage. That said, I liked some stories. Fire Rain and Black Cobras were both memorable but the best of the lot was Be a Woman Once, Oh Lord! However, I am not sure I will remember them after a few days because the stories began to run together with each other after a while. This review has reached the length of a short story itself so I will stop here. I wish to say at last that yes, women are oppressed in every religion but there was a much better way to say it. I think I will keep to my resolve of not reading award-winning books again. I don't seem to understand them. 3 stars.

This book is vitally important, but it hurts to read

Not necessarily bad, but the Booker Prize?! Really! 2.5/5

Even before I started reading Banu Mustaq's Heart Lamp, I knew I was going to love it. A collection of short stories written in Kannada, later translated into English by Deepa Bhasthi, reached the global stage when it was longlisted for International Booker Prize 2025. I was filled with pride and I knew I had to read it lest somebody 'spoils' the book for me. Guess what? I spoiled it myself! I should have waited longer so that ultimately, like countless books in my TBR, I would have forgotten the existence of this one. That way, I would not have to wrench my heart for writing this review. I have strong opinions on many books which I have read and did not like; I never actually thought twice before writing about it. What is so special with this one? In the translator's note, Deepa Bhasthi sums up Banu Mustaq's career with one Kannada word: bandaya. Bandaya is "dissent, rebellion, protest, resistance to authority, revolution and its adjacent ideas". As a woman and a citizen of this world, I understand the importance of bandaya in our lives. And I deeply acknowledge the sheer strength it takes to resist. I have not still reached to my thoughts on this collection of short stories because I feel very guilty for 'criticising' the voice behind Heart Lamp. The collection started pretty well, the story was readable, I wanted to know what happens next, I was capable of understanding the women and what they were going through. I did not realise it in the beginning, but that is where all the good aspects of this collection stops. One story after another, I was left wanting for more and not in a good way. It was supposed to capture the hardships of Muslim women living in southern India. But, in trying to be a universal story for women, the stories belong nowhere. I reached my tipping point while reading pages upon pages about an 'adult' man's obsession with high-heeled shoe that seemed to be going nowhere. It was not just boring, but downright torturous. The stories lacked an intention: was it written to show women's small acts of defiance, or was it for depicting that they were nothing but "the husband's most obedient servant, his bonded labourer"? All this is not to say that Heart Lamp is a bad book. As a reader, I was not able to make much sense of it. I can point out a lot of arguments to everything I have said, but somehow, they are not just strong enough for me to agree on. Is this a good book? Yes. But did it deserve to win the International Booker Prize? I cannot, in good conscience, say yes. Heart Lamp stirred me a little, but it failed to leave an impact.

Finally, some well-deserved attention to Banu Mushtaq's great catalogue of work. The translator's note has my whole heart; this is truly Deepa Bhasthi's win. Also, can we please give due credit to Kanishka Tyagi, who was the literary agent for both Heart Lamp and the Tomb of Sand?! iconic is a word that surely comes to mind.

on the one hand i thought this was interesting and enjoyed thinking abt the translation (and thought the translator’s note was great!) on the other i sort of got the point four stories in

A Muslim woman’s plea to God (“When you so leisurely created the animal kingdom, the delicate threadlike parts inside flowers with gold coating, these marvellous ponds and lakes, rivers and streams, did you not have the time to peep into my heart and see my fears, my wishes, dreams and disappointments?”) addresses him as ‘Prabhu’—divided by land, religion, class but united by misogyny. A very nuanced translation overall.

Diminishing returns. I don't often read celeb-authored books, but I make the exception for Bob. The first one, The Satsuma Complex, took me by surprise due to my own low expectations. The following two haven't quite achieved the same. It's still funny and packed to the rafters with Mortimerisms and the boiler-plate absurdity that is his style, but for me the novelty is wearing off. Glad I listened on audio as I'd have probably dnf'd if it wasn't for Bob's narration.

I really wanted to like this more. Lots of half smile moments but missing the charm of Bob bouncing whimsically off Paul Whitehouse or someone else.

Another amusing tale from Bob! I didn't enjoy this one as much as his previous books! Though its still an enjoyable read that did have me chuckling in many places! I love that he always includes a talking animal!!

3.5 - Audio from Bob always makes me smile but the premise and characters were very similar to his previous books. That said I'm now waiting impatiently for his next one ☺️

Wouldn’t say classic Bob, think there was maybe one fully likeable character. Still very charming and genuinely did leave me guessing.

Pointless in the best and worst sense. Didn't know of him beforehand, but saw the success his other books had garnered (and was yet again placeholding for the actual library book i was waiting to find). His humour never really made me laugh? but was quite hitch-hikers guide to the galaxy-esque of ridiculous and dry, making for an interesting sort-of loner character, with a very stylistic voice that lingered with me after I finished the book.

I don't really consume novels like these outside of Bob Mortimer. I don't read novels written by celebrities, rarely read crime or thriller, and don't seek out humorous literature. But I have usually made an exception for Mortimer because he is a local (to me) legend and he has made me laugh since being a kid and watching him with my Dad. Unfortunately I enjoyed this less than his previous two novels. I wasn't particularly interested in the unravelling mystery. It didn't seem all that mysterious. And the Bob-flavoured silliness that I usually enjoy wasn't there as strongly. I rated this 2.75 on Storygraph. You should check Storygraph out. I borrowed this audiobook using the Libby app from my local library. Support your local library!

3.75 ⭐️ Listened to the audiobook of this which Bob does himself excellently! It was sprinkled with his signature nonsense which was what I was hoping for and it made me laugh out loud in a few places. The rating feels low but I just didn’t love it as much as Satsuma Complex. I did enjoy the different POVs though and the mystery element was decent, with a few unexpected twists. But I didn’t love how it eventually unravelled, it felt a bit anticlimactic and boring. Although I really didn’t buy it for the mystery element, so I tried not to overanalyse it too much. Enjoyed the characters, he writes and narrates them all so well!

This book is so Bob. I love the similes he uses (‘like a puppy chasing after monster munch’/ ‘ants eating a lump of mango on a foxes head’ or something like that; not exact quotes) I laughed a lot and enjoyed it overall but I must say I feel like it took ages for anything to happen and then so much happened in the last ≈ 20 pages. I’m also not a HUGE fan of mysteries in general so that won’t help but I love Bob and will definitely read his other books in the future. If this was written by anyone else it wouldn’t be nearly as good

At first I thought the book was a rehash of Bob’s previous books, and maybe they are but I wouldn’t level a comment like that at Agatha Christie. It’s certainly written in the same style and I couldn’t help but read it with Bob’s voice. The narrative was well put together, and I liked the range of characters. It has that absurdity in the text, which I enjoy. The humour is reincorporated which keeps the smile on my face. The question now is will there be further instalments of Matt and Harriet? I do hope so.

Bob Mortimer’s most recent novel, "The Long Shoe", is another charming addition to his bibliography, but for me, it doesn't quite match the magic of his Gary Thorn books. While it's a delightful read, the characters feel eerily familiar - Matt reminds me of Gary, and Carol has a similar personality to Grace. Even the themes, like the longing for differences within relationships, seem like they've been explored before in the Gary Thorn series. To be honest, I felt like I was reading a Gary Thorn book with different character names. The writing style, humor, and even the voices Mortimer uses in the audiobook are all so similar to his previous works. It's not a bad thing, but it does make "The Long Shoe" feel like a variation on a theme rather than something entirely new. One thing that does stand out is Mortimer's love for satsumas, which makes an appearance in this book as well. And, as always, his narration is top-notch, bringing the characters to life with his signature wit and charm. I didn’t really like Carol because she was a bit vain. Overall, I'm giving "The Long Shoe" 3 stars. My favourite Mortimer book is still "The Satsuma Complex", and while this is a solid effort, it doesn't quite match up to that standout title. Still, fans of his previous books will likely enjoy it, and it's a great way to spend time with his unique brand of humor and characters.

I love the writing, it's very funny as are his other books. I just didn't enjoy the story as much in this one compared to satsuma and avocado. Loved the cat bits. A couple of the characters were a little frustrating to me. Namely the neighbour and the yoga instructor. Worth a read if you like the writing style though as that is just as good.

The long shoe - Bob Mortimer Bob Mortimer is a master at placing deeply whimsical characters into bizarre, often outright hilarious situations. The Long Shoe certainly continues that tradition, and like The Hotel Avocado, it contains several genuine laugh-out-loud moments. There were more than a few occasions where I caught myself laughing manically, earning some very concerned looks from Louisa and raising legitimate questions about my sanity. That said, while the humour is unmistakably Mortimer, The Long Shoe ultimately felt far more hollow than his previous work. The comedy often seemed to act as a crutch for what I found to be a rather lacklustre story. Unlike The Hotel Avocado, where the mystery played a central role and worked in harmony with the humour, here the narrative never fully grabbed me. The plot felt thin, and the double-bluff ending landed with little impact, largely because I never felt particularly invested in how the story resolved. While Mortimer’s voice remains charming and his comic instincts are as sharp as ever, The Long Shoe didn’t quite balance its humour with substance in the way I’d hoped. Fans of his surreal comedy will still find plenty to enjoy, but for me, it lacked the emotional or narrative depth that made The Hotel Avocado a much more memorable read. Overall, if you love bob you’ll love this book from him but in terms of story power it doesn’t have much. It’s just a good bit of bob, and we all love a bit of bob.

Update : Now a finalist for Pulitzer Prize for Fiction 2025 Longlisted for Booker Prize 2024 - One of those trendy novels that has the style but not necessarily the substance. It was fun reading about women boxing during the Olympics. I'm not sure what would have happened if I had read it one week later.

3 stars seems a bit harsh, but this was one of those phenomena where the book was better than the reading experience. It is fresh, bold, swag but not deep and moving enough to be on the Booker longlist.

An interesting foray into the lives of eight teenage female boxers. While I appreciated how the novel depicts the females lives past, present and future — a sort of coming of age, I found it pretty much redundant and repetitive after the first two chapters.

Headshot spotlights 8 young female boxers in a national tournament and the struggles of their inner lives. I enjoyed the structure, the writing and the uniqueness of each of the characters, but I felt that this short novel just did not pack enough punch. I won't remember much of this in a week or two.

Reliving being a teenage girl was not something I thought I’d have to go through during this read and you know what, my therapist will hear about this

Oh, Booker Prize. Because of you the number of sports novels I've read has probably doubled. That's not something I expected when I started following this prize closely more than a decade ago. I decided to start my reading of the 2024 longlist with Headshot, a short novel about a two-day boxing tournament of teenage girls, because I thought it might not be a book for me, and I was hoping to knock it out of the way early. I was honestly very surprised by how much I loved this book initially. The writing was really great, though I could've done without a couple over-the-top similes. I was invested in the fights and found myself rooting for one girl over the other. There was a lot of depth and beauty for such short interactions with each character. Somewhere past the midway mark, my interest began to wane. I think this might be in part because some of the characters I'd personally found the most captivating had been eliminated. But I think there was also a change in the writing. The bouts seemed to conclude faster as the book went on. The insights were fewer and less poignant. To me, it felt like the author had run out of steam or wasn't sure where else to go with this story. I liked this novel more than I thought I might, and had it maintained the same level in the second half as it had in the first, it might've even made my shortlist. Though I've yet to read the other twelve books, I expect this one will be a first-round knockout for me in the end.

Headshot shoots itself in the foot. The structure is clever but becomes predictable. The pacing is punchy but becomes tiring. The characters are interesting but the constant switching becomes dizzying.

formally interesting, with a really, realllly good opening chapter. the novel can't keep pace though, and the fighting ("fighting") sequences become rote. i found that the novel (though short!) dragged on. should've stayed a short story perhaps!

Each of these young women have their own reasons to box, and each represent an avid metaphor for life. More so, this novel is about fighting for redemption, for meaning, for conquering their own inner demons, for perseverance, for the unvanquished spirit in the face of adversity. Go deep with each character, and you will relate to both their suffering and victory. In doing so, you gain empathy for other people’s stories around you, and understand that their history and background brought them to where they are today.

Girls who fight are cool but have an intense internal monologue

Now Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2022 I'm really torn about this one: It's not hard to see the literary merit of this enigmatic meditation on time, death, and the absurdity of life, but the text strongly relies on context that might not be available to many readers, and it requires an interest in British folklore (which, frankly, I do not have - but that clearly shouldn't be the authors concern). Garner tells the story of Joseph Coppock, a child who lives alone and is visitied by the title-giving Treacle Walker, a traveling rag-and-bone man (hence: Walker) who says that he can heal all things, save jealousy (hence: Treacle, meaning antidote in Middle English). Joe trades a pair of pajamas (rag) and a bone for a vase and stone that turn out to have magical properties, including the capacity to see what other people can't see. Many strongly metaphorical events unfold, until it becomes clear what Treacle's real function is. You probably have to be a 87-year-old veteran narrator like Garner to pull off a story that fully indulges in a wide field of assocations in order to grapple with classic literary themes: We get life as a dream, mirorrs that reflect/shatter/disappear/never exist in the first place, we get the blindness/knowledge trope, man and nature, the question whether reality actually exists, etc. Apparently, there also many references to classic British stories plus the books of Garner, none of which I'm familiar with, but while I'm sure this information would have highly enhanced the experience, it's not crucial to know in order to get the gist of what's going on. Most interestingly, Garner experiments with local dialect and expressions (he resides in Cheshire) with a strong emphasis on the musicality of language, often creating sounds that are reminiscent of children's songs or counting rhymes. I have to admit though that this makes the text sometimes rather hard to understand for foreign-language readers like me, and probably also non-Brits. So I see the value of this short novel and I greatly enjoyed many of the affecting images and ideas that Garner employs, but due to the specific language and the many references to fantasy, folklore and myths - all three not my fave subjects -, this is at least in part not for me. The book did introduce me to a new (for me!) author and his unusual body of work though, and I'm glad I got to learn about that.

This charming little book is both an excellent introduction to Garner's writing and also a capstone on his long career. Weaving folklore and myth into this tale, Garner has a talent for showing magic spilling into every day objects. The story is a celebration of the archaic and explores how time can move and yet seem to stand still, both through images and characters. The dialogue is quirky and timeless, concrete yet somehow elusive. Clocking in at just over 100 pages (in large font), this makes for a quite enjoyable hour or two.

‘What’s happening? What the heck’s up?’ That question voiced early on by the book’s protagonist, Joseph Coppock, understandably is also the question of many a reader of the book. I’d never read Alan Garner before and apparently it follows on to a great extent from his earlier work, but it also reminded me of a novel I read earlier this year by J. Robert Lennon, Subdivision, in that it seems to take place in a sort of bardo realm influenced by our conception of quantum mechanics, and in which the protagonist has to overcome challenges that draw on mythological concepts as they gradually come to an understanding and acceptance of the current state of their personhood. Only this one uses much more archaic northern English dialect and the tone is closer to twee than malevolent. I enjoyed the writing and the dialect and the words I had to look up, and am glad to have been introduced to Garner; it has made me interested in reading his other, presumably meatier novels. This one was just too short and not filled out enough for what it was trying to do for my preference, but it was a fairly frolicsome trip.

A wind threw the door onto him, shoving him against the stack. And night spilled in. Snow stung his face. He forced the door against the wind and the latch clanged shut. He clung to the chimney post. But night was in the room, a sheet of darkness, flapping from wall to wall. It changed shape, swirling, flowing. It dropped to the ground and ruckled over the floor bricks; then up to the joists and beams of the ceiling; hung, fell, humped. It shrieked, reared against the chimney opening, but did not enter. It surged through the house by cracks and gaps in the timbers, out under the eaves. There was a whispering, silence, and on the floor snow melted to tears. “My name,” said the man, “is Treacle Walker.” Other reviewers can tell of how Treacle Walker is the capstone to author Alan Garner’s career — others do explain how this interplays with Garner’s children’s books and carves its place in the history of English folklore — but I haven’t read Garner before, I am not particularly knowledgeable about English folklore, and taken as a standalone artefact, this read was pleasantly weird, but made no deep impression on me. I am glad to have picked this up — I was completely entranced for the short while this took to read and would not speak against the reading experience — but there was no payoff for me in the end. From my own limited perspective, not a Booker winner. “Treacle Walker?” said Thin Amren. “Treacle Walker? Me know that pickthank psychopomp? I know him, so I do. I know him. Him with his pots for rags and his bag and his bone and his doddering nag and nookshotten cart and catchpenny oddments. Treacle Walker? I’d not trust that one’s arse with a fart.” Young Joe Coppock has a lazy eye and a collection of eggs and a pocketful of marbles, and when from his bed by the chimneypiece he hears the call of rag and bone for donkeystone, he scrambles out to the yard with some old pyjamas and a lamb’s shoulder, meeting Treacle Walker for the first time. They make an exchange (Joe chooses a cracked and crazed old jar and the promised donkeystone [an embossed brick used for polishing stone steps]), and Joe accidentally unleashes magic upon himself (the jar contains paste that charms his weaker eye and the donkeystone enchants his doorway), and strange events ensue. There’s something otherworldly and othertimely about the narrative and it’s unclear whether the events are even happening in our known world (view spoiler). And with language that bordered on the Jabberwockyish, there was an off-kilter vibe that I enjoyed in the moment — I definitely wanted to know what was going to happen — but again, it didn’t seem to go anywhere. “You have the glamourie,” said the man. “In just the one. And that’s no bad thing, if you have the knowing. She’ll be the governor while you learn the hang of it, and when you’ve got that you’ll be fine as filliloo. But you need the both of them. What sees is seen.” Much of what Garner writes about is from real life — from the donkeystones to old comic strip characters that come to life — but while I was a big fan of Max Porter’s Booker-nominated Lanny (which similarly pitted a youngster against a character from traditional English folklore), there was no foothold in reality with Treacle Walker, and as a result, I felt no stakes for Joe Coppock: he could summon the cuckoo with a bone flute and follow it through the Chesire bogs with his glamourie ‘til the Brit Basher caught Stonehenge Kit, and none of it made my heart race. A fine and pleasurable reading experience, but it doesn’t add up to much (for me) in the end.

I enjoyed the storytelling-around-a-blazing-fire fairy-tale elements of this book, and while I believe I understood some of its deeper meanings, I'm afraid I also missed a lot too. I came away kind of scratching my head and wondering what I'd just read. Yet the characters stayed with me for a bit, which is the sign of a skilled writer. Overall? I guess I fall in the middle with this one.

I felt like if you did a mashup of Dr. Suess and a Black Mirror episode and a Grimm's fairy tale and a Marvel comic. . .this book would be the result. I didn't really mind reading it because the language was actually fun, but did I get it? That would be a no. And I lived in the UK for a year so some of the language used was more familiar to me than it might be to other Americans.

3.5 Vivid and weird and delightful.

Really and truly not my cup of tea, though the writing is superb and the symbolism impeccably powerful

While We Were Dreaming is an episodic novel about teenagers in Leipzig after the fall of the Berlin Wall, whose lives are filled with drink, violence, and carjacking, and a certain hopelessness amongst their dreams. Told from the perspective of Daniel, the book follows him and friends like Rico, Mark, Paul, Daniel, Walter, and Stefan as they, at various ages, get in trouble, scheme, rage, and explore the version of Germany they now live in post-reunification. This is a long book split into shorter sections of varying lengths that follow particular episodes in Daniel's life, moving backwards and forwards in time between these parts, but you quickly pick up the key characters, settings, and happenings. The way these parts are woven together builds up a story in a non-linear way, of hope and violence, police and the constant threat of imprisonment, and the importance of their friendships, even when things are bad, and though it sounds like it could be confusing, it does feel like a complete book by the end, but it also takes a lot of time to get there. The book feels similar to books like Young Mungo or Who They Was in that it presents a violent youthful world in a literary way, but in the case of While We Were Dreaming, which is translated from German, it has has a very specific sense of time and place, and the aftermath of a divided country and extreme politics. I found it could be too slow for me at times and the length was off-putting considering that it doesn't really have much of a narrative (or at least not a linear one you can discern whilst reading), but the setting was fascinating and it makes for a distinctive coming of age novel.

This is a pretty hard-hitting and visceral novel which perfectly encapsulates the atmosphere in a poor district of Leipzig in East Germany after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, focussing on the lives and misadventures of a group of teenage boys growing to manhood in a toxic and misogynistic environment. It feels realistic and authentic, and is in fact semi-autobiographical, and it’s a raw and bleak read. Even moving at times – but only up to a point, because it ultimately becomes tedious to read, page after page, about the boys’ rampaging and irresponsible behaviour, which never changes as they grow up. They spend their time partying, drinking, taking drugs, fighting, stealing cars, being arrested, spending time in youth detention centres or prison as they become adults, and where violence and gang warfare is the backdrop to everything they do. The narrative is non-linear, a series of vignettes, which jumps about in time and it is thus sometimes difficult to figure out exactly where we are. There’s no overarching plot, little character development and certainly no redemption. The episodic structure prevents the reader (at least, this reader) becoming emotionally invested in the characters, and although there are at times flashes of humanity, even vulnerability when the boys are younger, and they do evoke some sympathy for their plight, it all went on for far too long and after a while I just wanted it to be over. A shorter book with a tighter narrative would have had more impact.

An effective study of nostalgia with a strong sense of character and place. I couldn’t help feeling it was derivative of Trainspotting despite never having read it, the events and primary concern of the plot were too similar. Meyer has a gift for common language and direct storytelling but his prose doesn’t particularly impress, I was never grabbed by any turns of phrase, mainly because there weren’t many attempts, which I suppose isn’t a bad thing, but over 600 pages I’d hope there’d be a few. I’m interested in checking out his second novel, Bricks & Mortar, but not for some time. I was sad to be leaving this book’s world and its characters though, which is more than I can say of many.

Sometimes less really is more. With a bit of tighter editing, The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny could’ve been a solid five-star read for me. The writing’s gorgeous, and I loved the themes of identity, migration, and loneliness. But it’s a long book, and after a while the uneven pacing, too many characters and points of view, and all the extra tangents started to drag it down. By the end, it just felt a bit bloated and all over the place.

I wanted to love this, and I do love the themes and story and the ways it shifts, but the writing and dialogue felt so aware of itself that I can't fully love this

One of these stars is for me for having listened to it all. Sonia and Sunny are two young writers who both struggle with relationships for some reason probably related to their parents, who are all pretty hopeless as role models. They get together then split up. I'm sorry to sound so unenthusiastic but the book irritated me no end. It was a really ordinary story held together with just about every trope/news item from the past 20 years. We had mummy issues (Sunny), coercive control/older man issues (Sonia), professional jealousy (Sunny), low self-esteem (Sonia), parental issues (both), racism, sexism, misogyny, narcissism, arranged marriages, love marriages, cancer, dementia etc etc. Throw a shed load of magical realism in to bring it all together with some ghostly apparitions, mysticism, myths and legends, amulets and religion as well as 9/11 and you've pretty much got 600+ pages. My therapist would have told them to go and do some physical labour or find a hobby that engrossed them rather than going round and round in their heads overthinking absolutely everything. The narration by Snetha Mathan was beautiful. One star is for that. I'd award more but someone would think I liked the book, which got the last star.

Omg, I finally finally finished. I felt like I was reading this book forever. The first quarter of the book, where we meet Sonia and Sunny was very good. Their lives are unfulfilling, each in a different way. Sonia is in a toxic relationship. Sunny has a difficult and overly possessive mother that seems to interfere with his happiness at every turn. Unfortunately, after the stage is set, this book just went off the rails for me. We meet too many superfluous characters and worse, the settings keep changing over and over, necessitating endless, boring description. Worse yet, it's set around the time of 9/11, and it's not like that's an enhancement. It feels almost dated and yet not quite at the level of historical fiction either. The character development proceeds at the absolute slowest pace. I almost didn't even care about the two protagonists for at least half the book. But then, in a very surprising turn of events (for me), the ending . . .and when I say ending I mean the last 5-8% or so re-gains the form of the beginning. And it's beautiful. So yeah, to me, this book needed a major edit. There's absolutely a 5 star book in here about loneliness and disaffection from family and cultural clashes and most of all about, love. But, I really didn't have the patience to dig through the many, many words and descriptions and oh, did I mention unnecessary magical realism, to find it. Let's just say - - probably a good book, but so not for me. But with that I did finish the entire longlist of nominees for The Booker Prize. Go get it, Audition!

3.5 stars. Short-listed for the Booker Prize, The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny by Kiran Desai explores issues of race, class, and colonialism in India. While the prose is lovely, this novel is not for those desiring quick pace and compelling plot points. https://youtu.be/SWpvH3UDznc?si=O-liU...

review to come in my booker wrap up substack post soon - only 1 more book to go!

It feels like this book and I have been through a war together. It also feels like I should be more attached to it after all we’ve suffered. Recommendation: You’re in the mood for a VERY character-driven, sprawling, meandering, tangent-taking lit fic centered on two Indian families What worked for me: - Lots of beautiful writing and inference here - I enjoyed and felt challenged by a lot of the social and cultural commentary - I truly liked the audiobook narrator (but put her on 1.5x—she reads slower than most and this is already almost 700 pages) What didn’t work for me: - I’m sorry, it’s way too long. I didn’t think Gone With the Wind was too long if that adds any context - It’s unfocused and hard to follow. While I enjoyed the narrator, I would’ve really benefited from being able to search my Kindle and reference the family tree at the beginning - I’m not attached to literally any of the characters, which feels like a CRIME after this many pages - By the end I was so ready to be done, and that’s when the book morphs into something completely different I no longer had the patience to follow I don’t regret not DNFing, but I was hoping this would feel a lot more “worth it” by the end. I wouldn’t be opposed to reading more from this author, and there is so much good in here. I just don’t have the patience to pick axe away at all of the stone built around it. Instagram Let’s Connect --- ⚠️ Content Warnings ⚠️ Spice level: Mostly descriptive and seems written from above. There’s sex happening, but it’s out of focus Graphic: Domestic/emotional abuse Moderate: Racism, sexual assault attempt, death of parent, cancer

Finally it's over. The inheritance of Loss was wonderful and Desai already won Man Booker Prize in 2006 with that book. So, before beginning, I was expecting something over that but unfortunately, The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny is a disappointment for me. first things first: it is unnecessarily toooo long. You don't need 600ish pages to tell that two characters from India are lonely. They have desires, they have disappointments and yes they are immigrants but still, it could've been told in 200 to 300 pages. I know that Desai is a writer to include as many perspectives and viewpoints as possible which has happened in this novel but it was too random. Some people say this is also a novel of ideas but it's just nothing more than a repetition of what she has already achieved in her previous, award-winning novel. That's why it didn't satisfy me very much. it seems like a lot of work has been done to write this but perhaps it's TOO MUCH WORK.

The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny is a love story and family saga. A captivating tale of two young people navigating the many forces that shape their lives - country, class, race, history and the complicated bonds that link one generation to the next. This could have been a five star read for me if not for the many characters and points of view.

hot take prose is mostly gorgeous and compelling if overly long at times, but very rarely did I get the sense that Desai fundamentally understands the emotional arcs she's writing about (immigrant alienation, lack of belonging, lack of place, awkwardness) or that she's got any female friends/women she understands??? right so coming back here--I am on a mission to complete a Cannonball Read Bingo card, and this is obviously a super win re: the citizenship prompt -- I was thinking as I walked back from the train station what to write here. How to make this a review that doesn't end up just being about my own shibboleths? Namely, that all books about the Indian American Experience end up being exasperating because they're always about alienation and/or dissatisfaction and/or HOW TO BE BICULTURAL in a way that seems designed to pander to (white) audiences? Surprise I don't know, so typical review it is! I'll try to contextualize this one by talking about Desai herself. The daughter of a successful Indian-American-German author and professor at MIT, Desai grew up in India (Punjab, Mumbai, Delhi) before moving to the UK for a teenage year and then the US, where she studied at any number of well-thought-of universities for literary endeavors. In some sense, she is a nepobaby author, for all that her work has been raved about from day 1 and she's also a Booker Prize winning novelist. What I do think is that it makes her profoundly unsuited to writing a novel about disaffected, alienated immigrants to the States! What she does seem to know about is being lonely and not finding community, but in a way that suggests she's struggled to find a place given what I can only assume is an immense amount of privilege--bicultural by way of money and international glamor. My mother came to Jersey City in the late 1980s, college educated and married but very alone. She made friends! Speaking English natively is a key differentiator for the educated Indian diaspora, which basically guarantees the ability to assimilate to one's choice of level into native-English-speaking-countries. You can be the type of South Asian with only SA friends or make friends with other people and all of those friends will tell you that your boyfriend is a weird abusive creep who is not good for you . I don't know, it's just hard to take either of these two seriously because they're designed to be such in a vacuum as to be unbelievable. Maybe if there were reasons for their isolation? But we get no sense that they're unlikeable or socially ill-adjusted, just that it's the norm for them to be lonely and then swept up into this relationship that isolates them further (this part at least makes sense, abusive relationships no joke). It also makes Sonia perpetually at a loss compared to Sunny, which doesn't help the dynamic between the two. All said and done, I can't really get much deeper into this work--well written, if a bit 'author-y' as one can expect from BOOKER BOOKS--because the fundamental premise is sort of tired and I'm just tired of them. When will someone write a truer to life work of the South Asian experience?

Longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2022 Violaine Huisman's debut novel is a fictionalized biography of her bipolar mother Catherine, a working class dancer and author of "Saxifrage", who married rich and influential intellectual Denis Huisman. The eccentric pair indulged in drugs and orgies, and while instable Catherine longed for security, she was also drawn to self-destructice behavior; while she declared that she wanted to be free and independent, she still tied her destiny to men. Her poor mental health resulted in suicide attempts and hospital stays, and Violaine Huisman and her sister Elsa grew up feeling responsible for their mother's survival. Split in three parts, we first get the author's perspective on her mother as a child, then we learn about Catherine's perspective, and lastly, we hear about her passing and funeral. The image that comes together is that of two damaged, but also rather terrible people - the parents - who were a burden on their children, and I say that although it is clear that this is not the message that the author wants to convey: Violaine Huisman wants to paint an empathetic picture of her mother's sad life, a neglectful mother who was herself neglected and who suffered from a terrible mental illness that tortured her for many years. And that's the crux: It's hard to tell where her agency starts and where it ends. It's easy to imagine that Catherine had zero friends attending her funeral; it's way harder to understand what Denis Huisman must have been thinking - in the book, his decisions appear erratic. Still, this is also and in large parts a book about the Parisian upperclass ostentatiously acting like the cliché of the Parisian upperclass (drinking and having affairs while wearing YSL), and it's not exactly interesting, but reads like a soap-opera about intergenerational trauma. This is also why this does not relate to Édouard Louis or to Didier Eribon, who both write autofiction with a political dimension as they ponder the French class system using their own example. Huisman has no political agenda, this is a deeply personal text. In Germany, one might think of Monika Helfer and her project writing about members of her family in several novels, but Helfer also has a larger frame: She illustrates Austrian and German 20th century history and how it (de-)formed her ancestors and herself. I suppose that it must have been therapeutic to write this book for Violaine Huisman who aimed to forgive her mother, and it's not a bad text, but great literature this is not: It's not aesthetically outstanding or particularly relevant content-wise. You can listen to my interview with Frank Wynne, jury president of the International Booker 2022, here.

Reading this book feels like sitting down with someone to hear their whispered confessions — between sips of wine — on the deepest, darkest, most sensational aspects of their family history. Huisman’a novel-memoir centers on her mother, Catherine. Catherine is a larger-than-life figure: preternaturally beautiful, glamorous, tortured, magnetic, with an “omnipresent, ostentatious sexuality”. Seduction by a wealthy politician leads her into a life of opulence, excess and hedonistic pleasure. But Catherine also harbors a dark side: “The labels or pathologies one might apply to Maman were not in short supply: alcoholism, schizophrenia, mythomania, kleptomania, and by turns neurasthenia or hysteria. She could become overexcited or crushed, she could eat like a bear or a bird, she was excessive in everything.” Part I of the book chronicles Huisman’s extensive mother-damage. It reminded me of Shuggie Bain and the complicated love, not unlike Stockholm’s Syndrome, that a child holds for an abusive parent. Huisman is not afraid to expose it all. She includes details — some intimate, some bizarre, some salacious — that many a writer would prefer to skip over. At times the text feels almost too raw, like a diary entry or a private transcription of pain. In Part II, the narrative pivots and tells Catherine’s own story — her violent conception, her early abandonment to a children’s hospital, her disastrous relationships, her mounting addictions. It becomes increasingly clear that Catherine’s behavior is a reaction to that which has come before. And it is this generational trauma, this tortuous cycle, that Huisman and her sister try to escape by leaving home as soon as they come of age. Part III returns to Huisman’s story and was for me the weakest and most sentimental. In my opinion, the author does not go far enough — wide enough with her gaze, deep enough with her analysis, creative enough with her storytelling — to unlock the full thematic potential of her story. The novel instead gets stuck in the idea of “mother-as-celebrity” and the chronicling of events around a figure the audience is presumed to be as enamored with as the writer. Final verdict: An imperfect novel-memoir on generational trauma, that stuns and shocks, but doesn’t quite transcend the limits of personal mythology. I can’t quite shake the nagging feeling of having consumed episodes of (engrossing) family drama rather than a work of literary fiction. Mood: Confessional Rating: 7.5/10 Also on Instagram.

45th book of 2022. A strong joke at my university, and I later learnt, almost everywhere, is the mantra, Show don't tell. How they beat us over the heads with it. Yet, as it turns out, show don't tell, though gospel for us new writers, is hardly a concern for the experienced. This is a novel of telling. There are almost no scenes, no dialogue. It is all told to us through our narrator in the first and last part, and reported in the detached third person in the middle; but the mantra should have been listened to, because this novel is quite dry. At only 200 pages it feels closer to 300: the telling drags and drags. The voice isn't anything special, it's not like Holden Caulfield is telling us these things, it's Violaine. Once again, the 'modern' fixation with autofiction strikes again. This novel came into fruition after Huisman had a discussion with novelist Ben Lerner. I guess Huisman and Lerner were talking about the former's mother and here we are, the portrait of a wild mother, who hits her children, has affairs, drinks, takes drugs, and gets thrown into sanatoriums. The first part involves Violaine (we'll imagine her as a character, I don't know how Violaine she really is) describing her childhood with her wild mother. Then the middle part follows Catherine (her mother) in the third-person, as Violaine writes at the end of Part I, 'I had to become the narrator of her story in order to give her back her humanity.' Key to the story no doubt, but I was more interested in Violaine's relationship with her mother than her mother's own story. That's the interesting thing about fiction, wherever we are thrown in, we latch, limpet-like, to who we perceive is our 'main character', and feel cheated when we are taken from them. If the roles were flipped and the first Part had us in Catherine's head and the second part then detailed her daughter's childhood, we would feel restless to get back to the mother (we don't care about the daughter!). So the middle part felt like a distraction. The final part then brings us back to Violaine's perspective but, alas, only for about 30 pages to the end of the novel. She details her mother's death and it is handled well, despite the telling, and bagged the 3-stars over a 2. Admittedly, considering the novel as a whole, the middle section about her mother's life is probably well imagined because it gives her lifetime some weight. The whole point of the novel, it appeared to me, was that strange realisation we have that our parents are not just our mothers and fathers, but people who have lived lives as we have. That before, they were the protagonists of their own stories, which the middle part quite (I now want to say, quite rightly!) demonstrates. Catherine has her humanity because she isn't just a mother through the eyes of her daughter, she is her own woman at the centre of the novel. This was on the longlist for the Man Booker International but hasn't made the shortlist. I'm fine with that. I'm glad I read it though, having read so much Proust recently, it was nice to read some contemporary French lit. Though, I saw Proust in several instances, particularly one passage about Violaine waiting for her mother to kiss her goodnight, straight out of Swann's Way, it seemed.

Fun, for the most part, but really uneven and underdone. At one point the narrator acknowledges that the whole thing is sort of lifted from American Psycho, the father in the gray double-breasted buttoned-up suit with something wrong with his eyes and the mother in the nursing home with the black Ray-Bans. But, structurally, it seems more like Bret Easton Ellis's Lunar Park, in that it starts with dense yet flowing haute-crust nepo-baby atrocity-patrimonial probably-quasi-autofictional exposition that gives way to a succession of little scenes with Mom, intending, You Shall Know Our Velocity-ishly, to give away tons of money, all of which is at most kind of humorous (when almost robbed, the trout at the restaurant where the trout was good 45 years ago) but ultimately heft-less, despite intermittent mention of grandparents in the SS etc. The primary impression is that after maybe forty rich and evocative pages it feels rushed and is already working toward its end. It's "relenting" or "relentful," exactly unlike an uncompromising Bernhard novel (Extinction is mentioned in the blurbs). An attractive perspective, often surprising asides and flourishes like the bit about Bowie's teeth, stray paragraphs of top-notch Euro prose in translation, but in the end it didn't feel like it cared to continue, like it sort of dissolved in diffuse travel and finally the African savannah. Seems like it could be so much better than it is, maybe if the initial few dozen pages were integrated throughout the dialogue-y dramatized travel bits with Mom? The mother-son dynamic has its touching funny poignant moments, the son of the successful well-dressed father dynamic has its moments too, and it's always fun to glimpse the lifestyles of super-rich Swiss, but overall it seems like this one needs another year or two in the oven. At one point mentions Christoph Ransmayr as a peer of Sebald and Knausgaard and so I added some Christoph Ransmayr, who I've never heard of, to the queue. And I'll definitely read more Kracht, especially if Faserland makes its way to English, or if I learn German, or if I try to read it one day in French?

I feel a bit misled by the publisher’s description, as I had the impression that this would be about a son and his mother going on a roadtrip where révélations of the family’s Nazi past would appear. That didn’t really happen, early on the grandparents’ affiliations with the Nazi party was mentioned, but more en passant, not to be put under any scrutiny, instead the mother’s stoma and the ensuing trouble with emptying the bags, at times hilarious, but at length tiresome, seemed to take centre stage. Most time seemed to be spent in a taxi with the son and the mother bickering about her medicine and the vodka bottles she consumes. I loved the ending though, so one star for that. And a note on the translation, as I read it in Danish and not German, my command of the German language sadly being too wobbly for that, I am not sure that the translator used the best words possible in all circumstances, a word like communard doesn’t make sense in modern Danish, to the best of my knowledge, and touristresses, (turistinder in Danish)as I suppose it would be in English? Why not female tourists? No such word as turistinde in Danish.

Maybe more of a 3.5. Christian and his mother, who has recently been discharged from a mental institution, embark on a journey across Europe where the mother is trying to give away all she money she has made from the arms trade. I loved how witty the writing was and I thought the characters were absolutely brilliant. Christian as both the author and narrator comes completely alive off the page, and there were some great meta fictional jokes weaved into the story too. I found the first half of the book slightly dull and I felt that the first two chapters had a bit too much information thrown at you, but the second half of the book really was super funny and took on a life of its own. I would recommend if you like books about strange characters and funny, cleverly written stories.

an auto-fictional novel following a son & his mother who embark on a road trip across switzerland to spend her fortune, reckoning with ideas of wealth, the remnants of war, and european identity/history. i really enjoyed the dialogue & the themes explored, but i don’t think it’s a book that’ll stick with me. 2.5

Eurotrash seems to be quite popular on here, but I felt pretty indifferent about it. It's fine (enough), and quite fitting for the books that the International Booker tends to pick for its Longlist (and this year looks much better compared to recent years, particularly the terrible Longlist of 2021 that turned me off from reading the Longlist again). It started out fairly amusing. I particularly enjoyed the various digs at Germany and Switzerland. From the Epigraph from Borges at the beginning: 'If you love Germany, you shouldn't visit'... To memorable lines like: 'There was no music and no films and no literature; there was nothing whatsoever in Switzerland except that Swiss longing for more banal luxury, the desire for sushi and colorful sneakers and Porsche Cayennes.' This book is about an author named Christian Kracht, but not the Christian Kracht that is the author of this book, or is he? Or isn't he? Or... And most definitely, he is not Daniel Kehlmann, just in case you were to mistake this Kracht guy for the more famous author Kehlmann. Anyways, it's the auto-fictional, often satirical (self-satirical) story of the fictional Kracht taking his mentally ill mother on a Cervantian journey around Switzerland. There are moments of this journey that are amusing, but I often found this supposedly heartfelt section somewhat of a slog. The characters and the perverse Nazi pasts of the different family members were cartoonish caricatures, and I don't really know what the point of any of it was. I guess theoretically, the end is supposed to symbolize some redemptive arc, a sort of catharsis, but I'm skeptical. (I wonder what it says about me that I would have liked Eurotrash to be more bonkers, like Katharina Volckmer's The Appointment, which was so provocative, it couldn't originally find a German publisher... maybe I've spent too much time in this country, maybe I should have read more Borges when I was younger.) I would be curious to read more from Kracht. I've seen some German reviews on GR talk about how Eurotrash felt more superficial than some of his other that his other books offer better social critiques.

a 3.5. i loved the ending 🫶🏻

a lot of this flew over my head but i grew to enjoy it a bit in spite of that

I did not like this book very much. Written as a road trip with a middle-aged man and his frail, alcoholic, drug addicted, possibly demented 80-year-old mother. Much of it went over my head, but much of what didn’t seemed a little condescending and pretentious. The main character, named Christian Kracht, seemed very unlikeable. He ridicules Switzerland and especially Zurich for its self-satisfied fixation on luxury bands and money. (The author Christian Kracht lives in Zurich). Beyond some increasingly surreal events, not very much happens. Mother leaves the psychiatric hospital, joins son for a road trip, they have a couple of adventures, and (view spoiler)That’s it. In the novel, the mother’s father was a Nazi and later implicated in arms dealing. The mother’s husband, and Christian’s father was a social climber who divorced his mother and took all the valuable art, leaving the mediocre paintings behind. This is a big deal for Christian. I would have loved it if the author had gone into this background a little more. There were some witty moments, and I thought the ending was genuinely moving, but all-in-all, this wasn’t for me. 2.5

What was it about? Unsure. Did it make me laugh? Yes. Did I enjoy it? Kind of. Did I also hate it? Kind of. Would I recommend it? Nope. Is it 3 stars and I don’t know why? Yes.

Nominated for the International Booker Prize 2022 This Asian bestseller is a rather unusual pick for the International Booker, as the cutesy cover is not entirely misleading - but on the other hand, the autofictional story is a testament to gay life in contemporary South Korea, full of social criticism and told in a nonlinear, quite intricate style. Our narrator - called Park / Young (please note the author's name!) - is a HIV-positive gay young man with a degree in French (the author also holds a degree in French) who grows into himself as a writer in the city of Seoul. Regarding the setting, the author has stated: „I was born in a city called Daegu—one of the most conservative places in Korea. When I was a teenager, I dreamed of Seoul as a kind of platonic ideal; I arrived here in my twenties for college, and that’s when my life began for real.“ And that spirit shows: In the novel, Seoul is a multi-faceted character of its own. After his ailing mother, an Evangelical Christian, had send the narrator to conversion therapy, he flees and lives his truth in the gay bars of the big city, where he finds adventure, love, and heartbreak. The story is told non-chronologically and divided into four sections. Important events include the protagonist's time at college and his friendship with the free-spirited Jaehee; his mother's severe illness; his relationship with an older man; and a love story with a bartender. While the structure, in the modernist tradition, mirrors the speed and disorientation of the city as well as the unstable quality of memory, the narrative voice is dry and often funny, but with a melancholic undertone. The translator proclaimed that the dialogue has an Anglo-Saxon feel, and I agree - plus there is a romcom aspect to the novel, but with a darker twist. Not sure whether this is a good pick for the International Booker, but I'm not mad I read it. You can listen to my interview with Frank Wynne, jury president of the International Booker 2022, here.

3 ¼ stars Brimming with humor and life, Love in the Big City makes for an entertaining read. I found its protagonist’s lighthearted narration to be deeply compulsive and I was hooked to his story from the very first pages. Similarly to Frying Plantain and The Nakano Thrift Shop Love in the Big City is divided into self-contained parts/chapters, each one focusing on a specific period of our main character’s life. In most of these Young, our mc, is a writer in his early thirties living in Seoul. The gritty realism of his daily life, as well as his love & sex life, brought to mind authors such as Bryan Washington. While this book does touch upon things like homophobia, abortion, STDs, suicidal ideation, it does so in a very casual way that never struck me as offensive or careless. Young is easily the star of the show as he makes for an incredibly funny and relatable character. From his failed relationships to his day-to-day mishaps. Young makes for a carefree and admirably resilient character whose inner monologue and running commentary never failed to entertain me. Love in the Big City also provides readers with a glimpse into the realities of being queer in contemporary Korean society. Yet, while the stigma, shame, and or lack of visibility Young experiences (or is made to experience) are sobering, his voice remains upbeat and easy to follow. Additionally, the author’s vibrant depiction of Seoul makes for a vivid setting. My favourite section was probably the first one, which focuses on Young’s friendship with Jaehee, who for a time is his roommate. Things get complicated when Jaehee begins to lie about Young’s gender to the boy she’s currently seeing. The sections that centre more on Young’s partners, well, they did seem a bit repetitive. Perhaps because most of the men he dates or frequents share a similar kind of dull and off-putting personality. Still, I appreciated how unsentimental the author when portraying and or discussing love and sex. Although I have read a few books by Korean authors that are set in Korea this is the first time I’ve come across one that is so wonderfully unapologetically queer and sex-positive. More of this, please! Love in the Big City makes for a candid, insightful, and above all witty read exploring the life of a young(ish) gay man in Seoul. side note: i absolutely loved the series. go watch it

48th book of 2022. At the weekend I met up with my old uni housemate near Covent Garden. We got lunch and then started wandering. By the late afternoon we'd made it to the long and wide streets of Bloomsbury and fell into a small coffee-shop where they served our coffees with coconut macaroons. Then we went to the bookshop nearby where my friend gets 50% as he works for the chain. I searched for Love in the Big City. We both complimented how great the cover is and then began heading back to Victoria. Tilted Axis Press are showing up a lot now after they had three of their novels appear on the Man Booker International longlist (this, Tomb of Sand and Happy Stories, Mostly). They predominantly work with Asian writers, sometimes translating them into English for the first time. Tomb of Sand is the first Hindi-language novel to ever make it onto the International longlist. So it's great stuff. Love in the Big City is comprised of four parts following Mr Young/Mr Park/a variation on the writer, Sang Young Park. He says himself in the Acknowledgements, '"Young," who narrates the four stories in this book, is simultaneously the same person and different people.' In a way it feels more like four short stories but the distinction between a novel and collection seems to always be growing wider and wider. Sometimes I wonder if there needs to be a distinction at all, but that's another matter. The narrator (always the same but different) navigates life as a gay man in Korea in the 21st century, ranging between his 20s to his 30s throughout the parts. The novel explores the dating world, sexually transmitted diseases, cancer, friendship, love, and most importantly the embarrassment and shame of homosexuality in modern-day Korea. The latter theme is perhaps the most striking of the novel. In some ways it felt like a sort of Korean Sally Rooney, with the Tinder dates, the characters all searching for something (though half the time they don't know what). Park writes well and though there were a few corny lines here and there that threw me out of it, a bit too maudlin and on-the-nose, on the whole I was impressed. I read the first 90 pages in one go on a train ride home from London. It's breezy gentle prose to get lost in whilst reading about familiar existential crises. 'I moved into a studio apartment with the excuse of concentrating on my job search (I couldn't stand living with my mother anymore). I took part-time jobs because I needed to pay rent and feed myself. And once I got a taste of what it meant to be in the real world, I immediately lost all appetite for building or achieving anything. It's pointless—just the same thing in a different place, I thought. Frustration and rage, hope saddled with despair, the days dripping over you like sweat. It's the same thing with love. I'm too far gone to expect anything new. Looking for jobs, writing, men—all the same boredom.'

This book was full of heart and heartbreak. A young man tells you the story of his young adult years in South Korea. His dad deserted them when he was a child, his mother who refuses to accept him as a gay man is dying of cancer and he can’t seem to make a relationship work. I appreciate everything that went into this book and I’m glad to see representation of what it’s like to live as a gay man in a country that is even less accepting than the US. It makes me think I really have nothing to complain about in my own life! The story was a little hard to follow at the beginning until I got used to either the translation or the writing style but once I got into it I enjoyed it more. There are some really stunning gems in this book, take your time and enjoy every moment. “Because, whatever it was or wasn’t, you were you. Because, whatever it was or wasn’t- not because of it or despite it - I was me. I liked what he said so much I kept it savoring under my breath. - whatever it was or wasn’t.” Sang Young Park

Review to come.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2024 While Barrett's debut novel revolves around a drug deal gone wrong and a subsequent kidnapping, it's actually a character study, portraying working class people in Ballina, Western Ireland, who've fallen on hard times and / or made bad decisions and are now stuck in their own lives. The most fascinating figure is Dev, a young man suffering from depression and anxiety. He lives alone in his childhood home which he uses as a drug harbor for local dealers. When a business partner of them, Cillian, squanders a large amount of merchandise by mistake, the dealers kidnap Cillian's little brother Doll and hide him in Dev's basement, hoping to get their money back. But of course, Cillian (who, as a good-for-nothing, carries the last name English - this is an Irish novel after all) is broke... The whole plot is supported by female characters, mainly Doll's girlfriend Nicky, and it's a rather fun read, fast-paced with well-rendered scenes - but this is not the plot that gets nominated for the Booker: a crime beach read set in Ireland. This made it all the way to the longlist for the down-and-out small game criminals and the people around them who are all trying to get by, fighting mental illness, poverty, and the all-encompassing stasis that keeps them from getting on their feet. And fair enough, characters like Dev, Nicky, and Dev's father are expertly written, but I don't think this particular novel is Booker material. It's good, but it's not exactly pushing the envelope, or offering aesthetically nuanced plot lines or descriptions, or adding any timely commentary. I'll mark this as one of the novels that the Booker has done a disservice to: It's a perfectly fine, interesting, well-written book, but people will pick this up and expect a Booker extravaganza, and then Barrett doesn't deliver that. Because he never intended to in the first place.

Longlisted for Booker 2024 - A debut novel by a writer whom I suspect writes great short stories. In every chapter, the characters have such definitive thoughts and experiences, even if their lives seem so insignificant. Their laid-back attitude to life, even when they commit crimes, reminded me of a Quentin Tarantino movie. The tension is created, but the ambition seems to lie somewhere else, because the explosion doesn’t exist. Nevertheless, this was a pleasant surprise and a great way to start my Booker journey this year.

3.5 stars. I thought the writing was exquisite, especially Collin Barret's use of Irish vernacular and his unique descriptions. It's not often you read a book and notice individual sentences. The author's other talent is the depth of his character studies - you actually feel Nicky and Dev's isolation and loneliness. They are described in great detail and with a deep tenderness. The only reason I didn't rate this higher is that the story itself is a bit of a let down. It very much feels as if the plot was just added to showcase the characters. But with writing like this I will read anything he publishes, predictable narrative or not. The Story: The brother of a small-time drugs dealer is kidnapped, and his family and girlfriend set off to find him over the course of one violent, hectic weekend.

Really not sure of my rating on this read, because it was a very compelling story. There’s a lot to like here, some great Irish storytelling about a lives of crime, and crime-adjacent lives. There’s some cracking dialogue(it’s so well voiced) and a rollicking plot. I enjoyed all of this, but in the end I wasn’t really sure what it was saying about the way that crime ripples through lives, or about its characters. Very much a vibe-y novel which is great on that level, but was missing a little depth for me. Maybe a 4.

Nicky was going with Doll by then and got to experience the house first-hand. The atmosphere was that of a continuous, continuously improvised party that periodically doldrums and never ended, contending playlists emanating from different rooms, a standing bank of smoke shimmering in seeming permanence in the sitting room, pin-eyed young ones rattling on the front door at all hours. And things had gone on that way until a year or so ago, when Cillian suddenly stopped dealing. With the drugs gone, Cillian’s customers went away too. What Doll had told his mother was true; Sara and Cillian’s house was no longer a wild house. Wild Houses is promoted as “darkly funny and deeply moving”, but I’m afraid I didn’t find it particularly funny or moving. Sure, it’s a bit of a crime thriller, but it’s small town, small stakes, petty criminals at war with one another; and every time I thought that the plot was on the edge of dropping the beat and tying all the loose threads together, everything would just carry on as though random events — even strangely coincidental events — are just incidental facts of small town life, thrown in for colour, not meaning. I do love an Irish storyteller, and debut novelist Colin Barrett brings the craic through setting and dialogue, but to me, this was a novel perpetually on the edge of becoming something, but never quite arriving. I’d give 3.5 stars, rounding down. He knew, from the outside, how small and meagre it all might seem, but he had been living in a way that was his own. And then the Ferdias had arrived. They had insinuated themselves, bit by bit, into his life, and now they had brought the kid. It was an intrusion that had thrown things all off course. He could feel it in the pit of his stomach. Nothing now would be the same. Ever since the sudden death of his mother, young Dev Hendrick (near on seven foot tall, with hands like excavator buckets) has lived alone in the remote family homestead, making a bit of money stashing drugs in the outbuildings for his criminal cousins. The novel opens with these Ferdia cousins, Sketch and Gabe, showing up at Dev’s door with a kidnapped Doll English: the seventeen-year-old brother of a drug dealer, Cillian, who owes their boss money. Dev is an interesting character: we learn that his father is in a psychiatric hospital, that Dev had been brutally bullied in school (and when his impassivity eventually forced his bullies to move on, he would come to miss the beatings as the only human contact he ever knew outside the home), and that he suffers not infrequent panic attacks. Impassivity is Dev’s main outward attribute: He stashes the drugs for the Ferdias because saying no would be more trouble, and despite not wanting to be involved in a kidnapping (and being inwardly appalled by Doll’s treatment), he goes along with whatever the Ferdias say. Meanwhile, it takes some time for Doll’s girlfriend, Nicky, to realise he’s missing: they had had a fight at a party the night he was abducted, and Nicky vacillates between being annoyed that he’s ghosting her and worrying if her words had been too sharp during the argument. Nicky is also an interesting character: An orphan living with her truck-driving brother, Nicky intends to go to college after high school (more than one character says she’s the only young person they know in their small town with a head on her shoulders), and between being a good student and working hard at a local pub, it’s tough to see what she’s doing with the feckless Doll. All that mattered was what would happen next. As she made her way over the uneven ground, her mind was racing, lit up with fragments of animal premonition. She knew violence was close, could sense with each step the approach of some dark, whipping torsion of bodies and limbs that might sweep her up and buffet her away with the powerful headlong indifference of the sea. Ultimately, this is the story of these decent characters finding themselves drawn into a small town’s criminal underbelly (such as it is) and learning to accept crime and violence by incremental steps. Again: while the plot didn’t really move me, I did enjoy Barrett’s poetic use of language — factory workers facing each day with “a spirit of inured rue”, a young lad chewing gum with “arrant indifference”; young people are separated into beoirs and gaums; folks routinely walk the boreens but can live their whole lives in County Mayo and never have heard of a turlough. That’s the kind of colour I appreciate and I’m not entirely disappointed to have spent a day in this world.

Quick review: A snapshot into a few days of the lives of Dev, Doll and Doll's girlfriend Nicky as they all become embroiled in a bigger, and more dangerous, world than their little town of Ballina would lead you to believe. As always with Irish literary fiction I've read this is very character driven, very emotive and insular. While our three narrators are in a small town, their own world view feels even narrower, centering on Dev's house and the English homes. Dev was my favourite of the three. A physically large man, he's not at all what he seems. He's constantly at war with himself, feeling a mixture of grief and abject u worthiness. He's directionless and vulnerable, and easily taken advantage of. Yet there's still a spark there, something lurking just underneath. His backstory is well thought out and beautifully touching to read. I just wanted more time to really see his character develop. The same could be said for all the characters really. There's not much of a plot, meaning the characters have to do a lot of work to keep the reader engaged. I'm not quite sure they managed it - even with Dev's history I just didn't feel emotionally invested enough to care. Expanding the story, learning more about Doll's dad in Canada and Dev's dad in The Units would have been a great place to expand. Even opening up Nicky's complicated feelings for Doll would have added some depth. Really nice writing, and a fast read, but I wanted more plot and character growth rather than a snapshot of their lives.

One of the many reasons why I follow The Booker is because sometimes there are entries whose inclusion could be a bit baffling. As one can guess Wild Houses is in that category. Colin Barrett has been slowly making a name for himself. After two very well received short story collections, Wild Houses, his debut novel, has arrived and there are many aspects I liked but I found flaws as well. Wild Houses can be described as a crime novel. A local drug dealer, Cillian, messes up and owes two thuggish brothers 18 K. In order to get the money, the brothers kidnap Cillian’s brother, Dolly (that’s explained in the book). The book deals with Dolly’s disappearance and ways to get him back. That’s the main plot. The novel deals with the main characters inner thoughts and traumas. Just to mention two; There’s Dolly’s girlfriend, Nicky who is not sure she likes Dolly and is thinking about her future, Dev, the person whose house the thugs are keeping Dolly in, was a victim of intense bullying and is grieving the loss of his mother, is the most complex character in the novel. The other characters have their problems too and Wild Houses shows how they are trying to survive in this harsh life. Wild Houses is a tight well constructed novel but at times I did feel it was pedestrian at times. I enjoyed the introspective bits but when the plot shifted to the actual crime, my interest would flag. In no way do I dislike this book but, for me, it felt like something I would read on a rainy day. Solid, That’s how I would describe it.

I admired this more than I enjoyed it. A sort of Irish A Weekend at Bernie's dark comic caper with rural hoodlums as anti-heroes instead of frat boy sales execs. Violent, sad, weird, but with a great female lead, Nicky, who is the bright spot of intelligence amidst boys who consume too much sugar, beer and weed. Lots of tracksuits. A funny little dog.

The characters are why you may want to read this. The plot is unremarkable but serves well to exhibit the characters in stressful situations. Its a modest crime story, in a modest town with relatively modest criminals. The writing was easy to read and descriptive. I enjoyed this modest family drama and look forward to reading more from Colin Barrett but I'm hoping she provides more depth than this one did. Recommended to those wanting an episode of a small town family crime drama and don't mind if its shallow and feels kind of pointless.

As much I admire Barrett's style, this story is way to s l o w. At 60% we are still at the same point as in the beginning. Too much description, e.g. when the author explains the plastic stoma bags Dev produced: seriously? I quit at the dream description, something no novelist seems to be able to do without nowadays, but in most cases are just page fillers.

Not a terrible book, not a great book, just kinda meh.

irish lit fic 🤝 me

3⭐️ While this was a quick and enjoyable read, I wonder what the point of this book is. There‘s a kidnapping, but it‘s so laidback and uneventful that it‘s kind of underwhelming. I suppose its main focus are the characters though, and especially Dev and Nicky were so well written. Their loneliness if very different but palpable. They seem so unsure about their prospects, and in the case of Dev, his outlook is pretty bleak. So he doesn‘t bat an eye when he gets roped into this town‘s drug dealings. Loved the Irish vernacular though, and esp. the dialogue was so entertaining, given the setting.

3. Really ready to give a 2 after slow first 100 pages, but enjoyed the focus on the two innocent narrators and the impacts that “the situation” has on them, rather than blow-by-blow account of drug deal gone wrong. Very little happens.

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐ Genre: Historical Fiction + LGBTQ+ After Sappho is a fictional reimagining of the lives of a few famous and influential female figures in the literary, poetry, and other artistic fields. The author takes the readers to experience the imaginary stories of these feminists in different time frames to see how they fight for their own rights and equality. They seek full liberation from societies that tend to treat females in a stereotypical approach. The book is both important and informative at the same time. The reformative approach that the author has taken makes the stories intriguing. However, the continuous jumps from one character to another and from one period to another have hindered the impact that this book should have made on me. I enjoyed the parts about Virginia Woolf the most because I’m already fascinated by her as an author and by her life story in general. Another problem that I feel this kind of narration will cause is the inability of the readers to connect with the characters. The narration gave me the impression that I was reading a magazine article about these women rather than a story. You need to have a suitable scene and setting, as well as other story components like a build-up to a conflict and a satisfying conclusion, in order to qualify something as a story. All this was lacking here, hence the feeling of reading an article instead. Despite its flaws, I nevertheless believe that this was a good read on such a crucial topic.

We had begun so long ago with our poems after Sappho, carefully styled in fragments, our paintings and blushes all done in likeness. Perhaps at last the future of Sappho would be delivered into our hands like a packet of books knotted up with string. For example we might open a seemingly ordinary biography, its chapters neatly partitioned, and find that it was webbed throughout with the most extraordinary filaments of a life. A life after all did not happen by itself, in discrete units. Thus this biography would be bound together with all of our lives, twined through from preface to index: curling, animate, verdant. In the end we might become the readers of our own afterwords. When I started After Sappho I got that same kind of breathless feeling that I had when I read Naomi Alderman’s The Power or Emma Cline’s The Girls — that deep-gut reaction to having feminist truths named that had formerly only been experienced — and I luxuriated in author Selby Wynn Schwartz’s lyrical prose; was intrigued by her episodic biographies of women who dared to break the patriarchal molds they had been born into. But as the book proceeded, it began to feel less like a novel and more like a textbook or a series of Wikipedia entries: it read as all surface, no depth; all sizzle, no steak. It became a bit of a slog — despite frequent yummy prose — and while I admire the effort, and appreciate what I learned, this, unfortunately, did not satisfy me novelistically. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final form.) We longed for writing tables that were not in the kitchen, stained with onions; we wanted to read the novels kept from us because they were decadent and suggestive; we wanted to exchange the finger-pricked linens of our trousseaus for travel guides and foreign grammars; we wanted to meet each other in rooms and discuss the rights of women, we wanted to close the doors to the rooms and lie in each other’s arms, the light pouring in the window, the curtains drawn back, the view over the bay running in cerulean and azure swaths into the open sea. We dreamed of islands where we could write poems that kept our lovers up all night. In our letters, we murmured the fragments of our desires to each other, breaking the lines in our impatience. We were going to be Sappho, but how did Sappho begin to become herself? Covering a period between the 1880s and the 1920s (and mostly centering on queer white women from Western Europe), Schwartz sketches the lives of women artists familiar to me (Sarah Bernhardt, Isadora Duncan, Gertrude Stein, or Virginia Woolf among others), and many more names unfamiliar. And while I was moved by Sibilla Aleramo’s early experiences of watching her mother dive out the window, and being married off to her rapist (as per Italian law at the time), or learning of Radclyffe Hall and her efforts to convince the British House of Lords that she was as fine a gentleman as any of them, there were so many unfamiliar names, criss-crossing each others’ paths over the years, that the storyline became both confusing and tedious to me. And because these lives are treated at a surface-level, with no effort made at exploring these women’s interiority, the lyrical Greek chorus/fragments from Sappho bits just added to the confusion instead of elevating the material. Readers according to Colette were like lovers. The best were attentive, intelligent, exigent, and promiscuous. She urged us to read widely and well, to seek out precisely the novels prohibited to us and lie down for hours in bed with them. We should read to gorge and sate ourselves, Colette enjoined us; after a good book we should lick our fingers. I wish that this book had impelled me to lick my fingers in its aftermath, but despite its initial promise, I lost engagement with this material pretty quickly. Certainly not a waste of my time, but simply not to my taste.

2022 BOOKER PRIZE LONGLIST CHALLENGE AFTER SAPPHO by Selby Wynn Schwartz *** After the surprise hit DUCKS, NEWBURYPORT was shortlisted for the Booker Prize a few years ago, Galley Beggar Press wrote a long essay about how difficult the process was for tiny presses (required to provide tons of free copies, being able to keep up with the demand shortlisting involves). It was nice to see Galley Beggar keep its foot in the water though, submitting the experimental, blazing, feminist AFTER SAPPHO for consideration. Told through short vignettes, Schwartz delves into the lives of several women artists at the end of the nineteenth and beginning of the twentieth centuries. Novelists, poets, painters, performers, all inspired in some way by the radical and separatist traditions of the Greek poet Sappho, we get into their minds, hear their artistic justifications, all eager to create space for art focused on women, outside the male gaze, even when that gaze insists on scrutinizing and vilifying. It is filled with intellect and history, Schwartz placing the art into the middle of women’s political struggles for autonomy and citizenship. At times AFTER SAPPHO is riveting, especially when the women’s art begins to intertwine with tumultuous and revolutionary era that was throwing into question institutions that once felt indominable, including the most patriarchal ones. But there wasn’t enough of this and it felt like Schwartz skirted and avoided some of the more interesting developments in women’s struggle in the period after the First World War because her interest felt more situated in a space devoid of men, even when those spaces were occupied with common struggle of women and men. That’s a fair artistic and thematic choice but it also felt something was lost. It didn’t help that the feminism of AFTER SAPPHO felt narrow, especially for something written in 2022. It felt white, Western and very privileged and again this takes away from the punch the novel could have had. AFTER SAPPHO is ambitious in form and style, the most so of the ones I have read, but the structure (quickly changing perspectives, the very short vignettes) brings with it a loss of momentum for a reader and unfortunately for me that only furthered my issues with the themes and how they were explored. I wouldn’t be shocked if this was shortlisted but I doubt it at this time.

an incredibly inventive idea and some beautiful writing but perhaps a little too ambitious and certainly very confusing with so many characters and fragmented narrative. 3 stars.

The book keeps telling these women were oppressed and silenced. Well, thanks, I knew it before I opened the book. I'd never heard of some of these women, and wished the book could have provided more insinghtful comments on them.

Probably the slowest book for my Booker Prize list. The message is there but…maybe just not for me.

zzzzz boring not for me zzzz, gave it 3 stars because it’s obviously a smart book and it’s all about lesbians but this pseudo-history “novel” did not work for me

Elliptical and fragmentary, After Sappho takes a form that reminds me Maggie Nelson's Argonauts or Sarah Baume's Seven Steeples, but is not as successful as either of these. Schwartz focuses on the development of a lesbian or sapphist identity in early 20th century Europe, and the group of sapphists that grew up around Natalie Barney's opulent salon in Paris. Schwartz draws on a range of figures from this time, including well-known writers such as Virginia Woolf and Gertrude Stein, and figures who are less well-known to me, often from Italian or French backgrounds. These women are all brought together by their identification with Sappho, and the way in which they use Sappho to explain their own attraction for women, and to develop a culture around female desire. It's an uneven book: I found its premise interesting, but its fragmentary style can feel disjointed or meandering, and I got very bogged down in the middle, while other sections are very moving or exciting. Schwartz chooses to use the first-person plural (we) to write from the perspective of all lesbians -- or maybe all queer women who are in Barney's circle -- echoing the choral we from Greek plays. For me, this was not successful: the choral sections are clunky and frustrating, and I found the idea that the "we" spoke for all queer women troubling. There is a lot that is interesting here, and I find it works better for me if I think of the book as being in conversation with other queer histories. I also think that this would have absolutely blown me away if I'd read it ten years ago: ageing makes some stories seem obvious when they would have once felt new, and I can't blame Schwartz for that!

Intergenerational trauma that passes from one generation to the other, can feel like a vicious cycle, and unless someone from the descendants is brave enough to reflect, seek help and try to heal, then this cycle is really difficult to break. “There’s a Monster Behind the Door” by Gaëlle Bélem, is set in Réunion, a small island in the middle of Indian ocean that is a French overseas territory. There lives the Dessaintes family, raising their daughter using traditional myths and folk stories about monsters and mythical creatures and a single phrase in order to respond to every question coming from the curious brain of a child: “that’s the way it is and that’s that”. Our narrator, the daughter of the family, who is now a young woman, describes her life giving a glimpse of what their multigenerational trauma felt like and puts a lot of effort to escape her destiny through words and sentences, through writing literature. The big question is will she be able to break this trauma cycle? The answer is in the last pages of this book that definitely deserves to be read. The writing is simple with both tragic and comedy elements, and the story reads like a very vibrant and adventurous tale. I really liked the fact that it describes a part of our world that was completely unknown to me and opened a new window to get to know something I didn’t know before. Even though it reads very pleasantly, I thought that it lacked originality and despite the fact that the ending was beautiful I felt that the writer could give more substance to the story. This is a book about intergenerational trauma and its effects on our mental health. How it can manifest and shape your life. About feeling insignificant, wanting to give up or run away from your life. A story about parenting, perfect and imperfect parents. Forceful language and neglect. Parents exercising their power over their kids and children that are satisfied with very little. Marriage as a way to escape your bleak reality, lover promises, unhappy marriages, ruined families, divorce and financial dependency. Childhood trauma, domestic violence and physical abuse. Being unwanted, forced to grow old or ashamed of your parents. A book about child brain and questioning. The why of everything and the need to feel that everything makes sense when you are a child. The fact that children are unaware of such things as deceit or suspicion, and they don’t even know that tales exist as for them everything is reality. Children’s faith and boundless love. Relying on the wisdom of your parents and smothering of a child’s curiosity. It is also a story about societal superstitions and submissive acceptance of realities. Gullible people that believe in any kind of taboo. Humiliation, resignation and guilt. Colonialism, slavery and insufferable circumstances of life. Racism and assimilation. Lives worth nothing at all and the constant feeling of fear and anxiety. Ideas of rebellion, the abolition of slavery, and equality. A book about the enjoyment of reading and the beauty of words and sentences. About becoming a writer and making your own stories. Mostly though this is a book about searching for a goal or meaning in life. Achieving a new dignity and imagining that somewhere else you can be loved and awaited. About the need to exist for somebody and creating a world to fit your dimensions. The role we are born to play in the society and people’s refusal to admit that you can be different to how they imagine you to be. This is a 3-3.5/5 for me! Why should you read “There’s a Monster Behind the Door”? Because you will understand that the answer “that’s the way it is and that’s that”, is used only by people who either don’t know or don’t want to learn. Because you will feel how weird it is to chose to intimidate your child rather that teach them. Because you will recognize our innate need and instinct to forgive our parents and accept what they say as figures of authority. Because you will accept that your parents’ indifference and bad parenting can act as an incentive to do better in life. Because you will be surprised on the tricks fate is playing on us behind our backs. Because you will acknowledge our need for unconditional love; this love that comes with no judgment from a person that knows our very true self and our darkest moments. Because it will make you believe that redemption is possible and people can change; or can they not? Favorite quotes: “Perfect parents only exist in movies, but my silences, my nightmares and my fearful tears perhaps persuaded mine that they were, at least, excellent storytellers. So they hadn’t failed at everything in life”. “Everyone, in reality, is only liked in proportion to their misfortune”. “I have a book on my bedside table. Because I don’t have a gun”. “Is burying something the same as forgetting it? And is forgetting forgiving?”. “Who’s worse: those who watch people make mistakes and do nothing to stop them or those who keep hanging on, who ignore the fact they live on a precipice and keep on trying anyway?”

3.5. This coming-of-age tale, recent winner of the Republic of Consciousness Prize - also longlisted for the International Booker - is well worth the read for its funny, original and ironic narrator, and the rich and fascinating depiction of life on Reunion. I have to admit, though I'd heard of this place, I had to Google it to know where it was - and there was plenty more research I did along the way, as I got to grips with this incredibly interesting place. I felt like the actual narrative was a bit chaotic at times and struggled for something to pull the whole thing through the end, but I'm very glad to have read it and this is exactly the kind of book you hope to find from such prize lists.

This multi generational life story tracked the violence and abuses experienced by our narrator. On the whole I enjoyed the unfolding of the story, but the writing style was not for me and sometimes felt oddly frigid for a book exploring those deemed so lowly. I am glad I read it, but not my favourite of the International Booker novels I have read so far. I rated this 3.25 on Story Graph which is a cool non-Amazon affiliated alternative to Good Reads. Follow me there!

2.5 This didn’t quite live up to its potential for me. Rounded up for the setting.

Great narative voice, memorable quotes, superb prose 6/5 stars. The plot makes sense in the end but throughout the book I had no idea where she was going with the point. overall interesting idk why I didn’t love it more

An Intriguing read exposing all the flaws of life on Reunion Island. One of my first translated fiction reads and an interesting one to start with. this hold back nothing on the trials and tribulations of life and is a viewpoint on characters and the impact on the island

It ranged from fine to good. Reminds me of classic literature. The author seems so, so cool. But reading about misery is sometimes painful and something didn't 100% click for me here. Will investigate that w/ Laura and write actual review after we talk

Felt like a very dark and surreal version of Matilda. A book-smart and at the same time ridiculously naive main character who seems to stay the exact same person throughout the decades, maybe to show stunted emotional growth. A detached and descriptive style, both funny and violent, with a messy plot and no character or relationship development. The latter is really important to me, so it wasn’t entirely my vibe, but I respect the unconventional approach.

1980s La Réunion - born into the notorious Dessaintes family, a young girl decides to write about her unaffectionate upbringing… This was pretty good, but I actually don’t have much to say about it (I heard that sigh of relief). It comes down to me simply not having the energy right now for a precocious, effervescent teenage narrator. Although the story sagged a little in the middle, I finished it feeling rather exhausted, which I really think reflects my levels of tiredness more than the book. Whilst I love footnotes in non-fiction, I find them distracting in fiction - the frequency did calm down, but there were a few too many footnotes at the start, and I found it rather bothersome to be constantly taken out of the story. It didn’t exactly put me in the most receptive frame of mind for the rest of the book. A lively coming-of-age story set amidst the social upheaval and colonial legacy of 1980s La Réunion.

Belem Bells #1 2025 International Booker Prize Long List #2 Sometimes you get to thee end of a book and you think well I don't know what that was all about -as was the case for this book - there was some nice prose in it, and it was good to have rad a book from Reunion but it seemed like an endless wall of text of someone banging on and on and really ultimately not getting very far. I'm sure it means something to somebody, but I'm not that somebody. As stated, some nice use of prose during the book, but nothing that will really stay with me, or that I can state easily what it all meant - the title may fool some horror aficionados who will soon bee irritated!

This started out very promising, transcending the "smart child grows up with ignorant parents" trope that's been done a million times. Towards the end, though, we move away from the narrator to her extended family, and never get back in her head. I was interested in her, not all her male relatives who all go to jail. Even when the narrative comes back to her, and her (non) triumphant return home, we stay strangely removed. Kinda ruined it for me, but 3 stars for the fun wordplay and language.

“I have a book on my bedside table. Because I don’t have a gun” a brutally honest insight into intergenerational trauma and abuse, complex relationships and how the legacy of post-colonialism has shaped the island of La Réunion. vivid, lyrical prose, rich with dark humour that deals with heavy subject matter in an exceptionally powerful way 3.5*

A unique voice musing on intergenerational trauma, replete with dark humour. I should have loved this, and I don't really understand why it fell flat for me.

The incredibly brutal and bloodily crushed German Peasants' War of the mid 16th century is the historical background of this short work, by French writer and film director Éric Vuillard. It sketches the life of the preacher and protestant theologian, Thomas Müntzer, who opposed both Martin Luther and the Roman Catholic Church. The rebellion was mercilessly ended by the aristocracy, who slaughtered as many as 100,000 peasants and farmers. Today's aristocracy have developed highly sophisticated and much more subtle methods of suppressing the poor.

A slim volume about the history and key figures of a 16th century German peasant uprising that presaged the French revolution, the 1848 revolutions, communism, socialism and Nietzchean iconoclasm, as well as a cinematic rendering of an obscure chapter of European social history. Lends credence to Marx's idea that all history is (a chronicle of) class warfare, and paints a portrait of Europe as a hotbed of religious extremism and radical theological experimentation that leads to political upheaval, and thence to reform. Not unlike the Middle East today. Also lends weight to Hegel's idea that history is a sociopsychological thrust towards greater forms of freedom. A cinematic pageant of violent religious fanaticism, sociopolitical upheaval, the titanic waves of religion and politics crashing and reshaping the sociopolitical landscape of Europe time and again in which Christianity stalks the foreground as a religion of radical revolution, agitation and upheaval -- like Marxism in the 20th century, and Islam and right-wing nationalism in the 21st. I liked the spontaneity of it, where the narrative seems to be unfurling of its own accord, driven by passion, and especially the oblique associations, where at one point the author makes reference to the death of a Chinese painter by the shores of a river and a regional official who will end up defeating Thomas Müntzer, merely to make a point about how the manner of recording of history tends to create more history (in the Hegelian sense) by inviting its own (mis)interpretations that need to be processed and worked through. It suggests that history, when viewed from the bottom, looks very different from the Establishment history, which is usually written by the elite and privileged. Thomas Müntzer was a well-intentioned and vengeful religious fanatic who successfully instigated a peasants' uprising, but who ultimately ended up going off the deep end, convinced that he was re-enacting the Bible, and made strategic mistakes on the battlefield that cost him his rebellion, and ultimately his life. His life was bookended by death, so in many ways his fate may have already been sealed in childhood. Given that he was only 35 when he was executed, the tale also speaks to the power of faith and fury to move individuals to move history. Müntzer successfully mobilized the peasants into exiting feudal society and forming an armed roving mob in the countryside, but didn't have a plan beyond that. When faced with the armies of the princes, he resorted to prayer and seeking signs from God. The bloodbath that ensued put an end to the rebellion, and also to Müntzer. The lesson we can learn here is that being a visionary or mobilizer is one thing, but converting a successful peasant's uprising into a cohesive and coherent political movement requires a different set of skills entirely. -- "Reason and purity would be for the poor. It was before them that Müntzer began to agitate; it was there that his wound intensified. He spoke. They listened. He cited the Gospels. "You cannot serve both God and money." He believed he could read the scriptures simply, take them literally. He believed in a pure, authentic Christianity. He believed it was all set down in black and white in Saint Paul, that all the essentials could be found in the Gospels. That's what he believed. And this is what he preached to the poor wives and miners, to their wives, to the destitute of Zwickau. He quoted the Gospels and added exclamation points. And they listened to him. And passions began to stir, for those weavers knew full well that if you pulled at a thread the whole would unravel; the miners knew that if you dug deep enough, the whole tunnel would collapse. And so they began to realize they'd been lied to. They had long felt troubled and afflicted; there were many things they didn't understand. They had a hard time understanding why God, the God of beggars, crucified between two thieves, needed such pomp. Why his ministered needed luxury of such embarrassing proportions. Why the God of the poor was so strangely on the side of the rich, always with the rich. Why his words about giving up everything issued from the months of those who had taken everything." - p.9-10 "Müntzer rejected the debates among learned theologians; esotericism made him sick. He appealed to public opinion. It's one aspect of his greatness. The most profound theses demand to be known by everyone. He expresses himself impulsively, in no particular order, following the burning thread of his desire. For Thomas Müntzer has one desire, and the desire that makes you a cardinal is not the same desire that makes you Thomas Müntzer. Something terrible inhabits him, agitates him. He is enraged. He wants the rulers' skins, he wants to sweep away the church, he wants to gut all those bastards. But maybe he doesn't know this yet, and for the moment he is choking it down. He wants to put an end to all that pomp and miserable circumstance. Vice and wealth devastate him; their conjunction devastates him. He wants to inspire fear. The difference between Müntzer and Hus is that Müntzer is thirsty, hungry and thirsty, terribly hungry and thirsty, and nothing can sate him, nothing can shake his thirst. He'll devour old bones, branches, stones, mud, milk, blood, fire. Everything." - p.30-31 "In aggressive prose, he stated that the crucial experience of humanity was suffering. It alone permitted one to receive the word of God. It was the sickle that cleared out the soul, sliced through the weeds..." - p.34 "Thomas Müntzer knows how to put pen to paper. There's something lively and fateful about him, an aroused hatred, a wicked turn of mind, but also gentleness....Müntzer is a man of action; he gets carried along by his own prose. He does not despise the commoner, the ordinary man. Müntzer is daffodil and thither, nettle and sap." - p.54 "It was then that Count Albrecht von Mansfeld initiated negotiations. It was important that these talks drag on, in order to demoralize the adversary and gain time. Negotiations are a means of combat." - p.61 "Albrecht...he was a wily one, he knew how negotiations should stretch out over time, so that the masters could regroup their forces. And besides, waiting saps the morale of those who are not used to war, and inclines them toward compromise. Not to mention that, since the beginning of their existence, they [the peasants] have been trained to feel so much respect, so much fear, that they're still willing to take a prince at his word, at least for a while. We always want to believe what the father says. Our desire is attuned to his register." - p.62 "They say the truth has several faces, one of which is more horrible than lies, but is always hidden. It's strange to think that those scribblers in their red caps deliberately erased the memory of the ones being persecuted, that they agreed to write falsely. Still, even a false word will convey a flash of truth between the lines. "It is not the peasants who rose against you masters, but God himself!"...but it wasn't God. It was indeed the peasants rising up. Unless you want to define God as hunger, disease, humiliation, rags. It wasn't God rising up, it was taxes, tithes, land rights, ground rents, tariffs, travel dues, hay harvests, droit du seigneur, cutting of noses, gouging of eyes, pinching with burning tongs, bodies broken on the wheel. In reality, quarrels about the Beyond have to do with the world here-below. That's all the influence that those aggressive theologies still exert over us. The only reason for understanding their verbiage. Their impetuousness is a violent expression of poverty. The plebeians rebel. Hay for the peasants! Coal for the laborers! Dust for the road workers! Coins for the beggars! And words for us! Words, which are another convulsion of things." - p.66 "These scurrilous legends come along to bow the heads of renegades only after they have been denied the right to speak. Their sole purpose is to make the tormenting voice sound within us, the voice of order, to which we are ultimately so attached that we surrender to its mysteries and hand it our lives." - p.75 "And now, here is Thomas Müntzer, in the same spot as his father...because he was so bad at hating, because he had sought the reasons for his existence so far from himself and transmuted his hatred into bitter faith, because he had so strongly felt the power of the = sign, and because one does not get bread or freedom except by grabbing it, he found himself there...He is any man, any fleeting life. He is going to die now. He is going to die. He is thirty-five. His anger brought him here." - p.77-78 "Youth is endless, the secret of our equality immortality, and solitude wonderful. Martyrdom is a trap for the oppressed. Only victory is desirable. I shall tell of it." - p.79

you could fit the number of words in this ‘novel’ on the back of a postage stamp, it’s 70 pages long, for fuck sake. it’s really not that bad, though, so give me a full-length novel, Vuillard, and I’d be all up in that shit

The Nobel committee is playing it too safe.

Perfectly correct. Too many themes. Unequal multiple perspectives. Bad ending. An environmental novel shouldn’t try to show the problems of the entire planet and resolve them just for 100 people. The best part was Evie's story. I rarely encounter stories like hers, where dreams become reality and turn out exactly as imagined.

I already hated AI, and this book didn't move my needle on the subject in either direction. Playground starts off clunky, and it takes ~80 pages for it to find its flow. We've got 3 concurrent narratives here, two in plaintext, one in italics. I've never minded disjointed timelines/multiple perspectives before. The problem here is that Powers doesn't give us enough time/space/characterization before switching viewpoints, so you feel adrift for dozens of pages going "wait, who even?" and "where/when are we again?" We don't even get character names from the jump, so we're left floundering until enough foundation has been built. There's ultimately a narrative reason for this, but I don't agree with it. Who do we meet in these narratives? An aged marine biologist who fought through rampant sexism to achieve success in her field, an ailing billionaire, and an American couple living quiet lives on a tiny French Polynesian island. Playground feels like Richard Powers thought up the ending first, then worked backwards. Reviews and blurbs herald the book as "awe-filled" and a love letter to the ocean. I didn't get that. There's good information about the oceans in here, sure, and, like The Overstory, there's a plea to give a damn about the world around us. That said, those moments are merely that: moments. The bulk of the book focuses on human ambition and disappointment. What's more: none of the characters are particularly sympathetic. Now, a story doesn't need likeable players to be successful, but they need to at least be compelling. I didn't find anyone compelling in Playground, save for the giant mantas, and we got precious little of them. The climax of the book, which hits ~20 pages before the story is finished, deflated me. Richard Powers writes beautifully, and there are a couple of wonderful passages within these pages (hence the 3 stars). Nevertheless, I turned the final page feeling very much like flotsam: churning in the sea, never getting where I wanted to go.

[3.5 rounded down] Playground refers to the Domain created by the narrator, Todd Keane. Todd got into coding and computers in the early days, like Gates, Dell, Jobs. He’s now wealthy AF and struggling with a new diagnosis of Lewy Body Dementia, and he’s recounting an estranged friendship that was painful and most impacted his life. Subsequently, Todd redirects his wrecked friendship and becomes obsessed with the future of technology and the revolutionary, “Deep Learning,” otherwise known as AI. Rafi, Todd’s old friend, is passionate about literature, worships words in concert with each other. What kept Todd and Rafi together is their love of the game Go. The competition and the infinite moves of the game, they have concluded, could never be usurped by a computer’s “skill.” Rafi is Black and poor, Todd is white and wealthy. Powers failed to make much out of it except plot device. For all its supposed drama and tragedy through the years, the execution was dry and artificial. Rafi falls in love with an artist, Ina, a military brat who lived all over the world. The relationship between these three felt stilted and flat, despite all the (melo)drama. Makatea, a French Polynesian atoll in the South Pacific, was stripped and exploited for its phosphate many years ago. Currently, in the story, it’s a quasi-primitive civilization of eighty-two souls, including the now elderly Evelyne and an older Rafi with his wife and small adopted children. They have been approached by outsiders to modernize and get with capitalism, turn Makatea into a prototype floating city and attract even more investors. They promise more jobs, better health care, nicer housing, recreation, and a growing population. Is it improvement or another form of colonialism? It’s up for a vote on whether to let this happen. The best and definitely wondrous story was Evelyne Beaulieu, a “Canadienne” ginger-haired, six-feet tall prolific diver of coral reefs who was also a breakthrough oceanographer that worked twice as hard to be recognized as a woman scientist (and serious diver). Her quirky story was brilliant—that was the narrative that pulsed. Evie’s descriptions of life underwater were like fireworks from the deep. Most of land is underwater, so the masses are sheltered from our own planet. Going down to the reefs reminded me of my brief but poignant period of scuba diving at coral reefs. Day, and night dives, too. I saw the moon from 40 feet below and so did Evie, many times. Her love of all species under the sea is like an aria. The sea is an opera. Unfortunately, the three narratives did not hang together organically, despite the author earnestly trying to make it so. It was like, “He loves her,” and so he loved her. I don’t know why, but the Todd/Rafi and Ina story was low energy. Evie and her family story vibrated and was three-dimensional. For me, she was the main story and it was what kept me reading, Powers had his characters channel his own precious maxims, so it was unsubtle and heavy-handed. When Todd talked about race and class, for example, it was preachy and flat. It was written like a sermon. Aesthetically, the less italics, the better, imho. Todd’s present-day troubles and his struggle with Lewy Body Dementia are all italicized. I understand it, now that the book has ended, but it felt like he tried too hard to tell a story via expounding, but it lacked spirit and perfusion. He got stuck in the telling. Playground was the Domain that Todd originated. He coded the zeroes and ones and chose the topics of discussion that would invite more users to participate. It made him obscenely wealthy and Playground spread globally. I get what he was aiming to achieve, and it could have been a masterpiece with more edits and maturity. As it stands, it was mostly predictable, and, as I keep saying (in probably so many, too many words), it lacked oomph. The author touched down on some provocative themes of climate and environmental changes, the wealth divide, race, class, art humanity-- but he didn’t let them grow and expand organically. Still, there were pearls of wisdom and warning. “We were creating wealth and novelty out of sunlight and thin air almost like trees.” And my favorite: “We were all about finding the moves that the rules forgot to outlaw.”

** spoiler alert ** I put PLAYGROUND on hold at my local library months in advance of its publication because I consider myself a big fan of its author, Richard Powers. This is the eighth of his books that I’ve read. This is something I’ve said before in other reviews of his books, but even though I think of Powers as a favorite author I haven’t been uniformly impressed by his work. I’ve liked them all—and the same is true here—but not all of them strike me as five-star material. In fact, the book of his that I read most recently before this one, PLOWING THE DARK, did not keep my attention; as a result, it took me an inordinately long time to finish. I had sort of a similar problem with PLAYGROUND. I was not drawn to read this book in any free moment the way the best books tend to do, so it took a longer time to read than I would have liked. I unfortunately started to think of the book as a hurdle to cross to move on to another book instead of something to savor. I did get more into the story as it neared its conclusion and the various individual threads started converging, but for so much of the book I was… not especially engaged with it. The format of the story is somewhat reminiscent of THE OVERSTORY, in that it follows a handful of people whose narratives get entwined especially as the book nears its conclusion. The primary players are Todd Keane, a tech billionaire experiencing symptoms of dementia and reminiscing about his younger days; Rafi Young, Todd’s friend in youth and at-times bitter rival; Ina Aroita, Rafi’s girlfriend and a native of Makatea in the Pacific Islands; Evelyne Beaulieu, a 90-some-year-old diver who in her younger days broke the glass ceiling for female marine biologists; and various residents of Makatea as they wrestle with whether to let American venture capitalists exploit their island for mutual profit (and some unknown but inevitable cost to the island). I knew going into the book that it was about the ocean. The cover image, an illustration of a manta ray from below with stabs of sunlight breaking through the water around it, makes that much clear. In fact, though, the book is also about artificial intelligence and game-playing in general. Todd and Rafi’s relationship is largely centered around their playing chess and then, later, Go. I read some reviews that complained that threading the friendship of Todd and Rafi (one white, one black) through these games (where one plays as “white” and one plays as “black”) is a little discomfiting; to that end, I also saw some objecting to Powers’ portrayal of Rafi and of the various residents of Makatea as cringey or inauthentic. I don’t know that I personally held those feelings reading the book, but I can understand why one would raise those concerns. Additionally, there’s a secret fourth theme about the stories we tell ourselves and how they “create” our realities. I did appreciate the ideas about “play” and “playgrounds” appearing in various contexts throughout the book. Part of the idea of a playground is the ocean itself, teeming with alien creatures of the wildest design. Part of it is about the animals in the water, who Evelyne sees chasing each other for fun and spinning through bubbles. Rather than trying to rationalize this behavior away through the lens of hunting or evading predators, Evelyne recognizes the animals are playing. She “had spent too many decades of close observation to be cowed any longer by the prohibition against anthropomorphism. What began, centuries ago, as a safeguard against projection had become an insidious contributor to human exceptionalism, the belief that nothing else on Earth was like us in any way.” Powers goes on to assert: “Play was evolution’s way of building brains, an any creature with a brain as developed as a giant oceanic manta sure used it. If you want to make something smarter, teach it to play.” In fact, though, there were only a handful of quotes I saved, all clustered closer to the front of the book. There wasn’t a lot that sang to me the way that Powers’ writing often does—that very intricate poetry and, dare I say, playfulness in his language just didn’t seem as on display here as in earlier outings. One I did save, though, came when Todd as a child discovers a book about the ocean written by Evelyne (though her authorship of the book isn’t explicitly revealed until much later). He marvels at the truths it conveys: “[T]he book insisted even the oddest fish was still my first cousin, compared to the other beings down there. The ocean teemed with primordial life—monsters left behind from evolution’s oldest back alleys—ring-shaped, tube-shaped, shapeless, impossible plant-animal mash-ups with no right to exist, beasts so unlikely I wondered if my beloved author invented them. Evanston was nothing. Chicago was nothing. Illinois and even the U.S. were a joke. There were insanely different ways of being alive, behaviors from another galaxy dreamed up by an alien God. The world was bigger, stranger, richer, and wilder than I had a right to ask for.” Beautiful language and a beautiful meditation on the odd world of the ocean. Despite this, though, I maintain that the poetic vision espoused here is not maintained throughout the book. PLAYGROUND largely splits between words in normal text regarding the lead-up to the vote on Makatea about whether to submit to the American usurpers or to keep their independence and, as a result, their relative indigence, and text set in italics which is Todd’s present-day ruminations on his life, especially during that period that he, Rafi, and Ina spent together. This threesome called to mind TOMORROW AND TOMORROW AND TOMORROW for me, especially as they share what is important to them and as Todd creates a social media website which Rafi recommends he “gamify” by awarding points for popular posts and making users “spend” their allotted points. Having made the connection with TOMORROW AND TOMORROW AND TOMORROW, I considered whether this one matched the strength of the other. I’m not sure it does, frankly; the creation of new games in Garbielle Zevin’s book wowed me each time and I didn’t feel that way here. The other work that PLAYGROUND calls to mind—and this is quite spoilery, so I’m putting this under a spoiler tag—is Ian McEwan’s ATONEMENT. I suppose this is a spoiler for ATONEMENT, too, if you haven’t read/seen it, so be forewarned. As this book nears its end, billionaire Todd Keane sends an advanced AI machine to answer questions for the Makateans about the specifics of the planned sea-steading venture. The twist is revealed not long afterward: in the italicized sections of the book, Todd is speaking to that same AI, or a later generation of it. Accordingly, the non-italicized sections of the book are the AI program telling Todd a story about his friends (and also Evelyne Beaulieu, I guess). That is, it is not entirely clear that there ever really was any sea-steading project near Makatea, nor any vote there. Allegedly Rafi and Ina and Evelyne all lived on the island and participated in the vote, but in actuality Evelyne died 20 years earlier and Rafi had died in Chicago more recently. I appreciate this twist ending for the way it pays off an obsession Rafi had throughout the book of defeating death, though the idea of defeating death through storytelling is, at root, not terribly original. On the other hand, even if it’s not especially original, I do find the thesis about life existing through language, in storytelling, a compelling thought regardless. So this is where I am. Ultimately, as with all of Powers’ books, I would say I liked PLAYGROUND overall. If I had to give it a pure thumbs-up or thumbs-down vote, I’d come down more on a positive side than a negative one. There’s not even much that I felt was poor about this book; so much of my issues with it are ineffable… found in my lack of connection with it, rather than any specific failure I can point to as evidence. I wished I felt more strongly about this book. I don’t have any advice to offer the author on how to better impress me, one random reader. I’m still intent on reading all of Powers’ output to date, this isn’t such a misstep that it would cause me to rethink that but it is a bit concerning that the last two books I’ve read by him have felt at times during the read like more of a chore than a pleasure. I’m hopeful I’ll feel differently about the next one.

3.5 stars rounded down because I think overall the book feels more like 3 stars rather than the occasional 4 star points. After 350 pages of enjoying but not loving, of good characters but no plot, of wondering where the hell those autonomous floating cities the blurb promised were, the ending did in fact, blow my mind. But I’m not sure it blew my mind in a good way?! The ending was kind of depressing. I’m sure it wasn’t supposed to be, it was supposed to be hopeful, but for me it was depressing. I do think there are interesting discussion points here. But I’m also kinda wondering what the point was. I really loved this up til about the halfway point, at which point I very easily could have walked away and never picked it up again. Again, not because it was bad, but just because there was so little plot here to be found that there’s nothing to be left wondering. I wouldn’t even have to read the ending. I could just walk away. But lots of people disagree with me so there’s that. Of the Booker Prize selections I’ve read this was easily my favorite, but between the astronaut poetry and that mess of a “spy” novel I’m not really sure that’s saying much. I should really go pick up James. (ETA: I completely forgot about the Goat book, Wild Houses, which tells you exactly what I thought of that one.)

Ninth Building is Jeremy Tiang's English-language translation of 九栋 by Zou Jingzhi (邹静之), published by Honford Star Press. Honford Star is one of the heroes of the publishing world, not only turning out brilliant works like Cursed Bunny but also producing English translations of East Asian titles that might not otherwise reach a larger audience. Ninth Building is a work of first-person realist fiction set during the Cultural Revolution, a series of linked stories set first in Beijing and, in the second half of the book, the remote Northern Wilderness after banishment by the Mao regime. Readers interested in this period will find much to like. I think it is a book best understood as straightforward historical fiction, giving readers a window into a period that will soon be lost to living memory.

This collection of loosely connected vignettes is beautifully written, with a mournful, detached tone. I especially liked the first half, related through the eyes of childhood. The grown-ups called these things "mosaics" but it felt a bit pretentious when I did that. Instead, we called them "magnets," using our own language to protect ourselves. For instance, we called our school bags "shit shovels," Old Sun the doorman was "Old Pipe," and banknotes were "leaves." Police officers were "landmines." When these nouns popped out of our mouths, our world felt different to the one the grown-ups lived in, and this sensation was the pillar that propped up our universe, enabling us to live sincerely and passionately. Many of the stories explore language at least as much as they explore experience--almost exclusively painful experiences that also contain an element of aesthetic redemption. As I read, Primo Levi's memoir Moments of Reprieve: A Memoir of Auschwitz came to mind. However, the repetitive nature of many of the stories coupled with the detatched tone of the narration detracted from this book's overall impact. Ninth Building was oblique but also quite lovely. The hourglass has been turned over, and yesterday's sand comes rushing back, the same sand, every last grain. One's passing days are like an hourglass, not "like a flowing river," as the sage says, slipping by never to return. Time repeats itself. Today and yesterday, this year and last year, not one grain of sand that goes by is unfamiliar to you.....Everyone has a vast book in their heart, its beginning very far away. The wise do not read it out. You, mundane and hollow, spend your savings. You see light seeping from the tangible sand, and the empty space grows larger and larger.

I felt like this started off really strong, I loved the foreward and the first part 'Ninth Building' where it was talking about the Chinese cultural revolution as it had a sort of dystopia vibe to it. It was like a bunch of short stories all set in an apartment block and it was really weird and loads of people were dying and acting strange and I just loved the vibe. In the second part of the book it moved away from this and focused on farming and loads of other weird stuff I didn't have an interest in. The atmosphere completely disappeared and every single story felt exactly the same. It was rounded off with a selection of poems by the author which I found a really strange addition to the collection. All in all really mixed feelings about it and so giving it three stars. It could have been great if it carried on in the same vein as it did at the beginning but it really lost me.

Not my style or speed, but I did enjoy it for the most part

Refreshingly but deceitfully poetic and bravely honest in the first part, but losing its charm after the first few chapters and only finding its voice again in the final few.

Deathly boring as this was to read, it has (in fact) bothered me. And that's something. The premise of On the Calculation of Volume i is basically Groundhog Day if absolutely nothing of any import or interest happened. It's this mundanity and normalcy that made it so terrifyingly chilling to read. The author is seemingly allergic to plot, and the main character meticulously avoids doing anything that might be of interest to a reader. But we all live within the finite construct of time, and as I slept away another day, eating bumper packets of Nik Naks and refusing to do anything to further my own plotline, this book shone a very unwelcome torch on my own inadequacies when it comes to dealing with the intricacies of day-to-day life. Who am I to judge her for not trying to save herself from this casual timewarp when I'm not exactly Carpe-ing my own Diem? I even wonder if this book is partly a metaphor for depression, or existential anxiety, because as an experience of reducing the world to its unbearable minutes, and the inadequacy of methods to make each day bearable, it sure felt claustrophobic. This was not a pleasant reading experience, and yet, there is a talent to making a reader feel they are going slowly insane, so I can absolutely see this book's worth as a thought experiment. Would I like to know where it goes? Yes. Do I think I could bear to read another 6 volumes? Probably not.

[3.5] November 18th is Groundhog Day for an antiquarian bookseller, a woman who began waking up on the same day every day. We open on day #121 of this brisk autumn day. The premise follows the Bill Murray movie, but the resemblance ends there, although there are other minor threads, such as the ability to manipulate some events that make up that day. The most obvious difference from the movie is that there is no humor in Volume--which flattens the narrative. Some levity would have lifted this from its idle (or it may be purposeful, the meta- connect). Reportedly, the first book is a dilatory introduction (I agree), and subsequent volumes purportedly end with better cliffhangers. I’m willing to see where this goes. At least one more book. The narrator stuck in time is Tara Stelter, married to Thomas. She becomes more sharply observant as the November eighteens pile up. Science and philosophy, she thinks, will lead to the answer and transport her out of the time rift. A gloom settles on her endless life of repetition, as hopping back into orderly time evades her. Thomas readily believes Tara’s dilemma, which is incredulous to me. Yet, ironically, he becomes less and less known to the reader (and to Tara), becoming more like a ghost. “And there we stood with only a single day between us.” That seems to be the point of Thomas, this inverse behavior. A single day between them in this time loop is also worlds apart. We assume he is a support system, we want that romance to be the glue. Instead, he fades further into the shadows as Tara’s cycle continues. “Time has come between us,” she laments. The twist of this axiom is that time can come between us without a time rift. Instead of stuck in time, we are just stuck in life. As the book opens, Tara has already gone through this 121 times. She’s restless and ready to resolve the uncanny time loop---on a cellular level. Other friends, colleagues, and acquaintances in her November 17th /18th life fill the gaps, and Tara occasionally turns to events with them, like a burn she sustains on a heater, or the purchase of a Roman sestertius (coin) to manipulate changes so that certain things don’t happen. But the effect is minute. She left for Bordeaux on the 17th for book purchases, and stopped in Paris on the way home for more acquisitions. Thomas wasn’t expecting her on the 18th. Therefore, Tara can use it as a lever to be in the house (come home and tell Thomas the time warp problem), or she can just be gone as she was supposed to be. Does this need to be broken up into 7 volumes? This ended in a way that comes off as arbitrary, not exciting as blurbed. I’ve read all sorts of atypical endings—abrupt, diminished, unmoving. The final sentences/phrases here flop, incurs my irritation because it fails to give the narrative any steam. The author, who has reportedly worked for forty years on this story, selected a random place to put a period and stop until the next volume. Or so it seems. And the pacing is slow. What I do appreciate it how weather, temperature, nature, and every small detail in her surroundings may be a clue to Tara’s escape; at the very least, it adds to the mood of the daily November eighteens (If my birthday was 11/18, this book would creep me TF out!). There’s plenty of nuance, gravitas, and measured prose. I see an abundance of potential as the plot moves forward. And it's a quick read.

this book follows a woman, tara selter, who is stuck in a time loop, living the day of 18 november over and over again. in just under 200 pages, what sounds like a sci-fi premise leans much further into literary philosophical meditation. the book doesn’t focus on solving the mystery of the time loop, instead it’s about what happens to a person (emotionally, existentially, spiritually, physically etc) when time stops obeying its usual laws. when your entire world is repetition, the same day and the same weather, what do you pay attention to? what matters? the book explores a lot within its short page count: displacement, reflections on the human condition, love and relationships, time and how we inhabit it, existentialism, and the intrinsically human impulse to search for explanations and meaning. i still haven’t decided if i’m going to commit to reading all 7 (!) volumes (once they’re released in english) but this is definitely unlike anything i’ve read before. 3.5

3.5 stars I’m struggling a bit with what to say about this book. It’s speculative fiction, an intriguing cerebral exercise, dealing with a French couple, antiquarian booksellers, but particularly the wife, who wakes up one day to discover that she is reliving the previous day, and then again, and then again—will it be ad infinitum? But while she remembers all these reset days, and is keeping track and writing a journal, her husband has no memory of any other day but the one they’re currently living through. This is the first book of seven—a heptalogy—of which three have already been published and the fourth due out soon. (In North America. I’m not sure where it stands in Europe.) I know this book/series is widely revered, not least by GR friends, and can’t help wondering what I’m missing. The level of attention to detail by the female protagonist is exquisite as she ponders her most unusual circumstance, as she moves into a condition of isolation and crushing loneliness. But I found it all very cerebral and was unable to feel her emotions, and it was so repetitive (though surely that was intentional). But it was short, and my curiosity will drive me to try at least the second book to get past the cliffhanger at the end of Book I.

Hmmmm. Have seen lots of rave reviews of this book and its sequel, but the hype didn’t hit for me. Time travel/time nonsense books often either really work, or really don’t for me. This one didn’t build tension as much as I’d anticipated given its brevity. I’m intrigued enough to dabble in the second volume of the series but am unconvinced this can be sustained over several further volumes. Time sure is a mystery but there just wasn’t enough, emotional engagement here to capture me.

I'm starting to have read a fair amount of Vila-Matas. I like some of his books more than others, but they are always good. I always feel like I'm spending time with a bookish, garrulous friend. This is an interesting one, reminded me in some ways of the nouveau roman. Its main theme is narrative repetition and variation and how, if you do this enough, stories tend to all lead back to the same source. There are a lot of warped mirrors in the book. It's a subtle read and I wished at the end that I hadn't been so distracted by other things while trying to read it. It deserved closer attention than I gave it, or maybe I just wasn't equipped for it. I didn't have the right shoes to keep up with Vila-Matas. That happens sometimes, more often than I'd like to admit.

As convoluted as I expect the relationship of reality and fiction to be - this work of meta-fiction is enjoyable even if not easily understood. Vila-Matas is self-indulgent in his use of literary references but not cringeworthy. I felt it was all rather cleverly done by relying on a narrator who is paranoid and deceptive. His craft also shines through in experimenting with form while conveying commentary on repetition, voice, and storytelling. Best to stop wondering what Mac's problem really is, even to stop "reading", and instead listen along to the pursuit of the original story.

Mac & His Problems is the fourth novel by Enrique Vila-Matas that I’ve read and it’s by far the weakest. The novel certainly has its moments. The narrative is enjoyably playful and there are moments of genuine humour and wit. The numerous literary and cultural references are a delightful diversion, but the end product is a little forgettable. Other reviewers have mentioned that Enrique Vila-Matas is an underrated author to English readers and I don’t think this book will change that situation, unfortunately.

When I finished this book I wondered did I enjoy it. It is clever (and will presume well translated ). I found Mac's disintegration (and his obsession with repetitiveness) was discombobulated; reading his demise was not always pleasurable.

Don't let this be your first Vila-Matas, read whatever else first. This is mostly a (brilliant yet boring) self-indulgent treatise on writing.

Stream of consciousness, journal-esque writing about reading and writing. Pretty fun and referential (self and otherwise). I liked it but didn’t love.

If you read it, you remember it: Five years ago, Susan Choi published a fraught story in the New Yorker about a little girl sparring with a psychologist after her father drowned in Japan. Rife with childhood aggression and confused grief, it’s a brilliant piece that slams shut in a moment of terrifying darkness. That story — and all the hurts and questions folded into its crevices — now serves as the prologue for Choi’s formidable new novel, “Flashlight.” Readers first drawn to Choi through her National Book Award-winning “Trust Exercise” (2019) — about students and teachers at a performing-arts school — will find here the same acute perception of emotional turmoil and a similarly serpentine reconsideration of disputed events. But in ambition and scope, “Flashlight” moves far beyond Choi’s celebrated academic novels or even her more political books, such as “American Woman,” which draws on the Patty Hearst kidnapping, or “A Person of Interest,” inspired by the case of University of California professor Wen Ho Lee, who was accused of being a Chinese spy. With “Flashlight,” Choi’s appetite turns omnivorous. The claustrophobic atmosphere that made “Trust Exercise” so intense has exploded. She sweeps across decades and continents, gathering in her hands the cultural upheavals and political machinations of competing nations. That may suggest a sprawling global drama, but in “Flashlight,” geopolitics are sharpened to a diamond point that crushes one little family. We see 10-year-old Louisa with her father only momentarily at the very start. “Someday, you’ll feel thankful to your mother,” he tells her. “But I want you to act thankful now.” “These are the last words he ever says to her,” the narrator notes, and then, like Louisa’s father, we’re swept out to sea to spend the next 450 pages adrift on the waves of time. You simply must submit and pay attention. Choi has no respect for any chronology but her own cryptic order. In these pages, timelines splinter, diverge and finally — trust her — come crashing back together with... To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

Now shortlisted for Women's Prize for Fiction 2026 The novelty wasn’t there because I’ve read Pachinko. More a generational novel than a disappearance one, this book makes the bold choice of going to North Korea. The ending is emotionally charged, but I can’t justify its length.

I have been reading Susan Choi for a couple of decades now. She is always good, but for me her last two novels were spectacular. Flashlight, to me, felt like a return to her older subjects and style. It's a story inspired by real events, it's an exploration of identity and secrets, family and race and nationality. There is so much in it that you can sink your teeth into, but it never came together to me as a novel. We focus mostly on a small nuclear family: Louisa, Anne, and Serk. Serk is Korean, but who lived his whole life in postwar Japan and has little connection to that identity. Anne is a white American woman who left a traditional life only to end up back in something very traditional married to Serk. And Louisa, their biracial child, starts out as simply precocious but gradually defines herself in opposition to her mother. All three of these characters keep so much of their lives secret. It is hard to talk about because learning what those secrets are is part of the novel's greatest pleasures. But I noted over and over again how much each of these characters was defined by what they do not say, what they do not share, about themselves. How much these decisions to hold back parts of themselves define their lives. This isn't a novel that moves in a straight line. Not in its structure and not in its plot. By the time you get to the last third of the novel you realize that it's something very different than what you thought it was. Choi has made this kind of move in her books before, but here this turn did not pull me in further. The problem, though, was not really about the story. It was the telling of it. Somehow the prose here had long stretches--especially for Serk--where the story feels flat, where there is so much that has to be explained, so much time that has to pass, that it feels like page after page of exposition. Compare that to some of Anne and Louisa's chapters--Anne with the strawberry picking trip and Louisa going to Europe--are riveting, masterfully done and incredibly affecting. To read one of those deeply impactful chapters and then to feel like I was reading through a rather dull text was jarring. I recognize that this was likely purposeful, that there is something about the telling of Serk's story that Choi wants to do. But for me as a reader, it felt like I was trying to walk through mud. Still a lot to admire, some really rich themes. Choi is certainly still a force.

“Flashlight” is a kind of quiet twin to “The Orphan Master's Son.” It deals with the triangle of America, Japan, and North Korea and with fates that are determined by their respective national backgrounds. At the center of the story is the investigation into the disappearance of a father and husband, which is conducted in a strangely emotionless manner. This is because the social relationships within the family are highly dysfunctional and there was no real “family atmosphere” even before his disappearance. As a result, the silent struggles of the family members with themselves and each other are viewed with a great deal of detachment. Only rarely does one feel connected to them. This may be because none of the characters are really likable. No sooner has one become attached to one of them than the perspective changes and one is served further negative traits about the others. This may be realistic, but it fails to inspire identification. There are jumps in time and resulting gaps, which of course makes sense when taking stock of several lives. But sometimes the jumps in time are so big that you also distance yourself from the characters here. Suddenly, one of them reappears decades older, and you have to rethink the changed character. Added to this is Choi's extremely detailed storytelling. Some authors manage to draw the reader into the story in this way, but Choi only succeeds in doing so in a few places. Fatigue sets in instead of insight. Nevertheless, there are passages that remain in the memory. In particular, Louisa's journey from Paris to London by bus and Serk's story stick in the mind. They illustrate how far we are—from a global perspective—from a humane, just society. The mechanisms of power are questioned by showing them in an unvarnished light, and that is the great merit of the novel.

3.5 Flashlight gives us the story of Anne, Serk and Louisa Kang and is narrated by all three. Anne is an American who was forced to give up her first child, Tobias. Her husband, Serk, is a Japanese born Korean whose family split when his parents decided to go back to North Korea while Serk stayed in Japan. When their child, Louisa, is still young Serk is persuaded to return to Japan for work. While there Anne falls ill and Serk and Louisa form a bond which leaves Anne alone a lot of the time. During a family holiday to the coast Serk and Louisa go missing. Louisa is found almost drowned but Serk never returns. The story that follows describes Louisa and Anne's fractious relationship in America, along with the occasional visit from Tobias, which Louisa resents. We do not find out Serk's fate until the end of the novel. I have to say that while this novel is clearly extremely well researched and well written it did become, for me, incredibly tedious. Every part of the three's lives is described in endless detail and I got very bored in the second half. I did enjoy parts of the story including Louisa's travels in Europe and Tobias' story, such as it is. These seemed to flow beautifully but just as I was getting interested we switch back to Anne's troubles. The characters are also quite irritating. Anne seems to find everything dull and not worth her time, Serk is an obsessive father who drives a wedge between mother and child and Louisa begins as a spoiled child and turns into a permanently irritated adult. I have no clue why she is angry with her mother- and its not occasional, its everything her mother does or says. I'd like to say Louisa is the least sympathetic character but, to be honest, none of them are particularly pleasant people and I found it very hard to care about any problems they encountered - and they encounter huge, life changing/threatening changes. Thankyou to Netgalley and Farrar, Strauss & Giroux for the advance review copy.

"Light shows us only what it touches. The rest of the world remains invisible." 🔦 Ambitious. Interesting. Intriguing. But very drawn out… 10-year-old Louisa and her father, Serk, go walking on a Japanese beach one evening. Hours later, she is found washed up on the beach, half-dead, her father missing, presumably drowned. From this brief mysterious introduction, Susan Choi whisks us back in time creating a generational saga interwoven with intrigue that sweeps across decades and countries… My intrigue was sparked immediately by this devastating prologue. A mystery is set up, a thrilling tale expected. However, we must take a longggg, sometimes frustrating journey to get to the disappearance of father Serk. As Louisa and her mother return to the US, the mystery of what really happened that night slowly unfolds… Choi spends the first 30% of the book backtracking, delving into details of the family’s past. Then, following the disappearance of Serk, she spends a large proportion of the book tracing four generations of a Korean-Japanese-American family through time and space, weaving together the personal and the political. Exploring themes of family, loss, immigration, and culture. I fully appreciate what Choi was trying to achieve with this novel. It was quite fascinating and the premise was both highly original and thought-provoking. However, I think the scope was a little too wide, and the context a little too dense. There were parts of the book that really captured my attention, whilst other sections had me questioning what on earth they had to do with the mystery. Overall, this was a very creative and complex piece of work. It was both a sensitive family portrait and an investigative read. While it didn’t fully capture my mind and heart, I was compelled to keep reading, and as I did the shocking horrors of the world unfolded. The plot builds layer upon layer, concluding with a beautiful crescendo, full of emotion and wonder. 3.5 🌟🌟🌟✨

Flashlight relates the story of a man, Serk, who returns to the country of the his origin, Japan, with his American daughter and wife. Serk's parents are Korean, so Serk in some ways is a man of three countries (Japan, Korea, US) and in other ways a man with no country. The story of this family is meticulously detailed, and when Serk's parents return to North Korea, without him, there are ramifications both large and small. I want to give this book 4 stars. I really do. But I just can't. It's so overwritten. There's like ZERO space for the reader, and I don't care if you are writing romance or historical fiction, please leave something for my own brain to fill in. That all being said, Choi sure can craft a beautiful SENTENCE. This book is filled with very specific details, each evoked with perfect words. I admire that immensely. It cannot be easy to write 450 plus pages and have each sentence be like artwork. So hats off to her talents. But storytelling requires more suspense, and even though there were some quite harrowing scenes, I never really felt the suspense viscerally. By the end, I really wanted to skim. I resisted the urge, but I just wanted to be done. (view spoiler) Another thing I really did enjoy about the book was the historical aspects. I didn't know much about the history of post WWII Korea, and Choi helpfully lists ten books in her acknowledgements, and I am super interested in delving into the non-fiction that she references. I am always appreciative if I learn something new from fiction - - whether it's about history or the human condition or something else. This book was a winner from that aspect, but I probably won't be running to read more from this author.

I know I’m contrary to much of the opinion on Flashlight, but it is a lengthy and dense read that was static in character development. Susan Choi is talented, but my take is that Flashlight is not compelling or dynamic. It is average. See the review linked below. https://youtu.be/hJYPrZFvVmg?si=TWaAu...

A flashlight illuminates something invisible in the darkness. While there is a literal flashlight in this book, and while it bears relevance to the story, it is a metaphor, as well, for secrets kept, things unseen, and things understood only when the cloak of darkness has been vanquished. I found this book quite interesting, and I applaud the character, cultural, and historical development, but everything was painfully dragged out, making it a challenge to always remain engaged. I am glad I saw it through, though, as the ending made those sluggish moments worth enduring. I am immensely grateful to Macmillan Audio and NetGalley for my copy. All opinions are my own.

Basically I liked the story, but in the end it's getting too sentimental.

3.5/5 Flashlight is my first Susan Choi, and while I liked it, I was also frustrated by how close it came to being a great book without ever quite getting there. At its center is a harrowing story about North Korean totalitarianism and its impact on those suffering through it, but that story often felt obscured by an excess of writing that, though engaging and well-crafted, came across as a bit quaint and jarring in comparison. Because this part of the narrative does not come into focus until the latter half of the novel, I felt that the most vital and urgent material was kept at arm’s length for way too long. The richly detailed construction of the characters serves as the novel’s primary narrative engine. The writing style effectively captures their rhythms of thought and intense emotional expression, and I appreciated the effort to create such vivid characters, because this is where the book most succeeds. The novel examines how trauma and grief shape identity and life in both subtle and overt ways, and how those emotions are often permanently embedded within the mind and body. It explores what it means to be separated from one’s family, homeland, and cultural roots, and what happens when those experiences are left to fester in silence. Choi shows how the past refuses to stay buried no matter how hard the characters try, and how family secrets can warp relationships from the inside out. The structure of each chapter being told from a different character’s perspective is my least favorite kind of scaffolding because it often results in awkward pacing and tonal shifts, with the author working to establish a distinct voice for each character. That is one of my biggest issues with Flashlight. I think the structure worked against the book’s ambition and made the novel feel too slippery and unfocused. Still, there was much to admire, and Choi’s strong writing offered enough depth and emotion to make the reading experience worthwhile.

A multigenerational story that explores familial bonds, geological as well as political history & the animosity around it The book starts on a very promising note with one of the most intriguing chapters, where 10 yr old Louisia gets separated from her father Serk, as they walk on the beach. Louisia is that unreliable narrator who doesn't really remember or doesn't want to tell what actually happened, while Serk is nowhere to be found The plot then looks into the complex relationship between Louisia and her Mother Anne and also into Anne's bond with her another son Tobias, who was born before she was with Serk There are a whole set of backstories which explore Serk's past, Tobias's past with Anne as well as individually and then also what ultimately happened to Serk after he disappeared. Also too many coincidences in there specially when it came to finding Tobias at 'right time right place' Told in non linear fashion, this story definitely had the scope of being an epic as it also dwells on political history and it's malice but I felt that too many back stories just pulled down the flow of the novel a lot I really wish it had been like the focused beam of an actual flashlight

3.5 stars This novel is set on the Great Plain of England in the Neolithic period, around 2500 BCE. The story focuses on three tribes: herders - who raise cattle, sheep, goats; etc; farmers - who grow crops; and woodlanders - who hunt deer and eat nuts and berries. Other inhabitants of the Great Plain, like flint miners, carpenters, and craftsmen, travel around to trade their goods and services for food, baskets, animal skins, shoes, and other necessities. The story leads up to the building of Stonehenge, but is really about the tribes and their interactions. Though the tale, necessarily, springs from author Ken Follett's imagination, it would appear Follett believes greed, self-interest, male entitlement, thirst for power, dishonesty, and other bad behavior was firmly entrenched by this time, at least in some groups. The novel comes in at 700+ pages, so I'll just give a brief overview of the story. The tribes of the Great Plain are generally insular, but meet four times a year, at the Spring Rite, Midsummer Rite, Autumn Rite, and Winter Rite. The Rite celebrations take place in Riverbend, at a sacred circle made of a ring of bluestones surrounding a ring of tree trunks. During the Rites, priestesses sing and dance, and traders set up outside to barter for goods. A major attraction of every Rite is the evening revel, when celebrants - single or married, from teenagers on up - go off to have sex with people from other tribes and places. This is done to avoid inbreeding, which is dangerous for both humans and animals. The book contains a wealth of characters, but for brevity I'll focus on a few important members of each tribe. ❖❖ Herders - In the herder tribe, widow Ani is an elder with two daughters named Neen and Joia, and a son called Han. Ani tans hides to barter for other goods, and she's a peacemaker who tries to avoid conflict with neighboring tribes. Ani's chief adversary amongst the herder elders is Scagga, a loudmouth who's always spoiling for a fight. Scagga would like to arm every male herder with a bow and arrow, to be ready for battle. ❖❖ Farmers - Troon, the dictatorial leader of the farmers, relishes and flaunts his power. In farmer society, women are the property of men, and may not leave the tribe for marriage or any other reason. In addition, Troon can force women to marry, even if the men are VERY unsuitable. Troon's wife Katch fears him and his bullyboy son Stam adores him. Troon's right hand man is Shen, a skinny creep who spies on everyone and reports back to Troon. Troon is constantly scheming to enlarge the farmers' domain, and hopes to become the 'Big Man' of the entire Great Plain. ❖❖ Woodlanders - Bez, the leader of the woodlanders, has a woman named Gida and a daughter named Lali. The woodlanders are generally peaceable, and Bez likes to walk in the woods with Lali and teach her about nature. Bez doesn't usually seek clashes but has a strong sense of justice. In woodlander society, when a wrong is committed the gods demand a balance: what's stolen must be replaced; a lie demands a truth; and a murder requires a death. This differs from other tribes, who use shunning and expulsion to deal with crimes. The three tribes are compelled to interact with each other, as well as outsiders, who come to the Rites to barter their goods and services. Communication can be sketchy since each tribe has its own language, but some inhabitants of the Great Plain are (at least somewhat) multilingual, which is necessary for commerce and negotiations. To get on with the story: Some of the most valuable possessions in the Neolithic period are flints, because everything that has a cutting edge is made of flint - from axes, to arrowheads, to knives. Everybody needs flints. Seft is a teenager in a family of flint miners. Seft's mother is dead, his father is cruel and abusive, and his two brothers are mean, stupid oafs. Flint mining is hard, dirty, exhausting work, but worth the effort because flints can be traded for food, clothing, livestock, etc. During a Midsummer Rite, Seft meets Ani's herder daughter Neen. Seft and Neen fall in love and want to marry and live with the herders. However Seft's horrible father would kill the boy before letting him go. There are beatings, an escape, and a lot of clashes, but in the end Seft and Neen wed and have a family. In the meantime, Neen's younger sister Joia becomes an apprentice priestess. Most Neolithic people can't count above twenty, but the priestesses have songs and rituals that allow them to count all the days of the year, and to pass on the knowledge acquired by their forebears. Thus priestesses are invaluable, because they know when the seasons will change, when the deer will migrate, when the crops should be planted, and so on. In exchange for their knowledge, the priestesses are provided with food and supplies. A major conflict arises between farmers and herders when farm leader Troon plows up the Break, a swatch of land between the herder and farmer communities. The herders used the Break for grazing, as well as a pathway to the river, so their cattle could drink. Troon's land grab, to grow more crops, could lead to war. But herder elder Ani advises against violence, despite the hardship of taking the cattle 'the long way round' to get water. In the long run, the herders' forbearance just encourages Troon to become more and more grasping and avaricious. Unwisely, Troon even has designs on a piece of the woodlander's environment, and the woodlanders are a vengeful tribe. The rivalry for space and resources on the Great Plain is always tense, but it becomes overwhelming during a years-long drought, when the cattle die, the crops don't grow, and food in the forest becomes scarce. All the inhabitants of the Great Plain are starving, and even the priestesses fear they'll be cast aside. The dire situation leads to selfish deeds and a GIGANTIC disaster. The subsequent act of revenge destroys the sacred circle in Riverbend, which is so important for the Rites. Joia, who's become Second High Priestess by now, wants to rebuild the circle with large indestructible stones, which are far away in Stony Valley. An old craftsman points out, 'We're talking about moving a giant stone a distance that takes all day to walk, up and down hills and over uneven fields. How many days, or weeks, or perhaps even years would that take?' Even more daunting, the sacred circle requires 80 stones. Regardless, once the drought ends, Joia is determined to rebuild the sacred circle with stones. Luckily, Joia's brother-in-law Seft (the former flint miner) is a brilliant carpenter and craftsman. Seft devises a plan to relocate the stones, which requires sophisticated engineering and the assistance of hundreds of people. Many herders oppose the plan to rebuild the sacred circle with stones, and there are endless arguments and setbacks. Moreover, farm leader Troon is determined to stop the project, which would make Joia the 'Big Woman' of the Great Plain and derail his plan to be the 'Big Man.' Thus Troon plans for disruption, sabotage, and eventually an all-out war. Still, as we know, Stonehenge got built (but probably not as described in this book.) 😊 My brief synopsis is the bare bones of this very long novel, which follows the lives of many characters as they work, attend Rites, fall in love, marry (or are forced to marry), have children, lose loved ones, experience grief, make friends, sow dissension, devise schemes, cook meals, build weapons, hunt food, and so on. There are slice-of-life scenes for each tribe, which demonstrates the diversity of their lives and ambitions. There's plenty of action and adventure in the novel as well. For example, when a farm woman runs off to be with her lover, she's hunted down by Troon's 'Young Dogs', who commit murder to get her back. Revenge for the heinous killing results in a perpetrator being tortured, then burned alive. The book has plenty more violence, as well as other misbehavior, and it's a lot to take in. To me, this book feels a lot like a Young Adult novel, though I don't think author Ken Follett aimed for this audience with the orgy scenes. Overall, the novel presents an interesting picture of Neolithic times, and the descriptions of transporting the stones to Riverbend, and putting them in place, are enlightening. Readers curious about prehistoric days and Stonehenge would probably enjoy this book. Thanks to Netgalley, Ken Follett, and Grand Central Publishing for a copy of the book. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

Speculation on how people with primitive tools and nearly no math or engineering skills could create the astronomically significant circle of megaliths on the great plain (of Salisbury) from stones weighing 25 tons each a day's walk away. It appears they did not even have the wheel, though the brilliant engineer within the story, Seft, seems to have spontaneously developed two or three simple machines (the lever, the pulley, and the ramp) to address needs at the moment. The names England and Salisbury did not exist at the time of the building (2500 BC or so), and so Follett does not use them. Nor is there a name for the religion the people follow, and this was interesting to me. There is no priest in sight, but priestesses lead the people in their devotions and drive the effort to create their Monument to the Sun God. We get social and cultural speculation as well, including the clash of social groups based on herding, farming, and the hunting/gathering of the people of the woodlands. The relations of men and women, leadership, and sexual license (beware of inbreeding!) are also brought into the story in interesting and plausible ways. Follett gives us a good story with a large cast, but gives it something of a Hollywood feel when he compresses the duration of construction to about 20 years so that the priestess Joia and her engineer brother-in-law Seft get the satisfaction of seeing their idea come to completion. Anthropologists speculate the creation of what we know as Stonehenge actually took 200 years. That's okay. It's a good story that kept me reading. The title comes from how the priestesses use each standing stone (originally built of wood) to count the days of the year. Their devotions and songs are numerical and calendrical and help keep the society organized over its annual course of seasons and festivals. In his theory, Follett supposes that numbers and true counting ability were the somewhat secret purview of the priestesses. Everyone else was limited to numbers that could be calculated from fingers and toes. We've come a long way, haven't we, baby? Entertaining and thought provoking. Another good one from a good storyteller. 3 1/2 stars

I think the last time I read a Ken Follett book was Eye of the Needle, too darn close to 50 years ago now, though I’ve since seen some decent miniseries based on his cathedral-building sagas. But this one, an imagined history of the building of Stonehenge, caught my fancy and I thought I’d give it a whirl. Well, it is a work of imagination, as we have little evidence about the builders besides the stones themselves, as the origins of the great circle are buried deep in the neolithic, pre-literate past (about 2,500 BCE). But while it’s a creditable imagining, the writing itself is so stony and bare-bones, with shallow characterization, that I found it hard to connect, and pretty tedious at 600-plus pages. I think I’ll stick to Follett TV adaptations henceforth!

mixed feelings about this book could of alot shorter

I do love a good Ken Follett book, his ability to write about epic journeys through time is incredible. He does the research and turns the details into a story that is readable and educational. This however, was not my favorite - I was a little caught up in the use of modern language from characters that lived in such an undeveloped time. Not sure how to correct that since it had to be something the reader could follow but still I just couldn’t get my head around the time period. Won’t stop be from reading the next book by the author, just didn’t love this one. I received an ARC from the publisher through NetGalley and I appreciate the opportunity to read this book.

Disappointing and slow. Pillars remains one of my favorite books of all time, but I just can't get into most of his books from the last 15 years or so. This one lacked depth. I didn't care about any of the characters; nothing interesting really happened, it was just a big solid "meh". And, as usual, Follett's bad guy was just cartoonishly evil and bad for no real reason. I did finish the book, but I'm not sure why.

This is Vigdis Hjorth's latest work to make its way into English, translated again by the excellent Charlotte Barslund. The story follows a woman in late middle age, long estranged from her birth family, returning to Norway after a long absence. Her estranged family is very much on her mind. We see a progression from obsessive thoughts to physical stalking, with plenty of gradations in between. There are some things I liked about this: the prose is excellent, flashbacks are relayed with nuance, and the story is disturbing in all the right ways. Ultimately, though, it left me a bit cold, as I never really bought into the obsession or the resolution. I can understand how 30-year-old wounds may not heal, particularly if one buys into the gaslighting, but I had a hard time understanding how we arrived at both the beginning and end of the book.

48th book of 2023. More motherhood from the Booker International. Theme of the year, it seems. Hjorth has written a very suffocating read, an almost Bernhardian torrent from a woman who is estranged from her mother and begins stalking her. An exploration of motherhood, family, art, self-harm, the self. Interestingly enough, like when reading Bernhard, reading this in small bites didn't work. I had some time today (not just today, I've had the whole week off work), to read great chunks of it and the repetitive rambling of the narrator is far more concentrated and powerful when taken in big gulps. It isn't necessarily pleasant to read, but it did impress me. I didn't like the final page, and usually books that have lots of white space like this one don't work because I find them a little gratuitous but I didn't mind Hjorth's usage here. I'm intrigued to see what happens regarding the shortlist as this, Still Born, and Boulder, particularly, are all similar in theme. Longlist for me so far, best to worse again: Time Shelter Is Mother Dead / Still Born Boulder Whale Pyre A System So Magnificent It Is Blinding Standing Heavy

i really had some high hopes for this one. but unfortunately they weren't met. i liked the idea of it - but execution wise there was something missing. the first 200 pages of it were quite boring, even though it had brief glimpses of something good. i wish we got to spend more time with the mom and the daughter in present day. but overall, meh.

This IB list is full of books doing nothing 2.5 The novel is set in the city of Lviv, Ukraine, and begins with a group of hippies who are meeting at a cemetery for their yearly tribute to Jimi Hendrix. This group includes Alik who works at the theater. This time they are joined by a former KGB member Ryabtsev - who claims to have helped smuggle Hendrix’s hand that is buried in the grave. He fell in love with his music after hearing it so much during his spying on the hippies. On the way home, Alik is almost run over by Taras- who drives people with kidney stones over cobbled streets to help them pass their stones. Every night after being paid he goes to the exchange where Darja works. She’s always locked behind the glass and she’s allergic to money! Taras is neighbors with Yezhi, an old hairdresser, and is friends with Oksana, an actress who also volunteers with the homeless. Most of the book is Taras driving customers around at night and meeting his friends during the day. Or it’s Alik and Ryabtsev chatting and riding a scooter around Lviv. This becomes very circular and repetitive, with not much new happening in any of these events. Something odd is happening in Lviv though- seagulls are attacking people (or Ryabtsev’s birds), starfish are found, and the air smells of sea water. I’m just going to remind you that Lviv is landlocked and closer to the Polish border than the ocean. I guess this is where hijinks ensue? Insert your favorite gang-solves-things show or cartoon reference here. This book is mostly all good vibes and a love letter (or an ad depending on your view) to Lviv. Unfortunately it never rises above this. The stakes never felt very high and the writing is just fine. If you want to read about Ukraine but don’t want to do anything too political (or too exciting), then this is the book for you.

Description: Taras runs a business curing patrons of their kidney stones by driving them around Lviv's bounciest cobbled streets in his old car. The aging hippy Alik and retired KGB officer Ryabtsev have noticed strange, salty goings on in the city, and begin to investigate together. Don’t worry - this book has very little to do with Jimi Hendrix. Liked: Same chirpy, off-beat humour as Death and the Penguin. Most characters are lightly charming or at least sympathetic, and their bumbling around tends to be amusing. There are lots of interesting, if disjointed, ideas here. Disliked: Everything DOES feel quite disjointed. This is one of those novels that follows a few quite distinct threads; I was expecting them to come together at some point but they never quite did. I would have liked a slightly more robust/complex internal logic. Would recommend a read, but don’t bump it to the top of your list.

3-3.5 stars This book is a quirky and fun romp through a somewhat ragtag bunch of characters all on various adventures to find something dear to them, often with absurd and farcical diversions. On the surface, that feels like something I would normally greatly enjoy, but occasionally I found that the absurdity became quite circular, with characters having repetitive conversations about what they would do next, or what had just happened. I still enjoyed the book and the reading experience, I just found it difficult to fully connect with the book, or to believe the stakes of it, whereas the author's Grey Bees I found more successful in delivering the absurdity of the humour with a more concrete journey to hold the story together. I received an advanced copy of this book from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.

Only tangentially about Jimi, if at all. Another slightly barmy novel set in Lviv set about some disparate interlocking characters, one whose business is driving people about on cobbled streets so their kidney stones pass, his girlfriend who works in a money changers kiosk but is allergic to money and an old hippy an ex-KGB officer who used to investigate the hippies and assorted othera. Doses of magic realism too with weird goings-on re the Carpathian Sea which seems to be rising due to the presence of an old homeless sailor in Lviv. Not his best but readable. Great city Lviv btw!

I wanted to love it really bad. Jimi Hendrix ✅ Former Soviet Country ✅ Big Lebowski-esque Hippies ✅ Dude who’s career is driving around people with kidney stones until the vibrations make them pass it. Falling in love with a clerk allergic to money (What a vibe)✅ The big occurrences within Lviv felt a bit like a nothing burger, (was there even a climax?) the “resolution” is pretty laughably simple, I felt like nobody was in any danger whatsoever. Vibe to read for the most part though

I thought i must be missing some nuances of the story, that is, until I read other reviews on GR. A meandering, magical realism tale that doesn't really go anywhere or explain anything, but enjoyable, if a bit pointless. The characters were a rag tag bunch, I especially liked Taras, whose job was driving people around Lviv's cobbled streets to remove their kidney stones.

** spoiler alert ** I enjoyed the main romance plot and the characters related to Taras (Oksana and Yehzi) but I found the second string of characters really confusing and quite uninteresting. It also wasn’t really clear to me how they tied together and the strange occurrences in the city didn’t really seem to impact the main character Taras all that much - some plot threads were pretty unfinished too.

i wasn’t really thrilled by this one but it was fun

I read and finished this book last weekend and I've procrastinated on writing a review mostly because I have no clue what to say. I'm exhausted. It is sold as a family saga, so I was hoping for Swedish Franzen. Instead I got a quirky, over long book where part of the plot could have been solved quite simply and swiftly. Once you remove that plotline I'm not sure what else you're left with. The story is about three 26 year old triplets, who may not all be siblings after all (you know this from page one). Sebastian moves to London to work at a scientific institute where he takes care of a moral monkey (I told you this was quirky) and meets patients odd ailments. One is an instant amazing painter, another is going blind but can see the future, and the main patient can no longer see in 3D. We never really know what the institute is up to but there might be weird things going on. Clara lost her job as a journalist and flew to Easter Island to be away from her family and interview someone who may be leading an environmental cult and ends up meeting a former child star that is obsessed with Dakota Fanning. We never see or meet anyone FROM Easter Island, just this group that is waiting for the world to end. The third sibling Matilda has even less of a plotline. She's dating someone with a daughter and she has synesthesia. The color blue is haunting her and she keeps seeing a color that doesn't exist. Through all this randomness there's a dead girlfriend and a Francesca Woodman photograph. At over 500 pages, I should have more to say about this book than what the blurb gives you. I guess one positive is that I kept reading hoping to see all of this come together. The writing is breezy at least, but there are too many ideas to reign in. The characters do come together and then it just peters out. I didn't even get to enjoy Franzen level writing. If you read this, enjoyed it, AND can tell me what this was about could you leave a comment? Was there a point to the chaotic storyline? Please don't just say it's about depression or climate change. Or how everything is connected.

Described as a family saga, A System So Magnificent It Is Blinding is a lengthy novel which ostensibly explores, alongside different types of family and their ensuing relationships, questions of neuroscience and humanity's interconnectedness (on a surface level, it's also preoccupied with the climate crisis). The translation is very strong - it reads as though it were an English original (although helped along somewhat by the abundance of UK references and a lot of the action being set in London). The three central characters are 26 year old triplets, Sebastian, Clara & Matilda. Nominally, the central mystery of the novel is that one of the triplets was swapped at birth - their mother claims not to know which one of them it was, and their father is 'missing'. Matilda and Clara especially are immediately convinced that they each were the swapped triplet. As the mystery is not hard to solve, as a central conceit this is (perhaps intentionally?) weak. We follow the triplets adrift throughout the larger part of the novel - Sebastian "clinically depressed" and working at an institute for cognitive science in London, Clara on Easter Island living in a colony of climate-crisis end-timers, and the synaesthete Matilda (whose storyline is the least developed) on holiday in Sweden with her partner and his daughter. After revealing the event which triggered the triplets' separation, Svensson increasingly builds up eerie 'connections' between the three storylines and between past, present and future which hint that there is a 'system' underlying the events of the novel. She relies heavily on secondary characters to do this: Jordan, the 'leader' of the camp where Clara stays on Easter Island; Elif, a former child star Clara also meets there; Jennifer Travis, a cicada-obsessed colleague of Sebastian's; and especially Laura Kadinsky, one of Sebastian's patients at the institute, who enjoys a fairly developed and achingly middle-class secondary storyline. This is a story which spends a long time strongly suggesting there is going to be an 'Aha!' moment without any payoff. Although the prose and characters are Franzen-esque, Svensson's raided the 'quirky' toolbox for this one - and in a novel where you feel like you should be hunting for connections and noticing foreshadowing, it's hard with all the quirkiness to work out what's meaningful and what isn't. Yet this might be the point? Even so, 500+ pages is a long time to teeter on the edge of farcical implausibility. Only 3 stars for the fact that Svensson is clearly a talented writer and for the excellent, seamless translation; the plot isn't really worth anybody's time. Final, glaring issue for me (which I really hope is down to my own misreading): there is an incident which I would class as sexual assault, and even if other readers wouldn't, it is definitely an example of complete lack of consent and incredible creepiness. But Svensson, almost implying that the victim overreacted due to their own neuroses, later turns it into a 'kooky', 'awkward' beginning to a love affair...?

It took me two months to read this book and yet that wasn't enough time to decide what I thought of it. On one hand, it's too long. We follow 3 siblings in 3 different countries, and if you took the pages in this book, you could make almost a whole novel about each one. Sometimes they do boring things, and I don't need that! On the other hand, the writing is striking, peculiar, and beautiful. (Thanks to Nichola Smalley for the English translation; I can always count on you!) There were so many moments throughout this book where I wanted to ponder over a particularly fine, astute phrase. Even so, the characters didn't really come alive for me, except for quick flashes where they really, really did. The whole thing was just a really weird time, and I'm kind of glad it's over, but also kind of sorry. Strange, huh?

Actual rating: 2,5*

sometimes we just need to suspend our disbelief and accept the perfectly moral monkey so that we can enjoy fun things 3.5

writing a book that blows me away and then not publishing anything else for a million years is cruel and unusual. high expectations can be a curse. assembly, the author's debut novella, came out 4 years ago, and my anticipation for its follow-up have only grown since. that book is compelling and clever, vague as a means of rendering complete a story that feels sharp and specific. it's been years since i read it, but i think of it often. this book is very dissimilar. it crams a lot of details into its 176 pages: many washed-up and amoral journalists, several wannabe hippies, one or two half-formed aspiring movements, a quasi-mystery, a viral article. it's mixed media and multi-perspective, but its extreme level of specificity barred me from learning a lot from it. we all know about political "perspective" in the news, the rising voice of the malcontent white middle class the world over, the suffocating tide of income inequality. this book felt like it didn't give me more to consider, but fictional examples of the same. there were moments i really enjoyed, but the biggest pro and the biggest con of this for me were how realistic it felt! it didn't come together in the way fiction can, but all of it felt astonishingly real. maybe it's because i'm not british. bottom line: feeling slightly disappointed by things you're excited for builds character. (thanks to the publisher for the e-arc)

I think this book had some smart, intriguing ideas about class and race and people who weaponize language about social justice culture. I found the first section of Universality, about a man who’s assaulted by someone wielding a gold bar, tightly written and experimental in a positive way. That said, the rest of the novel felt a bit too intellectual for the sake of it for my taste. It was interesting to read though lacked deeper characterization or a central narrative for me to get emotionally invested in. An okay read but not one I’d necessarily recommend unless you’re okay with a book built on ideas as opposed to a linear, character-driven narrative.

I didn't enjoy this as much as Assembly. I found most of the characters in this unlikable and extremely arrogant. I appreciated the unusual way the book was written and felt it helped the book flow better. But ultimately, with all the politics being rammed down my throat, it felt like a manifesto at times. Slightly disappointed but I do think Natasha Brown writes beautifully but I didn't enjoy this as much as I was expecting

After really enjoying the power and resonance of Brown’s debut novel Assembly, I was looking forward to a similar experience with her second book, but I am still feeling rather ambivalent about this. The core of the novel is about truth: our relationship with truth and how we can manipulate language to create versions of the truth, particularly in our current ‘post-truth’ era. I liked that it remained very British: it touches on class and race relations in modern Britain, and the journalistic culture wars we read every day, but unfortunately these themes weren’t explored in as much depth as I would’ve liked. Maybe that’s because the book is so short, maybe it’s because as someone who attended journalism school, a lot of the discussions in this book are ideas which I’ve written essays about and attended lectures on to the saturation point. Natasha Brown is a brilliant writer, but this one just sadly missed the mark for me!

2.5 rounded to 3. Natasha brown is an incredible writer and knows how to fit a lot of content in a short book. I really enjoyed her debut novel Assembly a lot, the perspective of a Black woman living in the UK struggling to find her independence and identity whilst examining racism, class, misogny — it stuck with me for a while after I read it. Unfortunately Universality was not really that for me, or at least not right now. I think a lot of folks are going to enjoy this one, as there is something there and I appreciate the message and the voyeuristic approach into each subjects chapter. It was interesting but sometimes seemed to go over my head a little bit. Sometimes I read things and it's just not the right time for me to read that book and I think that was the case for this one. Maybe I just need to think about it some more before I post my true thoughts! More detailed review to come. Thanks very much to the publisher for an advanced copy!

I was a big fan of Assembly, which was fresh, smart and surprising in all the good ways. This one was a bit less convincing. It somehow manages to be simultaneously topical and outdated. It cares about all the right things people in London should care about, but in a somewhat predictable way. It also creates an expectation at the start that it subsequently refuses to fulfill. It starts out as a plot-based novel, with a journalist investigating the disappearance of a solid gold bar after an illegal rave, but then does not follow up and morphs into something more like a pamphlet. I wanted a good story, but this is a book you should read when you are in the mood for caring about the right things. That being said, writing a second novel that is very different from a first, makes Natasha Brown an even more interesting writer and I will certainly read whatever comes next.

Great writing! Some thought provoking ideas. There are phenomenal reviews out there that may explain or even provide full analysis of this work that perhaps should be read before. I went in completely blind. This small book shows views on class, race, sex, politics, the economy and the iniquity of diversity, equity and inclusion programmes. But unfortunately this one did not work for me. To me it went nowhere. It wasn’t even entertaining. At least it was very short. If you are looking for a book with a clear plot and likeable characters, this is not the book for. Hardcover (Random House): 152 pages

Here’s what I think: - this book is essentially a novella critiquing modern society from a variety of angles through a variety of characters - there is some warnings (understatement) against media conglomeration, and the people who are now in charge of the news we receive (the general public, Zuck, Tom as Craigslist somehow makes a cameo, the Google gaggle, etc.). - the antiestablishment, “woke” crew is definitely a primary force, but I couldn’t tell what the hell the takeaway was supposed to be Here’s what I know: - I didn’t understand this book very well and all the above could be wrong - I don’t care if it is because that’s how I read the book and it’s left me frustrated - That is probably my own fault, despite being up to date and savvy on the current political climate - Gold bars could = prison yards y’all - This was a very quick and easy read, but I feel depressed and like I want to erase most of that reading experience Who could I compare this to? What readers would like this book?? Maybe authors like Katie Kitamura, Colum McCann, Garth Greenwell, Catherine Lacey and books like Audition, The Hypocrite, Small Boat, Hunchback, and The Coin. Again I apologize if those aren’t “right”, but I’m trying here folks. This book was odd. Pssst come closer (whisper voice): probably actually 2.5 ⭐️ rounded up and that’s being generous. Over and out!

I'm not usually a big fan of literary fiction; I tend to stick more to "old white guy" genres like sci-fi and thrillers/spy stories, with a little fantasy and foreign detectives thrown in. But friend reviews made this look interesting — especially that of Cardi C — and hey, it's short...so thought I'd give it a shot. And darn it if wasn't a solid 4+ stars...right up until the (for me) disappointing end. I know a lot of readers note that there's no real plot per se, but I thought I sensed at least a direction here. As explained everywhere, the first section of the book is a long and well-done magazine article, and then the next two sections dive in and deconstruct that article; the earnest writer may not be quite that earnest, the nominal bad guy may not be quite that bad, and the master manipulator behind the whole thing...just talks politics, and race, and class, and DEI and just "Britain" in general... I need to think about this one a bit, and read more other reviews. But I thought/hoped the various and slowly-revealing threads tying the characters together would weave a more revealing picture. FINAL NOTE: A number of readers commented that the book is "very British," which didn't bother me. But I realized that what DOES set me off "classes;" I hate classes. People are people and should rise or sink on their own merits and actions. The whole British idea of "class" is just one step above the Indian caste system — and at least they have a religion to blame that on.

This book is an excellent conversation starter and a compelling read. I did feel that a lot of problematic ideas were left unchallenged (which is fine if you are aware of the counterarguments already, but not if you aren't) and that it could have done with a bit more meat. That being said, this is a provocative and shape shifting narrative that spirals out in an exploration of the zeitgeist and capitalist system. Well worth reading if you like social commentary in your contemporary fiction.

Honesty is about to happen, right here; get ready for it. Sometimes you don't know what to say about a book. I mean, what DO you say when you slam the book closed and there's no "that was amazing" exclaimed? Do you shout, "That was mediocre!" I doubt most of us do such a thing. The writing in Universality was well-crafted, decent, clever, and witty. The author has a gift for stringing words together into cohesive sentences that are pleasing to read. But the story didn't resonate with me. For me personally, I'm not one to discuss politics and capitalism. Never have been. In reading more world literature this year, my horizons have broadened significantly, but I still don't think I will ever enjoy politics. There are three reasons for which my disdain for the topic can probably be attributed. One, my parents showed no interest in what went on in the world outside of their tiny bubble—other than to voice their disdain when someone who was not a conservative Christian Republican was in office (thankfully my apple fell far from the tree in regard to this viewpoint). It's extremely difficult growing up in a family knowing that what you believe and what you SHOULD have been taught is completely different from everyone who is supposed to love you. I'm not just talking about politics here. I know many of us have to face this, but it doesn't make it any less challenging. Two, I witnessed my ex-husband and his older brother come to blows over politics during a NYE gathering when I was in my mid-twenties. I literally had to physically position myself between two GIANT MEN (6'7" and 6'4", respectively). I'm only 5'2". It was quite the sight. Visualize it if you are so inclined. And three, I don't like conflict. I really just want everyone to get along, and I know that this is not how the world works, but one can hope, no? Comedic anecdotes aside, I could appreciate the cleverness of the experimental structure of the novel. I wouldn't read this again, but I still would recommend it to anyone who enjoys such books, as the talent of the author is unmistakable. I'm going to go relax now; talking about politics gives me anxiety, and I really don't have anything else to say about this book. The end. 10/5/25 8/22/25 I think I'm at a 3.5 star on this. I enjoyed the experimental nature of the narrative. I am really not very big into politics, so I will admit some of this went over my head. I did learn some things and I could appreciate the concepts and ideas presented. Lenny is a bad-ass b*tch and I didn't know whether to love her, hate her, strangle her, or hug her. I guess that makes for one appealing character and a down to earth driving force that propelled this narrative forward. "I'm fighting for you."

“𝘗𝘦𝘰𝘱𝘭𝘦 — 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘺𝘰𝘶’𝘭𝘭 𝘯𝘰𝘵𝘪𝘤𝘦 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘪𝘧 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘢𝘤𝘵𝘶𝘢𝘭𝘭𝘺 𝘭𝘰𝘰𝘬 𝘢𝘵 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘮. 𝘐 𝘮𝘦𝘢𝘯, 𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘭𝘭𝘺 𝘭𝘰𝘰𝘬. 𝘗𝘢𝘺 𝘢𝘵𝘵𝘦𝘯𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯 𝘵𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘱𝘦𝘰𝘱𝘭𝘦 𝘢𝘳𝘰𝘶𝘯𝘥 𝘺𝘰𝘶. 𝘕𝘰𝘵𝘪𝘤𝘦 𝘸𝘩𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘺 𝘢𝘳𝘦, 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘺 𝘴𝘢𝘺 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘥𝘰…𝘋𝘰 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘴𝘦𝘦 𝘪𝘵? 𝘐’𝘭𝘭 𝘵𝘦𝘭𝘭 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘪𝘴: 𝘶𝘨𝘭𝘪𝘯𝘦𝘴𝘴. 𝘗𝘦𝘰𝘱𝘭𝘦 𝘢𝘳𝘦 𝘶𝘨𝘭𝘺. 𝘈𝘯𝘥 𝘴𝘵𝘶𝘱𝘪𝘥. 𝘔𝘰𝘵𝘪𝘷𝘢𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘰𝘯𝘭𝘺 𝘣𝘺 𝘧𝘦𝘢𝘳 𝘰𝘳 𝘫𝘦𝘢𝘭𝘰𝘶𝘴𝘺 𝘰𝘳, 𝘐 𝘥𝘰𝘯’𝘵 𝘬𝘯𝘰𝘸, 𝘰𝘤𝘤𝘢𝘴𝘪𝘰𝘯𝘢𝘭 𝘱𝘦𝘵𝘵𝘺 𝘩𝘢𝘵𝘳𝘦𝘥. 𝘛𝘩𝘦 𝘪𝘯𝘵𝘦𝘳𝘯𝘦𝘵 𝘴𝘪𝘮𝘱𝘭𝘺 𝘰𝘧𝘧𝘦𝘳𝘦𝘥 𝘢 𝘮𝘦𝘥𝘪𝘶𝘮 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘢𝘭𝘭 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘤𝘳𝘢𝘱𝘰𝘭𝘢. 𝘐𝘵’𝘴 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘴𝘢𝘥, 𝘪𝘯𝘦𝘷𝘪𝘵𝘢𝘣𝘭𝘦 𝘤𝘰𝘯𝘴𝘦𝘲𝘶𝘦𝘯𝘤𝘦 𝘰𝘧 𝘴𝘦𝘮𝘪-𝘦𝘥𝘶𝘤𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘮𝘢𝘴𝘴𝘦𝘴. 𝘎𝘳𝘢𝘯𝘵𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘳𝘺 𝘪𝘥𝘪𝘰𝘵 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘥𝘪𝘻𝘻𝘺𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘱𝘰𝘸𝘦𝘳 𝘰𝘧 𝘢 𝘤𝘢𝘯 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘸𝘢𝘭𝘭. 𝘛𝘢𝘬𝘦 𝘢𝘸𝘢𝘺 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘮𝘰𝘥𝘦𝘳𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘦𝘧𝘧𝘦𝘤𝘵 𝘰𝘧 𝘢 𝘱𝘩𝘺𝘴𝘪𝘤𝘢𝘭 𝘣𝘰𝘥𝘺, 𝘢𝘭𝘭 𝘵𝘩𝘰𝘴𝘦 𝘩𝘶𝘮𝘣𝘭𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘧𝘭𝘢𝘸𝘴; 𝘰𝘳 𝘰𝘧 𝘰𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘳 𝘱𝘦𝘰𝘱𝘭𝘦, 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘳𝘪𝘴𝘬 𝘰𝘧 𝘴𝘰𝘤𝘪𝘢𝘭 𝘤𝘰𝘯𝘴𝘦𝘲𝘶𝘦𝘯𝘤𝘦, 𝘢𝘯𝘥 — 𝘷𝘰𝘪𝘭𝘢! 𝘐 𝘯𝘰𝘵𝘪𝘤𝘦𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘶𝘨𝘭𝘪𝘯𝘦𝘴𝘴 𝘢 𝘭𝘰𝘯𝘨 𝘵𝘪𝘮𝘦 𝘢𝘨𝘰.” I regret to report that I did this book injustice with my poor reading. I failed to see that the book is a clear look at rhetoric. What are we actually saying? What do we actually mean to each other? Through multiple points of view that front language based on different social class, I am reminded of the great uncomfortable dinner scene in the book, but also all the ones I went through myself. Having been asked and judged by my schooling, my major, my upbringing it was always difficult to code-switch, vague navigations to assume positions where I kept my place at tables, but went home with so much shame and embarrassment with how little net worth I had to my name. And so it happened again. This book, outside of further themes on identity politics and the rhetoric used around social issues, I am once again at the uncomfortable dinner table. I am left with little to say because I examined the book as a mirror, seeing too much of my uncomfortable self. I failed to look at the book as a window. I am left to say that I do no have the vocabulary or maturity to talk about this novella that packs a punch in its economy and form. It’s a timely novella, lively with the complications of the current cultural climate. Buzz words are played, holding meaning and then without as the points of view change, as the social classes are observed, and, ultimately, how we present ourselves at the face of language.

I can’t think of much to say about this book which generally means it wasn’t great nor was it bad. It was fine. It explores a lot of the same themes as Lambert’s May Our Joy Endure (one of my favorites of the year)—wealth, woke/cancel culture, victimhood, politics, capitalism, etc.—but whereas Lambert’s story soared, thrilling me with its innovative prose and the depths of its nuance, Universality felt a bit unsubstantial, unexciting, and could have benefitted from more multidimensional characters. While it doesn’t feel completely fair to judge this by comparing it to another novel, reading doesn’t exist in a vacuum. It is what it is. I’ve heard good things about Assembly, so I’ll still probably pick that up at some point. As for this one, I’m neutral. Unless more people start calling it the book of 2025, in which case, I may have to turn into a hater because—as the kids say—BFFR :-)

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2020 In this semi-autobiographical novel, debut author Gabriel Krauze works with his own experiences coming of age as the son of Polish immigrants in the brutalist public housing estate of South Kilburn, London, and making money as a drug dealer and criminal - while also completing a degree in English literature. Our protagonist - also named Gabriel, but called Snoopz by his peers - is terrified of the idea of having to work a nine-to-five job and uses every chance to point out how easy it was for him to get the degree despite his poor work ethic because, hey, he is so smart - and it's ironic that at the same time, the book makes his life as a criminal living on the edge in gritty London seem not only bleak, but most of all dull. There are robberies and gangs and drugs and sex, there is love and friendship and betrayal and alliances - and most of all, it's dull. How the hell is that possible? It is of course commendable that Krauze paints an authentic picture of South Kilburn that illuminates the difficult situation many people who live there are in - many of the residents are immigrants without many resources who live in a dangerous environment, as the concrete blocks have been plagued by crime, drugs, shootings, stabbings and gang wars (Krauze refers to some real incidents in the novel). By centering on these issues, Krauze points out many social problems he himself was a part of, and he employs the specific dialect spoken in the milieu. Unfortunately though, his text is highly descriptive and sometimes even feels enumerative, like a set of very common bleak scenes rhythmically interrupted by people smoking cigarettes (I swear, the repetition of the "I have to smoke a cigarette now" motif was driving me up the walls - not because I mind my fictional characters smoking, but because it is in there ca. 63384353 times). And there are of course great novels about the relentless side of postmodern London, like GRM: Brainfuck and - the obvious comparison - In Our Mad and Furious City, Guy Gunaratne's epic masterpiece set in the decrepit housing blocks in the north of the city. Gunaratne was nominated for the Booker 2018 and went on grabbing the International Dylan Thomas Prize and the Jhalak Prize instead. His book is full of music and lyrical perfection, he conveys emotional intensity and offers a captivating plot - not one dull second here. Even though Krauze is marketed as an authentic voice (and with the made-up label of "estate noir" which, let's face it, is a very clumsy attempt at trying to frame a text), it's Gunaratne's story that finds the words to open up these realities to readers. This is not a bad book at all, but it's also not a great book - it's just not enough to say "I've been there, I've seen it", an author also has to be able to turn the descriptions of reality into art. And while I have to admit that going up against Gunaratne is a tough call, it's also true that Krauze's book can't compete with this stellar entry from 2018. But would I read whatever Krauze comes up with next? Definitely.

An Island is a tense, focused drama that follows Samuel, an aging lighthouse keeper, after a refugee washes ashore on the island Samuel tends off the coast of an unnamed African country. There are many layers to this short novel as we weave between the present and Samuel’s past life. Karen Jennings’s prose is unadorned and workmanlike. The treatment of refugees and xenophobia are explored, as well as solitude and trauma.

Reading this novel felt claustrophobic, and that would be ok if it felt like I was moving through a plot that was developing tension and/or a release of tension, but it felt a little one-note instead. It didn't help me love it that so much of the story is written as flashback. I admired the mastery of the prose. I would love to see Karen Jennings try a novel where she didn't keep quite as tight a stranglehold on the characters and action.

I’m trying to balance my personal taste with what I objectively think of the book. Honestly, this isn’t my cuppa. I can do elegiac, but this is relentless, oppressive bitterness, with a few moments when I thought it would lift, and then I just felt the soot, the filth, the murk, the isolation of it all. It’s potent, like the manure that is described in the narrative, but the repetition of the protagonist, Samuel, went flat and blunt after a while. He had gotten paranoid, mentally weak, and a bit touched over these years that he was finally freed from a 25-year prison sentence, following a war of attrition in an unnamed African place that had been colonized, freed, and then ruled by a dictator. Samuel had left to be a lighthouse keeper and live on a sad island by himself. What mattered to him at this point? Samuel is getting old, he aches everywhere, probably from arthritis, and his memories aren’t pleasant. His only mercy was that he actually remembered them, but if I were him, I would rather forget the pitiful life led. He has guilt, regret, and sorrow for his decisions during a time of war, to his family, to his comrades, and to his honor, if there was any to lose. I felt suffocated while reading, and always soiled, as Jennings certainly painted the bleakest of portraits of a sewer-y place, a spongy-earthed, brackish island with mud and rocks in abundance, and depressing, wind-chilly weather. Things just rust here, and rot. The people described here, some dead, are not exciting or surprising. They are futile, lost souls. And reader, don’t look for redemption here, it’s not that kind of book. I am not sure who it actually “appeals” to, but the author is effective at prose and her characters are believable and even familiar in some ways, if you are depicting detestable, frightened casualties of the worst kinds of violence. Perhaps because of this slaughter that the Russians imposed on the Ukrainians, I’m having a hard time wanting to read or recommend this kind of book. This could be my own user error. These kinds of vivid but implacable fug-gy and swampy images got to me, after a while: “Its walls had crumbled, half the roof had fallen in. Inside were rotten wooden crates, empty bottles, rusted tins. Black words and images, scrawled in charcoal, filled the walls.” …”the shell of a tortoise…he wondered if the population had been eaten by smugglers and sailors, or whether it had been a pet of one of the slavers who had sailed these waters in the past, left behind to live on the island alone, and to die here, forgotten.” Death and incarceration as metaphor were never-ending in this tale, this sad allegory. But, at the same time, I trust Karen Jennings as a writer. She is strong, sensory, decisive. I would be the first to line up for her next one, if she chooses a different topic! Thank you to Hogarth for sending me a copy for review.

** spoiler alert ** 3.5 Longlisted 2021 Booker Prize Jenning's An Island is a fascinating read. This quite bleak fable is written in the third-person perspective of a lighthouse keeper, Samuel, living on an isolated African island. He's been there for over twenty years with intermittent visits from a boat that restocks him with food and other necessary supplies. Over the years many bodies have washed up on the island and Samuel buries them in walls he's been constructing and repairing. Many of these dead are refugees succumbed to their risky sea crossings. Much of the narrative focuses on how Samuel's life is interrupted by a refugee who washes up and survives. He cannot communicate with this man and yet they come to a kind of accommodation and understanding. Through a series of flashbacks we learn about Samuel's life and the costs he bears from the violences and risks of political struggle and dissent in a dictator ruled African country. It's a story of post-colonialism and yet also a deeply personal account. With its fabular structure the novel is definitely seeking to work as allegory for many of the contemporary political struggles involving post-colonialism and its associated dispossessions. I'm not sure it entirely works at this level. It feels a little too staged, but then I guess allegory like this often does. But the book is quite successful in threading themes of the struggle for comprehension and understanding across our often considerable cultural and political differences through the relationship of these two men. It's also I think a story of Samuel grappling for self-understanding, in the midst of his long isolation as he comes to terms with his own history and how it has made and unmade him.

For those who don’t know, An Island is from the only small press in this year’s Booker longlist. Considering the majority of the books come from PRH, it’s good to see a tiny indie on there. As those who follow my blog know, I support and champion them as I believe that’s where the cutting edge stuff lies. An Island’s main protagonist is Samuel. He lives on his own island, in a lighthouse. His only contact with society is through two deliverymen who give him unwanted products from the U.S. At this point he’s happy. Then one day a half dead refugee washes up on the beach and Samuel takes him to his house and gives him the necessities to live. This triggers the memories of is life on South Africa, where he took part in political protests and paid the price in many ways. The worst result being after being liberated his country fell into the hands of a dictator, which started the cycle of protests. An Island is most definitely a political book (or are all books political in their own way). It’s about violence and racism. Like all the other books on this year’s longlist, there is also a portrayal of a small scale society; the prejudices, traditions and attitudes. A further subplot in this multi-layered novel consists of Samuel trying to prove himself to his potential father in law. Despite being thought provoking and deceptively complex, I found Jennings prose to be a bit cold: I admired it, I loved the plot. I even liked how the book was structured. However I did feel that something was lacking. Nevertheless this is a novel albeit a brief one, worth reading and (mentally) tearing apart.

On the outset, it's the story of Samuel who is the sole person living off an island. He is the caretaker of a lighthouse, and keeps getting supplies bimonthly from mainland. The story takes a twist when a man's unconscious body floats up on the islands shore. Via flashbacks, we get to know the hardened life of Samuel. There is a lot to read between the lines. Loved reading the simple and fast story, but in the end I'm sure to have missed what's the point! (Slavery? Immigration? Solitude? what's with the red hen? language barrier?) Needs some homework - my boat seeks a guiding light from the lighthouse!

I'm maybe a little bit surprised (?) not to see much criticism applied to the case of a white South African writing an explicitly generalized attack on the post-colonial states of Africa and their societies. You know, arguments about "is that your place, or your story to tell?" But then again this is a "pox on all their houses" kind of novel in which everyone with any power at all, both Western and non-Western, pretty much behaves badly at all times. Why should we be surprised, the book asks, if barbarity follows barbarity, oppression follows oppression, paranoia follows paranoia. As it was, so it will be. So thus the victims of ethnic violence willingly become the perpetrators of ethnic violence, as embodied in the character of Samuel. His family violently chased off their land by Europeans, he picked up a weapon as a young man after independence and chased off families himself, who are "nice people" but "other". Lest we think things may improve over time, as an old man on the titular island he again commits violence against the "other" to claim power and possession. In case the point isn't fully made, even his chickens are always ganging up to attack another chicken that they view as "other". See, it's part of nature. In many cases this may be depressingly accurate I know but yet the generalization does kind of disturb me. Makes for a bleak outlook that's for certain. I do allow that it is well told and deserving of its Booker longlisting though, so not all bad here!

Well written, good story, interesting ideas. Fucking bleak. Overall an engaging and highly competent novel and well worth the read. I can't help feeling like I've read the same sort of themes done a bit better before, though. I'm thinking McCarthy's The Road, Coetzee's Life and Times of Michael K, Ben Smith's Doggerland. I'd be very surprised if it won the Booker but you could spend three hours in worse company.

Thank you to Hogarth for providing a copy of this novel. Originally published by a micropress, this South African novel gained attention when it was chosen as a longlist selection for the Booker prize. It was picked up by Holland House and this year, finally published in the U.S. The novel is bleak, spare, and taut. Major themes include post-colonialism, authoritarianism, classism, and xenophobia. The misery at the heart of the story is that for many people, the more things change, the more they stay the same.

I was a bit conflicted when reading "An Island." On one hand it is a beautifully written, dramatic character study, on the other hand it is an allegory for the effects of colonialism on Africa. As a character study/fairy tale I think it is a very interesting and lovely work. The language is beautiful, the liminal spaces feel is perfect, and the characters feel trapped in circumstances that they can't quite believe are real. As an allegory for African politics I think this book is oversimplified. It criticizes generalities instead of any person or policy because the book never specifically talks about the people or policies that created the conditions in any detail. I started out loving this novel, but by section 3 my attention had started to drift and I had started to feel a bit frustrated with the entire endeavor.

Samuel, an old lighthouse keeper, lives by himself on an island, almost entirely self-sufficient except for supplies he receives by boat twice a week, his only contact with the outside world. One day, the sea washes onto his shore a half-dead young man – a refugee. Samuel’s solitudinous lifestyle is pierced, and so too are his thoughts. Memories of his life on the mainland plague Samuel day and night, and start to threaten his current reality. A highly political novel which explores themes such as, land ownership, racism and xenophobia, dictatorship, rebellion, colonisation and refugees, Jennings’ novel, despite being the least known of the Booker Prize, holds its’ own against the other contestants. Despite being a relatively short novel, at only 119 pages, Jennings manages to build a realistically suspenseful story as we see Samuel’s fragile mind battle with paranoia and confusion upon the arrival of a refugee to his island. It was well-written enough that even I started to doubt what the true intentions of the young man were, and whether he really was a threat to Samuel. Interspersed between these island moments, are flashbacks to Samuel’s previous life as his unnamed country underwent political turmoil and upheaval. Samuel, despite being extremely passive and weak-willed, gets caught up in the middle of it all and we see the fight for independence, dictatorship, a failed democracy, all through the eyes of an unwilling participant, an average Joe. It’s a fable with important and well-written themes, and although I think it deserves its place on the Booker shortlist, for some reason it didn't particularly move me as much as it should have and I neither loved it nor hated it.

In an unnamed African country, Samuel, an elderly man, lives in total isolation on an island, tending a lighthouse; his only contact with the outside world is the supply boat that comes every two weeks. One day, he finds a man washed up onshore, and it’s soon apparent that he’s a survivor of a refugee boat that capsized not far away. They don’t speak the same language and are unable to communicate very effectively, and the two co-exist uneasily. Flashback chapters reveal Samuel’s past—his family’s dispossession of their land under colonial rule, then his involvement as a young man (because of his attraction to a woman) with a group of dissidents protesting the iron rule of their Dictator. It’s a feebly ineffective group, but Samuel is grabbed up in the sweeping arrests that take place after a protest, tortured, and imprisoned for many decades, where he is broken, body and soul. After his release, he lands the lighthouse keeper job, and prefers his removal from society. It’s into this fraught cauldron of personal history of violence and betrayal that the “intruder” arrives, and Samuel’s reaction to him is governed by his fractured life. We never learn anything concrete about the other man, only see him through Samuel’s eyes. This thought-provoking, brief novel seems a metaphor for recent African history: colonialism and post-colonialism and their sorrowful legacies.

3.5 stars After the first section, the balance between current day and the past began to feel more and more uneven. This was intentional, a way to show the unsteady flow of time and confusion of age, but I vastly preferred the survival/communication aspect of the island segments. Parts of this were incredibly compelling, but every character other than our narrator seemed very flat and self-centered. It was hard to tell anyone apart from the flashbacks, since the dominant theme seems to be “people care most about their own survival.” And no one had any other character trait. By the end the message just felt too on the nose and I wanted a bit more nuance and complexity.

forever thankful for the ubc bookstore’s bargain book sale 🤭

Man really is imperfect isn't he?

A refugee washes up on a barren island occupied by a lone lighthousekeeper named Samuel. It is an atmospheric begin to this short story, and I had hoped we would see character development over a longer time and reflection on the theme of communication, but the novel is told instead over a period of four days and focuses instead on the themes of trauma, political resistance, fear, and isolation. Samuel has a troubled past which is told through switching between the present-day and previous timelines. His past helps explain aspects of his personality in the present and is used as a device to present the historical context. I found the present-day story more engaging due to the tensions between Samuel and the refugee and the unusualness of the situation, and my issues below with the historical context. The past-day timeline discusses the fight for independence in an anonymous sub-Saharan African country that seems to be based on South Africa (e.g. the characters drink in a "shebeen"). Others have described this as an allegorical work, but to me it is not subtle enough to really fit that label - there are discussions of "the Dictator" and "the Independence Movement", which, never being named or given much detail, are left generic. Things are often at the extremes - highly xenophobic attitudes, highly corrupt politicians, and so on, which made this part - the backbone of the novel - less convincingly executed. There was some nice writing here, and the setting is definitely memorable, but the historical genericity and lack of development in the present timeline meant I never truly felt gripped by the novel.

A taut, tense story that I appreciated but didn't necessarily enjoy. I listened to the audiobook and loved the narrator (Ben Onwukwe) and would seek him out again. For more book talk, check out the podcast I co-host, Book Talk, etc. New episodes every Tuesday! https://www.booktalketcpodcast.com/

There is a story in this writing, and maybe more than one. I had the audiobook and there were parts I had problems hearing as well as what was being said. The synopsis is really spot on. However, I didn't account for being alone twenty years and suddenly there is another human being. If I ever find the physical copy, I'm going to pick it up. I feel like I missed part of the author's message.

A novel about class, privilege set in Nigeria. Eniola runs errands for the local tailor and tries to raise money in order to pay his and his sister's school fees. Wuraola is a young doctor from a wealthy family, engaged to the son of a politician. Their lives collide briefly with a momentous impact. What I liked? The vivid scenes completely captured my heart. The dinner party. Mother Yeye having thoughts while thinking about earrings. Wuraola's sister who confronts the family at a family dinner. And Wuraola's denial at the same party. Eniola's dream to attend a big school. His shock when his parents cook his favorite meal with no reason and then hint at their plans for him. The beating students who do not pay the fees endure at school. The difference in reaction to the above punishment by Eniola and his sister. The shame Eniola feels when he is forced to beg. The helplessness he feels when he is hungry and sees peanuts being fried. When Eniola lies about stealing a phone to clear an interview (and also get food)—one of my fav scenes. If I could read each scene as a short story, this would be an incredible book. Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀ proves once again that she has an excellent command over characters and their lives. Her writing touches your heart. My heart certainly went out to Eniola who is pushed into the nefarious plan of a local politician. I could feel the suffocation suffered by Wuraola. Why does she suffer so? The villains are ruthless, manipulative and take advantage. I loved how every character had a well rounded personality. Cons: The story does not pick up until 40% of the book. This was an incredibly long wait and I continued with the book because I love Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀'s writing. I wasn't disappointed though. It was an engaging and heartfelt read after that. I only wish the first half of the book was tighter with a purpose because I imagine many readers might give up before the 40% mark. The first half wasn't bad by any means, just that you expect more from such a fine writer. Overall, I enjoyed the book. And Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀ remains one of my favorite writers. 3.5 stars PS: Ignore reviews that say the book has 'too many characters'. Large number of characters is a norm in non-white writing, and communities. Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀ has introduced her cast very well and given every single character a well-fleshed personality. No two are alike. The cast of characters isn't confusing at all. I hope white readers would do the bare minimum of understanding how other communities exist.

She had always marvelled at his calm reassurance that everything good in his life would either remain the same or get better. He took good fortune for granted. As though it were impossible that it would abide only for a spell. She had never been able to shake the sense that life was war, a series of battles with the occasional spell of good things. I’ve read quite a few books set in modern-day Nigeria (enough to acknowledge that as colonists drew the country’s borders, this enforced association of unaffiliated tribes is no cultural monolith), and while I am open to learning more about the pressures that any group of people live under, I really didn’t learn anything new in A Spell of Good Things. Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀ (whose previous novel Stay with Me did expand my heart and mind) is going for an intergenerational epic here: Rotating between the POVs of many members of an upper class and a lower class family, she demonstrates the ways in which every Nigerian is negatively affected by political corruption, lack of investment in social programs and infrastructure, and entrenched social customs. But there really wasn’t anything new or surprising in the details. Adébáyọ̀’s characters are well-drawn and sympathetic — it’s hard not to wince as various people are controlled or beaten by those who have power over them — but overall, the writing is straightforward, often dull, and builds to a dramatic conclusion devoid of any literary or philosophical payoff. This was fine, but I wouldn’t give it the Booker Prize. God forbid she ever say it out loud, but Kúnlé was a much better catch than she expected for Wúràọlá. The longer Wúràọlá had remained single, flitting from one unserious boyfriend to another, the more Yèyé had worried that, when she did decide to commit to one of them, closer to thirty than twenty, she would be left with a pool of expiring men who were unmarried because no one wanted them. On her worst days, she had imagined Wúràọlá ending up with some barely educated drunkard whose parents lived in a house with no indoor plumbing. And how would that have improved on her daughter’s fortunes in this life? Although the novel rotates between nine POVs, the two main characters are: Ẹniọlá — a poor boy in his last year of secondary school, whose father had been laid off from his teaching job years before, and as the dad now spends his days in bed staring at the wall, Ẹniọlá’s mom is forced to beg and scavenge to afford her children’s school fees and rent on their squalid flat, and: Wúràọlá — a brilliant doctor rotating through her hospital residencies, from a rich and influential family, whose mother is pressuring her to get married. Although these two characters couldn’t be more different, the failings of their government affect them in the same ways: lack of investment in education and healthcare sees not enough teachers and books for Ẹniọlá, not enough fellow doctors or medicine for Wúràọlá; without enough food, Ẹniọlá is lucky to get one meal a day, whereas Wúràọlá is too busy to stop and eat more than once a day; with an upcoming election, venal politicians will put pressure on Wúràọlá’s father to support this one or that if he wants to continue getting government contracts, while those same politicians won’t be above hiring a poor boy like Ẹniọlá to enforce a different kind of pressure: Ẹniọlá pressed his forehead against the window. So what if he was carrying a machete? Holy Michael had not asked him to hurt anyone with it, he was just going to scare people a little. If he could help his mother and sister, could whatever made it possible be as wrong as his father claimed? While not very much happens for most of the novel, Ẹniọlá on a bus with a machete does initiate dramatic events, and while I see that many reviewers think the ending justifies the journey, I’m going to shield myself behind the Kirkus review that refers to this “trajectory” as “predictable and moralizing”; hey, their words, not mine. I found it interesting that Adébáyọ̀ presents the female characters as smarter and more capable than their male partners — although Ẹniọlá is shown as desperate to complete his education, it’s his younger sister who gets perfect grades; Wúràọlá is a respected doctor while her fiancé couldn’t pass the entrance exam to med school; Ẹniọlá’s mom will do anything to support her family while his dad is too depressed to even apply for work; Wúràọlá’s mother, Yèyé, has secret investments in case their “spell of good things” runs dry (advice she received from her very capable older sisters); even the tailor shop (a storyline that I think could have been cut without losing anything) is owned by a woman. It was interesting that women can succeed in this society — there doesn’t seem to be any barrier to girls receiving the same educational opportunities as boys — even though they still suffer under sexist customs (the women aren’t complete until they’re married; the poor family’s landlord will only deal with the dad, even though it’s the mom who scrapes together the rent; there are countless rules for prostrating themselves before, addressing, and serving the men.) Even so, I was intrigued that Adébáyọ̀ would present someone as independent and intelligent as Dr Wúràọlá getting giddily caught up in the admiration of others once she does get engaged and (view spoiler) I get that Adébáyọ̀ is addressing both sexism and classism — and the extra pressures put on people by a corrupt government — but I honestly don’t think she’s saying anything new here: yeah, these things are bad; no, this didn’t do much for me.

I'm afraid to say that I had to slog through three quarters of this book. The last quarter is then very fast paced with a lot of action but the scene setting up to that point is quite repetitive. I would have cheerfully chopped a good hundred or more pages out of it. I was looking forward to a writer who had been likened to Chinua Achebe in talent and, for whose first novel, there had been so much praise. I think perhaps this book simply wasn't for me. I've read a fair amount of books set during different time periods in Nigerian history so I thought I was prepared but I still found myself googling many words and phrases (which I hope will be translated in the finished edit) and even Google translate couldn't help with a few. I was on the verge of giving up a few times but after reading the synopsis and a few reviews I assumed that there would be more interaction between the main characters much earlier in the book The characters were certainly described in detail and their backgrounds similarly so. I think perhaps I was simply expecting a different book after having read the synopsis. I'd still like to read other novels by this author though.

Not bad, it took me some time to get into it… But once I did it was okay. It wasn’t bad. “Life was war, a series of battles with the occasional spell of good things.”

It's like a three hour movie that should have been an hour long. I liked how subtle the author used the title in the story.

3.5 Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Award. Sixteen-year-old Dawn Simpson made a mistake that altered her life. She had a one-night stand with a man she met at the Trinidadian carnival and became pregnant. In upper-class Trinidadian society, pregnancy out of wedlock was considered a disgrace that brought shame not only on Dawn but also on her entire family. As a consequence, under the cover of darkness, Dawn's parents shipped her to a Catholic convent in Venezuela. There she gave birth to her daughter, who the nuns put up for adoption. The family vowed never to speak of the " incident" again. In Love Forms, Claire Adam explores the lifelong sense of loss, grief, guilt, and shame Dawn experiences as a consequence of giving up her daughter. The novel, written from Dawn's point of view at age 58, shifts back and forth in time. It chronicles her move to England, marriage, the birth and rearing of two sons, a faltering medical career, and divorce. Interwoven throughout the tale is her longing, regret, and attempts to find her daughter. This search is also an attempt to come to terms with herself and her life. As an exploration of the trauma of giving up a baby for adoption, the novel is highly successful. However, the story begins to drag midway through. Dawn is the only fully developed character, and the depiction of her marriage lags due to insufficient development in the characters of her husband and sons. Overall, I liked the book and found the ending moving. I recommend it, although I'm not sure if it is one of the 13 best books of the year written in English.

At 16, Dawn Bishop, white and rich, is secretly taken undercover of darkness, from her home in Trinidad to Venezuela. She’s to temporarily live with nuns until she gives birth, with the child being given up for adoption. She returns to Trinidad with a certain amount of bitterness and resumes her life. Now she’s Dawn Wilson and 58 years old, she’s been married, divorced and lives in England where she’s been for most of her life. Much of that time things are good and she has two grown-up sons although she’s had to downgrade her house and her London postcode following the divorce, her life is still okay. However, her mind is on the child she gives birth to all those years ago and she begins a search to see if she can find her. This is not just a search for an offspring, Dawn is searching for her sense of self to try to fill the void the baby leaves in her life and soul. The start of the novel is really intriguing, an air of mystery as Dawn goes on the journey and what follows is a moving story as she describes her sadness, her confliction and other emotions really well and so I do feel empathy for her for what she has lost. She conveys her complicated life well, her complex relations with her sons, her mother and her brothers. However, I think the storytelling of Dawn‘s search loses its way as it gets mixed up and infused with reflections on Trinidad and Venezuela, which whilst interesting, takes your eye off the search. I enjoy the Trinidad of her growing up years and then looking back at the age of 58 on how it has changed. There’s a lot on the political, economic and cultural situation of both Trinidad and Venezuela and the issues both places have today. There’s also her everyday life in her new home in Brockley (London) which compared to the rest is a bit mundane. Some of this causes me to lose some enthusiasm for the book which is a shame as the premise is a very good one. I suppose as much as anything it’s a love letter to Trinidad and the island is definitely on my bucket list. The ending is a beautiful one, I feel what Dawn feels and it does choke me up and recollect. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Faber and Faber for the much appreciated Epub in return for an honest review.

3.5 Love Forms tells an all-too-common tale of a woman, Dawn Bishop, who finds herself "ketch" (pregnant) after a one night stand with a tourist to Trinidad's Carnival. As the daughter of a rich family Dawn is taken to a convent where she gives birth and then gives up her daughter. Years later, now a divorcee with two grown sons and living in London, Dawn is still searching for the baby girl who she gave up for adoption. The story follows Dawn's journey and her efforts to be reunited with the child despite not remembering much from that time and encountering resistance from her parents and brothers. I confess to being a little disappointed with this novel. It seems to sort of meander along in a circular motion with Dawn being thwarted at every turn. However it's well written and the characters are sympathetic. I'm not sure what I wanted from the book but something with more impact perhaps. And, at times, it felt a little more like a travel guide for Trinidad and Venezuela. Thankyou to Netgalley and Faber & Faber for the advance review copy.

Well written, very evocative of place, but somehow a relatively pedestrian reading experience for this reader. Love Forms is a reflective examination of motherhood, and of the ripple effect that roads taken, and not taken, have in our lives. The premise was there for me, the characterisation had moments of real strength. In the end I felt like this story didn’t really go anywhere in particular. I’m not the kind of reader that needs strong plot direction, but this story did need some to avoid feeling cyclical. Okay but not great for me.

Claire Adam’s Love Forms (longlisted for the Booker Prize) follows Dawn Bishop, nearly sixty and looking back on the defining choices of her life. Born in Trinidad and raised with privilege, Dawn became pregnant as a teenager and was sent to a convent in Venezuela. She gave her baby up for adoption. Decades later, now divorced and living alone in London, she revisits those memories—her regrets, her maternal instincts, and her sense of identity tied to both her culture and her past. I enjoyed the commentary on Trinidadian life, especially the descriptions of Carnival and the social world she grew up in. There are touching moments too, like when Dawn imagines conversations with the daughter she never raised—wondering what it would have been like to brush her hair or watch her grow up, and teach her about their language and culture. It’s an emotional journey as she searches for the child she was forced to give up for reasons she describes at depth. That said, the novel didn’t fully land for me. I thought the storyline about a connection she makes with a young woman who may possibly be her long lost daughter wasn’t as compelling as it could’ve been. The reflective storytelling style and the back and forth in time and place felt a little unbalanced. Dawn’s voice is strong, but the lack of development for the other characters felt flat to me. While certain parts of the book drew me in, others parts made my attention wander. Overall, this was an introspective, layered novel, but it didn’t capture me all the way through.

book 4 | booker longlist 2025 3.5 stars A decent short novel about motherhood and family set in Trinidad and the UK.

I wondered, multiple times throughout reading Love Forms, if I had somehow gotten a hold of a completely different book than what the Booker 2025 judging panel read. I found the prose just okay, even at times somewhat overwritten – why tell us about the history of Trinidad and Tobago when you could show us what it was like? This over-explanation bleeds into the events of the book itself: events will happen, and then Dawn, our narrator, will relay them again, just in case we missed what was said two pages ago. The narration was solid – I really enjoyed her use of reduplication for emphasis – but I didn’t think it read like “A hushed conversation in the next room” as the judges thought it did. I found the narration to be quite emotive, ebullient even. How can you say a narrator sounds like they’re telling you secrets when they say stuff like “Jesus Lord Father, I was thinking. Not in a religious way, you understand, it was more of a general motherly despair. Jesus Lord Father! Help me with this child!” (107). And, ...you look out the window and you’re seeing bright sparkling blue ocean, and everyone in the plane is getting excited, looking out the window, because it’s like, yeah! The Caribbean, man! We leave winter behind, and – look sunlight! Look ocean! Look all the coconut trees, man! (p. 205) However, one bad thing: there is no other phrase that I want to read less in a novel that takes place in 2022, was published in 2025, and is longlisted for the most prestigious literary prize in the English-speaking publishing world, than “Epic fail” (83). I also think the judges went overboard on the ‘mystery’ aspect of this, where Dawn ostensibly tracks down her long-lost daughter. I would say about 20% of the novel is devoted to that, whereas the rest of the book consists of Dawn mining her memory for patterns from the past. From a structural perspective, I liked this; Trinidad and Tobago felt alive compared to the drabness of the UK, and the weight of the family dynamics were just that perfect homely balance of loving and annoying. There’s quite a bit to like about Love Forms, but for me it falls flat in the execution. Thankfully, the novel truly does stick the landing. The path getting there is exciting in theory, but shame that the prose withholds Adam’s ambitions.

This novel is one woman’s attempt to piece together a past she can’t fully recall as she searches for a child she gave up for adoption decades earlier. While the protagonist's hazy memory is an intentional and central part of the story, for me, the slow and often frustrating process of her reconstructing the past kept me at an emotional distance. I also found the narrator's perspective difficult to connect with. The narrative sometimes lingers on more commonplace anxieties—like the fear of flying in a small plane—while the truly unique and high-stakes aspects of her journey felt less explored. There are moments towards the end that are genuinely tender, particularly a voicemail she leaves, but overall, I remained somewhat detached from the story and her journey. On a final note, the audiobook production was excellent.

I really enjoy reading books that explore the interplay of motherhood with family dynamics and social respectability and so this was a natural choice for me when the Booker longlist was announced. The premise of the book is excellent. It starts out strong - there was an emotional undercurrent that was intertwined perfectly with the mystery of what happened to the protagonist’s adopted child that kept me hooked in the beginning but felt a little underexplored towards the end. More than the main plot, I enjoyed a peak into the life, culture and history of Trinidad (and Venezuela). Cricket playing nations always feel like cousins to me and so it was exciting to see all the mentions of West Indies cricket - it made me think about the correlation between the economy and the success/eventual downfall of West Indies team :/

It’s a book that grows on you the further you read. The family dynamics are really engaging, and I think it would especially resonate with soon-to-be mothers, people living away from their home country (especially in radically different cultures), anyone curious about Trinidad and Tobago, or readers who enjoy thoughtful, family-centered coming-of-age stories. That said, if you’re looking for a fast-paced, plot-heavy novel or lots of drama and action, this probably isn’t the right pick. It’s a quieter, more subtle story—one that occasionally makes you stop and reflect. 3.5 stars (rounded down).

Dawn Bishop, a woman in London who, in her late 50s, decides to seek the daughter she was forced to give up for adoption as a teenager in Trinidad. The story explores Dawn's life, family, and the long-held secret of her first child, offering a thoughtful reflection on motherhood and regret When she reaches her late 50s, Dawn, feels a sense of longing for the child she had abandoned years ago. Her quest makes her join online forums of adopted children and parents, all the while questioning her choices. While overall the story felt Okayish, it was the ending which was most beautiful. When she geographically revisits her past in the end, it feels the story has come a full circle, helping her in finding some sort of closure. This worked as a fine read

2.5 ⭐️ This book had so much unhappy emotional baggage that didn't really move the story forward.

Not sure about this book. For me it was simply a flat book with the entire story told in the inside flap of the novel. I’m a bit surprised it was on the long list for the 2025 Booker Prize. Perhaps I was simply not the audience for this book.

Trinidadian teen has baby. Gives it up for adoption and spends life regretting it. One of those books you wonder “how did this make the Booker list?” Not bad but neither was it memorable. So, Booker list completed - the right book probably won.

Enjoyed but not as much as I’d hoped.

The first few chapters had me hooked, I was pulled into this chaotic scene with Dawn, with no context or explanation. However, from there I found the book to drag a little. The descriptions of Trinidad were beautiful, I could see her family home in my mind and feel the heat of the sun. But everything else fell flat, the writing during her time in London, the upper echelon these characters all lived in, it was hard for me to find anything to resonate with. There was a message somewhere in this book about love and family but it seemed lost in the grand scheme of things, at least for me. Thank you to NetGalley and the publishers for kindly providing an ARC in exchange for an honest review. #LoveForms #NetGalley. All opinions are my own.

My main issue with Pyre (2013) by Perumal Murugan was the feeling of déjà vu, droning over me obtrusively. Similar stories about two young people in love versus intolerant, close-knit communities have been told many times before. Just substitute 'different castes', which is the problem here — The entire village bears a mark of impurity if there is a woman here whose caste or family are unknown, with 'conflicted families', 'conflicted street gangs, 'conflicted countries', 'different religions', 'different skin colours', and you will feel at home at once. By the way, it is so sad that despite multiple repetitions the moral of these stories and their tendency to end very badly, still have not taught us a lesson. Pyre is set in India at a nonspecified time but a similar tragedy could have happened in other parts of the world. The sacralised, collective violence seems to be universal. This novel sadly reminded me of the theories discussed in The Scapegoat by René Girard. Perumal Murugan styled the novel as a folk tale but let's face it, this does not feel very innovative either. Besides, the cost of such folk tale stylization is black-and-white characters: Saroja is angelically good, while her mother-in-law, Marayi, makes all the evil queens and cruel stepmothers seem like benevolent lambs in comparison to her wickedness. The only character that escapes easy classification is Kumaresan. I keep pondering his decision to bring Saroja to the village. He must have been aware that it surely would be a harbinger of serious trouble. Was it love blindness and naivety? Or maybe selfishness? He knew that if anyone would get hurt, it would not be him but his wife. It will probably sound strange but this time I am glad that the characters are one-dimensional: if they were more realistic, the story would be just too brutal to bear. The deceivingly soft, warm and tender tone of the novel is starkly contrasted with the nightmarish finale which I cannot stop thinking about. I liked the subtle use of symbols in the novel, for example, the thorns in the final scene (Christ's crucifixion, destruction of something beautiful and innocent?), goats (sexual desire?), fire (love and death?), rock (hostile and emotionally cold environment?). The writing style of the novel is minimalistic. The only embellishment — and its overuse slightly annoyed me — was the plethora of rhetorical questions. I guess the author's intent was to engage his readers emotionally but it felt manneristic at times. Pyre is a blend of a crushingly sentimental love story and an unforgiving analysis of a closed community. One of the characters in Waves (1911) by Eduard von Keyserling, which I am currently reading, argues that whenever a foreign element enters into a social group, it triggers a reaction like citric acid in soda. Incidentally, I came across a similar notion in Perumal Murugan's novel: All this mixing might work with soda colours, but it doesn't in life. In Pyre the experiment ended up with an explosive reaction. Big Diva Star Crossed Lovers, painting by Wyanne.

41st book of 2023. A short and enjoyable read, but as other reviewers have said, it is lacking a deeper depth. The story is simple, a married couple from different castes return to the husband's hometown and are met with scorn. The wife recedes into herself. I read the whole book today (what else to do on a day off?), and the plot kept me turning the pages with ease. The writing is smooth and clear and there is a tension throughout the book as we wait for, inevitably, something to happen. The ending lands well, so much so that I almost gave it 4-stars but that would be pushing it for an otherwise uninspiring but engaging read. I was expecting slightly more exploration into Indian culture surrounding the two characters and their plight but the story stuck to the personal. That'll be why it lacks depth, I think. A quick read though, and sad. This sits in the lower middle of my Booker International longlist ratings so far.

Set in Kattuppati, a remote village in Southern India, Pyre is centered around a marriage strained by the dictates of caste identity, personal agony and economic restraint. Following a hasty marriage, Saroja and Kumaresan embarked on a journey to his hometown to live with his mother. While the groom seemed enclosed in a soft, hazy bubble that sheltered him from the reality that awaits them, we can sense a palpable tension and anxiety that Saroja was feeling at that moment. Perumal Murugan stated in an interview that discussing Indian society without mentioning caste is impossible. Caste, being the central framework of this story, serves as a platform for the author to further explore other related issues such as patriarchal culture, class consciousness and urban versus rural communities. He also demonstrates how deadly, oppressive and debilitating the caste system is, and how the system has complex, numerous implications to one’s being, identity, relationship and economic condition. Despite the violent and disturbing plot, Pyre is a short and easy read that you can finish in one sitting. However, I found the plot and the writing to be rather simple and straightforward. I also thought that it was a bit ridiculous for Kumaresan to be so naive in thinking that his community would ever accept his wife. It was a bit too much to take. On the whole, I’m glad I discovered Pyre through International Booker Prize and it made me want to explore the author’s other works, especially One Part Woman. (Pyre is translated from Tamil by Aniruddhan Vasudevan)

Kumaresan and Saroja are from two different castes, but this doesn't stop them from eloping. Kumaresan, for some naive reason, believes that they'll be fine going back to his village. If they just keep saying they're from the same caste, then people will grow tired and stop asking. Of course things don't go to that hopeful plan. No one in the village believes them, especially because Saroja has fairer skin. The amount of questions and insults only grow. You can imagine where this goes, and I'll have to say it's much worse in the end. This was one of my 'unknown' books I was looking forward to from the #internationabookerprize longlist. It's a quick read that unfortunately falls flat with its simple writing and story telling. I'm still not sure if that's how the original was or if it comes from the translation. I can't help but think we could have used some more emotion in the writing and some more cultural context (I feel i missed out on some of the nuance). I did like how it plays with the cliches of village vs city and turns them upside down. We're also never told which castes Kumaresan and Saroja are in. This is left deliberately unclear and I kept flip-floping throughout the book. In the end it clearly doesn't matter, the alienation, intolerance and violence is what matters. Worth reading, just be prepared to be frustrated and angry.

Having enjoyed the author's previous works, I was excited to dive into another one. This book flips between past and present,providing the reader insights into both cause and effect. It's a quick read with simple language, perfect for flipping through pages and getting out of a reading slump. But, it didn't really bring anything new to the table. Despite its engaging pace, the storyline adhered too closely to the stereotypical expectations of an intercaste marriage in a small village, failing to offer any truly unique perspectives.

3.5 stars A couple has arrived in the native town of the husband with a small bag of hopeful beginnings. When the boy did expect some angered resistance from his mother and maternal family, did he also expect the entire village people to have the authority of their lives? While Saroja is portrayed as a flower blooming in the care and shelter of father’ and brother’s love in her town, Kumaresan is a boy who coming of age comes to the town for channeling his youthful energy and intellect into work which will earn him a living. Though Kumaresan has hardly ever let his eyes meet with the eyes of the women of his village and of this town, sight of Saroja grips his heart and the naive love begins to bloom which has yet to meet with the unjust reality of the world. (If you can, Check the review on my blog : justmateabook.wordpress.com/2020/01/2... I have a pretty picture there for you ;) ) Both belonging to different caste, though didn’t seem to be of such importance to the couple, becomes a defining factor of the fate of their lives. It was a shock to see the villagers to be in unison with the cruel intentions while casually going about their lives. Men reeking of hypocrisy and prig dominance while women of timidness, subservience, together making an incompetent and exclusive community. The rawness of innocent love between the couple will grip your heart with futile hopes and legit apprehensions. What did not work for me? I must admit i found something amiss. I felt i did not quite get the essence of Murugan’s writing, possibly because its a translated work. And I must add, I don’t doubt if the translator had not tried his best. Translation from such rich complex languages requires tremendous effort and responsibility.

98th book of 2022. 3.5. Loved the first few, didn't care for the middle few and liked the penultimate a lot. Pasaribu has written a number of stories that are playful and melancholic at once, as the title suggests. Tiled Axis Press are impressing me greatly with the books they are putting out. Many of them deal with ostracised gay characters in modern day Indonesia. Other stories are a little more abstract. It's a short collection with a lot to offer. In the back of the book, Tilted Axis have included a discussion between writer and translator. Pasaribu makes many observations about his own work and the process. Most interestingly, on the title, he says, 'The idea of using the word bahagia (happy) as a title of the book comes from a Goodreads reviewer who advised me to change the title of my first collection to "Stories of People in Suffering," a review that I found very funny.' The power of Goodreads. He also makes remarks like, 'I always hate it when I see Marvel movies trivializing traumatic events,' or, 'I hate the overwhelming heterosexualities in Disney movies.'

Actual rating 3.8⭐️ Numerous mentions of Batak and their culture, mostly about queer (I hope you know that before reading this), and a bit about Christianity. I really enjoyed this one. And I honestly want to name this book, “Sad stories, mostly” instead. Some of my favourites, - So What’s Your Name, Sandra? Of loss and finding closure. - The True Story of The Story of The Giant Not bad at all, a bit of folklore tale. Discrepancy of religions between household (I honestly cannot fathom how one household can live together under different religious view and the effect though to your children.) Ad Maiorem Dei Gloriam - Aging, damn this one was sad. Our Descendants Will Be As Numerous As The Clouds in The Sky - ibarat cerita si tanggang, patut sumpah je jadi batu, ehy emosi. 😂 top notch favourite!

Translated from Indonesian, Happy Stories, Mostly consists of 12 short stories that are centred around the queer community, particularly the topic of heteronormativity. Where the hetero is chosen as the normal ones, while the queer has to live in the ‘mostly’, hanging on to whatever they have. The stories range from 1 page to over 20+ pages. I found the longer stories are more impactful than shorter ones. The stories also incorporate the climate of political changes in Indonesia, folklores and traditions of the Bataks (an ethnic group living in North Sumatra). Some are set in modern contemporary, the others are set in a surreal world. The stories also touch deeply on Christianity, where people who are drunk on traditional customs neglect the aspect of humanity. At times, it felt like an autobiography where Norman pours out his internal struggles living as a gay with his faith. While I appreciate the themes and topics discussed, some stories are simply plain, or too brief. Rating: 3.5 stars

3.5/5 “Paradais” by Fernanda Melchor examines class divides and simmering tensions in a gated Mexican community through the perspectives of two young characters. The narrative unfolds in long, intriguing, urgent paragraphs that resemble a relentless stream of thought, pulling readers into our main character’s frustrations and desires without pause. This novel is set against stark social inequalities, and traces how personal resentments tend to collide with broader societal pressures. Either if it’s from economic hardship to unchecked machismo. Melchor’s prose delivers a raw intensity that builds unease steadily. It offers a sharp lens on Mexico’s underbelly, rewarding close reading with its layered voices and controlled chaos. I’d like to think that those readers that are usually drawn to unflinching social realism will find it a gripping and yet propulsive experience. ——— With all formalities aside, this was surely a ride! In fact, I wasn’t genuinely expecting to finish it soon but here I am. Got to say I’m kinda proud. I think I’ve never stated this before, but I’m from Mexico. I’ve been living here my entire life, and this novel felt… way too close to home. Not in like a nostalgic way but in a realistic, morbid, sad, fearful way. Because everything that happened in this novel could so fucking easily actually happen here. Actually, I wouldn’t be remotely surprised if anything like this has happened already. Gosh, you could even tell me that something like this happened last week and I would believe it. Now, please don’t think I’m trashing my country… no, we are such a beautiful nation in our own ways, but we can be so horrible in many other, and this book makes sure to show it. And man, I feel like even Fernanda had a gentle approach to everything, haha. But I’m not complaining, tho. The pacing was SUPER solid. I’d dare to say that it really pulls you in and before you realize it, you’re already finishing the book. Once again, the exposition of gritty topics is set with no mercy, just placing it outright under the radar for everyone to see. It felt like a punch to the stomach. The main character? Well… gosh, I don’t know. It’s not that he’s extremely complex but… gosh, you don’t support their actions or the way he feels yet you understand him for some reason. As for the rest of the characters? Well, they’re… memorable, that’s for sure. I truly don’t know what else to say, specially when it comes to if i recommend this or not… because truly? I have no freaking clue. Yes, in a way I do. But then I also… have no clue to who.

Two young men named Franco (Fatboy) and Polo regularly get drunk together despite not always liking each other's company. Franco is obsessed with his neighbour, a married woman (with two kids) named Senora Marian. He badly wants to have sex with her and fantasises about it regularly. Polo, meanwhile, is having sex with his cousin who later gets pregnant. During one of their drunken sessions, in an abandoned mansion they often frequent, Franco casually brings up the idea of raping Marian. Polo understandably doesn't take him seriously, but gradually the two of them begin to plot a robbery which, in truth, is a mere smokescreen for Franco to satisfy his sexual desires. The bottom line with this book is: you're either gonna like the stream-of-consciousness writing or you ain't. I found some of it quite thrilling and fun to read to begin with but some of it a little dull and indulgent (so pretty much my standard response to most stream-of consciousness writing). Truth be told, books like this (with a very wafer thin plot) are an excuse to luxuriate in the prose and go on various tangents and flight of fancy (as Melchor does several times). Again, you'll either love it or loathe it depending on your relationship with this kind of writing. I mostly found it entertaining but I've read so many books like this that, after a while, they feel a bit samey to me. She does at least avoid being repetitive (a trap many writers fall into with this kind of prose) and so I give her credit for that. When her sentences were short, they came alive and felt vibrant. But when she engaged in the classic trait of sentences that run on, and on, and on, and on, I became not only less engaged but positively bored. With these kinds of flowing paragraphs (a torrent of words), there's always a sense of missing information because you're moving on to new information so quickly, so breathlessly reading, one sentence merging with the next, with little opportunity to digest any of it. You're either gonna love that or again... you ain't. I always read stuff like this and feel like I'm being manipulated, stopped from enjoying the words by having so many of them flung at me. This is why I'm always suspicious of stream-of-consciousness writing. It feels like it's hiding mediocrity behind a veneer of intense and dizzying language. Presumably, this is deliberate but I don't generally enjoy it. Like I said, when she lets the language breathe in a shorter sentence, this was when I felt her writing became significantly more impressive. But anyway... Of this type of writing I would say the book is excellent and would definitely recommend it (if you like that sort of thing). I can take or leave it. But if you struggle with stream-of-consciousness, it might infuriate you. Hard to judge with this type of style. When it was good, it was great. But when it was bad, it was tedious. Ultimately, it probably won't live long in the memory. Worth a look though.

Memory is quite an interesting topic. The author Kazuo Ishiguro has spent his whole literary career explaining that it is capable of playing tricks on one and can double as a form of escapism via nostalgia. Julian Barnes Booker winning The Sense of an Ending is all about the fallibility of the past. Unreliable narrators populate novels and then there is even a complete genre based on memory, the memoir or autobiography (which does not exclude the unreliable narrator either, mind you) To a certain extent Maria Stepanova’s In Memory of Memory could be a memoir of sorts. When Maria Stepanova’s aunt dies, she has a look through her apartment and discovers a series of letters, notebooks and photographs. As Stepanova looks through this ephemera, she begins to unravel her family’s history, which is intricately tied up with Russia’s history. Dating from the 1800’s to present day. As one can imagine all the historical figures and events are mentioned : Stalin, fall of communism, both world wars, but Maria Stepanova goes one step further. In the grand tradition of W.S. Sebald, Stepanova goes off on tangents, plying the reader with a lot of interesting trivia and yet they are linked with the main narrative. What does Art Spiegelman, Charlotte Saloman and Rembrandt have to do with a Russian family saga? Trust me they all have their part in the book. As this is a white Fitzcarraldo cover ( Fitzcarraldo white are memoirs and essays while the blue covers are fiction, although this line blurs now and then) In Memory of Memory also functions as an essay and Maria Steponova goes in detail about the function of memory, especially in paintings and pictures. At one point she divides memory into three categories: Memory of what is lost, memory of what has been received and memory of what has never been. Throughout the book she constantly delves into these three categories. In Memory of Memory is an interesting book. I will guarantee at the reader will become smarter after reading it. There is a lot of information crammed in these pages and the flowing translation makes it easier for the information to stick with you. However, at least for me, I was only able to fully appreciate it in small chunks. By that method I was able to gain much more out of it. It is not a daunting read but it does require patience. Obviously there is nothing wrong with this but do not expect a breezy read. Do expect an enriching one and as someone who has a shaky knowledge of Russian history, this was a good starting ground.

Personally, this didn't do it for me as much as I'd hoped. Some bursts of brilliance and poignancy, no doubt, especially in how it pits the 20th century against the 21st. But for me it relies a little too much on its own intelligence to get you through, lacking a strong narrative engine, even compared to many of Sebald's works, which it clearly takes after.

I apologize to the people who loved and raved about this book! It is a first read for me by this author. Many parts I was very taken with the writing, but the format, and the seemingly random streams of thought..I know they all connected in ways, but damn my head hurts. I appreciated the story and the sadness of the loss these two men endured, tragically losing both their daughters.. and I also love reading about this part of the world, I just wish it had been in a regular novel type format. A very difficult reading experience for me! Thank you to Netgalley and Random House Publishing for the ARC!

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2020 "Apeirogon: a shape with a countably infinite number of sides" - not the worst idea for structuring a book about the conflict between Israel and Palestine. McCann's work is semi-fictional, as it is based on the real life stories of Rami Elhanan, Israeli and Jewish, and Bassam Aramin, Palestinian and Muslim. Rami's daughter Samadar was killed in the conflict in 1997 - she was 14. Bassam's daughter was killed when she was 10, in 2007. The fathers joined forces and decided to use their grief as a weapon, to promote forgiveness and understanding by telling their stories: "Nobody can listen to me and stay the same." McCann's book has 1,001 chapters - yup, you read that right, and there are plenty of other references to The Arabian Nights: Tales of 1001 Nights, Volume 1 of 3. Just like Scheherazade tells stories to save her life, Rami and Bassam tell their stories trying to save the lives of those who might fall victim to the conflict in the future. The first 500 chapters are numbered chronologically, the next 500 count backwards; in the middle, there are two chapters numbered "500", and they capture the speeches Rami and Bassam give in their public appearances. This narrative concept is the real star of the novel. Many of the chapters are very short, and similar to the approach played out in Frankenstein in Baghdad (which, IMHO, is a much better, more daring book), they appear like the explosion / gunshot that killed the children: Smashed into different narrative particles of different lengths, they convey aspects of the lives of the kids and their families, but also extrapolate. We read about birds migrating over the war zone, about Jorge Luis Borges who visited the area ("Borges wrote that it only takes two facing mirrors to form a labyrinth"), and also get some info about weapons and how large parts of the world are connected to the conflict in one way or another. Social media is currently debating whether this novel should have been excluded from the longlist for two reasons: For one, Colum McCann is an Irish dude, so some are stating that him telling the story of Israelis and Palestinians is cultural appropriation. To that I say: The Great Believers is a fantastic book, although I'm under the impression that Rebecca Makkai is not a gay man. The main problem with books like American Dirt is not that the author is not a person of color, but that they are badly written. And then there are allegations brought up by Roxane Gay that McCann assaulted her friend. The Booker and the author have not commented. Looking purely at the novel, I have to say that my problem with it is that it carries its intention on its sleeve - subtle this is not, it's a very blatant manifesto, and I think that's exactly what McCann intended to do here. Obviously, it's a valid argument that a conflict like this does not call for subtlety, but for activism. But to me, this was a very long piece of activism, executed in a highly artificial textual structure that became tedious after, let's say chapter 329. This book is in-your-face. And it's not a bad book at all, but IMHO, it's overwritten and burdened with narrative intention. To me, this is not a Booker winner.

I'm afraid I didn't enjoy Apeirogon as much as I expected to. It tells an important story and I learned quite a bit from reading it, but its fragmented structure prevented me from properly engaging with it. The book revolves around Rami and Bassam, an Israeli and a Palestinian respectively, who have both lost a daughter as a result of the conflict between their nations. Though the men are on opposing sides, they become friends and advocates for peace in the region. We are given their backstories. Rami was a member of the Israeli military, later becoming a graphic designer. Bassam served time in prison for resisting Israeli occupation, and during his internment he became a believer in the power of action through non-violent means. They remember the moments of horror, when their innocent children were taken long before their time was due. The two men, united in heartbreak, set about improving the relationships between their countries through meaningful dialogue. The story is told in 1001 segments, some that go on for several pages, some that are as a short as a sentence. They veer off on various tangents, such as the migratory habits of birds, the manufacture of bullets, the high-wire artist Phillipe Petit and so on. They are all loosely connected to the main story and McCann always returns to this central tale of Rami and Bassam. But this fragmented account only served to pull me out of concentrating on the men's plight. Some of the segments were interesting, though to be honest they were more of a distraction than anything else. I'm all for experimenting with forms of narrative - however in this case, it didn't work for me. Where the book does succeed is in its examination of grief, and its sensitive, nuanced exploration of a complex political conflict. It's a daring effort, and while it might not entirely succeed in its ambition, it has a moving and hopeful story at its heart.

Two true stories of violence that created two innocent victims—one Palestinian and one Israeli—are combined in this book with the tools of fiction to amplify the resulting feelings of sorrow and horror. But the possibilities of hope for a peaceful future are also explored resulting in a literary work that conveys truths more true than reality—within an ambiance of poetry, almost spiritual. The book’s narrative is centered around two profound and plain-speaking individuals—one an Israeli who is against the occupation, the other a Palestinian studying the Holocaust—whose lives were brought together by grief. In 1997 the Israeli’s 13‑year-old daughter was killed by a suicide bomber, and in 2007 the Palestinian’s 10-year-old daughter was shot by an Israeli soldier. The two men met through a charity named Parents Circle Family Forum and have since made it their life’s work to travel the world together, speaking about their experiences of loss, pain, and healing. The book uses the tools of literary fiction writing to imagine the girls’ experiences plus multiple micro-narratives are inserted throughout the text. Frequent references to the migrations of birds presumably provide a symbol of freedom. There are flashes of harsh reality that include blood and guts from acts of violence—PTSD victims may have difficulty with these parts. The book uses a weird chapter numbering system, many extremely short. Plus some statements of fact are inserted that have little apparent connection to the topic. But most readers will use their imaginations to find their own connections. For example, I learned from the book what amicable numbers are. Also, I learned that apeirogon is a geometric shape.

Now Longlisted for the Dublin Literary Award 2026 Nominated for the National Book Award 2024 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2024 ...aaaand: Winner of the first Spiegel Prize 2025, the most unnecessary and blatantly self-serving literary prize in recent history Come for the story, stay for the messy female protagonist: Much like Ottessa Moshfegh, Kushner excels in writing complex women that are not crafted to be sympathetic or to function as identification figures. But where Moshfegh investigates extreme aesthetics of disgust and alienation, Kushner takes a more direct political approach. My favorite is still The Mars Room which deals with violence, classism and trauma and also has the most captivating plot, but while The Flamethrowers' slightly convoluted story line tended to aggravate me, I still loved the messy female artist who serves as the protagonist. And now Kushner twists French noir, giving us a hard-drinking female spy as a narrator. Moving from Italian anarchists (The Flamethrowers) to French leftist thinkers around Guy Debord, Kushner's latest protagonist, 34-year-old American Sadie Smith (not her real name), aims to infiltrate the anarchist eco-commune "Le Moulin" around Bruno Lacombe which is located in the limestone regions of southern France. Lacombe rambles to his followers about the Neanderthals and spits conspiracy theories, the group is accused of sabotaging capitalist ventures they deem to harm the environment. But this is not another book about climate change, the destruction of the environment, extremist bubbles, or the importance of framing narratives, no: It's strong when it illuminates the psychology of PhD drop out and now spy-for-hire known as Sadie. She seems to like her job, she is unscrupulous and cold, she employs her beauty to get her job done, but her turmoil prompted by a feeling of emptiness shines through the cracks of her narration. Her ruminations, often inspired by her astute observations, reveal a grim world-view that reflect a disillusionment with humans in general. To her, ideological belief systems are just another quirk. What really bothered me though was the extensive reflection of Bruno's ideas: The essayistic endeavors that overwhelm the book show a lack of interest in plot, which is not a problem per se, but the theorizing just didn't captivate me enough. Extra points though for the connection to Houellebecq's Sérotonine, very smartly done. Overall, an interesting effort, that, for my taste, goes slightly overboard.

I wanted so badly to love this book but it just didn’t capture me like I wanted it to. I had high hopes for it, the concept and plot line sounded SO good. Plus, look how damn gorgeous the cover is! But what was missing here for me was characters. There were just none that I fell in love and wanted to root for or even a character I loved to hate. None of them made me want to get attached and that’s important for me when reading. I didn’t hate it either but I didn’t love it, I guess the right word to describe ny feelings is indifferent.

3 stars--I liked the book. A melancholy contemplation of history, humanity, and technology delivered through the voice of a spy who is less amoral and apathetic than she thinks she is.

Intriguing reinvention of a spy novel, with a comically cynical interpretation of the behavior and beliefs of the enigmatic leader of a group of radical eco-activists. 3.5 stars

Winner of the Desmond Elliott Prize for Debut Novels Shortlisted for the 2022 Goldsmiths Prize Longlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is, one hopes, destined to be one of 2022's most talked about novels - one filled with such wisdom, as well as drawing-on and then developing so many literary inspirations, that it is hard to believe this is a debut novel by an author in her mid-20s. Already featured on the Desmond Elliott Prize for Debut Novels, one suspects Goldsmiths, Booker, Costa and Women's Prize recognition is to come. That said, from a personal perspective it was much too long for my 'ideally less than 100 pages please' taste, and required an investment of both time but also emotional engagement that I as a reader failed to bring to it. Hence the rating. It reminded me as I was reading of a mashup of Max Porter's Lanny and Grief is the Things with Feathers (Mortimer has described the second of these as "the spark that lit the fire" for her book, though for the first she took typographical inspiration from House of Leaves), with a theological dose of grace stirred in from Gilead (another inspiration the author has acknowledged), and with characters straight from Ali Smith central casting. The latter I haven't seen the author reference, as I suspect her inspiration for the precocious word-playing mother and daughter was herself. In is interesting in the interview linked above to see Mortimer comment on how her "formally ambitious" novel also developed characterisation and heart: "I started writing the book when I was 23, and for all the play and ‘fizz’ there were also simple delights that emerged unexpectedly along the way. I learnt that a fully realised character or frank, honest dialogue can be just as poetic as a perfectly constructed metaphor, or a bit of clever word play." Again I suspect this may speak to my slight lack of love for the book as I definitely prefer the metaphor/wordplay to character-development in my reading. Indeed this is the second novel on a row where the author has moved in a direction less to my taste - see my review of Adam Scovell's Nettles Overall 3.5 stars.

In Acknowledgements section of Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies Maddie Mortimer thanks her editors for never saying 'no, we cannot turn that phrase into a firework'. I wish they did sometimes for her prose is so intense that I found it suffocating at times. To my mind, the author was more concentrated on her impulse to impress readers than on her need to express feelings and thoughts. It was my main problem with this book. For me, there was something wrong with the balance of proportions. I am in total awe of the inventiveness of Mortimer's novel, especially on the linguistic level — it almost felt as if she had created a new language to talk about cancer and dying. Unfortunately, the unconstrained beauty of her writing style sacrifices the rest. I did not like the way Wuthering Heights reference was played out — I found it too obtrusive, too obvious. At first, I enjoyed different points of view in the narration of Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies but then constant shifting, the time and place changes made me dizzy. They were too quick for my liking — you need a bit of time to make yourself at home in somebody's head. There was another cost of giving too much attention to the form: the characters and the fact that I was not very invested in them. I wish their portrayals were more subtle, more multifaceted, more nuanced. I felt deeply, desperately sorry for Lia but, to be honest, I did not like her very much. Paradoxically, I think it helped me to survive through this book without being completely devastated. The subplots connected with Anne, Matthew, Harry and Iris felt slightly superficial. I had the impression all these ideas have been already executed in literature. More deftly, to be honest. There is a personal aspect I found very moving. While reading the detailed and realistic descriptions of medical procedures and how they made Lia feel I suspected it must be something the author herself or someone she was very close to had experienced. Then I found out that Maddie Mortimer's mum died of cancer which explained a lot. The book is dedicated to her. I hope this review is not glaring evidence of my insensitivity. Maybe books about cancer deserve preferential treatment. I do not think it would be fair though, especially given the fact how frequently the trope of terminal illness appears in literature and films nowadays which means the bar should be set pretty high. I had mixed feelings before I started this novel: on the one hand, the topic sounded utterly heart-breaking and depressing, on the other hand, I heard so many enthusiastic opinions on the artistic values of Mortimer's prose. I am glad I plucked my courage but truth be told, I doubt if it was a reading experience I would like to repeat. There is no denying that the emotional punch this novel gives is almost physical. A Promise of Adventure. Painting by Rafał Olbiński.

I have read better memoirs than this and I found the subject matter more interesting and engaging than the writing or the memoir itself. Undiscovered opens with the author walking through a Charles Wiener exhibition and explains that he was a European colonizer than came to Peru many decades ago and that she is one of his Peruvian descendants. Through the memoir she tries to reckon with the fact that her own ancestor was a colonizer and profited of the extermination and theft of a lot of Peruvian culture without acknowledging its importance. I really enjoyed the sections where she was hunting through her family tree and getting in touch with Charles Wiener historians, especially looking through the birth certificates and connecting the dots. It was really fascinating seeing her uncover parts of her family tree and uncover secrets she didn't know about some of the documents. The memoir is quite all over the place a little bit as it also touches on the fact that her father dies right at the beginning and so some bits touch on grief and mourning, but I think when it was muddled in with the rest of the topics in the memoir it didn't have the emotional impact it should have. Similarly it goes off on tangents about her relationships, polyamory and romantic rejections which I wanted to feel a lot more connected to, but didn't. I don't want to say it was the translation because I adore Julia Sanches's work, but there didn't seem to be a cohesion between all of the themes in the memoir and so I struggled to really emotionally engage with a lot of aspects of it. I still enjoyed the bits about family and colonialism and Peruvian history but overall it's not one of my favourite memoirs. Nona Fernandez's Voyager is a an example of a memoir where the writing and the topics work together so well but unfortunately for me in this one it didn't.

Hmm this was a strange one! Set against the backdrop of a mass emigration of Venezuelans, our leading man, after being left by his wife, is tasked with turning his late father-in-law’s house into a shelter for the dogs that fleeing citizens have left behind. There was just something off for me in this one. It all began so quickly—the wife leaving, the father-in-law dying, his lover returning—that I was never really invested in the relationships or the outcome of the shelter creation and related inheritance dispute. Time moved at a strange pace, slowing down for a few days and then skipping ahead weeks. I actually think I would have preferred this book be longer, I wanted more local history and political context and more details on the actual central story of building the shelter. The stakes are supposedly high, but it’s also rather lighthearted so it never really felt as if there was that much at risk. There’s also a lot going on. The several side ventures were certainly interesting and kept me turning the pages, but, again, I think some came at the expense of plausibly developing the central story. It wasn’t bad, it was intriguing and I read it quickly. But, as with most titles on this year’s IB list, I don’t predict it’ll stick with me long.

3.5 stars. Overall, I enjoyed the novel for its writing style, punchy at times (“isn’t that what a book is? a tree that wants to talk?”) and occasionally striking scenes (such as Nadine dancing naked in the moonlight and the couple watching her and … having sex?!). The sociopolitical context is weaved into the edges of the text - the oppressiveness of the political regime and its cruelty at times feels palpable. I wonder if the fate of the street dogs is meant to make a larger point about the ailments and poverty of the Venezuelan society in general. The family feud plot is arguably the least interesting thing about the book. I got a little lost among the many characters and the intrigue trailed off after approximately page 150. I struggle to feel invested in any of the characters, as none seem especially compelling. If anyone, Nadine seems the most alluring in her slightly maniac state.

This complex novel begins with protagonist, Ulises Kan, a part-time teacher and film enthusiast, realising that although his own life is far from perfect, he is more upset by his country, Venezuela, which he decides, has is in a mess. However, he sees a chance of his own salvation when his father-in-law, a fan of Simon Bolivar, dies. Kan is left a note from him, The Apocalypse is nigh. Sadly, I won’t be here to see it. It’s your task to build the ark and put your woman and your animals there and hold for 40 days. .. his dying wish was to transform Los Argonautas, his beloved estate, into a home for the stray dogs plaguing the streets of Caracas. An attractive premise indeed. Ulises recruits staff to help him, and gets to work, but is waylaid when girl-friend from the past moves in to help, but she has secrets. This is an unpredictable novel, that falls just short of being really good. Calderón and his translator Hahn, over-complicate things at times. It may be a question of the translation, or more likely my lack of knowledge of Venezuela’s history.

Read as was longlisted for favourite book award, International Booker. A strange & unique little book, a mix of religious, politics, sad intergenerational lack of attachments...orphans & reflect on other things that are left...dogs & bikes... Enjoyed this as a different book, possibly be shortlisted if readers understand the deeper meanings.

I picked this book because it's on the NYT 100 Best Books of the 21st Century list (well: I double-checked and this book is NOT on this list so not sure how I heard about it now), and I decided to give it a try. I liked it, but mainly because I am very unfamiliar with Venezuela, and the book does refer a lot to Venezuelan society's struggles, past and present. Otherwise, I do not quite know what to make of this book and the main character, Ulises Ulisito. If there were some "untold references," they passed way above me-Ulises (Homer's Odyssey, of course, and some other "name droppings," and??) Ulises, an orphan, has married Paulina in Caracas. Paulina leaves him and the country and decides to divorce. He would not know where to live as he lived in her apartment. He meets with Paulina's father, Martin, a former Venezuelan military big shot, who grants him the right to stay in the apartment as it is his, not his estranged daughter. When Martin dies, Ulises finds out that he is to inherit the apartment and the big house and garden at the bottom of the hill where the Humboldt Hotel is in Caracas. One string, though: he must transform the house into a dog shelter within 6 months and build a foundation that will run the shelter/clinic with the help of a couple. He will succeed, dealing with a crooked lawyer, the crook lawyer's honest father, his ex-wife's twin brother, a former lover, Nadine, and a big dog, Iros. I did not like the ending, which felt very unlikely in this -overall- very unlikely story!

Simpatia by Rodrigo Blanco Calderon does not inspire me to find more of his work. The prose was practical rather than poetic, often told through mundane dialogue. The references to movies and celebrities mostly went over my head, while the references to Homer seemed entirely out of place. The plot was simple until it became convoluted. A few chapters were excellent and tense, but they didn't lead to anything.

found this book on libby and decided to read it because it’s about Venezuela as it is now and dogs. It did take me awhile to read .. perhaps bc of the writing style but the story and plot were amazing!

"It’s as if every word you say, every walk you take, every burst of laughter you let out or sudden fit of rage, are a dose of air escaping the small tank of oxygen we’re given when we come into this world."

The Booth family is gratified by the depth and breadth of national mourning for Junius Brutus Booth. Every American paper reports Booth’s death and most include long eulogies. But one response is memorable for its brevity. Rufus Choate, a storied trial lawyer turned Whig congressman, a man famous for his soaring and sustained bouts of oratory, says simply, “There are no more actors.” In an Author’s Note at the end of Booth, Karen Joy Fowler explains that “during one of our American spates of horrific mass shootings”, she began to wonder about the families of shooters — what it must be like to love someone who becomes universally despised — and then she began thinking of the Booth family, and started working on a novel about the family of John Wilkes Booth; pointedly not focussing on John himself as he was a man who had sought notoriety and was not deserving of Fowler’s attention. Then when Trump was elected president, Fowler recognised that “Lincoln’s warnings concerning the tyrant and the mob” were still true in the modern day, and she realised that the story she was writing about the radicalisation of the man who would become Lincoln’s assassin could be seen as a warning for the present: it is still true that a house divided against itself cannot stand and growing partisanship imperils the Union. So, on the one hand, Booth is stuffed full of interesting historical information about the Booth family (I had no idea how famous the Booth father and older brother, Edwin [the nineteenth century’s “greatest Hamlet”], were), and on the other, Fowler never lets us forget that she’s drawing a line between the past and the present; the parallels are obvious and underlined. As a work of historical fiction, this was well done (with the caveat that, as a longish book, too much detail can feel tedious to me), and as a work of political commentary, an essay expanding on the Author’s Note would have sufficed for me. This felt a bit of a slog; just okay to my taste. They were wrapped together in a single blanket, John’s little body hot against Mother’s breasts. She was looking down into his flushed and fretful face, when on sudden impulse she’d said a prayer asking to know what his fate would be. Instantly a flame rose from the ashes and, shaping itself into an arm, stretched toward the baby as if to knight him. In that flame, Mother said, she could read the word Country, followed by Johnny’s name. And then the arm fell back and faded away. This strange, unfirelike behavior taking place on their own little hearth has the whole family excited. It may be an ambiguous fate, but it’s clearly a glorious one, a narrative of such power that Asia will write a poem about it one day, forgetting how angry she once was not to have been given a glorious fate of her own. She was less upset by her own lack of a destiny than by the fact that nobody had ever even bothered to ask the fire if she had one. Junius Brutus Booth — celebrated Shakespearean actor of the London stage — wooed the beautiful Mary Ann Holmes, and in 1821, moved her to the United States, eventually settling her in a “secret cabin” in the woods northeast of Baltimore. Over the course of twenty years, Mary Ann will give birth to ten children, six of whom will survive to adulthood, and as Junius (equal parts genius, madman, and hopeless alcoholic) spends around nine months of every year touring with acting troupes, Mary Ann (and the enslaved people the family “leases”), work the farm and raise the children and try to stay above the poverty line. The family will move into Baltimore and back to the countryside again; eldest son June will leave to make a name for himself on the stage; Edwin will be taken out of school to travel with his father; the two youngest boys — John and Joe — will be sent to a boarding school; and the two daughters — Rosalie and Asia — will be left to take care of Mother, their brothers, and watch for marriage prospects. Throughout all the years, John Wilkes will be the pet; the scamp, the matinee idol, his mother’s and sisters’ favourite who can do no wrong. Fowler tells this story from three perspectives: From Edwin’s (the most celebrated actor in the family, his biography is well documented); from Asia’s (she wrote several [some would say apologetic] memoirs of herself and her more famous family members); and Rosalie’s (of whom very little is known, so Fowler was free to have Rosalie’s sections fill in the historical bits from the newspapers and the typical family life of the time). This rotating POV gave a satisfying backdrop for John Wilkes’ formative years, while never presuming to imagine what the future assassin was thinking or feeling. And by giving us the whole Booth story (ending not long after the assassination), Fowler is able to pinpoint a few transformative moments: John was present at “the battle of Christiana” — in which free Blacks repelled a Marshal’s attempts to capture escaped slaves — which some historians point to as the beginning of the beginning of the Civil War; he joined the Richmond Grays militia unit to march on Charles Town to ensure John Brown’s hanging (the battle flag of the Grays reads “Sic semper tyrannis”); he was visiting Edwin’s house in New York City when the anti-draft riots happened (and apparently delighted in watching the city burn). Fowler makes clear that all of the Booth family thought of themselves as pro-Union Northerners, except for John Wilkes, and other than apparently suffering the mental illness and alcohol abuse that seems to run through the Booth family (Edwin says of his brother, “He has all of Father’s madness without the genius”), and some slightly different experiences at school (and particularly coddled at home), there’s no real explanation for how one of the Booths could become a murderer. But again: this isn’t really meant to be John Wilkes’ story; this is the story of America and how slippery the slope is towards considering your countryman your enemy once the drums start beating. What’s it like to love the most hated man in the country? Loving John is something the world simply will not have. Not loving John is something Rosalie and Asia simply cannot do. As I’m not an American, I had only a general knowledge of John Wilkes Booth and what Fowler writes about his background and upbringing (and particularly the stories of the more famous and celebrated acting Booths) was interesting and informative to me. And since the symbols of the United States aren’t emotionally affecting to me, it did take this whole, long novel and Fowler’s Author’s Note at the end for me to really understand what it meant for the Confederate Flag to have been “carried through the halls of the Capitol for the very first time” during the insurrection of January 6th, 2021: the events of that day were, naturally, shocking to witness as a non-American, but their meaning wasn’t really clear to me until now. It still felt like a bit of a slog — this is not at the top of my own Booker picks — but it wasn’t entirely a waste of time.

Historical fiction novel looking at the family of John Wilkes booth as the author decided to write about than just John. Was slow in parts

2022 Booker Longlist 3.5 stars A family saga told by a brother and two sisters of Lincoln's assassin. Most of the story is pre-assassination and to be honest, while that was interesting, it was what happened to the family, after the assassination that I was more interested in. It did make me aware of some interesting things that occurred in that time period that I was unaware of. It probably could have done with a bit of a trim here and there, I ended up devoting more time than I really wanted to this book.

Interestingly, Fowler chose not to focus on John Wilkes so as not to glorify him, but I’d argue that writing a book about his family still does the same. Would she have cared about them otherwise? I wanted this entire history, the darkest parts, too. This instead focuses mostly on three of the infamous assassinator’s siblings. Beautiful prose, but bogged down in minutiae. I struggled to stay engaged.

3.5. Very well written. Very sad story. Its genuinely giving dutch sally rooney (i read the dutch version btw I’m doing this in english for you <3). In my opinion, Sally has a way of writing so honestly it can come off quite dry, which I feel like this had too. The writing matched the vibe of the story that was told and I love it when an author does that so well. I would have loved a more cohesive ending. Also just refreshing to read something dutch again lol

“I thought about all the love we have inside us and how only a shred of that reaches the people we care about.”

3.5 stars Exploring the story of a depressive brother, through brief, precise vignettes from the sister who both loves and resents him.

First, I felt maybe I am about to give 4stars, but then I gave 3. There are reasons- 1. I do feel the book is bit costly as per the content. A pdf would have done a good job . 2. The book is divided into many small diary entry type paragraphs, i.e., short ones. Juggling between personal lives and certain facts about things around and history, the proses are not well connected. It feels detached. 3. Random mentions are made about facts, like gan*rapes in ducks, length of towers. Also, the topic of holocaust and of Joseph Mengele is mentioned numerous times, which was absolutely unrelated and unnecessary, I felt. 4. The ending is abrupt. We know from the cover that the brother committed suicide. The suicide happens almost after half of the book is done telling about random holocaust and childhood stuff. And afterwards, the author tries to portray a trauma but it doesn't feel real or lively. On a positive side, some aspects of depression and gradual worsening is hinted, the silent cry of help is hinted. Overall, it's not something I would suggest anyone else to read.

I read this because of its Booker longlisting earlier this month. It is the story of 13-year old Jamie and two helpful teachers who go out of their way to make him feel at home at his new school. Jamie is an outlier, maybe slightly autistic, preferring logic over emotion, far ahead of his peers in terms of knowledge, but unable to emotionally connect with them. It is a sweet novel set on the Irish West Coast about the therapeutic function of building something tangible as a means of dealing with trauma, connecting and fitting in. And there are a LOT of traumas the three main characters have to deal with... Stylewise, it reads well, but I had expected something more innovative and thought-provoking seeing as the author is a former slam poetry winner. But it is rather straightforward and I don't immediately see why, for the Booker judges, this would have stood out from all the books they read. I'll admit this is not a book I would've picked up if it wasn't longlisted - I find child protagonists often unbelievable and also here I raised my eyebrows more than once. Making a child both love Edgar Allan Poe and Maryam Mizarkhani feels a bit much. Also, if you choose your protagonist to be a child prodigy, you have to come up with brilliant ideas to sprout from its mind and I was not impressed on that front - but ok, that is beside the point of a novel on fitting in (and my frustration may well stem from the fact that I just read the MANIAC). Others may well fall in love with it and describe it as 'heartwarming', the small Irish town atmosphere is good (think Claire Keegan or Audrey Magee) and there is a lot there in terms of symbols and themes (religion, infertility, addiction).

The currach’s skeleton of sally and hazel rods is in the middle of the workshop floor and it really does look alive, and the centre laths makes it look like a boat now, I will admit this, and I admit to feelings of excitement just looking at it, maybe a mixture of nerves and excitement, which are perhaps the same thing, and the vast expanse, all the huge space its frame is taking up, it’s greater than all of us. My favourite quote from author Elaine Feeney’s interview on the Booker website is: As for my fiction – I write what I know – and then I tell lies. In this spirit, How to Build a Boat is based on Feeney’s real life experience — of living in the west of Ireland during turbulent socio-political times, of having taught in an all-boys’ school, of raising a child with unique abilities (as per that interview: hyperlexia) — and as she has worked primarily as a poet, the best bits of her writing here represent a poetic insight into the human condition as well as a poet’s precision of language (I realise that I’ve chosen quotes that all have poetic line breaks, but it really doesn’t happen all that often). Yet: I don’t know if these disparate bits add up to a totally satisfying novel. The plotline (and its moral) was fairly predictable, I was not moved by the characters’ predicaments, and often, I found that Feeney was using this space as a soapbox (which I understand is what every novelist is ultimately doing, but there was little subtlety to it). This was a fine read, probably three and a half stars, but I’m not moved to round up. The cathedral bell rang out fast. Bell | bang | bell | bang Half past the hour. It knocked a start out of Jamie who was stood in line behind other boys in blazers and school bags clasped to them. A few leaves whipped up in the rusty gulley at the entrance and a bird perched on the head of a marble statue. A full-sized laminated picture of Jesus was nailed to the main door, his heart plucked out of his chest and rainbow shards of light shooting from him. This was new and it threw Jamie. He memorised it for tomorrow. Eoin warned him that there could be new things. He said not to panic if this happens. But Jamie preferred when Eoin said nothing. Saying not to panic was like telling him not to think of an elephant in a tutu. As the novel opens, we learn that Jamie is being raised by single dad, Eoin — Jamie’s mother having died in childbirth when his parents were still teenagers — and as Jamie is neurodivergent in some way (from the interview: Feeney refuses to categorise his condition, “the not labelling was an important consideration”), Eoin has always been indulgent and overprotective, but now needs to relinquish some control as Jamie starts secondary school at the local all-boys Catholic college. Jamie is immediately bullied and overwhelmed, but is rescued by his English teacher, Tess — who had provided extra support for special needs students until that program was suddenly cut — and although Tess is under immense pressure in her home life, she has the knowledge and inclination to take a kid in need under her wing. Eventually, Jamie catches the attention of the new woodworking teacher, Tadhg, and with a kind of outsider, folksy wisdom, Tadgh recognises that the boy would benefit from redirecting his obsessive energies into working methodically with his hands. And when Tadgh learns that the math-minded boy dreams of building a perpetual motion machine (that in some quasi-mystical way would connect him with the mother he never knew), Tadgh directs Jamie in the building of a traditional Irish boat (a “currach”) that invokes the ancient concept of “meitheal” (communal effort: many others will join in on the building of this boat, and Jamie will ultimately find a place in the community). POV rotates between Jamie and Tess — with Tadgh serving as the link between their stories — and despite some barely developed background characters attempting to thwart their efforts (while demonstrating all that’s wrong in modern Irish society), the lives of these three were nicely developed. Stood there, Tess thought about Tadhg walking out to the Forge, alone, about Jamie and his machine, about how fulfilled she was being among them and how naively Jamie was hoping, the bright hope he had, that the energy, wherever it would manifest from, would be enough to connect everyone, the living and the dead. But there was nothing for the half-living, Tess thought — Nothing at all for the dead walking among them. There were many things that I didn’t understand in this story: Why was it set from autumn of 2019 to spring of 2020 without any mention of the pandemic? Why would there be an implication that a student shouldn’t be left unchaperoned with the bombastically misogynistic President of the college if nothing ever comes of that? Why would this same President (who warns boys not to work on the boat, because working with one’s hands is “common”) have hired a woodworking teacher in the first place? Why did every main character have to have been raised by a single parent? On the other hand: I did like the experience of being inside Jamie’s and Tess’ heads; these are interesting and complicated characters navigating difficult lives — lives made more difficult by their own decisions and behaviour — and the characters (if not the plot) are worth the read.

BOOKER PRIZE 2023 LONGLIST HOW TO BUILD A BOAT by Elaine Feeney *** Another Irish novel and another novel about lost mothers and a neurodivergent protagonist. HOW TO BUILD A BOAT may be the most mainstream of books on this year’s list, an exploration of broken people finding common purpose and creating community to repair their souls. The story centres Jamie O’Neil, a teenager still haunted by his mother’s death during childbirth and determined to create a perpetual motion machine to find her at her last moments. As he begins studying at a conservative and religious boys school, Tess and Tadhg, two teacher’s also trying to navigate through emotional losses and traumatic pasts, begin to mentor Jamie and decide to help him create the closest approximation to his machine, a currach boat. This is a sweet novel that at its best is an endearing look at how those with broken hearts can build bonds together and come out stronger. But as the previous sentences indicates, it is also a bit too twee at times. Compared to thematically similar novels on the longlist, it lacked the tension of ALL THE LITTLE BIRD-HEARTS and the haunting atmospheric prose of PEARL. This was fine but considering some of the works left off the longlist, it is disappointing that this was what replaced much stronger works like BIRNAM WOOD and BIOGRAPHY OF X. I don’t expect this (nor do I want it to) on the shortlist. #bookstareadsthebooker2023 #bookstagramreadsthebooker #bookerprize #bookprizes #literaryfiction #igbooks #novels #irishliterature #emotionalnovels

This was an enjoyable story concerning main characters who were all struggling with life to some extent and come together to build a currach, a traditional Irish boat. The main characters are Jamie, a thirteen year old boy on the autistic spectrum, and Tess, an English teacher undergoing IVF. I did enjoy the story, but in the end, I didn't find it completely satisfying. That's because the character's stories were unresolved, which is just life I expect, but I would have liked to have learnt a little more.

I only read this due to being long listed in this year’s Booker Prize. Sadly once again I’ve been rather disappointed in this one. In the beginning I was interested to read Tess’s journey and thoughts then I became bored with the boat thing as I felt it dragged on too much. However it is a book on “how to build a boat”! It’s much more than that and Jaime was an interesting character that I got from the start was autistic. It seemed to be a ‘theme’ this year or mental health issues in the ones I’ve read. The characters are interesting and it’s well written but it just wasn’t for me. Everyone seemed to be ‘broken’ for want of a better word. They all had deep issues which they tried to suppress until Tess’s came to a head in the last few chapters. I never seem to like the books on this list each year but I realise it’s a tough decision with so many good books out there and so many readers of differing genres. I was interested to see some Irish ones and read two of them but many others seem to like them so I’m interested to see which of the short list will make the cut! This is a hard book for me to review but there are so many decent reviews here to help you decide if it’s for you.

Longlisted for the 2023 Booker prize This isn't a bad book, but it is a conventional one and it's not what the blurb says you're going to get. It claims to be a book about how two teachers change the life of a non-neurotypical 13-year-old boy (Jamie) who's recently started at a Catholic high school in the west of Ireland, who wants to build a perpetual motion machine to connect with his dead mother, a promising teenage swimmer who died shortly after giving birth to him. It's an interesting premise which loses its way — it feels like Feeney had an idea for a different novel about Tess, one of Jamie's teachers, and her struggling marriage, which she's tried to shoehorn into Jamie's story. As a result, the novel is quite jumbled, with very lengthy sections entirely focused on Tess, and intriguing characters from Jamie's life like his father Eoin pushed to the sidelines. Most of the book is written in the third person, although oddly about halfway through there are a couple of chapters in the first person before Feeney switches back again. There are also long sections dedicated to boat-building, without any real sense that this is about 'love, family and connection' as the blurb claims, except on a very surface level (in its cosy 'and everybody came together and liked each other!' tone it reminded me of Still Life by Sarah Winman). Feeney is a poet, and quite often incorporates poetic language and structure (particularly when reflecting Jamie's internal monologue, which works to good effect). But mostly this is written fairly conventionally and it feels like Feeney has avoided making choices an author really should make — like which plotline to focus on. It's frustrating because although I didn't dislike this book and I don't regret reading it, I do feel with a prize like the Booker, every longlisted book should be good enough to win and this is nowhere near as good as many other books I've read this year.

Elaine Feeney is a writer of poetry and prose which comes though in this, her second novel. I struggled a little with the grammar and the occasional use of the phrase 'was stood.' I found the epilogue to be particularly moving and lifted the book to 3.5 stars. But overall its a 3 for me. Perfectly readable but I'm not sure how it made the Booker longlist.

A sweet little read but not life changing

very very unique. Very unusual conventions- never using quotation marks in a novel. Felt like it was written through an autistic lens.

Thought this would be right up my (g)alley, but it didn’t really float my boat (pun fully intended).

I struggled with this one. It started out promising but eventually was bogged down by shifting and confusing perspectives (I felt like it couldn't decide whose thoughts or point of view we should be following) and frustrating language. The passages from Jamie's perspective came across as a bit cringe for me and as more sentimental than authentic. I was really interested in the character of Tess but then the boon would switch perspectives to Jamie and bring the story to a halt.

Great start, but fizzled out as it stretched over too many threads.

loved the Jamie storyline, really beautiful and moving. The other storylines felt rushed and I don’t think were needed.

Liked it for the most part...but got sick of the main character!

Unpopular opinion time. I really wanted to love this, but I was often bored. As much as I appreciated the writing (lucid, precise), basically the entirety of Leigh’s story – more than 80% of the book – feels like exposition. We are close to her, yet she is still a blank slate. I think In Ascension would appeal to anyone who loved The Moonday Letters, and vice versa, as I came to the same conclusion about both: each book is impressive in its worldbuilding and vision as a work of speculative fiction, but frustratingly sterile and lacking in anything recognisable as real emotion.

Booker Book 7 of 13: 5 out of 10. Just not for me. Long slow meandering semi sci-fi book that has an interesting denouement but never quite succeeds in marrying its two quite divergent stories of intimate family trauma on the one hand and the very “big ideas” look at the infinite loop of life through deep space, deep sea and deep time, on the other. For a book this long there are remarkably few characters. Most such as Leigh’s lab staff and crew mates are not given any characterization at all. It is a longish book that feels much longer. Some good writing in flashes throughout.

BRILLIANT SCI-FI CONCEPT! ABSOLUTELY CONCEIVABLE. IN ASCENSION is the cyclical journey of a young microbiologist named Leigh. Leigh grew up in a traumatic home environment, often leading her to escape as a child to the waters of the Nieuwe Maas. In one of her swims, she is awakened internally by a deep connection to the archaic organisms within the water. This experience propels her toward a career in biology, landing her a prestigious spot on the Endeavour which will investigate an unfathomable deep vent in the ocean floor in the mid-Atlantic. This experience and research sets her life on a trajectory that will explore the origins of life on a global and cosmic level. Believing the mid-Atlantic vent to be connected with a pattern present on a celestial body called Datura, Leigh will leave behind her mom and sister to search for answers to life's greatest questions and confront her own past. I found the concept of this book to be incredibly invigorating. McInnes had me believing this could actually happen. I wanted to know so much more about Leigh's adventure and discovery! There are overwhelming amounts of scientific descriptions of microbiology and protocol and not as much about the experience or adventures these characters are having. This made it a difficult read. I felt exasperated trying to get to the ending, which fell flat for me. Though it be a little tricky at first, the set up for this book is insanely brilliant. Leigh's backstory and the way McInnes connects her life to her work is poetic. I just wanted so much more of that and less about how algae grows, though it was an important piece of the narrative. I felt cheated at the end, as if I wasn't given the whole story. This was a 500 page read and could have easily been shortened to 300 pages. I treasured every single nature and cosmic scene. Those were beautifully written. I can absolutely see how he would be a Booker Prize winner. He is an excellent writer. A very special thank you to NetGalley, Martin McInnes, and Grove Press, Black Cat for this eARC in exchange for my honest original review.

This is the second Booker-nominated novel I’ve read recently, and based on this evidence, I’m a little astonished it didn’t make it to the shortlist, particularly when I compare how more compelling a read I found it versus the eventual winner. We are (un)willing passengers on a journey that plumbs the depths of our planet and seeks out what may exist at the outer limits of our universe. These voyages take time, naturally, and the plot often moves at a glacial pace. Nonetheless, it is an excellent piece of literary fiction and an accessible form of science fiction that seems more like science fact. It’s highbrow food for thought and an intimate exploration of our humanity, our very existence and connectedness with Mother Earth and how we should seek to preserve and embrace, not destroy that singular bond. My thanks to the publisher and NetGalley for granting this e-ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Sadly, the narrator's cadence put me off of this one for the first quarter, and then I could never get back to a higher level of interest and engagement than 'this is fine!' The first person present tense did *not* help with my emotional engagement - even though it's supposed to be the closest you get to a character. Nope, did not care for Leigh that much, even if we have in common quite a bit of trauma and family dynamics! There's a wealth of interesting ideas and moments in this book, but by the end (the Ascension part) I felt like there were so many things introduced that I couldn't keep track of all the details and where it was leading me and also... did not like the ending that much? Not a great review so far... Will see if I have the energy of getting back to it soon!

Strangely reminded me of Bunin’s The Village: it would have been enough to have read only the first and the last 15% to get the idea of the book. The writing is good, though, but too detached to my liking. And very, veeery serious.

An odd little novel, but one dense in meanings most of which I am sure I have missed or not understood. The novel deals in part with the time the author spent at Moscow's Gorky institute at the time Pasternak was forced to reject the Nobel award and how the split between Albania's dictator Hoxha and the Soviet Union's Khrushchev over de-stalinization led to his exile from Moscow (territory covered in his previous novel 'The Death of the Eastern Gods') but deals also with a phone call between Pasternak and Stalin about Osip Mandelstam of which there are at least 13 different version that Kadare dissects. But I think the novel is more an exegesis on the role of the writer in dictatorial society (there are also references to Pushkin and emperor Nicholas I and Tolstoy and Nicholas II and ultimately Kadare's role? responsibility? guilt? as the favoured literary star of Hoxha's Albania. I think Kadare may be exorcising his own ghosts (he recounts his own first telephone conversation with Hoxha) and feelings of culpability? I am not sure. Nor would I dare to stand in any form of judgement over Kadare, never mind Pasternak, for 'failings' in situations I have never faced, even though I don't really believe in him I still believe in 'There but for the grace of god go I'. But I may be entirely wrong - this novel is richly complicated in the meaning of its language and reading it in English I can't help wondering how much I miss - there is a whole part that involves what Kadare said in his mediocre Russian to a colleague speaks to him at times in 18th century and then 16th century Albanian. Without criticising the translator (on what basis can I!) it is hard not to think that subtleties are being lost. This is particularly true when Kadare discusses translation Pushkin 'Monument' in which in the first line "I raised a monument to myself not made by hand." is, he thinks clumsy because the word 'nyerukotvorniy' meaning not made by hand is untranslatable but Kadare fails to explain that it is the Russian word for the Greek orthodox idea of Acheiropoieta icons not made by human hands but which are miraculously created. The problem of why this meaning is ignored is complicated because it is part of conversation in Moscow in 1961 when religious subtleties of orthodox religious thought were possibly unknown to Kadare as someone from a Muslim heritage and in it might be that the religious dimensions of Pushkin's allegories weren't discussed. But it is odd that when reporting the conversation in the present he doesn't explain things, or maybe he doesn't think they need to be explained. All of the above may mean nothing, maybe it is just a novel about a phone call Stalin made to Pasternak, but I don't think so. The dissection of the 13 versions of the phone call are, for me, the least engaging part of the work. To me the elliptical look at writers and rulers and where the power lies is the most interesting part - particularly the sidelight on Gorky and Lenin and then Stalin and how that may or may not throw light on Mandelstam and Stalin. It is a book of many levels but is ultimately too opaque for my taste.

This is not a book I would have picked up on my own. And if I had, it’s not one I would have seen to completion. That’s not to say I didn’t gain anything by reading it…I learned a lot about 20th century Russian literary circles, but the focus of the novel is narrow and specific—a 3 minute phone call between Joseph Stalin and Boris Pasternak—and it’s the sort of thing I would have probably rather have just read a Wikipedia article about. But, I did read it and I’m not sure I’d call it a novel. While the first two sections are more introspective and memoir-esque (I admit I found these parts a bit self-indulgent), the 13 rehashings of the phone call are more historical inquiry and speculation. The gist of the phone call is made clear from the start, but the details vary slightly from version to version depending on the source, showing not only how fickle memory can be, but the acts of self preservation one must employ when living under a oppressive regime. Despite expounding on the discrepancies and speculating at their cause and meaning, by the end we’re left feeling no more confident in the details of this phone call than we were at the start. Where Kadare captures my attention is in his exploration of the relationship between tyrants and artists and the power both parties hold. Well written, but niche to a fault for this reader.

Based on an alleged 3 minute conversation between Stalin and poet Pastenek, about another poet, Mandelstam, this book crosses somewhere between the boundaries of fact and fiction. Written in 3 parts, the final section analyses the 13 possible ways the phone call could have happened and why the different parties may have interpreted the conversation this way. The real challenge was the many, many tangents the text takes. With analogies that link from ancient Greece through to 1990s UK, it takes a LOT of concentration and research. It's absolutely impossible to star rate this; in terms of a book to read -2 (I'd never attempt again) but in terms of pure literary genius +7. I'd be lying if I didn't say this completely messed with my head - and I fell down the internet rabbit hole trying to research the truth of this book. To say it's a thinker is understatement of the century.

Robert Littell’s short historical novel The Stalin Epigram, covers this material in a much better fashion, with the characters coming alive in a manner that this rather dry tome does not.

‘A Dictator Calls’.. In ‘Twilight of the Eastern Gods’, one of his early novels, the great Albanian writer Ismail Kadare portrayed his days in Gorky Institute, Moscow, where he was apprenticed to socialist realistic writing, representing communist Albania. In no time did the budding genius realise that art had nothing to do with sloganeering and artist was by nature opposed to all forms of dictatorships. The humiliation of Boris Pasternak who was maligned as the stooge of capitalism, simply because he won the Nobel prize, was an eye-opener to the young writer that Kadare was at that time, ie; 1958- ‘60. Decades later, in the twilight of his writing career, Kadare once again goes back to those Moscow days, studying Pasternak on a different ground. By the time, politics had changed and Stalin’s Soviet Russia and Albanian brand of communism had become history. In hindsight, and with fearless freedom, Kadare takes up the questions of artistic freedom and integrity, complicity and responsibility under the threat of dictatorship. In the centre of the plot is a 3 minutes phone call Stalin makes to Pasternak, demanding his response to the arrest of the fellow poet Osip Mandelstam. Will Pasternak stand by his friend? Will he choose to save his skin? What exactly was/were the dictator’s motive/s? How was the entire episode understood/ projected in popular imagination? How many versions are there about it and how do they differ? .. Questions Kadare explores are too many, and the similarities he finds between himself and Pasternak are also too many.. Readers familiar with Kadare’s earlier masterpieces from ‘The General of the Dead Army’ to ‘A Girl in Exile’ and ‘The Successor’ might not find ‘A Dictator ..’ too exciting. But it definitely provides a fine rounding off to one of the finest literary careers ever, going back as it does to a brilliant take off more than half a century before, to reconsider the concerns that haunted him ever…

This book does not seem like a novel to me. I wonder why Kadare called it that. I guess it allowed him to assume that irritating almost capricious tone and to make us readers wonder what is true and what is not. I thought about not finishing it but then I was curious. Maybe that’s what makes it a novel. It is a very serious subject however--the behavior of a dictator and a major poet in Soviet Russia! Stalin calls Pasternak to ask him his opinion of Mandelstam’s imprisonment. Pasternak doesn’t know what to say but the story is he differentiated himself from his friend’s poetic style. Stalin supposedly abruptly played with him and said he couldn’t defend his friend and hung up. To me this is another psychological and terrorist act on the part of Stalin. Why blame or question the poet? He is just another pawn of the dictator. Cultivating fear and suspicion among the Soviet people was what Stalin was best at. I don’t think Kadare’s focus on the two men as players in the phone game with thirteen versions of what happened opens our eyes to anything new about this horrible moment in time. He peppers this account with other stories from dictatorships and from Russian literature, and his own Albania. Stalin’s phone call was a grain of sand in the immense pit of crimes he committed. Mandelstam was a great poet who died, rather was killed by the gulag as were many other people. Others were executed, some killed themselves. A whole country could not change this situation because there was complicity. How does one write about this? I was curious about how Kadare would handle this subject but I don’t recommend A Dictator Calls. (Translated by John Hodgson)

This was a bit of a disappointing read for me. I was hoping that it would be a bit like The Noise of Time by Julian Barnes, which is one of my favourite novels of all time (it's about Shostakovich' life and his troubles with Stalin and Soviet authorities). Instead, it kind of reads more like an essay. I most definitely would not call this a novel. I think the author's writing style was just not for me. He deviates from his main story line about the different accounts of the Stalin-Paternak call a bit too much to talk about stuff like Homer and Shakespeare, which mostly just leads nowhere. The different accounts of the call were really interesting, though! I also liked that he connected his own life with Pasternak's in the beginning, as Kadare himself once received a call by Albanian dictator Hoxha. But Kadare could've given a bit more background information about the poets and politicians he was writing about. At times, especially in the beginning, the book was a bit hard to follow. I also had never heard of a David Samoylov/Kaufman that was apparently Svetlana Stalina's lover at some point. When I googled that particular story, nothing came up. I'm not saying it's made up, but I do think that's a bit strange. Unfortunately, only 3 stars. Could have definitely been 4 or 5 stars if it was written differently.

Reminiscent of the film "Roshomon" or the poem "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird," Kadare's short novel examines thirteen versions of a single event – the three-minute June 1934 telephone call that Joseph Stalin allegedly made to the writer Boris Pasternak about the arrest of poet Osip Mandelstam. The various versions come from witnesses, reporters, other writers, friends, lovers, and KGB archivists. As Kadare notes, “The signs of the times were impossible to interpret, often having two meanings, and sometimes three," and these different perspectives allow Kadare to reflect not just on the nature of reality but also on the themes of power and the fate of free expression in a dictatorship. These reflections are somewhat lacking in depth and resolution, but parts of the story are fascinating. The question remains of whether the book qualifies as a work of fiction – and hence qualifies for the 2024 International Booker Prize long list.

Before actually reviewing the book it’s best to give a little preamble. The main protagonist of the book is a cellist who is practicing a complicated piece by Giacinto Scelsi. Upon researching him, I discovered that Scelsi was an Italian composer who created symphonies that shifted soundwise. In fact, according to articles, his approach to music was postmodern. Wretchedness is also a book which shifts narrative voice but also the end result is a cohesive whole. While the cellist is on his way to practice he meets a homeless man and this sparks up memories of his youth in the 90’s; One filled with violence, drug taking and hip hop. There are endless descriptions of people being beat up, bad language and bands ranging from C.L. Smooth to Public Enemy (even Scottish post-rockers Mogwai get a mention) being name-dropped. Like a symphony, there are quiet moments which juxtapose the nosier parts. There are scenes when the cellist discusses Scelsi and the proper orchestral arrangements with his guitarist. Also most sections start with a description of a bouquet of flowers. However, the descent into violence happens quickly and the pretty moments serve as breathers. Reading Wretchedness is like being pummeled incessantly. If one is a fan of the visceral, explosive writing with an experimental feel then Wretchedness is definitely the rawest novel you’ll read all year.

I like that its a stream of consciousness book that references Tupac and Resident Evil

A frightening book, about a world completely foreign to most of us. I found it a little difficult to read, not just because of its style (seemingly endless passages with no punctuation but the occasional comma; disconnected fragments of conversations in which it was difficult to determine who was talking to whom) but also in part because of the vocabulary from a different universe. I might indeed have enjoyed it more if only I had understood more of it.

“This is no home . . . this is just housing.” Following this, the story of Wretchedness never settles down anywhere for too long, a feature of the narrative design that enacts the “placelessness.” In the novel’s present-day, recollective point-of-view, a cellist is approached while waiting to catch a recital of work by Italian composer Giacinto Scelsi. The homeless addict who approaches strikes up a conversation with him, and the musician begins to feel the tug of his past life. Instead of opening up about this past to his now-present colleagues, the cellist quietly contemplates thoughts and memories of former traumas, large and small. Through casual conversation on Classical music composition, the author balances between the cellist’s personal meditation and the intellectual meanderings of his coworkers The novel strings together a series of flashbacks comprised of run-on conversations, slang, and epithets, as well as the occasional imaginary dialogue. In this regard, Tichý consistently blurs lines, up until the very end where he attempts what appears to be a striking perspective shift in the novel’s conclusion This missing link in the story underscores the strange dichotomy between the narrator’s two different lives which apparently have no direct relation to each other maybe except for the love of music and of friends. Wretchedness has an ambitious form, the stylistic wordplay and rapid stream of consciousness should be praised.

"I immediately felt a joy of some kind burst through me, a warmth in my chest, a pride, a delight, I was alive, I wasn't dead, and if that wasn't enough, I was enjoying this shitty life." The book is a trip through poverty and the underbelly of several European cities, told stream-of-consciousness through someone jumping between past and present through the aid of music and drugs. Each chapter is one long paragraph of continual thought; the story takes us through several lives, all on the wrong side of the tracks. It's definitely interesting, and it grabbed me the further in I went. I don't know that I would want to read ten books like this, but (thanks to And Other Stories and their translators) I'm glad I was able to read one.

Interesting, stream of consciousness style about a musician and homeless people in Sweden.

The content of this book was good. The structure gave me a headache.

"Tense at the suspicion that I'm only one tiny part of his worries, of his war, I stay at the table watching my father move away, he who has always been so clear to me and to my brother that he sees himself as a man who is neither better nor worse than other men, carrying with him his rage and his intention not to make mistakes, never to make a single mistake." Based on the title, the synopsis, and the start of the novel, my GR friend Paul and I had similarly expected the book to be "a Kafkaesque satire of bureaucracy as the commission came up with ever more contorted ways to draw a racial line, a novel of ideas exploring the very real issues of what defines disadvantage." There was a lot of scope for nicely exploring how phenotypical expression is not a straightforward method for racial evaluation, and how these phenotypes come together to give the lie against a simple history, in the vein of Derek Walcott and Rienzi Crusz. Hence, it is disappointing to see this strand of the narrative shoved on the back burner after a few chapters with Scott choosing to center a truly mundane mid-life crisis characterized by clashing love interests—the one that got away and the current object of adoration—along with past events coming to bear on the future. Still, there are appreciable elements. The chapters set in the present move chronologically while the past chapters go further and further back. Beyond structure, the prose with its bounty of sumptuous run-on sentences fills the mouth. (I received a finished copy from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.)

"...how could people be disliked, feared, excoriated for the colour of their skin, how could this foul culture, which got into children's heads and ruined everything that was in there at the very start of their existences, how could it be allowed to continue, how could whites, whites like him, control everything, inventing some story about how racism wasn't real and on top of everything manage to win the support of a good portion of the black population in the process" Phenotypes (written by Paulo Scott in Brazilian Portuguese and translated by Daniel Hahn) is narrated by Frederico, whose father is black (and a famous forensic pathologist for the police) and whose mother is white. This resulted in Federico having light skin, as compared to his brother, Lorenco, who is dark-skinned. When Federico turns 50, he joins a governmental committee that aims to address the problems associated with the racial quota system in Brazil's higher education. In the midst of tackling his role in this committee, he is informed by Lorenco that his niece, Roberta, has just been arrested by the police carrying a concealed gun, a gun that he and Lorenco hid for a friend decades before, which was used in a killing. We had the privilege of reading books centering around the issue of racism and colourism mostly in the US, but not in Brazil. And this is definitely an eye-opening experience for me. In Phenotypes, Scott examined the issue of racism in Brazil through the perspective of the Brazilian educational system, whereby the quota system was introduced (50% of all students of the state public universities must have attended public schools and 40% of them must be black students). The pros and cons of such affirmative action are fully fleshed out in this novel, in an argumentative form. Readers are able to get a grasp of the deeply rooted racial discrimination in Brazil's governmental bureaucracy as well as the social inequality, classism, and radicalism that the Brazilian society is facing. Frederico's character is also an interesting one. Being born with lighter skin, he can easily pass off as a white, and hence, he often felt distance from his own Black culture: "Blackness did not exist in my upbringing". Even though he is involved with the government's initiative to review the quota system, he felt that he failed to make a huge difference in altering this mentality. Frederico's conflicted state of mind and struggles are definitely the highlights of this novel. That said, the issues are all laid out in a very info-dumpy manner. Sentences are too long (it can go on for pages) and with the info-dumpy approach, it makes the story rather dull. Also, the romance between Frederico and his colleague seems to be a little out of place in the plot structure of the story. But without a doubt, the premise of this story is definitely an interesting one for me. Phenotypes is a 3/5 star read to me and I would definitely recommend this to readers who intend to have some insights into the cultural and racial issues in Brazil.

The main theme of this book is race in Brazil. Our protagonist is Federico, a white-passing, mixed-race man who is tasked to serve in a committee that will determine if a software that can calculate if someone is "sufficiently black, brown, or indigenous" in order to meet racial quotas for universities is a good idea or not. While the novel starts there, it also goes into Federico's life, where issues from his past come back to haunt him in the present, creating problems for his family and shakes up his life in general. There's a bit of romance too but it's never the main objective of the book. I almost wish that part was completely omitted since it seemed like a different book altogether. Overall, Federico is a very complex character who has had many experiences in his life that mirror all the issues that are being discussed in the committee where he's supposed to help direct where this software will end up. This book is definitely unique and also very well structured and paced. There's a sense of mystery as we are taken back to Federico's past and how it all connects to his present. It's a look into the life of a man who has based the way he lives his life based on one pivotal moment of his life. It left me thinking a lot about how I think about race in my life and how the color of our skin plays a role in different places around the world.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2022 I'm all here for psychological riddles, and in this one, a certain "GMB" is sent several notebooks that are supposed to have been written by a woman who calls herself Rebecca Smyth and believes that her sister was driven to suicide by infamous 60's counselor Collins Braithwaite. The book consists of those notebooks, interspersed with the research GMB did on Braithwaite, a counterculture eccentric who sees himself as a genius psychiatrist (he is loosely modeled after the real R.D. Laing, one of the leaders of the anti-psychiatry movement, who also features as Braithwaite's nemesis in the novel). While Braithwaite is highly controversial, GMB also questions the authenticity of the notebooks right from the beginning... The first 2/3 of this book are a real pageturner, the text lives off its three-dimensional, cleverly unsympathetic characters: Braithwaite is a manipulative, grandiose egotist, while Rebecca Smyth is a stuck-up, arrogant, upper-class daughter who tries to outwit Braithwaite by becoming his client in order to find out what he did to her sister. It's fast, fun, and compelling, it can be read as a mystery or as satire on the 60's or (anti-/un-)therapy. Per usual in a novel featuring psychiatry, the question looms who is actually nuts, and it's incredibly witty and fun. Unfortunately, outside of the character of Braithwaite, the 60's in the UK are not successfully evoked: Those couple of references just don't do the trick. Worse though is the denouement at the end, as there is no proper ending that would correspond to the expectation that is built before. So the book is smart, the characters are great and the writing is entertaining, but the ending - oh no, Burnet, why?!

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐ Genre: Literary Fiction + Historical Fiction This is a story that is set in the 1960s in the UK. Rebecca Smyth begins seeing the therapist (Collins Braithwaite) who she believes was responsible for her sister Veronica's suicide two years ago using a false identity. Rebecca keeps a number of notebooks to document her experiences with this psychotherapist. But soon she finds herself sucked into a world where she can no longer have any certainties and that includes her own identity. In the first few pages of the book, the author tells us about his own experience and how he wrote this book. He received the notebooks from unknown sources, allegedly written by a woman who truly believes that a famous psychiatrist was the main reason behind her sister’s suicide. This gave the author the foundation of this story. Besides being literary fiction, this is also partly historical fiction as well as a thriller. The pace of the story is slow and the thrilling part is very subtle. It suits the atmosphere of the book. Nothing crazy like the mainstream thrillers. However, I did not feel the significance of the 1960s era in the story. This could be a personal thing. You might disagree. The writing is really good and shows the author’s talent and expertise in his field. I’m not sure how I feel about the ending though. I wish the conclusion was somehow stronger.

Shortlisted for the Gordon Burn Prize I have decided to write down everything that happens, because I feel, I suppose, I may be putting myself in danger, and if proved to be right (a rare occurrence admittedly), this notebook might serve as some kind of evidence. Regrettably, as will become clear, I have little talent for composition. As I read over my previous sentence I do rather cringe, but if I dilly-dally over style I fear I will never get anywhere. Miss Lyle, my English mistress, used to chide me for trying to cram too many thoughts into a single sentence. This, she said, was a sign of a disorderly mind. ‘You must first decide what it is you wish to say, then express it in the plainest terms.’ That was her mantra, and though it is doubtless a good one, I can see that I have already failed. I have said that I may be putting myself in danger, but there I go, off on an irrelevant digression. In 2019, Graeme Mccrae Burnet published a blog post The Strange Cases of Maeder and Braithwaite, referring to psychiatric case studies he had discovered in two obscure books, one by Alphonse Maeder and the other by Collins Braithwaite, a contemporary and, at least in his own mind, rival of R.D. Laing. In the comments someone remarked that this was intriguing but was it material for his next novel, and Burnet confirmed it was, a novel to be titled Case Study. Case Study follows the style of Burnet's previously Booker featured His Bloody Project: Documents Relating to the Case of Roderick Macrae, with the use of what the author claims are found documents relating to a real-life case. He explained this approach to his fiction in The Bookseller I think people will Google Collins Braithwaite and think he is real, because I write about him in a documentary style. ... When you write in a documentary format it signifies truth to the reader, or reality. Whereas when [a book is written] in the first person, there’s a much stronger feeling that you don’t need to believe what you’re reading and that the [character] may be misleading you. ... It’s fascinating to me, because when we read novels, we know it’s not real; yet what we seek from a novel, or what I seek from a novel, is a feeling of reality. In order to immerse yourself in a novel I think you have to feel that it is real, even though we know that it’s not true, it’s all made up. Although this willingness to admit the artifice outside of the novel's pages, and the fact that the uncertainty doesn't survive a moment's googling, makes this a rather less immersive experience that the epitome of the genre, the brilliant The Unauthorised Biography of Ezra Maas. Case Study consists of two alternating sections: - the author's own biography of Collins Braithwaite; and - notebooks he claims to have been sent after his blog post written by a woman who became a patient of Braithwaite under an assumed identity. She had done so after discovering that her sister, who committed suicide, may have been one of Braithwaite's patients as a very similar case is featured in his anonymised book of Case Studies. The narrator of these sections tries to make herself appear "a nut" so as to be accepted as a patient, but it is clear from the early pages of her account that she is somewhat delusional, and as her account goes on the 'real' her and her assumed identity start to come into conflict. Meanwhile in the biographical sections, Burnet carves out a plausible place for Braithwaite in the counterculture of 1960s London. For a nearly 300 page novel, this was a quick and enjoyable read, and Braithwaite's theories ("Don't kill yourself. Kill your Self.") are interesting in their own right, particularly as played out in the life of both the author of the notebooks but also his own life. But it felt the novel was begging an ending, drawing the two threads together, and the one provided is rather unsatisfactory. And as for Braithwaite, I couldn't help but feel Will Self had already created him in Zack Busner. 3.5 stars rounded to 3 as this is on the Booker longlist and Gordon Burn Prize shortlist and so my expectations were high.

If you're like me, you may have read the blurbs about this and thought to yourself: "Charismatic psychotherapist? Fake identities and suicide? Meditations on sanity and truth itself in a narrative where the reader can't be certain of anything? This sounds great and mysterious and it probably has a lot of twists and unique storytelling and it was Booker longlisted and I need to read it right away!!! Well I'm here to tell you to cool off a bit, jeez. This is a pretty standard novel that is solid but not really all that surprising, and I would suspect that if you read this and got to the end, you'd close the book and let out a sound that would equate to an audio version of a shrug. The novel bounces back and forth between a traditional biography of said charismatic psychotherapist and the journals of a woman who is seeing the psychotherapist to get some insight into why her sister (who was also a client) committed suicide. The biography sections are fairly typical: they cover this pretty annoying guy who thinks he's a genius despite never doing anything to make that kind of claim, and basically charms his way into sleeping with a lot of women while also pissing off every person he comes into contact with. An unsympathetic character for sure, although mildly interesting to read about in a train-wreck kind of way. The journal parts are a little more interesting, because the author is clearly going nuts herself, operating in at least two different personalities at war with each other. However she is also kind of a bore, mostly detailing her conversations with our psychotherapist and vaguely talking about being thrilled by sex and bondage, despite never letting herself enter any kind of situation where that might remotely be a possibility for her. (Even having a drink (!) with a man (!!) causes her to completely meltdown.) A qualified psychotherapist would certainly have a field day with such a person, but of course, there are none in this book. Anyway things kind of fizzle out towards the end in predictable fashion, and sure, there might be some surface-level stuff going on here about the nature of self, identify as performance, we all wear masks, etc etc etc, but it doesn't live up to the expectations of the book's setup (nor the book's marketing blurbs), and it's just kind of an ok time. You're likely going to find both characters unsympathetic, so really your enjoyment will depend on how much you have fun with the structure (fake biographies that seem like they're real are always kind of fun) and the writing style. And those things are pretty good! But not particularly "dazzling" or "inventive". ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

This started out very intriguingly but in the end it has left me somewhat disappointed, with quite a few question marks and a puzzling feeling of what the point has been. Or have I been duped and toyed with like the author GMB? The book explores the merits of psychiatry and essentially alternates between fragments from contemporary notebooks and a biography about the forgotten therapist Braithwaite. Disappointingly the notebooks and biography don't come together in the end, they sort of exist in parallel and the differences are too striking to decide what is 'true' (perhaps that was precisely the point?). I felt this needed a grand finale which didn't come. I had noted in his previous novels that GMB has a keen interest in and sharp eye for psychology - this is what lifted them above detective novels. Here, the focus is on psychiatry and the central theme appears to be that we we have a private self and a public self meaning we all play roles and try to see what story fits our personality best. This is an old theme and has been done better in my opinion (Gantenbein is a favourite of mine: at a certain point in life we all encounter a story we hold to be our own). I also found there was a strange disconnect between the Braithwaite of the notebooks and the Braithwaite of the biography. Socially skillful and arrogant as a therapist versus socially awkward and insecure in both his early and later life according to the biographer. I am not suggesting these conflicting traits cannot exist within the same person but it went beyond the believable. On a more positive note: I liked the tone and writing of the notebooks (Rebecca is a great character and fantastic unreliable narrator). I enjoyed the reading experience. I liked the 1960s setting. And the framing narrative once again worked very well to create tension even if the apotheosis was a letdown. But in the end I have to wonder what I have been reading. I also surely have missed some things as several questions remain unsolved for me, mostly regarding Veronica's suicide. As to the Booker, I find this less accomplished than its obvious companion 'Trust'...but neither experiment would make it to my shortlist.

I read Macrae-Burnet's Case Study as part of my catch up of books I hadn't got to that were longlisted for the 2022 Booker prize and caught my attention enough that I wanted to get to them, so this became part of my holiday reads pile in Jan this year. Set in 1960s England this pastiche style work plays with ideas of fiction, nestling within it various narrative forms, including historical documents, journals, psychiatric case studies, crime. It rifts throughout on RD Laing's anti-psychiatry movement, the history of psychology / psychiatry, philosophy etc. It encourages readers to speculate about the veracity of these various narrative sources as a 'story' is developed about an unnamed young woman,(with likely complex mental health challenges) approaching a psychotherapist, Collins Braithwaite, for sessions. Braithwaite is a somewhat disreputable character. We learn or at least initially assume that she's attending these sessions to explore her view that Braithwaite contributed to her sister's (Veronica) death (by suicide we presume), who was attending sessions with him. This story is recounted by a GMB (the initials of Graeme Macrae Burnet) who has got hold of this young woman's journal / note books (six of them) in which she recorded her account of these interactions with Braithwaite. GMB is interested in this as it contains allegations concerning Braithwaite and his practices and he's exploring the possibility of researching and writing a biography of Braithwaite in context of anti-psychiatry movement. Does he have in his hands source material that can give his study the edge he's been looking for? Some of my own research revals that GMB is also the 'writer researcher' of Macrae-Burnet's earlier work, His Bloody Project. So we get multi-layered representation, with nested fictions, all very metafictional / metatextual. To deceive Braithwaite this young woman takes on an identity as Rebecca Smyth, a confident even alluring young woman about town (very different from whom we understand to be this woman's unassuming life at home supporting / caring for her widowed father). So the metaficitonal games ramp-up with readers increasingly wondering who is this character, which is the 'real' version (whatever that means in the context of such a work); is 'she' a construction and fabricated to entice and trick GMB into trying to tell this tale, just as 'she' was seeking to entice and trick Braithwaite with her fabricated, performance of Rebecca Smyth. But is Rebecca Smyth perhaps really the core of this character's identity and being, her 'repressed self', and the more demure self the 'fake' that needs to be unmasked. And on it goes. How can we trust any of it as even in the journals she shares that she also kept 'fake journals/ diary' to deceive her mother, who she knew was snooping and reading them. So again, how do we know we readers, snopping over the shoulder of GMB, aren't being presented with a wonderfully elaborate and persuasive set of nested fakes? What if the notebooks are satire, playing with the gender stereotypes that proliferate through them (many entries are quite misogynistic, perhaps reflecting a young woman internalising that from 1960s culture). I don't mean to be totally dismissive of this. The metafictional architecture with its intricate narratives works quite well, I found it interesting to think my way through the various possible pathways. It holds-up in terms of a device to explore appearance and reality in context of psychiatry and 1960s England. It's well written and pulled me along, it had something of a psychological thriller feel to it as well, so also games here with genre. Maybe it was the reading mood I was in at the time, but I just didn't overly care enough about this one and where it ends up. Some reviewers have found it even funny and I see that quality, but I'm not convinced it brings anything much new to the table through the metafictional play (and I generally quite enjoy metafictional experiments). In my view many other far better books on the 2022 Booker Prize list.

Case Study was an interesting concept executed well, a story told through diary entries and existential observation with a central character who is intricate in her personality and intriguing to read. It is compelling on many levels but for me personally the writing was a little top heavy at times making the story a slow burn rather than highly addictive but it was beautifully done. Overall a good read that just took me a while to get through.

Case Study has an interesting premise. A young woman discovers a case study in a book by a psychotherapist, which she believes describes her sister who recently committed suicide. The novel itself is framed as a piece of non-fiction by 'GMB', which consists of the 'notebooks' left by the young woman interspersed with biographical sections written by GMB about A. Collins Braithwaite, the psychotherapist. Early on, the young woman explains that she believes that Collins Braithwaite had played a role in her sister committing suicide and that she decided to visit the psychotherapist in order to get further answers and ultimately to expose him. However, the rest of the 'notebooks' contain essentially no reference to these supposed aims. It becomes apparent fairly early that the young woman is an unreliable & unlikeable narrator who finds it very difficult to feel any empathy whatsoever for other people. In fact, she avoids feeling anything at all and sees herself, with her outmoded ways of doing things, as superior to those around her. Despite this, she enjoys creating a fictional self, initially in order to conceal her identity from Collins Braithwaite. The biographical sections about Collins Braithwaite also describe a fundamentally unreliable & unlikeable person, but from a third person perspective. Both the notebooks and the biography are quite conventionally written. In particular, the notebooks read more like a first-person novel than diary entries. None of the novel's initial questions really get answered, and the ending brings us back more or less to the place we started with a flash forward to the future tacked onto the end. There are some interesting explorations of psychiatric treatment in the mid-20th century and ideas of the self. The ending seems to want to say something about these ideas, but it feels rushed, like an afterthought.

I was excited to read this faux/factual narrative about an unconventional psychotherapist and a ‘patient’ investigating her sister’s suicide. As expected, nothing in this novel is as it seems on the surface. The conceit that blurs fact and fiction works less effectively than I’d hoped. Ultimately while I found both narrative threads separately interesting, even compelling, the clashing styles in which they are written made it challenging for me to find a rhythm in this reading experience. It might be more a sign of my pea-brain than an indictment of the book itself.

Huge fun, taking you back to the mid-60s and swinging London and the anti-psychiatry movement (RD Laing features heavily, I remember friends having copies of Knots in the early 70s), which proposes that mad people may be saner than their physicians (depicted as jailers). Lyons tea shops, corner pubs all jollily described, and engaging characters (particularly the monstrous Braithwaite), but I did feel it petered out a bit at the end, stories were not resolved (eg Tom the boyfriend) and this was the sort of book that needed resolution.

Case Study begins with Graeme Macrae Burnet telling the readers that he had acquired a series of notebooks belonged to a young woman who was a patient of the “untherapist”, Dr. Braithwaite. The owner of the notebooks is convinced that Dr. Braithwaite is responsible for her sister’s death and in order to find out the truth, she disguises herself as a “nutter” and poses herself as a patient. This is a pretty decent read. You know it was gonna be a fun reading experience when the first page of the book has you tilting your head in confusion and wondering if it’s based on a true story. Case Study is entirely fictional but the story is crafted like a biography that it had me google several individuals and incidents while reading it. I have to applaud the author for that. I find myself enjoying it although the second half of the plot didn’t work quite as well as the first. It was a little dry and repetitive for my tastes and I felt that like the story didn’t really go anywhere. The story was set in the 1960s in London but I didn’t find it particularly compelling and convincing. Overall, I think the concept of this book is wonderfully intriguing but I simply wanted more.

3.5 stars. Burnet is so clever at this style of novel (like His Bloody Project). Using ‘found’ documents to recreate a historical novel like this is very immersive and feels totally plausible. Braithwaite, his protagonist, is an extremely unlikeable character and it was difficult to feel any empathy for him. The star of this novel was his other protagonist, “Rebecca”. The humour her character imparts (a scene in a bar was particularly good) and her unraveling personality provide a perfect foil for the sparse matter of fact recount of Braithwaite’s rise and fall in the world of psychiatry. It almost felt like the psychiatric sessions caused “Rebecca” to descend into a mental health crisis that felt something like severe depression and a split personality rolled into one. This was an intriguing way to examine the ‘hit and miss’ development of psychiatry. There must have been a lot of casualties along the way.

this book expands the boundaries of fiction, i truly believed these characters were real throughout reading it. it’s certainly engrossing and humorous, the narrative voice of Rebecca Smyth is both naïve and cutting; i found her misplaced opinions on mental illness annoying at first, but i think that just shows how talented Burnet is at creating her character. this is a captivating study on psychoanalysis and identity, very well written.

Compelling yet fizzles towards the end. A mind-bending and bamboozling journey in the human psyche, Graeme Macrae Burnets Case study was longlisted for the Booker Prize 2022. I loved how the novel plays around with what’s fact and fiction, what exists and what doesn’t, and who’s mental and whos sane. The novel encourages you to look more closely and what’s fact vs fiction. At times, I found myself Googling if some of the events actually took place, forgetting that I was reading a work of fiction. Though halfway through, I did feel the novel fizzling out. What was once engaging, became repetitive and filled with huge chunks of exposition. Rather than continuing on to become a gripping thriller, the novel goes back and forth between different timelines/sections, losing its main focus. Unfortunately, by the end, I grew a bit bored and wanted the novel to end. Overall, the novel was alright, but I have to say, I’ve never read anything quite like it (in a good way).

At times compelling and thought-provoking, and at other times a bit too slow and tedious which caused me to loose interest but I'm pleased that I persevered because overall it's turned out a good read.

2022 BOOKER PRIZE LONGLIST CASE STUDY by Graeme Macrae Burnet The shortlist was announced last Tuesday and CASE STUDY did not make the final six. Burnet was previously shortlisted for his novel HIS BLOODY PROJECT and he once again entered the Booker fold with his follow up, a slick and tightly constructed psychological thriller of sorts that somewhat failed to close the deal. Doing something meta, Burnet projects himself in the novel, receiving an amateur manuscript from a mysterious source recounting the exploits of a charlatan psychotherapist Colins Brathwaite and his role in pushing his patients to suicide. The manuscript authored by an unnamed person whose nom de plum is Rebecca Smyth accounts how her sister took her life after seeing Brathwaite and Smyth deciding to see Brathwaite herself to find out if he played a nefarious role in her demise. Interspersed with the manuscript are Burnet’s own fictional research into the rise and fall of Brathwaite in the 1960s and 1970s. Although I liked CASE STUDY more than HIS BLOODY PROJECT it did not hold up for the entirety of its 276 pages. Initially feeling like one of those unreliable female narrator novels so popular a few years ago (think GIRL ON THE TRAIN and ELIZABETH IS MISSING) it nicely meanders through its plot, creating doubts about Smyth’s account while not revealing too much. However, the third act doesn’t come together as well as one would hope. One reveal felt predictable and the other much too cheeky. Burnet is a good writer but failing to seal the deal left me less impressed with the novel than I had found myself during the first 100 pages. CASE STUDY did not make the shortlist and I wouldn’t have placed it there but nonetheless a decent if somewhat disappointing work. #books #bookstagram #igbooks #bookerprize #bookerprize2020 #novels #unreliablenarrator #britishliterature #bookstagramreadsthebooker

I’ve enjoyed all of Burnet’s books so far, but found this turgid and rambling. It’s a novel that goes off on tangents. These diversions can often be entertaining to read, but detract from the plot, simply by confusion. That large parts are dedicated to a partly factual biography of the psychotherapist, Collins Braithwaite, damper down any spark that was previously attained. It would have worked better shorn down by sixty pages.

I wanted to like this more than I did in the end. An intriguing premise, well written, and enough teases and twists to keep it entertaining, but in the end, couldn't help thinking it should have amounted to more than it did.

Stone Yard Devotional strikes me as a very typical Booker book: chilly, elegant, balancing passages of banality against plainly stated emotion, with a pinch of oddness. I really liked parts of it, specifically the way the narrator discusses her relationship with her parents and enduring grief over their deaths. At its strongest, this narrative can be haunting. Overall, however, I’m left with the feeling that it’s less than the sum of its parts. (Probably should note, though, that I read this by switching between the ebook and audiobook, which may have magnified the sense that it was disjointed and/or overly digressive.)

3.5 stars I enjoyed this quiet book, and honestly thought it was a memoir until I was finished. After the fact, I found out by reading some articles about the book that it is indeed fiction. The unnamed narrator chooses to leave the city and her husband (it is hinted at why, but never fully explained by the author) to live at a monastery. The book is set in New South Wales. The Narrator reflects on different scenes from her life (the narrator is older, possibly 70s, it is not fully clear) those of which involves regrets, grief and forgiveness. She recalls different situations from her past, many involving her mother, her school friends and her childhood. Weaved into her reminiscing is her present day life which mostly centers around 2 main events. A horrible mouse plague that has taken over the monastery (and surrounding country) and the return of the remains of a deceased sister from the convent. I really enjoyed the slower pace and reflections found in this unassuming book. It is meandering, but in a good way, and the narrator is often troubled by her past. (Aren't we all?). Humor was sprinkled throughout to lighten the mood when the narrator would speak on the various circumstances surrounding the mouse plague. How horrifying. The author writes with clarity and ease, giving voice to an uncommon protagonist. Her thoughtfulness and care is evident throughout the book. Definitely recommend for lovers of : somewhat slower burns, literary fiction, grief and forgiveness related subjects, and those who aren't horrified by mouse plagues

I listened to this on audio & I’m not sure if that made it more difficult to enjoy - I’m not sure it was suited to audio. It felt like a memoir and, if I’m honest, I couldn’t really tell you what the point of it was. Charlotte Wood is a great writer, hence why I’ve given it 3 stars (and I absolutely adored The Weekend) but this one wasn’t really for me.

God I am fucking BEASTING through this longlist, somebody stop this man

Beautiful prose, but so painfully slow for me. In fact, I wonder if there have ever been so many slow, contemplative books on the Booker Prize shortlist (this, Orbital, Held) before? I am not even going to call this a slow burner, because the definition of a s.b. is "smth that gradually becomes interesting, enjoyable, etc.". I didn't feel it was growing in any way. Anyway, go James!

I find it hard to stop tears pricking my eyes, which alarms me. It is to do with being greeted warmly by a stranger, offered peace for no reason, without question.

3.5 stars This is beautifully written and very meditative. I suspect I will need to sit with this for a while to appreciate it fully.

Such a strange story. I don’t know if I understood it the way I was expected to. It was a bizarre experience and I didn’t much care for the writing style, although it was beautiful in a way. I can’t tell if this was very clever or trying too hard to be.

3.5/75(?)⭐️ I do love me a good story about nuns! This one was a little odd and I’m not sure I’ve gotten all of it yet. What I did love where the small things of how times bleeds into one another (when did she start praying?) and the clearness of the language. Will now be forever fearful of mice ruining my life

"The past is never dead. It's not even past." - William Faulkner, Requiem for a Nun “Black bodies swinging in the southern breeze Strange fruit hanging from the poplar trees” - Billie Holiday, Strange Fruit In the small town of Money, Mississippi, a dead white man is found brutally killed in his home with a dead black man nearby holding the white man’s balls. But then the black man’s corpse disappears from the mortuary and later another white man is found dead - with the same dead black man nearby, also holding this new dead white man’s balls. And then the white body count keeps going up, with the same mutilation, with the same dead black corpse nearby. Something odd is happening down south… Broadly, I liked Percival Everett’s novel The Trees but it definitely has some significant flaws in the narrative that took away from my overall enjoyment of the book. I’ll say SPOILERS at the top because I’m going to mention details so if you’re planning on reading this then stop here, and, if you’re on the fence, I’d say it’s worth checking out - at the very least it’s original, accessible and also undeniably compelling, but know that the ending is, well, shit. OK - SPOILERS here on out. The novel is about righteous vengeance for all of those non-whites over the past 100 years and more who were tortured and lynched by American white racists for no other reason than having different coloured skin, and those white racists getting away with their crimes. So the white murder victims in this story are the descendants of those original racists (who, more often than not turn out to conveniently be racists themselves, thereby “justifying” their deaths), particularly the initial victims, who were related to the killers of Emmett Till, a 14 year old black boy who was lynched in 1955 for allegedly offending a white woman, Carolyn Bryant. So it’s weird that Everett decides to mix in a lot of strained comedic attempts amidst this intense subject matter - to its detriment, I think. The blurb on my edition mentions the novel containing “knockout comedy” and satire “by way of South Park”, but I didn’t find any of Everett’s “comedy” the least bit funny, or even necessary or appropriate, particularly as it mostly pertains to making the white characters caricatures with silly names, doing and saying silly things, in comparison to the black characters, who have real names and behave dignified. For example, the white characters have names like Pick L. Dill, Peck, Wheat, Donald (who’s of course an imbecilic member of the KKK), Helvetica Quip (who sounds like a Wes Anderson character), Hot Mama Yeller, Junior Junior, the incompetent racist deputy Delroy Digby, Jethro Tull, and Mike Ditka (Everett seems to think giving his characters famous people names is a riot). There’s the Doctor Reverend Cad Fondle and his morbidly obese wife Fancel, who sit around talking about Jesus and eating junk food, and all of them - except Quip, who helps our heroic detectives in their investigation - are bumbling idiots making racial slurs and muttering things about guns, Jesus, etc. They’re cartoon characters of the right wing. Speaking of which, there’s the absurdly evil senator Hickory Stonewall Spit and the unconvincing, and frankly embarrassingly unfunny, portrait of Trump at the end too. In comparison, there are the black characters: Ed Morgan, Jim Davis, Herberta Hind, Gertrude, Damon Thruff - all normal-sounding names, all of them written as intelligent, capable professionals. Granted, Mama Z is unusual, but she’s also written as intelligent, witty, capable, etc. even despite her advanced age. I guess that’s the “Swiftian satire” the blurb talks about but it comes off as condescending, humourless, and exactly the kind of one-sided view a cartoon liberal would put across, which is how Everett comes off. More than that, it feels rather sad, given that this low level characterisation is exactly what white racists did to black people back in the day. Having a black writer do the same thing but to white characters feels small and petty - it seems to me that the right way to behave is not to lower yourself to their level but to set a better example by showing why it’s wrong to denigrate a group of people with offensive stereotypes, rather than propagate that behaviour. This eye-for-an-eye, Old Testament-style justice that Gertrude and Mama Z are enacting also doesn’t make me root for them or see their cause as anything different from how white racists went about lynching minorities back in the day. I get that the crimes of the past are infuriating to learn about now but they’re also in the past - how does dredging it up like this and behaving in the way you’re condemning the historical criminals did make our present day characters better? Especially as being racist, while reprehensible, isn’t reason enough to kill someone, nor is being related to someone who once murdered someone and got away with it. The story is generally well-written - it’s very easy to read, the narrative has a good flow - although I noticed a few things this book has in common, oddly enough, with The Da Vinci Code by Dan Brown. One of the criticisms I remember levelled at Brown’s runaway bestseller was the way he described his protagonist Robert Langdon as looking like “Harrison Ford” and this being held up as an example of his inept writing, that he had to rely on prefab descriptions like this. Yet Everett does the same thing in his novel, describing Morgan and Davis as looking like Shaq and Sam Jackson (and, later on, another character like Isaac Hayes), and his book is on the shortlist for the Booker Prize! The novels are also superficially similar - they both have short chapters and are both sensationalistic genre stories. I just thought it was interesting how disparate the perceptions of both novels are despite doing a lot of things similarly. The Trees is quite the page-turner though and I was interested in the mystery. It’s increasingly compelling as the same pattern keeps happening and the bodies keep stacking up. Everett does try to make it seem plausible up to a certain point - we find out Gertrude and her group stole corpses from a company that processed them, and they were responsible for the first three murders at least. But then things really escalate in the last hundred pages or so and I had the creeping suspicion that Everett wouldn’t be able to explain it all satisfactorily. Especially as, in one scene, the detectives discover the body that keeps appearing at crime scenes IS a match for the battered corpse of Emmett Till from 1955. How could that be possible??? Well, turns out Everett doesn’t even try. The entire ending is a confusing mess and he completely ignores details like the corpse looking like Emmett Till. I’m not someone who dismisses a story because the ending was crap - if the journey had enjoyable moments, and it did, then I’m still apt to think it was worthwhile, and I do think that - but not even trying to make sense of the preceding events did leave me feeling unsatisfied. It also cheapens the whole narrative by coming off as lazy, like Everett was throwing in these exciting twists and turns without providing any payoff in the least or having to work to make any of it fit. The story for the most part is well told except for that awful ending that’s the literary equivalent of a shrug. Was it implied that Damon the academic writing down the names of the deceased in Mama Z’s house was somehow resurrecting their ghosts who were then enacting vengeance, and just somehow knew to target the “right” people (ie. racists)? Even if that was what Everett was going for, which I don’t think he was though I can’t explain what he was shooting for, what an insane explanation! The Trees (rubbish title by the way - too forgettable and bland) is a very 2020s novel in that it takes a very easy moral stance by pointing to the old white men of the past and calling their clearly evil actions evil while the minority characters are unimpeachably “good” despite behaving questionably themselves. It’s like a lot of media that’s out there right now with equally simplistic messaging - moral violence is just, racism is the worst except when it’s against whites, etc. It reads like an impotent left-wing fantasy/wish fulfilment that exploits outrage for outrage sake - its politics lets it down. That and the extremely weak way in which the novel concludes are the worst parts of The Trees. But I also flew through it because the mystery grabbed me, the story was more entertaining than not, and it’s something I’d never read before - it’s certainly original, if poorly constructed. In a strange way, the flaws themselves are interesting failures too and add to the book’s appeal. And, for all that, I’d still say it’s worth reading as it’s quite the unique experience - just don’t expect any of the comedy to land, or for any of the mystery to make sense in the end.

An unusual literary thriller that starts out with a series of grotesque murders in a rural Mississippi town. The murders follow a pattern of white victims, though at each crime scene the townsfolk and detectives also find a dead Black man’s body, who resembles Emmett Till. I think this novel does an effective job of addressing the racist history of lynching within the United States. I didn’t love it primarily because it felt plot-driven instead of character-driven, so we follow a lot of events as they unfold but don’t get too much interiority from the characters. It was interesting! The book includes relevant and biting satirical elements, and even if I found the writing dry I appreciate and support the overall message of The Trees.

❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ “Money, Mississippi, looks exactly like it sounds. Named in that persistent Southern tradition of irony and with the attendant tradition of nescience, the name becomes slightly sad, a marker of self-conscious ignorance that might as well be embraced because, let’s face it, it isn’t going away.” Percival Everett is an author that has been on my radar for a while now. And in many ways, The Trees does showcase the hand of a talented writer, as the book showcases plenty of quick-witted dialogues and clever descriptions, all topped by an unsparing yet humorous social commentary. It did take me a while to adjust to the tone and direction of his story as I thought that The Trees would be something in the realms of something by Dennis Lehane, Walter Mosley, or S.A. Cosby. I was surprised when I was confronted by an almost absurdist tone, one that brought to mind certain films by the Coen brothers, which usually abound with minor yet memorable side characters. The satirical way in which Everett depicts small towns and small-town ‘mentalities’ reminded me of certain books by Stephen King, as they both succeed in bringing to life—often more for the worse than the better—those who inhabit smaller communities in rural America. For the first few pages in fact I believed that The Trees had a historical setting, given the opinions and behaviours voiced and showcased by the family appearing in that opening sequence. It is only when more modern things are mentioned or make an appearance that I realized that the story had a contemporary setting. Everett effectively renders how insular, bigoted, and reactionary the people of Money, Mississippi are. They are a rural community, one that is teeming with poorly educated racist white-nationalist who struggle to find employement and fulfilment. Their bubble of insularity is burst when their town becomes the setting for a series of mind-boggling murders. The white murdered men appear to share an ‘unpleasant’ (this is an understatement of course) connection and at each crime scene, there is also another body, that of a Black man who eerily resembles Emmett Till, the victim of a lynching. Another odd detail is that the white men are castrated (which of course gives way to a repetitive verging on the homophobic gag which i frankly could have done without). Two detectives from the Bureau of Investigation and the local authorities, who are both inept and racist, attempt to get in their way. As more men die in the same peculiar circumstances the detectives find themselves looking for answers in the past. Are these murders an act of retribution? If so, by the hands of whom? The disappearing body of Emmett Till adds a dimension of surreality to the murders, so much so that I started to wonder whether Everett would go the route King did in The Outsider. Everett favours no perspective and throughout the book, he switches between the townspeople of Money to the detectives. I, like other readers, of course, preferred those sections that focused on the detectives and their investigation. They had a good if slightly cliched dynamic but their banter was entertaining and they play off each other quite well. If anything I found myself wanting to spend more time with them and less with the often cartoonish people of Money. That is not me saying or suggesting that people such as the ones we encounter in Money do not exist. I have come across Jordan Klepper’s videos (where he interviews trump supporters) and boy oh boy...still, Everett is quite heavy-handed in his use of satire, so much so that most of the characters populating his novel are closer to caricatures than fully-dimensional individuals. There were many instances where I found the humour crass and distracting as it took away from otherwise poignant or important scenes where characters discuss lynching, racism, and police brutality. I also did not like how the author writes about fat people, it reminded me of Family Guy tbh. So not my kind of ‘humor’. I could have also done without the very cliched female characters we get in this novel, in particular, the detectives' no-nonsense strong-willed ‘ally’. This is the type of character often penned by male authors, with good intentions I’m sure, but I just find this type of characterisation lazy. The pacing was somewhat uneven. There were several instances where I found my attention drifting away or where I found myself growing weary of the unrelenting satire, especially in those instances where it takes on a sillier tone. There are several storylines that do eventually come together but in a not quite satisfying manner. There are some loose ends or certain parts that just did not feel that convincing or well-executed. The ending in particular didn’t really work for me. Maybe if we’d been given insight into that part of the story from the get-go I could have adjusted more to it but we don’t so I was really sold on it. Still, I can recognise that just because I thought that the content of the story was at odds with the narrative tone does not mean that you will feel the same way so if you are curious about this book I recommend you also check out some 4 or 5-star reviews. This was less of a crime/thriller than a dark occasionally OTT satire which I wasn’t quite in the mood for. Still, I’ll definitely check out more books by this author. I appreciated the issues he tackles in The Trees, in particular on addressing racist violence both in the past and in the present. Ultimately however the tone of his narration eroded much of my interest in his story so that I found myself reading less out of a desire to do so and more so out of a sense of misplaced duty (on the lines of, i am already halfway there, might as well finish this).

This book started out as a five star read for me. The first quarter was extremely funny - - just the blackest of black humor, and I was appreciating it. Set in Mississippi, the story follows a series of murders where a white man (or men) is found dead alongside a similarly deceased black man. The black man is holding the balls of the white man in his hands in each case. Initially, this scenario is pretty provocative and suspenseful. We get scenes of the bumbling police force trying to deal with the murders, and Everett definitely knows how to land a witty punch. Unfortunately, for me, the book loses momentum quickly as the murders begin to spread countrywide following the exact same pattern. What starts as a very ballsy, fresh approach to relating the history of lynching in this country ends in a mushy, unresolved finale. Frankly, as a reader, two of my least favorite things are satire and magical realism, and this book has both. I didn't see it going there in the first quarter, but it most definitely did . . .and what could have been an incredible piece of social commentary just ended up falling flat.

Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2023 Listen, I get VERY skeptical when a text is compared to Kafka's work, because in my not-so-humble opinion, Franz Fucking Kafka is the best German-language author who has ever graced the world with his ideas, thank you very much (yes, you heard that right, Wolle Goethe). But while Bernstein of course cannot touch the master for whom an eternal light is shining in the cathedral of my heart, I understand why people see a connection between the Canadian poet and Franzel the Great: Bernstein finds abysmally dark and haunting images to illustrate the absurd nature of humankind, and her protagonist is so psychologically deformed by what has been written into her, so the character she has developed under internal and external pressure, that the almost non-existent plot still reads like a horror story about a woman whose brain has been poisoned by internalized cruelty. Our narrator and protagonist, an unnamed Jewish woman, has learnt all her life that her worth is measured by the title-giving obedience, that she as a woman is a projection surface and tool for the comfort of others. Now, as an adult, she moves to live with her recently divorced brother, who resides in an unnamed country that was involved in the Holocaust (it's probably Romania, because we do have the mythical sheepdog, but it's a Carpathian one). The family used to live at the place before the terrible events that are never specified happened, and now the protagonist is ostracized by a society whose language she doesn't speak, no matter her roots. When the brother comes back from traveling, he falls ill... This novella heavily relies on atmosphere, partly to its detriment, because it tends to be very descriptive and to meander off into different directions. What I applaud though is that this text is daring, not only in its scenes, but also when it comes to the language: To me, it felt like a translated text, like the rhythm the words develop is not that of English - and I mean that as a compliment, because the effect isn't that of clumsiness, but of alienation, of looking through a lense, and this underlines the message, namely that we encounter a narrator that struggles with internalized hate and sees the world through a specific veil, often tending to accept cruelty because there is no energy, no self-love left to resist: She does not "live in her life". She has disappeared, been murdered from the inside, struck by "permanent although latent terror". Bernstein also delivers some brutal lines with immense power. Take this one sentence horror story, for example: "I recalled my own aborted attempts at intimacy, with men, with women, and all that I had ever come away with was a sense of my essential interchangeability." - welcome to the pits of hell. Or this one, reminding me of my favorite Kafka story, In the Penal Colony: "I was caught in the machinery of certain manias and maladies, the engines of their compulsory performace urging me on." - wow, just wow. Still, I was overall bothered by the author's tendency to meander and the long descriptive passages, which throw off the pacing. I'm happy this one got nominated though, because it has drive and unusual ideas, two things that most of this Booker longlist have been tragically lacking. You can lisen to our discussion on the podcast (in German) here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/allgemei...

The Booker jury seems to like this style of book: a slender, parable-like story focusing on a societal evil. (Think “An Island” from a couple of years ago.) In this case, we have an overwhelmingly subservient young woman leaving behind her half-life in the city to join her brother on his estate in a northern European village to tend to his needs, and when local animals begin to sicken and die and exhibit weird behaviour, the townsfolk clearly believe she’s responsible. It’s an unsettling story, with echoes of Shirley Jackson in its xenophobic, hostile populace and elements of folk magic. But it just never got its hooks into me, and I was baffled about what was being said. I mean, obviously it’s alluding to the Holocaust and the disgusting scapegoating of Jews, but just what is this young woman doing? At least it was very short!

Special thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for a free, electronic ARC of this novel received in exchange for an honest review. Sarah Bernstein’s “Study for Obedience” was long-listed for both the Booker Prize and the Scotiabank Giller so, although Bernstein was a new author for me, I needed to see if she was worth the fuss. I probably won’t be in the majority here but—she wasn’t. Bernstein has experience in poetry, and this was very obvious from the verbose language in her story. The novel was only two hundred and eight pages, and if “Obedience” was focused only on the plot, it would’ve been about fifty. I’m all for setting and character development, but Bernstein turned one simple sentence into an onslaught of complicated vernacular that left me frustrated and confused. Okay, so my understanding of the plot is as follows; a nameless young woman, our narrator, leaves her life in the city to come to the country house her family has owned for generations to care for her recently divorced brother. (And when I say ‘care for’, I mean it in every sense- the woman BATHES him and feeds him. And no, he does not have any disability that I can ascertain). When she arrives, strange things start happening in the town, such as mass animal deaths, to which the townspeople believe our narrator is somehow responsible (for some reason). We never find out why the townspeople blame the narrator and, in fact, the story barely touches on the strange occurrences at all (even though they are supposed to be the heart of the story) because Bernstein is complicating the plot with her choppy grammar and language that leaves the reader reaching for a dictionary. The language, aside from being excessive, and the way the narrator behaves, gives the impression that the story takes place centuries ago. However, the narrator works as a law clerk and her brother travels for work and has meetings over Zoom, so it’s obvious that it’s present day. Which makes the sister “caring” for her brother in such an intimate way not only bizarre, but exceptionally disturbing. I’m sure Bernstein has a truly deep meaning hidden within the loquacious plot, but I missed it. Bernstein had such a good premise with this novel and I was hoping for way more.

BOOKER PRIZE 2023 LONGLIST STUDY FOR OBEDIENCE by Sarah Bernstein ** 1/2 The Booker Prize often tries to introduce works of fiction that are extraordinary how they use form, style, and language to explore their themes in new and exciting ways. Great winners and listed novels that showcase this include the legendary MIDNIGHT'S CHILDREN and more recent classics like A BRIEF HISTORY OF SEVEN KILLINGS, MILKMAN and DUCKS, NEWBURYPORT. When novels take chances and push boundaries they will not always work for all readers. Unfortunately, the one Canadian-esque entry in this year's longlist did not work for me. STUDY OF OBEDIENCE is told from the perspective of an unnamed woman who unquestionably abandons in her life at her brother's behest after his marriage has failed. She moves to a new country, where she doesn't speak the language, where she acts a near servant to her brother's whims, and she suspects the locals despise her and blame her for a run of bad fortunes. Told without dialogue, in an almost stream of consciousness of insular thought of a protagonist possibly suffering from delusional paranoia, Bernstein's writing shines at times in its beauty and insight. But for the most part I found myself bored, distracted by the minutiae of detail, that lacked the kind of energy and hook I hope to get from experimental writing. I understand the desire to avoid over expository prose but sometimes you need some more expess writing to bring a reader in, especially in relatively plotless storytelling. I know others have enjoyed this more, but for me it just didn't work. #bookstareadsthebooker2023 #bookstagramreadsthebooker #bookerprize #bookprizes #literaryfiction #igbooks #novels #canlit #experimentalfiction

This is the best I’ve read out of the Booker longlist 2023 so far but it’s still only a three star read I think. I loved the claustrophobic vibe and the heaviness to this book and how trapped you feel in the narrator’s mind. There is something really sinister about it which I enjoyed, even though nothing much happens there is always a sense of something creeping up on you in this novel and that was done really well. It gave me Drive Your Plow and Lapvona vibes at points with the feeling of being in an isolated town with quite gruesome folk horror things happening all around. I think it was the perfect length as well too. It’s not a book I’d reread and one which I found particularly striking which is why it’s sticking at three stars, but I did enjoy reading this little book for the most part.

Brilliant in the beginning, but not so much for the last 30 pages or so. Or I lost interest, but it seems to me that it somehow lost pace. What was new and exciting about the writing style wore off gradually. Still, a very interesting read, glad that someone here on Goodreads gave a glowing review that made me borrow the book.

Perhaps the exposure had come from his own body, his own hands; had it passed through him to the plate? Is that not what the human body is, is that not our own kind of photosynthesis are we not chemistry that transforms light?

I almost gave this a 2, but I decided on a 2.5 rounded up to 3. Doing my best to be generous here. In terms of form and structure, "Held" often reminded me of something like Ocean Vuong's On Earth We're Briefly Gorgeous or Eva Baltasar's Permafrost: a nonlinear and experimental narrative broken up in small poetic sections and informed by the fact that the author is also a poet. That being said, I don't think that "Held" is as creative, lyrical, or idiosyncratic as these novels. While "Held" may at first sound epic in its scope according to the blurb ("...a narrative that spans four generations of connections and consequences that ignite and reignite as the century unfolds"), I really can't tell you much about any particular character or thing that happened in the plot. We don't spend enough time with any of the characters to fully know them. The plot, if you can call it that, mainly exists for the author to pop in and wax poetic about some big and serious topics: love, death, energy, science, and of course ghosts. I started picking up on writing structures early on that would inevitably start to bore me. They went something like this: if topic 1 can be thing A, then it can also be thing B; while topic 2 may often be considered as thing C, why can't it also exist as thing D? While I usually try to avoid calling something pretentious (there's often more going on than just that), it’s feeling appropriate here in my opinion. I don't know, I guess I typically tend to prefer stories where the author grapples with important themes and big topics in a nuanced way, mostly through storytelling and character development, trusting the reader to ascertain said important themes and big topics along the way. Ending on a more positive note, when the pretentiousness wasn't as strong, there really were some beautiful sentiments and turns of phrase in the novel. Though maybe a better vehicle to get at these sentiments would have been poetry or an essay collection?

BOOKER PRIZE LONGLIST 2024 HELD by Anne Michaels *** 1/2 A novel all about the vibes and the language is always going to be a tough sell for me. I want great prose but also some decent plotting and if you don’t want to give me happenings I need some character development. HELD, a novel told in vignettes, jumping in time and from character to character, rejects all my desires. That said, the prose is quite masterfully crafted (not surprising considering Michaels poet background) and even though I struggled to become invested in the storytelling, the exploration of desire and loss and memory was quite affecting. For those who live for great writing and strong vibes, this one is for you. For me, however, it fell short despite its positive attributes. That said, I totally could see this making the shortlist although probably too quiet a novel to win. #bookerprize #bookstagramreadsthebooker #bookerprizelonglist #canlit #bookprizes #fiction #literaryfiction #books

Anne Michaels is a poet, and this novel is pure poetry. The themes are the lingering effects of trauma from war as well as the ability of humans to have romantic relationships in between the trauma. Several generations of the same loosely linked family are involved. Traumatic events and romantic relationships appear in each generation. However, the power and beauty of Anne Michaels’ writing and her ability to overwhelm the reader with her prose were outstanding.

I liked it better than There, There, but it was emotionally draining to read. There were too many characters and storylines to get invested in as deeply as I would’ve liked. Felt like the author was trying to cover way more ground than made sense for one book, or that it would’ve been a more successful effort if the book had been longer and taken more time to unravel. 3.5 stars

Thank you to the author Tommy Orange, publishers Alfred A. Knopf, and NetGalley for an advance digital copy of WANDERING STARS. All views are mine. Trigger warning: on-page su*c*de attempt ...𝙞𝙩 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙨𝙖𝙞𝙙 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙄𝙣𝙙𝙞𝙖𝙣 𝙘𝙝𝙞𝙡𝙙𝙧𝙚𝙣 𝙞𝙣 𝙗𝙤𝙖𝙧𝙙𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙨𝙘𝙝𝙤𝙤𝙡𝙨 𝙝𝙖𝙙 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙖𝙢𝙚 𝙘𝙝𝙖𝙣𝙘𝙚 𝙤𝙛 𝙙𝙮𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙖𝙨 𝙨𝙤𝙡𝙙𝙞𝙚𝙧𝙨 𝙞𝙣 𝙤𝙣𝙚 𝙤𝙛 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙡𝙙 𝙬𝙖𝙧𝙨. Loc.74 [...𝙒]𝙝𝙞𝙩𝙚 𝙢𝙚𝙣 𝙞𝙣 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙨 𝙘𝙤𝙪𝙣𝙩𝙧𝙮, 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙮 𝙘𝙤𝙢𝙚 𝙩𝙤 𝙩𝙖𝙠𝙚 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙮𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 , 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙣 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢𝙨𝙚𝙡𝙫𝙚𝙨, 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙮 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙩𝙖𝙠𝙚𝙣 𝙨𝙤 𝙢𝙪𝙘𝙝 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙮 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙡𝙤𝙨𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢𝙨𝙚𝙡𝙫𝙚𝙨 𝙞𝙣 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙩𝙖𝙠𝙞𝙣𝙜, 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙬𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙬𝙞𝙡𝙡 𝙗𝙚 𝙡𝙚𝙛𝙩 𝙤𝙛 𝙨𝙪𝙘𝙝 𝙖 𝙣𝙖𝙩𝙞𝙤𝙣 𝙤𝙣𝙘𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙮 𝙖𝙧𝙚 𝙙𝙤𝙣𝙚? Loc.992 WANDERING STARS by Tommy Orange is the follow-up book to his Pulitzer-nominated THERE, THERE. It is both prequel and sequel to the first book, and the jumps in time serve well as technique in this jarring story about lives and families disrupted by addiction. This book is not a thriller or suspense novel in any sense, but it burns from start to finish with conflict originating from within the characters' themselves, among the characters and the world they share, and between the character's and the social forces the encounter in one another. Unquestionably Orange possesses a singular style and a mastery of technique, but WANDERING STARS is also a harrowing read. It addresses genocide, racism, institutional child abuse, poverty, and kidnapping. It expresses a rather absurd ableism I find perplexing. I encourage readers to go into this one with all the warnings. This book also showcases great friendship, redemption, and hope. It's a good read and I recommend it. (I do recommend reading THERE, THERE first.) [𝙔]𝙤𝙪𝙧 𝙝𝙞𝙜𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙥𝙤𝙬𝙚𝙧 𝙘𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙 𝙟𝙪𝙨𝙩 𝙧𝙚𝙢𝙖𝙞𝙣 𝙪𝙣𝙣𝙖𝙢𝙚𝙙 𝙗𝙚𝙘𝙖𝙪𝙨𝙚 𝙣𝙖𝙢𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙥𝙧𝙚𝙨𝙪𝙢𝙥𝙩𝙪𝙤𝙪𝙨 𝙬𝙝𝙚𝙣 𝙞𝙩 𝙘𝙖𝙢𝙚 𝙩𝙤 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙥𝙤𝙬𝙚𝙧 𝙝𝙞𝙜𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙣 𝙝𝙞𝙜𝙝, 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙢𝙤𝙨𝙩 𝙝𝙞𝙜𝙝. 𝙄𝙩 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙜𝙤𝙤𝙙 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚. 𝙄𝙩 𝙘𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙 𝙧𝙚𝙢𝙖𝙞𝙣 𝙬𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙞𝙩’𝙙 𝙖𝙡𝙬𝙖𝙮𝙨 𝙗𝙚𝙚𝙣, 𝙞𝙩 𝙘𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙 𝙠𝙚𝙚𝙥 𝙞𝙩𝙨 𝙢𝙮𝙨𝙩𝙚𝙧𝙮, 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙙𝙞𝙙𝙣’𝙩 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙩𝙤 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙧𝙮 𝙖𝙗𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙖 𝙜𝙧𝙤𝙪𝙥 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙧𝙮𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙖𝙧𝙤𝙪𝙣𝙙 𝙞𝙩𝙨 𝙗𝙚𝙡𝙞𝙚𝙫𝙖𝙗𝙞𝙡𝙞𝙩𝙮, 𝙞𝙩𝙨 𝙨𝙚𝙘𝙩𝙨, 𝙤𝙧 𝙙𝙤𝙜𝙢𝙖𝙨, 𝙤𝙧 𝙖𝙣𝙮𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙚𝙡𝙨𝙚 𝙧𝙚𝙦𝙪𝙞𝙧𝙚𝙙 𝙤𝙛 𝙖 𝙜𝙧𝙤𝙪𝙥 𝙙𝙚𝙘𝙞𝙙𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙤𝙜𝙚𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙤𝙣 𝙬𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙞𝙩 𝙖𝙡𝙡 𝙪𝙡𝙩𝙞𝙢𝙖𝙩𝙚𝙡𝙮 𝙢𝙚𝙖𝙣𝙨. 𝙄 𝙠𝙣𝙤𝙬 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚 𝙞𝙨𝙣’𝙩 𝙖 𝙬𝙖𝙮 𝙩𝙤 𝙠𝙣𝙤𝙬 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙣𝙚𝙚𝙙 𝙩𝙤 𝙠𝙣𝙤𝙬 𝙘𝙤𝙢𝙚𝙨 𝙛𝙧𝙤𝙢 𝙬𝙖𝙣𝙩𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙘𝙤𝙣𝙩𝙧𝙤𝙡, 𝙬𝙝𝙞𝙘𝙝 𝙞𝙨 𝙨𝙤 𝙢𝙪𝙘𝙝 𝙤𝙛 𝙬𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙖𝙙𝙙𝙞𝙘𝙩𝙞𝙤𝙣 𝙞𝙨 𝙖𝙗𝙤𝙪𝙩, 𝙘𝙤𝙣𝙩𝙧𝙤𝙡. Loc.3732 Three (or more) things I loved: 1. The details are visceral and draw me into the story: 𝘛𝘩𝘦 𝘥𝘰𝘨 𝘴𝘵𝘢𝘺𝘦𝘥 𝘸𝘪𝘵𝘩 𝘶𝘴 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘢 𝘸𝘩𝘪𝘭𝘦. 𝘉𝘶𝘵 𝘸𝘩𝘦𝘯 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘳𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘯𝘰𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘭𝘦𝘧𝘵 𝘵𝘰 𝘩𝘶𝘯𝘵, 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘩𝘶𝘯𝘨𝘦𝘳 𝘩𝘶𝘳𝘵 𝘵𝘰𝘰 𝘮𝘶𝘤𝘩, 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘥𝘰𝘨 —𝘭𝘪𝘬𝘦 𝘴𝘰 𝘮𝘢𝘯𝘺 𝘰𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘳 𝘥𝘰𝘨𝘴— 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘦𝘢𝘵𝘦𝘯. Loc.162 2. I love stories that offer such insights on books and reading: 𝘞𝘢𝘭𝘵 𝘞𝘩𝘪𝘵𝘮𝘢𝘯, 𝘸𝘩𝘰 𝘣𝘦𝘭𝘪𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘥 𝘩𝘪𝘮𝘴𝘦𝘭𝘧 𝘵𝘰 𝘩𝘢𝘷𝘦 𝘸𝘳𝘪𝘵𝘵𝘦𝘯 𝘢 𝘬𝘪𝘯𝘥 𝘰𝘧 𝘉𝘪𝘣𝘭𝘦 𝘩𝘦 𝘤𝘢𝘭𝘭𝘦𝘥 𝘓𝘦𝘢𝘷𝘦𝘴 𝘰𝘧 𝘎𝘳𝘢𝘴𝘴, 𝘸𝘩𝘪𝘤𝘩 𝘐 𝘥𝘪𝘥 𝘯𝘰𝘵 𝘱𝘢𝘳𝘵𝘪𝘤𝘶𝘭𝘢𝘳𝘭𝘺 𝘭𝘪𝘬𝘦, 𝘣𝘶𝘵 𝘐 𝘢𝘭𝘸𝘢𝘺𝘴 𝘳𝘦𝘮𝘦𝘮𝘣𝘦𝘳𝘦𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘭𝘪𝘯𝘦, “𝘛𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘪𝘴 𝘯𝘰 𝘣𝘰𝘰𝘬, 𝘸𝘩𝘰 𝘵𝘰𝘶𝘤𝘩𝘦𝘴 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴, 𝘵𝘰𝘶𝘤𝘩𝘦𝘴 𝘢 𝘮𝘢𝘯!,” 𝘣𝘦𝘤𝘢𝘶𝘴𝘦 𝘐’𝘥 𝘴𝘵𝘢𝘳𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘵𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘬 𝘰𝘧 𝘣𝘰𝘰𝘬𝘴 𝘢𝘴 𝘣𝘦𝘪𝘯𝘨𝘴. 𝘈𝘴 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨𝘴 𝘶𝘯𝘵𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘮𝘴𝘦𝘭𝘷𝘦𝘴, 𝘸𝘩𝘦𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘳 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘺 𝘸𝘦𝘳𝘦 𝘸𝘳𝘪𝘵𝘵𝘦𝘯 𝘣𝘺 𝘤𝘰𝘶𝘯𝘵𝘭𝘦𝘴𝘴 𝘱𝘦𝘰𝘱𝘭𝘦 𝘤𝘰𝘶𝘯𝘵𝘭𝘦𝘴𝘴 𝘺𝘦𝘢𝘳𝘴 𝘢𝘨𝘰, 𝘰𝘳 𝘸𝘳𝘪𝘵𝘵𝘦𝘯 𝘫𝘶𝘴𝘵 𝘳𝘦𝘤𝘦𝘯𝘵𝘭𝘺 𝘣𝘺 𝘴𝘵𝘳𝘢𝘯𝘨𝘦 𝘰𝘭𝘥 𝘸𝘩𝘪𝘵𝘦 𝘮𝘦𝘯, 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘣𝘰𝘰𝘬𝘴 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘮𝘴𝘦𝘭𝘷𝘦𝘴 𝘧𝘦𝘭𝘵 𝘵𝘰 𝘮𝘦 𝘢𝘴 𝘪𝘧 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘺 𝘸𝘦𝘳𝘦 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘪𝘳 𝘰𝘸𝘯 𝘭𝘪𝘷𝘦𝘴, 𝘴𝘦𝘱𝘢𝘳𝘢𝘵𝘦 𝘧𝘳𝘰𝘮 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘣𝘰𝘥𝘪𝘦𝘴 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘮𝘪𝘯𝘥𝘴 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘤𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘮. Loc.316 3. This book is 𝘣𝘭𝘦𝘢𝘬. And yet, it strives for something lighter and greater than the evils of which humankind is collectively and individually capable. 𝘐 𝘵𝘢𝘬𝘦 𝘴𝘰𝘭𝘢𝘤𝘦 𝘪𝘯 𝘬𝘯𝘰𝘸𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘮𝘺 𝘩𝘦𝘢𝘳𝘵 𝘪𝘴 𝘴𝘵𝘪𝘭𝘭 𝘪𝘯 𝘮𝘺 𝘤𝘩𝘦𝘴𝘵, 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘺𝘰𝘶𝘳𝘴 𝘪𝘴 𝘪𝘯 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘳𝘦 𝘵𝘰𝘰, 𝘣𝘦𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘭𝘪𝘬𝘦 𝘢 𝘥𝘳𝘶𝘮 𝘸𝘢𝘪𝘵𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘪𝘵𝘴 𝘥𝘢𝘯𝘤𝘦𝘳, 𝘬𝘦𝘦𝘱𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘮𝘦 𝘰𝘯 𝘮𝘺 𝘧𝘦𝘦𝘵, 𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘥𝘺 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘢 𝘳𝘩𝘺𝘵𝘩𝘮, 𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘥𝘺 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵’𝘴 𝘯𝘦𝘹𝘵, 𝘣𝘦𝘤𝘢𝘶𝘴𝘦 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵’𝘴 𝘯𝘦𝘹𝘵 𝘪𝘴 𝘢𝘭𝘸𝘢𝘺𝘴 𝘤𝘰𝘮𝘪𝘯𝘨. Loc.996 4. Orange brilliantly displays in this book how trauma is the root of addiction. Not only does Sean experience a terrible injury that leaves him in great pain, he has also recently lost a close family member. During treatment, he hallucinate her; she promises they can both heal. He believes her when he believes nothing, and it gives him faith he can heal. That they both can. Importantly though, the trauma of losing this person becomes intrinsically tied to how he relates to his pain, recovery, and whole life. 5. Again, deep insights into addiction mindset, like the illusion of control over the habit that an addiction often holds. This illusion of control functions simultaneously to prevent to addict from acknowledging the existence of a problem as well as encourages an increase in consumption. [𝘖𝘳𝘷𝘪𝘭 𝘩𝘢𝘥] 𝘤𝘰𝘮𝘦 𝘵𝘰 𝘢 𝘱𝘭𝘢𝘤𝘦 𝘸𝘩𝘦𝘳𝘦 𝘩𝘦’𝘥 𝘣𝘦𝘦𝘯 𝘵𝘳𝘺𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘵𝘰 𝘳𝘦𝘨𝘶𝘭𝘢𝘵𝘦 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘥𝘰𝘴𝘢𝘨𝘦, 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘰𝘶𝘨𝘩 𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘳𝘢𝘳𝘦𝘭𝘺 𝘴𝘶𝘤𝘤𝘦𝘴𝘴𝘧𝘶𝘭 𝘢𝘵 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘭𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘭 𝘰𝘧 𝘤𝘰𝘯𝘵𝘳𝘰𝘭, 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘩𝘦 𝘤𝘰𝘶𝘭𝘥 𝘢𝘤𝘩𝘪𝘦𝘷𝘦 𝘪𝘵 𝘴𝘰𝘮𝘦𝘵𝘪𝘮𝘦𝘴 𝘨𝘢𝘷𝘦 𝘩𝘪𝘮 𝘢 𝘴𝘦𝘯𝘴𝘦 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘯𝘰𝘵 𝘦𝘯𝘵𝘪𝘳𝘦𝘭𝘺 𝘧𝘶𝘤𝘬𝘦𝘥 𝘪𝘯 𝘵𝘦𝘳𝘮𝘴 𝘰𝘧 𝘯𝘰𝘵 𝘣𝘦𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘢𝘣𝘭𝘦 𝘵𝘰 𝘱𝘶𝘭𝘭 𝘩𝘪𝘮𝘴𝘦𝘭𝘧 𝘢𝘸𝘢𝘺 𝘧𝘳𝘰𝘮 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘵𝘢𝘪𝘭 𝘩𝘦 𝘬𝘦𝘱𝘵 𝘤𝘩𝘢𝘴𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘪𝘯 𝘤𝘪𝘳𝘤𝘭𝘦𝘴—𝘴𝘱𝘪𝘳𝘢𝘭𝘪𝘯𝘨. Loc.2918 Three (or less) things I didn't love: This section isn't only for criticisms. It's merely for items that I felt something for other than "love" or some interpretation thereof. 1. The introduction before the book starts is a real gut punch. It's not an efficient content warning, though. 2. 12.25% isn't a quarter of a quarter. It's almost half a quarter. Is this a statement about education? Fairness? White gaze? I'm not sure why the math is so weird here. Loc.1728 3. Not a fan of this book's dismissal of the plight of disabled people. Addiction can be a disability and this entire book is about how addiction defines the character's life. Addicts are spurned by society, which does not give one wit about the addict's plight. Do addicts really not deserve our regard to the fact they receive little to no regard? Do not all disabled people? 4. On-page descriptions of suicide border on gratuitous under the best of circumstances, but especially when the author gives vague content warnings or none at all in the front matter. Given my last point, I'm not very surprised to find myself writing this one. Rating: 🪶🪶🪶.5 / 5 family feathers Recommend? Yes, with THERE, THERE Finished: Mar 7 '24 Format: Digital, Kindle, NetGalley Read this book if you like: 📠 contemporary fiction 📚 prequels & sequels 👨‍👩‍👧‍👦 family stories, family drama 💊 addiction stories 🪶 stories about indigenous peoples

This is a transition book. It isn’t There There and it isn’t another brilliant book that Orange is sure to write. What it is seems forced together. Yes, it’s the continuation of the story of Orville and his family, but it’s also a history of five or six generations of his family, each told in brief segments, some more interesting than others, none really jelling together to produce anything other than a forgotten memory (which is maybe the point, but if so could have been better assembled to fit into the central narrative that takes place in 2018). When the story does get to the aftermath of There There, the scattershot storytelling focuses a little better, but it still lacks the heart of There There. Everything is at a bit of a remove and ultimately even the emotions that come through lack a weight. What’s almost worst of all is that there is one absolutely brilliant chapter where everything clicks: the writings, the emotions, the story, it soars. Then the chapter ends and we find ourselves back in the doldrums. Not for lack of trying, indeed, perhaps from trying too hard. The Sophomore Slump has hit Tommy Orange. I look forward to the next one. Hopefully it won’t take five years, and hopefully he will have shaken off the constraints of how to follow up a breakout success.

This book merits a more thoughtful review than I am about to leave here, but upon finishing I find my brain too tired to write it. So here are my jumbled, stream of consciousness reactions (fitting for the style of this book). I loved, loved, loved this author's debut novel There There so my hopes going into this were likely far too high. I was happy to recognized characters from his first novel and the weird satisfaction to see both backward and forward into the story introduced there. The history of how entire nations of people on this American land is devastating and so important to tell, and re-tell, and tell again, over and over until more people acknowledge, accept and reckon with it, so huge applause for the effort and honesty in addressing it. Same for the prevalence and travesty of addiction that accompanies that shameful legacy. Orange does not shy away from any of it and that matters. And the writing is smart and deep and thoughtful and so very impressive. But, and this is a big but, it was incredibly hard to follow. It is generationally and narratively sprawling in a way that kept me at a remove for everyone except perhaps Orvil. I have no doubt that the choice to chop up the history and break most of the family connections was very deliberate as that is true to the story Orange is telling, but it kept me from fully engaging. I could never quite grab on.

It lacks the propulsive narrative of There There, but I should’ve guessed that from the title. There There, like it’s doubled, pointed title suggests, is driving constantly towards a violent and surprising intensity that draws all the different Native American characters together THERE, at that pow-wow. Wandering Stars is the slow-motion aftermath that scatters the characters far and wide, like the shrapnel after an explosion. But it is also the prelude to There There with brief but suggestive back stories on the ancestors of those impacted in There There. We see a tendency towards wandering through the generations, but one not born—at least originally—out of intent but by the violent, scattering forces of the US government. Tommy Orange is mourning as one of the diaspora, trying to frame some narrative out of the sprinkled facts. I applaud the effort, but the story doesn’t gather together in any meaningful way. I was hoping for at least one character I could love and cheer for (Grandma Opal is the most likely!) but I found myself wearying of the ways in which these characters stay deeply in their own heads. This is the story Orange wanted to tell, and I won’t fault him for it. I was just disappointed. (My review is likely also tinged with my own fatigue after reading a couple narratives about meth and opioid addiction already. I’m so tired of stories about addicts. I want these characters to have something more interesting to explore.) THANKS to NetGalley for the free copy of this book. This review is not influenced in any way by that!

First read was okay, but besides the obvious desire to talk about heritage and ancestry, I’m not sure what the historical narrative did for the story? I really enjoyed revisiting these characters though — tommy orange is a great writer

A really interesting and complex story, however I felt as though the writing and structure was a little muddled. I found it hard to make sense of the timeline and how the characters related to Noenka. I thought Noenka as a character was great and I loved the sections which looked at her and Ramses. But I found myself getting confused too often to really enjoy it and I think this was down to how the book was constructed.

On a Woman's Madness, is a poetic literary novel set in Suriname. We follow Noenka as she leaves her (awful) husband and tries to make her own way in life. Within these pages, we have some truly gorgeous writing. Sensual, philosophical prose that burrowed its way into my feels. Despite the delicious prose, the actual storytelling was all over the place! Disjointed narrative stops and starts, speeds up and slows down, jumps backwards and forwards in time. This book was difficult to follow and this took some of the sting out of its tail. Often, I was deeply moved, but a lot of the time I was simply confused. Every time I reached a pinnacle of frustration and bafflement, Roemer would hit me with a section of writing so powerful and beautiful that it would take my breath away. The ending, in particular, was annoyingly rushed. This book could either have worked better being drawn out into a family saga with more overarching clarity or been decluttered into a sparser work condensed into poetic chunks. Regardless, some stunning writing.

** spoiler alert ** “Im Noenka, which means Never Again. Born of two polar opposites, a woman and a man who pull even my dreams apart. I’m a woman, even though I don’t know where being female begins and where it ends, and in the eyes of everyone else, I’m black, and I’m still waiting to discover what that means”. My first Surinamese piece of literature read in translation from its original Dutch. Follows the story of Noenka who leaves her abusive husband for the capital, Paramarimbo, and discovers new relationships and ways of living. I think this was a good book but at points difficult to read due to the detachment of the narrator. She often sounded emotion-less and like she was telling the story of someone else which meant I felt less invested in her story. I also think this book had an interesting take on lesbianism and queerness in a patriarchal and religious society. In particular, I was intrigued by the monologue where the narrator asked if it was so wrong to love a woman as she feels as though she cannot replace her mother’s love - her brothers could find their mother in their wives but the only place she could find her mother (the first woman who ever loved and understood her) is within another woman.

much denser than the bright pink cover and snappy title led me to believe however once i’d adjusted to the style there was a lot to enjoy and reflect on here! heavy subject matter but an interesting insight to Suriname (one of my special interest countries) and undeniably good writing, just wish i was cleverer

What a crazy ride. It sort of reads like beautiful Shakespearean language that’s cut with contemporary jargon. The only issue is that it’s crazy hard to follow at times. more than once I was frustrated because I had no idea what was going on. However, the story itself is extremely interesting and the last 50 pages of the book are super surprising and good.

“I’m Noenka, which means Never Again. Born of two polar opposites, a woman and a man who pull even my dreams apart. I’m a woman, even though I don’t know where being female begins and where it ends, and in the eyes of everyone else, I’m black, and I’m still waiting to discover what that means.”

I read this for the International Booker, which is a bit weird, since the prize specifically nominates books for their translation and I read an old edition in German. So I cannot say anything concerning the quality of the translator nominated. Dutch and German are really easy to translate into each other, so I enjoyed the experience anyhow. As for the book... It is clearly feminist, and it is feminists in a post-colonial way very much belonging to the 1970s/80s. I think it is impressive, and parts of it read surprisingly modern, but it is still a book of that time. And it tries very hard to introduce us to a specific female experience. If I am honest, I admired it more than I liked it.

** spoiler alert ** It was hard to get into this book at the beginning as the writing style is very fluttery and disconnected but it does suck you in if you show patience and acclimate. The narration style of the protagonist is nonlinear and unconventional and aims to describe her marital estrangement and its aftermath with a jumbled temper of familial history, childhood reflections and dreams. You can tell Astrid Roemer dabbles in poetry by the strong poetic influences in the book. For people who appreciate that, it adds an almost ethereal, dreamy quality to the story. The nostalgia, romance and eroticism are magnified by poetic elements that revolve primarily around floral, maternal and feminine motifs. The setting of the novel and its story also filled me with intrigue about Suriname. It is a country that does not receive a lot of attention globally and the descriptions of the land and its cultural milieu pushed me to research it as a potential travel destination. Roemer takes you on the haunting, emotional journey of Noenka. I saw her as a renegade within her societal norms. She is a commentary against the idea of conventional femininity. She is not afraid to resist traditional, preset roles of women and their marital obligations towards their husbands. She abandons her husband Louis after just 9 days without hesitation and resists his constant advances to win her back. For this, she faces stigma and ostracism from her community and employers. She moves to a different city and has relations with other men, one of whom gets her pregnant. She willingly aborts the child, again displaying non-traditional femininity through unmaternal behaviour. She then falls in love with Gabrielle who is housing her. I see in this situation and the tenderness with which Noenka describes their moments and conversations, her latent 'mommy issues'. The most warm, intimate descriptions of her childhood are of her moments with her mother and the same stylistic language reemerges when she describes Gabrielle. Her attraction and subsequent relationship can be viewed as an actualization of that maternal bond. It is an irony considering how willingly she shirks a maternal opportunity of her own with an abortion. In fact, Noenka declares her love after her mother's death. It is almost as if pursuing a relationship with Gabrielle is a coping mechanism for her loss. As if, she can just replace that maternal warmth that is no more with the warmth of another woman. Having been coerced to move back with Louis, we see things come to a head as this is concurrent with a deepening relationship between Noenka and Gabrielle. They hatch plans to run away together to another place where they don't have to confront their traditional marital duties and where their courtship isn't taboo. However, in confronting the reality of their situation the novel rises to a dark crescendo in which Gabrielle murders Louis and is imprisoned.

'On a Woman's Madness' by Astrid Roemer. I chose this book as it was set in Suriname, a country I've never read anything from before. The author is Creole/Surinamese. The story is about Noenka, a young woman who struggles with mental health, maybe caused by her striving for empowerment and constantly being knocked back and made to realise she has none. I struggled a bit with this book because it seemed to jump around a lot and I often didn't really know what was going on. When I got on roll with it, it was great, but then it would suddenly take a turn and I was all confused again. I thought I was reading a new, modern release (it was long-listed for the international Booker in 2025) and only realised after I finished reading it that it was written in 1982. Maybe it's only recently been translated into English from the original Dutch? Now that I know when it was written, some of it makes more sense. It was a time of different values and expectations and the country was newly independent and still finding its feet. The book won prestigious prizes and in the context of when it was written I can understand why. It addressed issues that can still be problematic when addressed today, like mental health, lesbianism, disability, misogyny, suicide, abortion, racism, divorce, the influence of the church, the effects of slavery and colonialism ... an awful lot packed into just over 200 pages. A week after finishing the book, I'm still thinking about it, which I suppose is a sign of a good book. But at the same time, I remember how confused I was at times whilst reading it. So I'm sitting on the fence with it.

This was such a difficult but thought-provoking read. The writing style—preserved even in translation by Lucy Scott—was dreamlike and disjointed, which made it hard to follow. The lack of chapters and the constant shifts in time and place made me feel like I was drifting in and out of someone’s memories without direction. Still, I appreciate the themes Roemer explored: misogyny, oppression, feminism, sexuality, identity, and trauma. They’re powerful and still so relevant today. I empathized with Noenka’s pain, but I also struggled with her. She felt mentally fragile, easily swayed, and indecisive—especially in her relationships. Her bond with Gabrielle felt more like a reflection of her longing for maternal care than romantic love. However, I also understand that maybe these were shaped by a life where obedience was expected. In a society that denied her autonomy, it’s no wonder her sense of self became so fractured. Another character that truly stuck with me was Ramses. Despite societal norms, he genuinely adored Noenka. That’s why the abortion scene hit hard. While I understand the message about bodily autonomy and rebellion, I couldn’t help but feel it was unfair to Ramses. The baby was conceived from mutual desire, and considering Ramses’s own heartbreaking backstory, he at least deserved to know. This book left me conflicted, and maybe that’s the point. It doesn’t offer clear answers—it forces you to reflect on the messy truths of womanhood, survival, and the madness that comes with both.

It took me quite a bit longer to finish this book than I had intended it to, some of that was my impatience with its nonlinear and fragmented style and some was the way in which this style often assailed the reader with things that can be triggering- particularly to those with sexual trauma, survivors of physical and psychological abuse, and those who endured manipulation and and gaslighting related to the patriarchal roles to which many women are pressured to conform. Death, loss, and grief are also a part of this book and while there is something of a resolution to Noenka's story the reader should expect to be all too aware it comes with a heavy dose of reality to go with it. It's an important book, one that discusses many aspects of how women suffer under the weight of societal, familial, and personal expectation, but it's also one that not all readers may be able tackle due to the subject matter being quite intense throughout.

This much lauded by the literati work on the Ethiopian defeat of fascist Italy in the 1930s, through the lens of Ethiopian volunteer woman fighters, has a very good heart and tells a much neglected tale but fails on some key counts. I can see why it was Booker Prize shortlisted, because although written by an African woman it could be just as well be written by an old white male European with it's humanising of some of the Italian characters and heavily literary writing style. So what, I hear some exclaim? This was a pre meditated attack on the only sovereign African nation by a fascist European state, eff the daddy issues of an Italian photographer, I only want to read as much as possible of the story of the amazing women that were part of this extraordinary episode in African history, without a Euro-centric balancing act or focusing on Ethiopian woman vs woman battles like this book does in its first half. I know that it is loosely based on oral history, but the story is/was those woman fighters and nothing more. For the literati this is probably a smashing read, for a reader wanting an entry into Ethiopian history it feels watered down to appease European book critics. Maybe I'm too harsh? Come visit my re-read review in a few years. The literature and Italian stories made this a boring read in my opinion, I was always wanting more and never getting it. For the engaging and absorbing historical context, the least this book can get from me is a Three Star, 7 out of 12. Haile Selaisse! (And there's little or no real mention of the UK, Russian and French support of the Ethiopians.) 2023 read

2.5. The Shadow King promises to tell the story of Ethiopia's forgotten women soldiers, doubly overlooked for their origin and their gender, who bravely fought alongside men against the Italian occupation of Ethopia during fascism. That struck me as an enormously fascinating premise : despite having lived in Italy and despite having read a great deal about fascism and WW2 from a number of perspectives, I know shockingly little about Italy's colonial war of oppression in Africa and even less about local resistance movements. And telling the forgotten stories of women is one of my favorite uses for historical fiction, filling in the gaps that official histories don't tell us. My first problem with the novel is that it ends up being no such thing. It starts quite promisingly, in a household shaded with different power dynamics that includes Hirut, a beautiful young mistreated servant girl who is established early as our protagonist, the Cook, an older unnamed woman of unusual strength and powers with a tragic backstory of enslavement and abuse, and Aster, their aristocratic mistress who turns out both to be fiercely powerful and to have her own story of abuse. But these fascinating women soon turn into sideshows in what purports to be their own story, as Mengiste bogs down the story with asides detailing the inner life of Emperor Haile Selassie (including some very long imaginary conversations between him, his dead daughter and Aida's father (from Verdi's Aida), and even longer passages focusing on the novel's other quasi-protagonist, Ettore, an Italian Jew who is "just following orders" from the Italian army even as his family faces extinction in Europe, and the villain, Colonel Fucelli, a sort of Kurtz-like figure drunk on cruelty and power. We get far more insight into Ettore's family and backstory and into Fucelli's inner workings than we do into any of the female characters. So not very much a woman's story after all. And frankly, Ettore and Fucelli just aren't as fresh or as interesting as the women characters we begin with. Some of it, like Ettore's distant relationship with his stern father, a refugee from Russian pogroms with a secret past, was given an awful lot of ink, but just seemed inconclusive and needlessly distracting from what starts out so promising. Second, the book is just ridiculously overwritten. Mengiste tells us (relentlessly) what the light is doing (peeping through clouds, cutting across a valley, slicing across someone's face) in nearly every scene. Frequently two contradictory pairs of words are used to describe something, this device used so much it starts to feel like a tic (e.g., "it is both absurd and luxurious. A shock and a relief"; "what stands here is both flesh and shadow, bone and silhouette.") Many pivotal scenes are described so minutely and yet so allusively that I often wasn't entirely sure what had transpired. The narration of the audio book was lively and the narrator game, but the 16 hours dragged and dragged. Not for me, although I understand that I am in the minority here.

One of the reasons I enjoy reading great historical fiction is that it illuminates periods of the past that I was totally unaware of. Most of my understanding of the events surrounding WWII are centred around an American and English perspective. So prior to Mengiste's “The Shadow King” I had no knowledge of Mussolini's 1935 invasion of Ethiopia, one of the last sovereign African countries at that time. As Mengiste has explained in interviews, the Second Italo-Ethiopian War is well documented but there are few written historical accounts of Ethiopian women's active involvement in defending the country through these battles. This novel provides a different framing of this period by insisting on the prominence and importance of these women. The author introduces us to this era by focusing on the story of Hirut, an orphaned girl who becomes a maid to Kidane who is an officer in Emperor Haile Selassie's army and his strong-willed wife Aster. As the invasion begins the balance of their lives is totally upended and their relationships alter in accordance with the joint will to fight to maintain Ethiopia's independence. The result is a dramatic story filled with bloody battles and the emotional journeys of individuals whose lives are fundamentally changed by these larger events. The difficulty with some historical novels is that they are so steeped in a narrative of the past it's a challenge to enter as a reader if you aren't equipped with a knowledge about it. This was definitely why I found it hard to finish reading “Wolf Hall” on the first go and why it took supplementary reading for me to better understand the events and drama being portrayed. The same was true for Mengiste's novel. Frequently throughout the story I found myself entrenched in scenes of conflict I struggled to understand so it was difficult to emotionally invest in the outcome. I fully accept this is a problem of my own ignorance about the series of historical events being portrayed. Like with Mantel's fiction, I think the payoff gained from really concentrating and reading additional material is worth it because “The Shadow King” is undoubtably an impressive work of fiction. I'm equally sure that reading this novel a second time will yield a lot more pleasure because I'd be able to focus more on the development of the characters, the links between them and the symbolic resonance of the story more than working so hard to follow what was actually happening. However, this means that at the moment this is a novel I admired more than really enjoyed. Read my full review of The Shadow King by Maaza Mengiste on LonesomeReader

A taut and powerful slow burn that illuminates a fascinating revolution lead by women. With a rich cast of characters and masterful prose, the Shadow King brings to light an important aspect of WW2 that is rarely discussed. It’s raw and emotional, exploring the fierceness of war and rebellion, while also examining those who pull the strings from the shadows. It explores the questions of who deserves the most credit for good deeds, who is the one writing the story, and how can we look at history in an authentic way when so many versions have been altered to suit the “winners.” A fascinating read.

I was eager to read The Shadow King to learn more about the history of the country, although perhaps if I am honest, I am more interested in the people and the culture, without reference to another culture that is trying to invade or colonise it. For the culture, the people and their history are so much more than the slim chapter that gets all the attention, a power hungry region/men looking for prestige and perhaps even revenge. Ethiopia defeated Italian forces at the Battle of Adowa in the nineteenth century (1896), saving them from Italian colonisation, so their subsequent aggressive invasion in 1935, one that provides a framework for this novel, can be seen as revenge or an attempt to boost Italian national prestige. But the novel isn't about politics, it concerns a few players and characters, who we are given glimpses of, in a style that is like a series of snapshots, a narrative that therefore has gaps and not the fluidity of a traditional story, nor enables us to really get to know too well the characters, limited as we are by this kaleidoscopic technique. I heard/saw Maaza Mengiste during the (online) Edinburgh BookFest this year and learned that she was indeed aided in her research and imagination by a set of photographs, something that reminded me of On Chapel Sands: My Mother and Other Missing Persons by Laura Cumming, an author who also used photographs to aid her storytelling ( a memoir of her mother), however Cumming shares the photographs with the reader and Mengiste only shares one, requiring the words to work even harder for the reader. I found this device here a distraction, not expecting a literary device, wishing for a more character lead historical narrative. We meet orphaned Hirute, who works for a husband and wife of noblity, Aster and Kidane, brought into their family due to a promise made to her parents. It is a fractious relationship, between the three of them there is dependence, resentment, attraction, jealousy and comradeship. A heady mix. With the nation at war, and tired of waiting for Kidane to return, the women decide to participate in the fight, an inclination also connected to the gun Hirute was left by her father, one that Kidane took from her, that she is determined to retrieve and use. Women participated in this war, not just an historical fact, but one that Mengiste discovered lay in her own family, (her great-grandmother enlisted to fight). It was a subject few talked about, and one that history books seem to have omitted, to the point where few female veterans remain, whose stories can be told. One can see how easily their experiences are relegated to myth and the author is to be commended for the 10 years of perseverance it took to bring this story to light. Though she uses her imagination, it is historical fiction after all, this is not a fantasy or adventure, and the role these women took on and the sacrifices and risks they took in doing so, meant they were heroines not in the traditional masculine sense, but that they showed solidarity towards keeping these invaders away and presented an image of provocation and strength, one that no European army, likely had ever seen. “I realised that the closer I looked at women, the more I began to understand the many different battles that they were fighting; the conflicts were on the battlefields, but they also happened in the military camps. Women had to contend with multi-layered violence; there is fighting as soldiers, but there is fighting as women whose bodies are imagined to be the territories for their compatriots.” Space is also given to a conflicted soldier in the Italian army, who, while fighting under orders from his own country, learns that his own survival is under threat, when all soldiers are asked to complete a census. Though he states his religion as none, his name will make him a target. He provides a counterpoint to the aggression and his occupation as photographer, a man who sits for hours in contemplation of his subject, often under orders, provides both horror and soulful reflection. In an interview, Mengiste tells of a visit to Calabria in the south of Italy for her first book (set in 1974), when a man stood and asked if he could talk to her about 1935; it was a tense and emotional moment from a man asking for forgiveness for what his father had been involved in. It was at that moment that I said to myself: “My God, this history is not done, this war that feels distant but is not distant. There’s still the question, How do we bridge this gap between us?” The Shadow King goes some way towards bridging that gap and opens the way for more to seek answers and ask more questions and to remember that women are not a mere footnote in history, there are thousands of untold stories from the past of their endeavours. This was a slow moving, challenging read, many may not have the patience required to read it, but I'm glad I persevered. Mengiste was born in Ethiopia in 1974, her family fled the Ethiopian revolution when she was a child a history she explores in her first novel, Beneath the Lion's Gaze which I'm looking forward to reading. Guardian Interview: The Language of War is Always Masculine

Ethiopia, 1935. Hirute is an orphan, taken in by a prominent family: Kidane is a major political figure and military general, and his wife Aster is a forceful head of household. When the country is invaded by fascist Italian forces, all are called by Emperor Haile Selassie to take up arms in defense, though he himself is forced into exile. Italian commander Fucelli commits acts of atrocity to present a façade of dominance, and along his side is Ettore, a soldier with the task of documenting it all on camera (they call him “Foto”). And when Hirute finds a man who bears striking resemblance to the Emperor, Kidane parades him around the country as an impersonator, but one who can inspire his troops to victory. The reader is meant to be inspired not just by the bravery of the Ethiopian people in armed resistance, but by the little-known acts of women in that arena of combat. We’re all to be reminded that it’s a war novel, and not shy about portraying it at its worst. Violence is a given, and so should many other scenes of gore and abuse. That said, there’s a clear purpose, and not just shock value. Mengiste wants to show us that people who refuse to be colonized, who are fighting for their homes, act and react in a vast range of ways. It was all very complex and deep, and very emotionally stirring. Descriptions of the countryside are amazing. The action, the tender and the violent, are stark and very visible. The language is poetic, which means sometimes it escapes a real-world, speed-reading troglodyte like me, so there were occasions I got lost. But there were many profound, beautiful passages. There’s a very good deal of inner monologue from the full cast of characters, including several “interludes” of Haile Selassie himself! Hirute shares the most, but we hear a lot from Ettore as well, who has a secret that can get him into trouble with the fascist Italian regime. In some chapters, and even paragraphs, we get multiple perspectives. It gets confusing, but I suppose in the action scenes, it mimics the insanity of war. Again: the writing is beautiful and thoughtful. Overall, a stunning depiction of a lesser-known time and place in world history.

This was interesting. A take on the second Italo-Ethiopian war, or, if you like, the second failed invasion of Ethiopia by Italy. This one was led by Mussolini in 1935. It's a cool topic and made more interesting as it's told partially through the eyes of the women Ethiopian soldiers. But I never did take to the style, so I can‘t say I personally liked it all that much. Actually I found it annoying on audio. If there weren't so many interesting comments on this, I would have called it a failed poetic prose, but there is some personal preference on that. I know very little about this place or war or Haile Selassie, so it was rewarding just to learn a bit. I have thoughts on the the shadow king himself as a play on Dante‘s shades in Inferno. I'll add that this is another contemporary book that dwells on making the reader physically uncomfortable with the descriptions of injuries, brutality and messed up sex. (I would add Shuggie Bain to that list.) I don't like that aspect, but it has its point. Anyway, not my thing. YMMV. ----------------------------------------------- 51. The Shadow King by Maaza Mengiste reader: Robin Miles published: 2019 format: 16:09 audible audiobook (448 pages in hardcover) acquired: September 11 listened: Sep 11 – Oct 8 rating: 3½ locations: Ethiopia about the author: Ethiopian-born American, born 1974

It's 1975, former slave turned soldier Hirut is waiting at the train station in Addis Abbaba to deliver a package to an old acquaintance. Ethiopia is burning. The people are waging a war against the Emperor. A display by a young soldier takes her back to the war she was part of in 1935 when Italians invaded her beloved country. The war that made her path cross with photographer, Navarra's path. The story follows Hirut, a young scared girl with a fighting spirit that grows strong as hardships come her way. From a helpless slave to the main guard of The Shadow King. It is an important tale about the impact women had during the war and how they fought back despite being undermined by their own men. Kidane. I hate that character. It still doesn't make sense to me why he raped Hirut. Fifi. My hero in the story. Although a small character, her role in the war is big and the main reason the Ethiopian fighters remained informed about the Italians' next move and eventually won the war. This is an important book but the writing style makes it difficult to enjoy.

The Shadow King by Maaza Mengiste is a gripping portrayal of Mussolini's 1935 invasion of Ethiopia. In this vivid novel, Mengiste explored the role of the women soldiers who were left out of this historical record. Hirut is our main character and she is fierce and brilliant. I am so glad I read The Shadow King! One of the things I love the most about reading is the fact that I am constantly learning. I knew very little about Mussolini's invasion of Ethiopia so reading this novel was a great history lesson. 📖 The fact that it showcases the powerful role of women warriors was another plus! However, there’s one thing that didn’t work so well for me. 🤷‍♀️ I am usually a fan of lyrical prose but I found the writing overwrought. This affected my reading pace and my connection to the characters. It just doesn’t flow. This book has been described as 'unputdownable'. I am afraid I have to disagree. Because of the writing, I didn’t feel the urge to go back to the narrative. But, because of the story it is told, I also felt that I wanted to keep reading and finish this important novel. For more reviews, follow me on Instagram @booksturnyouon

The Shadow King tells a story that needed to be told. Italy's invasion of Ethiopia and the involvement of women in war are important subjects and one can clearly see how much research Maaza Mengiste has put into this novel. While I admire the idea of writing a novel about that historical period, the book does not fully succeed for me. Especially the first part feels disjointed and I would have wished for more coherence. My main issue with the book, though, is the writing style. The language is beautiful but there is an abundance of metaphors and symbolism. Mengiste's most striking stylistic device is the use of photographic descriptions. Instead of showing the characters' thoughts, there are lengthy passages about postures, glances and, most often, light and shadow. This choice is certainly exceptional, but I think it creates a distance between the characters and me as a reader. I didn't feel any sympathy or empathy for any of the characters. However, the story itself improves after the first part. I really liked Mengiste's decision to portray both Ethiopians and Italians in a way that goes far beyond a simple attribution of good and evil. Last February, I attended a reading by Maaza Mengiste and I think she is a wonderful and very intelligent person who has written an important novel which is not bad at all, but unfortunately, its style did not appeal to me. 3.5 stars rounded down

Some books have blurbs that barely touch the surface of their actual contents and concerns. Sometimes this is avoidable, but often it isn’t, and The Shadow King strikes me as one of the latter kind. It is mainly focused on Hirut, one of the Ethiopian women who became soldiers during the country’s war with fascist Italy in 1935, but her military training and experiences are in the background compared with the novel’s interest in her relationship with Aster and Kidane, a couple who previously employed (/owned) her thanks to an unclear but close relationship between her mother and Kidane’s father, and who eventually command her in battle. Consequently, The Shadow King can seem to take rather a long time to get going, and occasionally loses the primary thrust of its story—the Ethiopian resistance to a particular Italian officer, Colonel Carlo Fucelli—in digressions. There are sections told from Fucelli’s perspective, for instance, as well as through the eyes of Ettore Navarra, an Italian Jewish war photographer whose safety from Rome’s increasingly murderous anti-Semitic policies is assured as long as he obeys orders, but who feels increasingly disgusted and torn by the atrocities he is asked to document. (Fucelli, in a Bond-villain-esque but no doubt completely historically accurate fashion, likes to execute Ethiopian prisoners by pushing them off of a high cliff.) Ettore and Hirut, we know, meet again after the war, and a few flash-fowards to 1974 show us the moments leading up to their uneasy reunion. Mengiste writes with great attention to simile and metaphor, and is especially interested in qualities of light and shadow, but while this sometimes results in moments of great poetic beauty, at other times it simply obscures the action. (There were at least half a dozen instances at chapter endings where I wasn’t sure what had actually taken place and what was simply a character musing). Finally, we hear from the Emperor Haile Selassie, haunted by guilt over his daughter’s death at the hands of her brutal husband, and over his abandonment of his country to live in exile in Bath for six years. In Selassie’s sections, Mengiste’s dreamy style works extremely well, breaking down barriers between sanity and illusion, past and present. The novel is told, I have no doubt, the way its author wanted to tell it, but the sense that it could have been tighter makes me wonder if some of the desired effect has been lost.

Shortlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize On his return Paschal’s character had changed. He who was always cheerful, always joking, had turned solemn, sententious, and moralising. His origins had become more than ever an obsession and an enigma, which he constantly sought to solve. He became pompous as well. Two of his favourite subjects of conversation were slavery and colonisation, and countries and societies that have been totally ignored or marginalised; but above all he loved to discuss the place and role of God in the world. L'Évangile du Nouveau Monde (2021), which Maryse Condé has suggested is likely to be her last novel, has been translated as The Gospel According to the New World by her husband Richard Philcox. His addition of 'According To' to the title is to give it a scriptural feel, as Condé has said she took permission from Jose Saramago, to whom the novel is dedicated, J. M. Coetzee and Amélie Nothomb to provide her own novelistic take on the life of Jesus and the topic of faith. The book, which is set in a fictionalised Caribbean island similar to but not quite the author's native Guadaloupe, opens, on Easter Sunday, with the birth of a baby in a shed: It’s a land surrounded by water on all sides, commonly known as an island, not as big as Australia, but not small either. It is mostly flat but embossed with thick forests and two volcanoes, one that goes by the name of Piton de la Grande Chaudière, which was active until 1820 when it destroyed the pretty little town that sprawled down its side, after which it became totally dormant. Since the island enjoys an ‘eternal summer’, it is perpetually crowded with tourists, aiming their lethal cameras at anything of beauty. Some people affectionately call it ‘My Country’, but it is not a country, it is an overseas territory, in other words, an overseas department. The night He was born, Zabulon and Zapata were squabbling with each other high up in the sky, letting fly sparks of light with every move. It was an unusual sight. Anyone who regularly scans the heavens is used to seeing Ursa Minor, Ursa Major, Cassiopeia, the Evening Star and Orion, but to discover two such constellations emerging from the depths of infinity was something unheard of. It meant that He who was born on that night was preordained for an exceptional destiny. At the time, nobody seemed to think otherwise. The newborn baby raised his tiny fists to his mouth and curled up between the donkey’s hooves for warmth. Maya, who had just given birth in this shed where the Ballandra kept their sacks of fertilizer, their drums of weed killer, and their ploughing instruments, washed herself as best she could with the water from a calabash she had the presence of mind to bring with her. C’est une terre entourée d’eau de tous les côtés, une île, comme on dit communément, pas aussi grande que l’Australie, mais pas petite non plus. Elle est généralement plate mais est bosselée d’épaisses forêts et de deux volcans, l’un qui répond au nom de Piton de la Grande Chaudière, qui fit des siennes jusqu’en 1820, quand il détruisit la coquette ville étalée sur ses flancs avant de rentrer dans une totale inactivité. Comme elle jouit d’un « été éternel » , les touristes s’y pressent, braquant leurs appareils mortifères sur tout ce qui est beau. Certains l’appellent avec tendresse Mon Pays, mais ce n’est pas un pays, c’est une terre ultramarine, un département d’Outre-mer quoi ! La nuit où Il naquit, Zabulon et Zapata se battaient dans le mitan du ciel, décochant des rais de lumière à chacun de leurs gestes. C’était un spectacle peu banal. Celui qui a coutume de scruter la voûte céleste voit fréquemment la Petite Ourse, la Grande Ourse, Cassiopée, l’Étoile du Berger, Orion, mais distinguer deux constellations pareilles surgies des grandes profondeurs, c’est inouï. Cela signifiait que celui qui naissait cette nuit-là aurait un destin hors pair. Pour l’heure, personne ne semblait s’en douter. Le nouveau-né avait porté ses poings minuscules à hauteur de sa bouche et s’était recroquevillé entre les sabots de l’âne qui le réchauffait. Maya, qui venait d’accoucher dans cette cabane où les Ballandra rangeaient leurs sacs d’engrais, leurs bidons de désherbant et leurs instruments aratoires, se lavait tant bien que mal dans l’eau d’une calebasse qu’elle avait eu la présence d’esprit d’apporter avec elle. Its mother Maya had been seduced by a charismatic individual, who proves to be something of a modern-day prophet, himself, on a cruise ship, and then does not acknowledge his paternity: Corazón and Maya did not belong to the same class; Corazón was a member of the powerful Tejara family who for generations had been slave owners, merchants, landowners, lawyers, doctors and teachers. Corazón taught history of religion at the University of Asunción where he was born. He bore all the arrogance of a rich kid except this was somewhat subdued by the charm of a gentle smile. Since he was fluent in four languages – English, Portuguese, Spanish and French – he had been hired by the cruise line to give a series of lectures to the second- and first-class passengers. She abandons the child to be found by the couple, the Ballandras, whose shed this is, childless (not for want of trying) and religiously pious, who name the child Pascal and regard his arrival as something of a miracle: A persistent rumor was gradually gaining ground. There was something not natural about the event. Here was Eulalie, who for years had worn her knees out on pilgrimages to Lourdes and Lisieux, blessed with a son from our Lord, and on Easter Sunday no less. This was by no means a coincidence but a very special gift. Our Father had perhaps two sons and sent her the younger one. A son of mixed blood, what a great idea! The rumor gradually took Fonds-Zombi by storm and reached the outer boundaries of the land. It was a hot topic in the humble abodes as well as in the elegant, wealthy homes. When it reached the ears of Eulalie, she gladly welcomed it. Only Jean Pierre remained inflexible, considering it blasphemy. Pascal's life does oddly mirror that of Christ, including, ultimately his death aged 33 (no spoiler added since this is mentioned in the Publisher's Weekly review used to promote the novel), although this is played largely for fun, including by the characters themselves: at a wedding, and where the food and drink is poor quality, of course the guests send Pascal to sort it out, and when it transpires better quality food was on its way anyway, it is still hailed, despite Pascal's reluctance, as a miracle of sort. But this is not a story that purely parallels the gospels but rather one rich in colour of the island on which the novel is set and the rich cast of characters that Pascal encounters, one that for my taste perhaps contained a little too much background detail. This a passage almost at random about one character, Maria - and the information in this paragraph about her history proves largely irrelevant for the rest of the story: At the age of four she had lost her father. He had left her mother with four rabbit hutches where a variety of red-eyed iceberg rabbits scampered around, so called because of their very white fur. At the age of five, she accompanied her mother to the market where she had a stall. She had very little schooling. Yet together with her sister Marthe, she had educated her young brother Lazare, who had passed his vocational training certificate and at one time had taught mathematics at a private school. And yes that's a woman called Maria, with a sister called Marthe and a brother Lazare, who at one point Pascal has to help revive from a (possibly narcotic induced) stupor - an incident the characters later refer to, somewhat tongue-in-cheek and complete with speech marks, as his "resurrection"! The heart of the novel is a story of a man in search of his meaning and purpose in life, as Pascal, while reluctant to acknowledge the believers that grow up around him and hang on his every word, tries (but fails) to make contact with his father, Corazon, aided by an enigmatic messanger who pops up at convenient times, Espiritu. Corazon proves to be rather more of an inspiration to many others that the rich kid who seduces young women on boats introduction would imply, having helped transform communities and lives, although, as father like son, both Corazon and Pascal do seem to be somewhat in thrall to their libido and on a mission to change the world one woman at a time. Pascal gets caught up in the political struggles around the state-backed monopoly that dominates the island's economy, finding himself accused at one point of a politically-motivated murder, and encountering his nemesis, originally his friend, who is inevitably called Judas. And he also encounters various communities who claim to have the secret to an ideal life, most notably in the middle of the novel, a group of descendants of a tribe of slaves, the Mondongues, who have formed a community which has abolished private property, prohibited alcohol and shuns modern media, and where he is served by a young woman, clothed, as he observes, like a character from The Handmaid's Tale. Here he initially finds the sanctuary and spirituality he had been looking for, only to discover, unsurprisingly, that all is not as it seems. The novel's ultimate message seems to be that, in Condé's words on the book's inside cover "inner strength and faith like Pascal's are what count most to change the world, even if we might never achieve it" and the book is in a sense satisfyingly unsatisfying in its conclusions. Overall 3.5 stars - in a weak year for the International Booker one that may make my shortlist but which I would not have longlisted.

(was it a hump?)

"On his return Paschal’s character had changed. He who was always cheerful, always joking, had turned solemn, sententious, and moralising. His origins had become more than ever an obsession and an enigma, which he constantly sought to solve. He became pompous as well. Two of his favourite subjects of conversation were slavery and colonisation, and countries and societies that have been totally ignored or marginalised; but above all he loved to discuss the place and role of God in the world" On Easter Sunday, beautiful Baby Pascal, brown in complexion, was born and abandoned by his mother. He was then adopted by Jean Pierre and Eulalie Ballandra. He was rumored to be the child of God. When he discovered that Jean Pierre and Eulalie are not his biological parents, he was determined to travel the world in search of his origins, and at the same time, to search for the purpose and meaning of life and humanity. The Gospel According to the New World (written in French by Maryse Condé and translated into English by Condé's husband, Richard Philcox) is a Gospel parody, where a lot of biblical references are incorporated and re-written in a playful manner. Condé is known for her work in exploring colonialism and post-colonial chaos. Intertwined with the fictionalized Biblical references, Condé examined post-colonialism, through the perspective of a "Messiah"-like figure (Pascal), in the global era where every leader has a tendency of proclaiming himself a God (and act as one). Behind the facade of searching for his father, Pascal instead encountered a lot of experiences (and miracles, which are in parallel with certain Biblical aspects) where he discovered a lack of love, peace, and harmony in this world. "Wasnt he given the best present of his life at this moment? Why complicate his existence with questions he was incapable of answering: How to build a more harmonious world? How to root out the evil in men's hearts? He would never manage on his own"; "He would stop and gaze at the sky. The heavens had opened up a second time and the mystery of the Incarnation had taken shape. This time the Creator had taken care to make His son of mixed blood so that no race might take advantage over others, as has happened in the past". And yet, the world is still plagued with hatred, violence, and corruption, with everyone pretending to be God himself. Condé claims that this would be her last book and she wanted it to be a testament to her persistent faith. She has taken post-colonialism on a rather different scale, infused with magical realism and parody. While I am not familiar with some of the Biblical references, my main problem with this book would be that non of the characters left an impact on me. Though the introduction of the character Judas Eluthere is a smart one (which resembles Judas Iscariot, one of the original Twelve Apostles of Jesus Christ who later betrayed him), the other side characters were introduced too swiftly and their presence only left more questions unanswered. That said, this is a 3/5 star book to me and to be honest, it's not as bad as some of the reviewers who claimed to be. But I wouldn't see this book being shortlisted for the International Booker Prize.

Too many characters.

International Booker long list read through: 1/13 I really wanted to like this one, but just couldn’t get on with it. The writing style has a certain charm to it but is ultimately quite jarring, and I couldn’t find much of interest in the protagonist or really catch on to the plot at all. It definitely felt at parts like there was something I was just missing.

Maryse Condé has been alternately dubbed the Grand Dame of Caribbean Literature and the Queen of Caribbean storytelling. She is a prolific novelist and critic from Guadeloupe. Her numerous books have often explored the African diaspora that resulted from slavery and colonialism in the Caribbean. Now, in her late 80s, she’s written what's said to be her final novel “The Gospel According to the New World” which is longlisted for the International Booker Prize. It's a parody of the New Testament in which we follow Pascal, a mixed race boy born in contemporary Martinique. He's abandoned at birth and his adventures play upon the life of Jesus. Many of his experiences and the people he encounters have direct correlations to the bible. Numerous occurrences involving Pascal are rumoured to be miracles – though there's little evidence to prove this. As such, he acquires a devoted following and group of disciples as well as many detractors. Although he was adopted, Pascal embarks on a quest to discover his true parentage: his birth mother who converted to Islam and his father who is a guru that runs an ashram. As he travels to many locations he also engages in a number of affairs with women which often end in disappointment. By drawing upon a number of different religions to inform his journey, Condé questions what the role and purpose such a messianic figure might have in the modern world. This novel is fairly readable with evocative descriptions and it contains some interesting ideas. But the structure doesn't allow them to be developed enough. Since it sets out to self-consciously present an exaggerated version of events from the Bible it begins to feel routine. You can watch my full reaction in my video review of The Gospel According to the New World by Maryse Condé

While a little meandering and lacking the punch I had hoped from it, this parody of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is just as captivating and contemplative as the as the source material. Explores the African diaspora in the Caribbean with wit and humor. Considers what it means to be a symbol and also a person. Storytelling is well and alive in the 21st century! It is also translated from the original French by Condé's husband, which is a wee fact I found so intimate and lovely.

This book was big pile of bleak 😳😩. Maddening, disturbing, disgusting and without hope. Read it if you’re feeling too happy. I will write an actual review when I gather myself which could be never!

4th book of 2022. Despite being just over 200 pages, the novel is told with no paragraph breaks, though there are chapters, and has no respite from the constant torrent (hurricane?) of violence, sex, drugs, etc., including the description of a dog molesting a girl in a porn video, a man raping his stepdaughter at about 13-years-old, murder, cocaine (with some great bits of drug-writing with paranoia and general terror/horror), probably the most swearing I've ever come across in a book with shit, fuck, prick, cunt, whatever, in almost every sentence it feels like, which in the beginning I found almost corny as swearing never actually sounds great in prose to me, but by the end became part of the 'voice' of the book, desensitised, like everything else, which brings me to the horrible futility of the whole thing (probably the point), all that violence and awful sex-scenes in a giant swarm until the book ends with an ending sentiment that only makes the whole thing sadder and not better, I found. I can see her next book, by what the blurb says, in the bits with Brando with all the porn watching and masturbating. I'd use some adjective like 'unflinching' or 'brutal' but they're so banal. A well-written but messed-up book, always the worst combo.

I wasn’t sure I would finish this one when I first started, but I’m glad I stuck with it! I read a couple Korean historical fiction novels, but this is probably the one I learned the most history from. However, I wish that history had been presented in a more enjoyable manner. I understand the author’s intent and I’m glad a longer novel focused on laborers’ life exists, but I feel like I was always held at arm’s length from these characters. It felt grey and dull, as their lives often were, but that didn’t make for an enjoyable reading experience. The history was also often given more as a event-driven history class rather than conveyed through the characters’ experiences, which I found a little heavy handed. I would still recommend for people that are very interested in Korean history during the 20th century (and especially in the communist circles and resistance in this time period), but I would recommend other historical fiction novels to the general reader first. "They say history repeats itself. That seems to be true no matter how much the world, and all the people in it, change, or as customs change. I guess that’s another way of saying that the way we live only looked different on the outside, but what’s on the inside stays the same." "Workers with opinions of their own were always branded as commies in this country. Whereas if you kept your head down, focused only on work, and accepted the few pennies they tossed your way, then they said you were one of the good ones. They never, ever said you were a slave." "You son of a bitch, I’m worse than the cops. I’m a mother!" "It always looks like you’re losing at first, but in the end, the weak are destined to win." "Doesn’t it seem like life is always falling short or turning into something other than what we hope for?" "But then, all partings are fleeting. And like a wisp of wind, they leave nothing behind but a faint glimpse of the look on the other’s face." 🚂🛤️⛓️ *2024 international booker prize shortlist Last book on the shortlist!!! Overall, my thoughts are: -the judges are kinda pretentious, sorry -a book doesn’t have to be historical fiction to be culturally and historically relevant (as shown by some of the books on the shortlist) -enjoyment should be considered a little bit more as a factor: great books should not just be "objectively good and important literary works", they have the right to be fun too -The Details or Not a River should’ve won xox fuck Kairos (These are very black and white statements that ofc have more nuance to them, but this review isn’t the place for that)

Lost me in the end pretty badly unfortunately :( not the hottest start to the year

2.5 stars ⭐️ This book takes us through the struggle of workers in Korea from the time of the Japanese occupation, right through Liberation after WW2, and the occupation by US. The key character, Jino, is protesting the fate of laid- off workers. He has occupied a huge factory chimney and is camping 800 m above ground. As he is up there in the clouds, he recalls his family history of 4 generations working in the railroads. He relates the way Korean workers are treated as inferiors by the ruling Japanese and how the workers form ‘book clubs’ to unite and fight against their employers. ‘Picketing has always been in the Yi family’s blood. Remember, you’re not doing it to line your own pockets, you’re doing it so all workers can live decent lives.’ This novel is immersed in details of the early railway projects in the Korean Peninsula and the various engines that were used to transport goods and passengers. Then there is the myriad of underground networks of activists that were relatives and contacts of Jino and how they are interconnected in their efforts to liberate Korea from the Japanese and improve the lives of workers. The writer has done much research in these areas. I found the details rather overwhelming and technical making the book difficult to read. It did come across as a historical text at many parts. I enjoyed the family stories especially in the earlier chapters, but in the second half the story was more about Icheol, and his brother Ilcheol. Ilcheol, is the older brother who tows the line, gets a good education and takes up an apprenticeship to man the trains, rising to the ranks of a train engineer. Icheol, the younger brother, goes into factory work and organizes worker movements and is hunted by the authorities, so he goes underground to escape detection. Much of the story is of the activities of Icheol and his fellow activists. It is interesting to note that even after WW2 and the surrender of the Japanese empire, the Korean people are not free. The US forces step in to administer and enforce security measures. The same activists who opposed Japanese rule are now being arrested by Americans, known as big noses. The people face food shortage and poverty and hardship.

Mater 2-10 opens in the 21st century with a laid-off factory worker, Yi Jino, staging a vertiginous “sit-in” on the catwalk round an industrial chimney. In a mountaineering tent overlooking railway tracks, his sky-high protest stretches beyond a year, while far below workers prostrate themselves in solidarity. Jino’s lone vigil – a powerful metaphor for struggle against overwhelming forces, including globalisation – is interspersed with hallucinatory flashbacks to a century of Korean history, as witnessed by three generations of his family of railway workers. The focus is on the Japanese colonial period of 1910 to 1945, when Korea’s language was suppressed and its “slaves with no nation” forced to take Japanese names. The absorbing narrative shunts between grungy realism and what the author terms “mindam realism” – as the translators note, “halfway between folklore and plain talk”. The result is oral history spiced with legendary exploits and ghostly appearances by forced labourers. Mater 2-10 is a vital reminder that, while the Berlin Wall may have fallen, the cold war lives on in a divided Korea. It traces the roots of postwar persecution of labour activists smeared as “commies”. Decades of torture of political opponents in Japanese-built prisons are revealed as a “legacy of the Japanese Empire”. Hwang’s aim, he writes, was to plug a gap in Korean fiction, which typically reduces industrial workers to “historical specks of dust”. Not only does he breathe life into vivid protagonists, but the novel so inhabits their perspective that we share the shock and disbelief as their hard-won freedom is snatched away.

I’ve really been enjoying learning more about Korean history over the past couple years and historical fiction is such a good way to get a better grasp of everyday experiences. My only criticism (and I think this is probably just because it is a translation) is that I got a bit confused with characters and places at times. But I really liked how it illustrated different generations facing similar struggles despite living through different historical contexts.

I'm wading my way through the Booker longlist again this year, but it's turned into a chore. This one isn't bad - and now I see it's been shortlisted. The use of interconnected stories made it much more readable than a straightforward novel would have been. The book seems to have worked for me more than it did for others, although it's probably not one I would have picked up otherwise. Everyone seems to focus on its eligibility, though. Based on the Booker rules governing eligible entries, it would appear to be straightforward at first glance. The book must be "long-form fiction" that is "unified and substantial". (See Rule 1(e).) That would seem to include a book like this: a work of long-form fiction (260 pages) told through interconnected stories (i.e., unified and substantial). But a complication is introduced when comparing the Booker eligibility rules with those for the International Booker. The International Booker rules allow for works of "long-form fiction or collections of short stories". The use of the word "or" implies that "long-form fiction" excludes collections of short stories. Otherwise, the clause "or collections of short stories" in the International Booker rules would have no meaning. Reading the two sets of rules together, it would seem the Booker foundation intends to exclude a book like this from the definition of "long-form fiction" - which is a pre-condition that would apply even before one gets to the "unified and substantial" language in Rule 1(e). I suppose it's banal to debate eligibility, particularly when this is just a modest step toward experimentation, but it may nevertheless be the most interesting thing about the book.

Now Shortlisted for the Dublin Literary Award 2024 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2023 This debut novel is composed of interconnected short stories, so it suffers from the typical curse of having some very strong entries, but also some mediocre ones. Nevertheless, this book finally brings some drive, some real punch into the list: Escoffery is not here to play or to offer some polite entertainment to be consumed in a curduroy jacket with a glass of red wine, no, this slaps (and I see why Marlon James, a bona fide make-it-slap-expert, endorses it) - it's one of these books that make you want to have a beer with the author, because his voice on the page sounds like he's a great guy. The text depicts the experiences of an immigrant family from Jamaica that now resides in Miami, with the members (mainly son Trelawney, the only one who was already born in America) trying to find their identities and place in the States. The perspectives and foci change, but the haunting question remains: What are you? Not only does Escoffery breezily pull of a second-person narration, he also crafts believable dialogue and expertly dives into the psychologies of the characters, especially when he writes about darker subject matters, like the dubious father of Trelawney's cousin or the white woman who pays to be slapped in the face (Jesus, I'd LOVE to have more disturbing stuff on this damn list). When Trelawney is called "defective" by his own father, he ruins his old man's beloved tree, gets thrown out and has to live out of his car; his storyline is interspersed with other destinies and experiences, that all ponder identity in a melting pot. The book is strongest when Escoffery balances fast pacing and psychological depth, but sometimes, the episodes go off the rails, missing their own beat, sacrificing the economic narration for more sprawling parts that don't quite come together. Still, a very promising debut from a smart, gifted author. You can listen to our discussion on the podcast (in German) here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/allgemei...

Now shortlisted for Booker Prize 2023 - I kind of like that the most experimental one from the longlist wasn't left behind. Longlisted for 2023 Booker Prize Yep, life is probably episodic too. "If I survive you" is technically a novel in the end, but practically acted more like a collection of short stories with some common characters and themes. I don't have a problem with its structure. I really like when writers experiment. The episodes were always entertaining and showed the experience of a mixed-race person in American society, but I also think that it needed something more to unite the "chapters".

The first short story in this collection is some of the greatest fiction I’ve read all year.

❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ “I’d be able to move out of my car and rent my own apartment; I could live like a fully formed twenty-first-century North American human. I needed this.” Being a big fan of collections of short stories following the same character/s, I was keen to read If I Survive You. Each chapter in this debut presents us with a self-contained story following a Jamaican American family from the 1970s to the 2008 recession. Most of these chapters provide us with a snapshot into the youngest son’s life, Trelawny, from his childhood experiences to his adulthood misadventures which see him, for a time, living in his car and attempting to find steady employment. In the first story, for instance, told through a 2nd pov, Escoffery uses Trelawny experiences to highlight how as a child he initially embraces everything related to America, but the more his peers question his identity and background, the more unmoored he comes to feel. His Jamaican parents express negative opinions about Black Americans and Trelawny himself does not feel like he fits in with the Black kids at his school. Eventually, he ends up ‘passing’ as Puerto Rican but his momentary acceptance to the Puerto Rican kids’ table is also short-lived. Trelawny’s experiences at school highlight the realities of race and racism in America, showing how pigeonholing others often relies on absurd and arbitrary conditions, and the real-life consequences of being a poc in a society that privileges whiteness. Time and again the people in Trelawny’s life attempt and fail to put in a box or label him in a certain way or we see how the adults around him behave or see him in a certain way. “Of course, the difference between exiles and my parents—in fact, the difference between me and my parents—is that my parents have a homeland to which they can return.” In the other chapters we meet Trelawny again as an adult: from the odd, and downright questionable, jobs he finds to make a living, to the circumstances that led to his father kicking me out (and him living in his car), to the feud he has with his brother, Delano, that reveal old wounds and insecurities. Trelawny’s dynamics with his brother and father had a lot of potential but sadly these are often left rather unexplored or merely hinted at. Because we are only given snapshots into their lives, these ultimately do not come together to form a cohesive family portrait or coming of age. Rather they seem like a series of vignettes strung together. The satire, although often clever and spot-on, could have been dialled down a little in favor of exploring different tones. I would have liked some more emotion, more depth, and more nuance. Trelawny’s mother is severely underused which is a pity as it made the story very male-centred. Which is fair enough but it was a pity that the men, Trelawny and his brother, who are given most page-time are different brands of stronzi. These short story sacrifice characterisation in favor of maintaining a certain satirical style. “The downside of being the face of rent increases in a low-income development is that the residents wish you dead.” Escoffery’s commentary—on race, on masculinity, on being Jamaican American, on growing up in Miami, on whiteness, on trying to survive financial and natural disasters, on attempting to strive in a capitalist society, on sacrificing one’s moral & ethical code to make a living—was irreverent and cutting to be the biggest strength of his storytelling. I just found the collection to be ultimately too focused on presenting us with vignettes that sure, are sardonic and clever, but are missing out on those emotional beats and that character development that would have made for a more memorable and richer reading experience. There were some genuinely witty lines/scenarios that made me laugh out loud though. “Had it read DIE!!!! I’d have attributed the message to rage, which is passing, unsustainable. But die, to me, seems cool-headed. The sender appeared to have given it ample thought.” Don’t let my so-so review dissuade you, however! If you are a books using this linked short-stories format, like Calling for a Blanket Dance by Oscar Hokeah, Night of the Living Rez: Stories by Morgan Talty, Frying Plantain by Zalika Reid-Benta, you should definitely give Escoffery's debut a read.

Trauma. But make it comical and stylish... What is going on in the lives of the brothers??? I feel like there's so much to say about this book. It left me with the same sentiments that reading Mateo Askaripour's debut novel Black Buck left me with. It left me feeling discombobulated and deeply melancholic at the state of things for young men in the community looking for belonging. A few things off rip: this book is hilarious and stressful. Both in equal measure. If I Survive You makes you feel like the stories you're reading are wayyyy too much to bare psychologically. Like just tew damn much at times. I loved the wording and the patois of the characters in the book. I had to go get the audiobook, somewhere in the first story, just so I could hear my Jamaican family's mother tongue shared with me in these inimitable flourishes where the main character, Trelawny, is in dialogue with his parents or brother. Each short story layers on top of each other to create a unique novel that gives insight and has a lot to say about the Jamaican by-way-of experience that immigrants fall into in the US, that also translates to Canada, the UK and I'm sure elsewhere. It was a fun read, but it was triggering and infuriating at the mentality that Trelawny and his brother, Delano, possess. Coincidentally, I may or may not have a cousin named either or both of those names. Only person who immigration was clicking with in this novel was his mom. Stylistically, If I Survive You is unique, especially towards the ending. The stories display the special skills of an out-of-the-box talent. I love that these stories were intertwined in the ways that they were. Fatherhood, boyhood, love, loss, parenting and many other cultural lessons, yes including the ones that don’t make sense, are explored in great detail from a variety of perspectives. The book is great at illustrating the ways that young men can both caring and harmful, loving but completely ungrateful, mix up and simultaneous aloof, but completely preoccupied with their own thoughts and mad logic which sometimes can lead to devastating results. The ways that Jonathan Escoffery illustrated young men searching for themselves and their identity in unforgiving places and feeling varying levels of discontentment at their situations, but continuously engaging in insane and dangerous behaviour was amusing, dismal and accurate.

You assume that, should you survive long enough to become a grandfather or great-grandfather, you will outlive winter; you will outlive glaciers and polar bears and snow. And it occurs to you now that, should you survive to see your progeny reproduce, you will outlive and thus need to explain Miami to these descendants — who in your mind’s eye split your features and Jelly’s — as the city, by then, like much of Port Royal and Atlantis before it, will have returned to the sea. It occurs to you that people like you — people who burn themselves up in pursuit of survival — rarely survive anyone or anything. I like reading fiction because I am very interested in learning how other people live. And with If I Survive You, author Jonathan Escoffery writes about a community — Jamaican-Americans in Miami — that I’ve never seen explored in this way. In a series of short stories (that definitely reads like a novel), we meet Trelawny (born in America to Jamaican immigrants) and his older brother Delano (their father’s favourite), and the pressures that this family — and especially Trelawny — endures was definitely eye-opening to me. The writing is polished (this does not feel like a debut), the small moments are touching, but although several stories end on big shocking scenes that made me gasp in the moment, I was left with the feeling afterward that these scenes were unwarranted and gratuitous. The bottom line: The small moments engaged me and truly gave me a sense of how a family like this might live, but the big moments, and the overall storyline, didn’t feel authentic. This felt like a 3.5 star read to me and I’m rounding down. “Are we Black?” you ask your mother. Agitation grips her. A shudder takes her bright, freckled flesh and wiggles it over her bones as she quickly finishes the family genealogy, down to the last shaky details. “Your father’s father’s mother was Jewish. Your grandmother’s mother was Irish,” she says. “Your grandmother’s father,” and she lowers her voice to a whisper when she says this part, “may have been an Arab.” You stare at her blankly, noting, “You haven’t answered the question.” Her agitation inflates to ire. “Chuh. I was never asked such stupidness before coming to this country. If someone asks you,” she says, “tell them you’re a little of this and a little of that.” The first story, In Flux, introduces Trelawny as a young boy in search of an answer to a question he hears frequently at school: What are you? He’s too white to fit in with the Black kids, too brown to hang with the whites, and as he doesn’t speak Spanish, he’s not welcome around the Cubans and Dominicans either. Trelawny’s parents and older brother speak in a Jamaican patois (which most people don’t recognise as English), and the boy’s naive insistence that he should just be thought of as “American” means that he doesn’t fit in very well with his family either. Trelawny is a very likeable and sympathetic character, and as events like Hurricane Andrew and the 2008 Recession play out in the background, the unique pressures that Trelawny and his family experience as outsiders are well explored. These are also the stories of absent fathers and microaggressions and economic failure. I don’t know if I understood why, after graduating college, Trelawny was too overqualified to get any job and needed to live in his car (or why, years later, he and a girlfriend — who each had a fulltime job by then — couldn’t have qualified for an $11 000 mortgage to buy his father’s house?) I’ve never tried to make a quick buck by answering CraigsList ads, but I didn’t understand what the white people were willing to pay for over the years. I really liked the story of cousin Cukie reconnecting with his own absentee dad in Splashdown, but as dramatic as that ending was, I saw it coming (and I thought that it detracted from the integrity of the book overall). On the other hand, I didn’t see the ending coming in Under the Ackee Tree, and I thought it was perfection. Again: I was moved by small moments but put off by several of the big plot points. My parents came to the U.S. not for economic advancement but to escape the violence the U. S. government funded in Jamaica throughout the 1970s as part of its war on socialism. But when I say Jamaica to non-Jamaicans, no one thinks of CIA operatives, or puppet prime ministers, or historical continuity. Instead, they break into free association, as if they’d been tossed into a rap cypher: Bob Marley, irie, ganja, poor people, Sandals, ‘ey mon! At best, they believe our history began the moment they purchased their all-inclusive vacation package. Of course, the difference between exiles and my parents — in fact, the difference between me and my parents — is that my parents have a homeland to which they can return. This disconnection — Trelawny’s feeling that he’s truly neither American or Jamaican; that he doesn’t fit in with his family or community (he’s never even had a girlfriend who wasn’t fetishising him or rebelling against their parents by being with him) — is the crux of If I Survive You, and Escoffery does a wonderful job of exploring the experience. I certainly did learn something of how someone in this position lives, I just wanted to believe in everything that happens.

This novel drops us right into the life of Jamaican immigrants in Miami. Some people are characterizing the book as short stories, but I read a lot of short stories, and this is most definitely a novel. The chapters are vignettes told from perspectives of different family members. There is one chapter, focused on a cousin, that does have more of a short story feel and felt slightly tangential, but it was also one of my favorite parts. All in all, I would characterize this book as uneven, but with moments of brilliance. The first and last chapters were written in very facile second person. I also liked that the author didn't glorify immigrants nor denigrate them, but showed them as the very real human beings they are. In some ways the book focused more on familial relationships, but in the wider context of also being a minority in the U.S. I would complete run to read Escoffery's next novel . . .this one had many hints of excellence just waiting to emerge. I will definitely be there for it.

Having read this one last year around the time the Booker shortlist was announced, I kinda just breezed through it. At 260 pages, it's somewhat of an easy read. Broken into 8 or 9 inter-connected stories, it was somewhat of a controversial consideration for the Booker, but I was just happy that another Jamaican author was up for the award. Telling the story of Trelawny and his family, (his mother and father fled Jamaica in a time of socio-political unrest; his brother Delano...) it's the debut work of Mr. Escoffery. It's a funny collection, a well-written one too, but it wasn't until I read it a second time a few weeks ago for my local book club when I realized exactly what I didn't like about it. For one, there's hardly any resolution to anything that happens here. Sure- Trelawny is stuck in a rut. We get it. But at the end of the book, nothing really has happened. Trelawny doesn't have a good relationship with his parents, his father especially. His relationship with Delano is also strained because it seems that his father prefers him to Trelawny. The family's dysfunction manifests in every possible way in Trelawny's life that you could imagine, and that's about it. We don't see any of these characters learning from their choices, and Trelawny especially just continues to flounder with his life's decisions. As I said, the book is funny and on a sentence to sentence level, is very well-written so at first, it was pretty easy for me to have looked past the book's flaws. Having re-read the book and discussing it at length with a group of people (who mostly disliked it, might I add) really helped to put things into perspective. As a book about father-son relationships, I wanted the father to extend just a little kindness to Trelawny. Even once. Unfortunately, that kindness never comes. There are two stories here that shine especially, (the one about the ackee tree and the other about the cousin) but would I recommend this book to someone else? Probably not, but I can't say that I'm uninterested in what the author has coming next.

Okay, I don't like giving this book only three stars, Mr. Escoffery is an excellent writer with nicely entwined gifts for realism and absurdity, plot and character, comedy and tragedy. And while I was never likely to move to Florida, Mr. Escoffery has convinced me that it would be the stupidest move I could ever make. So I should thank him for that. Still . . . I feel cheated. In "If I Survive You," Mr. Escoffery tells the life story of a young Jamaican-American man named Trelawney, and delves into some parallel narratives of his relatives. Sounds like a pretty decent novel, huh? But no, it's a collection of short stories. He's certainly not the first author to use this technique, but it leaves "If I Survive You" feeling like a body without the connective tissue. I got the sense that he's shying away from something, that there are depths of pain that he doesn't want to explore. Sure, he inflicts plenty of suffering on Trelawney, one of the most snakebit characters I've ever read, but the way his narrative arc hops from story to story requires little bursts of exposition and review that interrupt the flow. And the stories about Trelawney's brother and cousin are excellent and worthy of expansion. It makes the entire book more frustrating than satisfying. Still, there's plenty of talent on display here, so it's not a waste of your time.

Interconnected stories featuring two brothers in Florida - the first story was by far the strongest and most impactful. I felt sad a lot, but also laughed more than once. A strong collection.

I'm moving on to more exciting things. Might come back with a review...

This was a strange reading experience for me. The stories started off so strong, I made an early 5 star prediction. Then somewhere around the middle I found my attention wavering. There's a lot going on in this book, the characters are mostly unlikable but the way it's written really draws you in. But at the same time, there's so much going on that it feels somewhat all over the place and I can never tell where a story is going to go, sometimes it goes nowhere. This is the story of a Jamaican family, parents and two sons, trying to figure out themselves and their place in their family, community and country after migrating to Florida. I'm not sure if Trelawny ever establishes a sense of identity. He annoyed me, to be quite honest. I understood his pursuit and drive to prove himself to his father but after so many failed attempts, when was he finally going to get the point to let go of his father's expectations and live for himsrlf, especially being a 30+ year old man. I had several rolling my eyes moments during the scenes with Trelawny and that couple because really, what was all that? Delano, I didn't expect Delano to be so cruel. That took me by surprise and disappointed me that we really ended with no redeeming qualities about him. The parents, who were the catalysts to much of Delano and Trelawny's issues, just up and left? There were issues around race and the Black man's experience being profiled in white spaces. Some of these examples felt like fillers to me and I questioned at some points; why was this scene necessary? The immigrant experiences told here were jarring and real. So yes, I liked the book. I was fully vested in seeing how things would eventually unfold, mostly because I really had no clue what to expect from story to story. I don't know if that's good or bad but I ended this one feeling like something was missing, or maybe I missed something?

"No, crazy." She laughs and taps your knee with her fingertips. "It's our ten-year anniversary, and we just want to shake things up a bit. You know how it is." "Indubitably," you say, shaking your head. "Your first anniversary, paper. Your tenth, Black guy."

the truth of the thing is that rachel cusk could write about anything and the net result would be beautifully written, and introspective, and thoughtful. this is no outline trilogy - not as moment to moment stunning and enlightening - but what an insane expectation that is to have. i blame genius. bottom line: good stuff! ---------------- tbr review short!!!!!! literary!!!!!!!! fiction!!!!!!!!!!

3.5 rounded down. Thank you to Netgalley and the publishers for a digital copy of this book. Second place was full of snippets of observations and feelings I feel are also inside of me. Despite this relation to the main character I did not love it as much as expected. These snippets were poignant for me but the story as a whole was less so. Overall I can appreciate that it is a well written and intellectual book. 'Why was it so difficult to live day after day with people and still remember that you were distinct from them and that this was your one mortal life?' This was my first read of Cusk's work and I would read more, perhaps her essays.

Oops, I’m just now realizing I never gave this a review when I finished it, my bad. This book was fine. The writing was exemplary but the story itself left something to be desired. I was intrigued by this devil figure in the beginning but it then turned out to be nothing, which disappointed me. All in all I may have to give another Rachel Cusk novel a try since people praise her writing and stories so much, this just wasn’t a hit for me. Perhaps I should revisit when I’m in a better mood because it could solely be a me problem here.

My first Rachel Cusk. So, going in I had no expectations other than knowing that for some she may be considered a quality writer since she's previously been nominated for literary awards. This was very much a character-driven novel. It wasn't one I was necessarily compelled to return to again and again. This is the story of a woman who invites a male artist to come and stay with her at her coastal home. It is a quiet, contemplative novel where not much happens plot-wise. it is more a pondering of male privilege and what it means to be a woman. It pokes at relationships and forces us the reader to think about life as the characters are thinking about their lives. This is a book for quiet times, a book for pensive times. The writing was good but it didn't grip me as much as I'd hope. But, I will still try more of Cusk's book in the future. Thank you to the publisher for the audiobook!

China Room tracks two parallel narratives - one set in 1929, following Punjabi child bride Mehar, and the other set in 1999, which follows her great-grandson. This setup had a lot of potential, and Sahota is a decently good writer, but this was just too unbalanced of a narrative. It read like an early manuscript that needed a good editor.

I enjoyed this story set in 1929 and 1999 Punjab, India. The story of Mehar and her sisters-in-law, all teenagers when they entered arranged marriages with three brothers, alternates with the story of an 18 year old unnamed narrator, the great-grandson of one the brother and wives we meet in 1929, who comes from England to clean up from heroin at the deserted family farm which has fallen into decay. Told in third person, the story of the girls’ lives trying to appease their cruel mother-in-law while trying to figure out which brother is their husband is the more interesting storyline to me. The great grandson tells us his story himself: the struggle of being brown in England, how he became addicted to heroin, and the ways in which being in India helped him get clean. It’s a good story, I’m not sure I think it’s an award worthy novel, but I would recommend it.

extremely average (and frankly just boring) -- give it a couple of weeks and ill probably forget i ever read this book 🤷‍♀️

[3.5] The novel is structured in a way I’ve seen many novels done recently: two storylines set in different time periods that eventually begin to intertwine on thematic and narrative levels. I enjoyed Sahota’s language, but failed to connect with parts of the story, especially the mode modern storyline, which, I thought, could’ve been developed further. It’s a powerful read despite the hushed tone, though not one I will remember in the long run.

Better sex than s*lly rooney

Decent story, beautiful prose but nothing particularly outstanding. The switch between Mehar's forbidden love story and her great grandson's battle with addiction was not smooth enough for me and felt more like I was being pulled from a place where I really liked to be (with Mehar) and forced to endure sitting somewhere else simply because the author felt the there was need for something more, more parallels between different forms of oppression, obsession and forbidden desire. This would have been great if the great grandson had a more compelling story or if there was more tension and more mystery surrounding what happened to Mehar, but there was no such thing. Overall this could have been a potential contender for the Booker prize if the author gave Mehar more attention and focused on making her situation (a young wife who is forced to do hard manual labor and obey her mother in law and the three sons and doesn't even know who her husband is) more dangerous and more suspenseful.

*2.5 stars i really enjoyed the premise of this book, but unfortunately i really didn’t enjoy reading it because the writing really didn’t work for me. i personally struggle with minimalistic writing because i find i often need more sensory detail and often get confused and lost when reading books in which the narrative is told with more simplicity in mind. i love how the author used his family’s story to inspire the narrative but unfortunately this book wasn’t a match for me, which is not to say there weren’t parts i thought were brilliant or that i enjoyed, but overall this book didn’t work for me :( i also think the characterization of women didn’t work for me and that might have been a big part of why the book as a whole did not work for me so i would keep that in mind if you’re thinking of reading this one.

2,5 /5 China Room had many aspects that had me curious and thinking that it could be a book for me: historical fiction, family stories, set in the 20th century. Looking at the books I loved in the past year, this could’ve been one of them. I think the writing was beautiful, that there were many great things about this novel, but thematically it just didn’t click with me. I found it really hard to connect with the characters and to root for them. The story takes place in two timelines—one in 1929, the other in 1999—, and I usually enjoy that, but I really struggled with the 1999 one, I just wasn’t interested in it. For the other part, it was really a mix of things that didn’t work for me. I think there was too much suffering and betrayal, too much tragedy. These don’t usually bother me but I would’ve needed a redeeming aspect, something more hopeful to compensate, which was really lacking in my opinion. There wasn’t much to get excited about and ultimately it didn’t really move me and felt forgettable. I usually enjoy books with a bit more plot, even though I love character development. But overall, I would’ve liked there to be more things happening! I’m still rounding up to three stars. The foundation was really interesting, this story was told in the best way possible. It just wasn’t one for me.

Amazing in some ways, this book is so masterfully written, so stark, so void of emotion. This is a book I am glad I read but never enjoyed picking up. It felt like willingly pulling a black cloud over my head, a cloud full of cold biting rain. Yet, it was mentally compelling. Camus could have easily written this story of the meaninglessness of life and death. "Her brother leaves the next morning, or is it the morning after that." Fair warning of an existentialist nature. The Promise is not the typical family saga nor the typical family - a book judges love but not so all readers. Each section is named for a Swart family member who has recently died ( five members, four funerals). The setting is the mid 1980's beginning with the the State of Emergency and the inception of the dissolution of Apartheid. This family, held together by wealth, is also falling apart; a dysfunctional government, a dysfunctional family. Beginning with the death of Rachel, the mother, this family convenes for the first funeral. I would have liked to know more about Rachel as she seemed like she had escaped the depravity of all but one of the other family members. On her deathbed she asked that a promise be realized. This last breath wish is what drives the novel and gives it the title.This promise and the lack of concern for what it means is of little concern to these totally self-absorbed individuals. One daughter, struck by lightning as a child, maybe struck by decency as well, does care and desires the promise to be carried through, but her remoteness makes it difficult to bring it to fruition. The only son, once having so much potential, so much promise, even emotional promise, fails on many fronts. But his feelings of guilt and awareness of his shortcomings raise him above his despicable relatives, in my mind anyway. What redeemed this book for me was the quality of the writing and the ending. It certainly wasn't an "everyone lived happily ever after" ending ( only one member was still living). But it left me feeling that justice and compassion can prevail; a promise made has value and is worth fighting for, albeit slowly and quietly.

The Promise examines the fortunes of a South African family over a number of decades. It begins in the 1980s with the death of the mother, Rachel Swart. Her husband Manie and children are all grief-stricken. Eldest child Anton returns from the army, with no motivation to continue in that role, and vague ambitions of writing a novel. Amor, the youngest, is more concerned with the vow her mother made to Salome, the family's black servant. On her death bed she instructed her husband that the woman should be given full ownership of the house she lived in, which was located on the Swart's property. Over the years Rachel's promise seems to fade from the family mindset, but Amor never forgets. And a decade later, when the Swarts reunite due to another bereavement, she intends to raise the matter once again. I probably wouldn't have read this novel had it not been longlisted for the Booker Prize. I'd heard of it, but the synopsis never really grabbed me. And to be honest, I didn't find the story very captivating. None of the characters were particularly interesting, and there was nobody to root for, except maybe Amor, though I never fully understood her motivations. I must admit that the book is well written - I especially admired how the narration moved so fluidly between cast members. And I liked how sensitively the state of South Africa is portrayed throughout the story. At the beginning there is rage and unrest stemming from the Apartheid system, but as the years progress and the old ways are dismantled, there is a more peaceful atmosphere. So I did get something out of The Promise: it wasn't the emotional family saga I was expecting, but I learned something about a volatile country that underwent a massive change in a short space of time.

3.5 stars. I learned years ago that when everyone says "Oh boy a book from an African author" and then the author turns out to be from South Africa, that this means it's a book by a white person. Most of the South African literature that gets published in the US is by white writers, which is absolutely wild when you consider that Black people make up more than 80% of the population of South Africa. (And when you consider that by far the most popular book from a South African author, was Trevor Noah's.) Novels by white South Africans these days tend to acknowledge that Black people exist and that white people in South Africa treat them badly, which I suppose is progress. They are often only tangentially about the legacy of racism and Apartheid in South Africa, with it being more backdrop than subject. And, strangely, that is also the case here even though this book's title presents it as being about racial issues. The titular promise is one young Amor observes between her parents. Her mother is terminally ill, and as Amor understands it her mother makes her father promise to give the family's home to Salome, their Black housekeeper. The novel that follows is a Howard's-End-y look at that family home and whether the family follows through on that promise. It's set over 30 years, beginning during apartheid and ending in the current century, a time of vast change. We see the social and political dynamics change, and yet everything for the Swart family seems pretty stagnant. They move up in the world or they move down, but they remain the same troubled and bitter people year after year. There are hardly any Black people in this novel. Even Salome makes only rare appearances, popping up to remind us of her existence every so often. The novel is told in a fluid style where the narration can jump from one character to the next within a sentence, and yet it almost always remains with the white characters. I appreciated that this book wants to look specifically at the descendants of the Voortrekkers, a group of mostly Dutch Europeans who were upset at British rule. (Why were they upset? Well they liked being in charge of course, but the English didn't want the Dutch to keep slaves and they found that their treatment of indigenous people was unduly harsh. The ENGLISH thought that. So. Yeah.) They left the settlement, seeing themselves as pioneers heading East to found their own lands, which they removed the native peoples from, of course. This book is well aware of their legacy and of the ways in which they have not changed. Their view of "progress" is to feel proud that near the end of the book there are two Black people attending a crowded funeral. But there is no real reckoning here, no real message. Only Amor tries to remove herself from the family's legacy and it's unclear whether her choice to do so does any good. I was very interested in the first section of the book (it marks time by funerals, there are four of them) but the further along I went, the less interested I was. The children grew into adults much the same as the parents that came before them. It is not clear what they want out of life (except for social climbing Astrid). Galgut's prose is notable, though he seems to take particular relish in bodily functions to make sure you notice them regularly, that irked more as I went on. I guess I'm not surprised this won the Booker. It's well written, the prose is rather flashy, and it is a kind of reckoning with British colonialism. And yet at the end of the day I'm not sure there is much to it beyond the idea that the descendants of the Voortrekkers do not particularly want to reckon with their legacy of terrible acts, which is not all that novel an idea.

A novel of post-war Holland that isn't quite sure what it wants to be. It is not a thriller or a novel of psychological suspense, so you can totally disregard the marketing. It's also not a Sarah Waters comp except that it's a historical sapphic novel. There is a kind of book that turns into something else where it makes you realize there was a whole extra layer of depth in what you already read. Then there is this kind, where it just feels like you spent all this time reading the less interesting story instead of the good one you didn't know about. I was enjoying myself before the book decided it was a different book. Though there were issues. It's not that Isabel is unlikable. She's eccentric, likely these days we'd say neurodivergent, and she likes things the way she likes them. She doesn't like Eva, her brother's new girlfriend who is staying in her house for a few weeks. With the Sarah Waters comp I knew that something would happen between Isabel and Eva but I was confused. Why would Eva have any interest in Isabel? Even if she found her attractive, Isabel is so cruel to Eva that it doesn't make much sense. And even when the book tries to explain it later it still doesn't actually make sense. It irked me. Though at least the sex scenes were nice. Van der Wouden has chosen to tell her story in this very specific framework when it probably would have been better without the tricks if it had been told in a more straightforward manner. At least then I would feel like I was able to take in what she wants to say all along the way instead of feeling like a moral got tacked on at the end of the story.

I liked this, but I would have liked it better if it had been more balanced. So much time is spent building up one side of the story/POV and it felt like not enough was spent on the second POV. That person's motivations, emotions, history could have been fleshed out in a more convincing way as well, but really, so could POV #1 and the various other side characters. You don't really know them as deeply as you should, there are emotions described but not really felt. I'm also not sure if Isabel was meant to be portrayed as neurodivergent? It's an interesting story, though, with shades of Fingersmith lite and a setting/feel/dynamic similar to that of the hushed, frenzied, forbidden relationship in Sister, My Sister (and a teeny bit of another film, but it's spoilery). But it's not quite as deep or complex or polished as either. 3.5 stars Audio Notes: Very good on audio, with narration by Stina Nielsen and Saskia Maarleveld.

Update : Now longlisted for Women's Prize for Fiction 2025 Shortlisted for 2024 Booker Prize - This debut novel about queer loneliness and love has some of the energy of Ian McEwan's sexually neurotic books. However, don't think of Ian McEwan's most accomplished works. Think of the ones that have already been forgotten, even if they were once Booker favorites. There's also a plot twist with a resolution similar to Damon Galgut's The Promise. So, you could call it promising for a debut novel, or you could say it's too familiar with other works. For a debut, that may not be surprising, but for a book aiming for prizes, it's disappointing. I prefer a little more originality from a new author than a by-the-numbers, conventional book.

2.5? 3 I don't know The beginning had amazing tension but then half way through it became something else. The writing saved this but I lost interest towards the end

46th book of 2022. 3.5. 3 for the whole collection but definitely 4 stars for certain stories. This isn't my genre, freaky, not-quite-horror, stories with ghosts, self-harm, Ouija boards, disappearances, etc. The longest story really wins a 4-star for me, "Kids Who Come Back". As the title suggests, disappeared children reappear in Buenos Aires parks no older than the day they disappeared, despite most of them being years ago. Even the children known to be dead return. Though some of the stories felt quite lacking or like they didn't quite reach whatever they were going for, I can't deny Enríquez's skill at building intrigue. Even when I wasn't fully invested in a story, I felt myself reading on simply because I wanted to know what was going to happen. It's rare for me to read on for that purpose and not because I'm in love with the prose, or the ideas in the prose. Maybe I was just in the right mood for some spirits and ghosts and murder. All the characters are on the fringe, women who are shunned for being weird, outcasts, or groups of young people all obsessed with a certain idea. At some points she reminded me of Fernanda Melchor. Technically not all brilliant, but very readable and just so different from what I usually read.

3.25 stars This was so disturbing. I have no words. Trigger warnings for everything. Angelita Unearthed: 3 stars Creepy dead child follows woman around. Showcased the authors fantastic writing, but left me unsure about what the theme was (something that I kind of was confused about with other short stories. Our Lady of the Quarry: 3.25 stars Experimental narration in plural first person. Creates an almost hive mind narration. (and focuses on the us vs them mentality of the narrators). The more I think about this the more I like it. It's also interesting how purity and its loss are constantly juxtaposed with the waters of the quarry lake and the way that Silvia and Diego are seen (especially how they describe Silvia in a grotesque manner). The Cart: 3.5 stars Again very haunting and grotesque. We follow a town as they're presumably cursed by a poor man who they tormented. Here the themes were quite evident: they looked at how far solidarity and compassion go in the face of great misery. Spoiler, the end is quite bleak. It took me a few minutes to understand but oh god once I did... The Well: 3.75 stars Absolutely depressing story. There is a curse again, this time to do with a girl who, after a visit to her aunt's house, becomes morbidly afraid of everything (involuntarily). How the curse came about (so the twist) is very predictable, but that didn't detract from my enjoyment too much. Again, the imagery is fantastic and it ties with traditional folklore as well as just demonic concoctions of the author's imagination. What stayed with me was the parallelism of the first scene and the last scene with the well itself. Absolutely heartbreaking. Rambla Triste: 3.5 stars Again disturbing but clever in how the author took a dark historical aspect of Barcelona and turned it into a psychological/metaphysical terror in the short story. Not too sure though what the point was of everything, though I did like the ending. (also really liked the moment where the author contrasts the jargon of Spain vs Argentina). The Lookout: 2.75 stars Here, the experimental narration returns but this time we take the POV of the phantom. Of course a more natural narration is interweaved with the supernatural one. There is a lot of very disturbing and evocative self harm imagery so please please think before reading it. The ambiguous ending, however, did not work here because it hinted about what happened but never really told what it was so it felt like the author was trying to outsmart readers without substance, in my opinion. Where Are You, Dear Heart?: 4.25 stars This is the most disturbing thing I have ever read. Go into this without knowing anything. Pay attention to the slow medicalisation of the vocabulary. The ending also works very well. Meat: 4 stars Second most disturbing thing I have read. Am I the only one drawing the parallels to the Bible? Under that lens I think that the entire cannibalism thing is super interesting. Is the Meat artist the second-coming of Christ in some way?? Or is it supposed to be highlighting religion in an almost cultish manner? Thought provoking, highly recommend. No Birthdays or Baptisms: 2.5 stars A let down after two fantastic short stories. Very straightforward story about a guy who is hired to film a girl who hallucinates, and believes her hallucinations wholeheartedly, in order to prove that her visions are only that: figments of her imagination. It is very disturbing with the sexual/demonic stuff but like to the point that it feels like shock value... especially since I didn't exactly get what the point of this story was. So it was nice, but didn't leave a lasting impression on me. Kids Who Come Back: 2.25 stars Longest short story and it was painful for me to get through because I wasn't really interested in disappearing and reappearing creepy children. The main reporter character was cool though. The Dangers of Smoking in Bed: 3.5 stars Titular short story. Again beautiful language. About vice. Love the main characters need for self destruction but like pretty edition you know? Back When We Talked to the Dead: 2.75 stars Nice ending, just once last creepy kids story. Another case of solid (I liked following the kids and their Ouija journey). The point of conflict with the spirits was also interesting, but then the ending just felt like it was supposed to go somewhere but it didn't. All in all, wonderful way to finish of 2021. Some really high highs, and not too low lows :). Also I get the feeling that I might a bit too small brain for this one.

Dark, gloomy and dazzling. Mariana Enriquez short story collection was just a perfect read for the spooky season. I’m not someone who would pick up a short story collection, especially not a translated work. It was refreshing picking up this shortlisted booker prize, fragmented in its chapters, each providing (in this case) a different perspective of horrors within Argentina. Even more refreshing is having this collection set in Buenos Aires, a place I’ve never visited in fiction before. Enriquez twisted tales plays with elements of surrealism on the backdrop of the Argentinas military dictatorship. I found this to be such a fascinating and fresh perspective to approach a horror story, reflecting the effects of the dictatorship, and in this case, the disappearance of children, dystopian cities and murder. However, I found this collection to be a bit uneven. Some stories seemed lengthier than the other, while at the same time (in my opinion), I found the stronger ones to be within the first couple of chapters. My favourite short story was Meat and a couple of others; although some (maybe most) didn’t seem linger with me after I read them. Overall, I enjoyed this short story collection. I’m glad I stepped out of my comfort zone to explore foreign literature from the beautifully twisted mind of Mariana Enriquez and the excellent translation done by Megan McDowell.

First of all this novel shouldn’t have been titled Shuggie Bain as this story isn’t actually about him but about his mother and how her lifestyle and choices might have (eventually) shaped her son and his life. Everything about him was too nuanced to allow me to empathise with him and everything about his mother was too explicit for me to give a damn about her; and how many beers and glasses of vodka she needed to get drunk. I know there’s always some kind of manipulative literary device behind every story that has ever been told but some authors tend to use it to the point where I spend more time wondering how their minds worked when telling the story than about the story itself. Because if an author decides to start a story with an older guy sexually harassing a kid, I want to know more, how the kid coped, the impact of this on him and maybe any consequences the pervert should’ve faced by the way! But no, from that scene we go backwards in time instead and learn how many drinks and cigarettes the kid’s mother was having every day! Pages and pages of drinks and the mother’s frustrations and delusions. Plus a few mentions of the father’s love affairs, in case we were interested! Speaking of the father, a taxi driver, his part of the story was what I think it makes for a dark and wonderful kind of read; Glasgow’s dark streets and alleys in the dead of night were wonderfully described, but unfortunately the guy didn’t have enough imagination to do anything else apart from thinking about new love conquests (and how to get rid of the old ones). I’ve come across a few reviews of this novel recently and in general I can see people loved it. They say it’s dark; it’s not that dark guys, they say it’s bleak (aha!); nope, I’ll have to disagree again (sorry)! Finally it’s depressing; ok, I can agree about it being depressing but I’m not sure I felt the same kind of depressing feelings as those reviewers though! I think that, perhaps, there’s some personal reasons for me not to have enjoyed this as much as I thought I would and definitely not as much as other readers did. All the poverty and hopelessness in this story seemed like heaven to me when compared with the life story of some (very) close people I know and care about. No, I’m not making comparisons (I know there’s no way to measure suffering) but can you imagine, for example, what it would fell like to grow up with no parents at all (for some really nasty reasons); from the age of eight in a house with absolutely no conditions; and having your eleven year old brother as your only support till you both grow up? To be honest, and now that I’m thinking about it, I just realised I actually know a lot of real awful life stories involving children, but that’s not actually the point here. The point is that I saw loads of potential in this one, but it ended up not having enough stamina for my liking. I only hope that next time Mr. Stuart would chose to tell us a story from his heart and not from his forgiving brain. 3 stars only because for a debut novel the writing was very good.

There were too many sentences in this book. This is a hefty 436 page very long very autobiographical novel which tells a straightforwardly miserable story about an alcoholic mother and her youngest son. It’s the Shuggie and Agnes Show but there are no laughs and any dancing is a pure embarrassment. Instead there is a whole lot of effing and blinding and throwing things, and enough tears to float a flock of geese. Not only is nobody laughing, the only smiling is of that ghastly fake sort when Agnes is trying to pretend she’s sober. This is Glasgow in the 80s and 90s, wall to wall unemployment and life lived through a thick fog of cigarette smoke and Stella Artois. All the welfare benefit payments dished out to Agnes go swirling down her throat and the two kids she has left have to find their own food. Leek, Shuggie’s older brother, has only one word of advice to him – leave as soon as you can. The heartbreak is that Shuggie loves his fall down drunk mother to distraction, and as is the way these things go sometimes, between the age of 10 and 15 he becomes her parent, and finds himself having to do a lot of nasty stuff that no kid should ever have to do for his mother. All of which we get in great detail. Since this book gets nothing but 4 and 5 stars and as you know it won the big bad Booker Prize it’s clear that readers appreciated the banquet of human unhappiness that is this forlorn relationship. After his brother and sister escape, Shuggie is on his own with his terrible mother. If this was a movie, a Lowest Point would be reached but then some glint of light would appear in the form of a decent man, finally, after all the drunken one night stands. He would find Agnes sparked out on the floor and discover there was no food in the house (“What’s this? Nothing to eat all day Shuggie?”) and he would stick around and some tiny unextinguished spark of humanity would begin to grow in Agnes’ mind. But this is no movie script so that doesn’t happen. There are hundreds of pages in this novel where not only do things not get any better, they never even look for a minute as if they could possibly get better, and Shuggie Bain turned into johnny one-note. I was so glad when I finished this.

Thank God this is such a quick read, because it is an emotionally draining experience. Anyone who has had to deal with the impact of alcoholism on a family will be all too familiar with the main beats here. What surprised me is that Shuggie Bain only really comes into his own as a main character in the last 100 pages or so, and then his own story ends far too abruptly for closure. Review to follow.

I'm glad I finally finished this. It deals with important issues like alcoholism, parental abuse and poverty. But I found it repetitive. There's lot of reality in its pages but not so much artistry. At least that's what I felt. (To be fair it is the author's first novel.) I also found it too eager to charm, like someone trying to sell me something. So all in all I didn't feel the love it has inspired in lots of readers. It's the least artistic Booker Prize winner I've read.

3★ “She thinks of Ba salting his game. Of salt to scour iron. Of salt in an open wound, a burn that purifies. Salt to clean and salt to save. Salt on a rich man’s table every Sunday, a flavor to mark the passage of the week. Salt shrinking the flesh of fruit and meat both, changing it, buying time.” Lucy and Sam have gone over a hilltop and seen a salt flat on the other side. They are twelve and eleven, on their own, leaving the mining country where they’ve been raised. They are outcasts from the mining camp near where they lived. The first part of their ‘escape’ is like something out of Cormac McCarthy or Quentin Tarantino. Gross and grisly. I won’t go into that. I began to seriously question why I was reading this when I got to this part on page 24. They load a trunk “long as a man is tall” onto the back of a horse. “Sam throws rope over Nellie’s back, ties some slipknots. Sam only grunts, putting a shoulder under the trunk to heave it up. Sam’s brown face goes red, then purple from effort. Lucy lends her shoulder too. The trunk slips into a loop of rope. . .” Kids can have enough trouble slinging a heavy saddle over a horse, and that's designed to slip into place. A trunk? No way. And Nellie is not a packhorse or mule that might be used to this kind of handling. She is not even their horse who is used to them. Enough about horses. We learn that they are ‘different’, and we’ve heard bullies call them Chinks. Foreign. Strange. But Ba, their father was actually born ‘here’ and raised by the local native tribe. Ma came from across the water, but it’s a long time into the story before we have some idea of what her background is. “Home sounds like a fairy tale that Ma reads from a secret fourth book, written on the backs of her shut eyelids. Ma speaks of fruit that grows in the shape of stars. Green rocks harder and rarer than gold. She speaks the unpronounceable name of the mountain where she was born.” The book opens with the family settling into a hut of sorts while Ba works in the coal mines. The gold had run out and coal was what was worth money – for the mine owners, not for the workers. But Ba insists that this is only temporary. They are prospectors, not miners. There’s a hierarchy and a class system everywhere, and they are the lowliest of the low. In the beginning, Ba and Ma are presented one way, but later, as the children learn the truth of their relationship, it changes the way we interpret what we read before. That's interesting, but it wasn't enough to keep my attention. (Maybe I was still fixated on the trunk.) I was also becoming annoyed with what I think of as writing-school writing. By that I mean, exercises in putting odd words together to create interesting phrases to attract attention. Some people create wonderful word pictures, but they are apt and enhance the story and move it forward. I really dislike unnecessary metaphors and similes, especially those that are forced and/or don't really make sense. I feel like they were collected and saved up but don't fit. I believe the author is well regarded and this book is being touted as a prize-winner, so I will leave that to others to decide. These are a few phrases that some people will love but which annoy me. “What he consumed seemed only to feed his temper, which stuck to his side like a faithful old cur.” . . . “Sam’s tapping an angry beat come morning, but Lucy, before they go, feels a need to speak. Silence weighs harder on her, pushes till she gives way.” . . . “Sam commences to talk as if speech is a coin hoarded for these past three months.” I chose to read this because I usually enjoy reading about migrants settling into different cultures but never being accepted because they look different. That means they don’t look like northern Europeans. Why that should be the default appearance for acceptable migrants to the United States (and Australia, where I live now) is beyond me. Both countries have many generations of Asians, particularly Chinese, and both are the better for it. But fifth-generation people who ‘look’ Asian are still asked “Where do you come from?” And the answer “San Francisco” or “Sydney” isn’t enough. I did read the whole book, and I'm sure there will be plenty of fans. I'm just not one of them. Thanks to NetGalley and Virago for the preview copy from which I’ve quoted.

Almost certain that my rating stems more from a mismatch between me and the novel than any flaw imbedded in the novel itself. How Much of These Hills is Gold uses the framework of historical adventure fiction to follow a Chinese American family during the American gold rush, specifically two siblings who recognize their own power amidst the colonial project that is the United States’ expansion westward. C Pam Zhang incorporates magical realism and a nonlinear timeline to explore how siblings Lucy and Sam come to understand the complexity of their family, their identity as immigrants, and their struggle to survive amidst ongoing hardship related to race and gender oppression. Zhang’s debut novel explores themes of xenophobia, othering, and the challenge and reward of coming to understand your ancestry and thereby yourself. I will be blunt and say that I did not get this book at all. Zhang’s use of jumpy flashbacks and flashforwards, her staccato and frenetic writing style, and the elements of magical realism made it hard for me to ever connect with the two main characters. Like, I think I got some of the broader themes of the novel though I felt lost for the most part. My sense is that others who enjoy magical realism and Wild West narratives may appreciate this one a lot more than me; I tend to prefer realistic fiction with strong, more straightforwardly-presented characters like those within Frances Cha’s 2020 debut novel If I Had Your Face. Still, I’d recommend How Much of These Hill is Gold to those who are intrigued by its synopsis and I’m here for writers trying more experimental forms of writing.

Zhang has created a vocabulary and a cadence for this novel that is unique, and that carries the story forward from one page to the next. It's a pleasure to read. A question that came to my mind was whether the novel derives its momentum from the magnificent language rather than from the story itself. Sometimes I felt the writing, however magnificent, didn't serve the apparent intention of the story. Sometimes the characters seemed to suffer simply because the author could imagine fantastic scenes for them to suffer through, rather than their suffering being intrinsically important to their human story. As I read I had the impression that the author inhabits language in this story she's telling, rather than living inside of her characters. That's how I interpreted an early scene, for instance, where a child has just shot at a bank teller in a crowded bank, and then in the next scene the child is magically somewhere else...just how did she get away? The writing is so rich that maybe it doesn't matter to most readers but it did to me. These are value judgments unique to my way of reading. I noticed now and then, as I read, that I was reacting to scenes not as human happenings, but as beautifully told, abstract what-ifs. I think this novel will soar and sing for any reader who loves Michael Ondaatje, whose books leave me feeling the same way. I'm glad I read the novel, and I'm glad that it gave me the opportunity to think about what didn't work for me about it, too, because it has helped me to understand better why I read.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2020 A brilliant idea, a strong start, but the final 75 % are more or less a mess: This debut could have been so much better. Zhang tells the story of a Chinese-American family during the gold rush, thus adding a part to the vast territory of Wild West narratives that has yet been missing (by the end of the 1850s, Chinese immigrants made up one-fifth of the population of the four counties that constituted the Southern Mines - you can read more about Chinese immigrants and the gold rush here). The novel opens with the siblings Lucy and Sam finding their father dead in his bed - as their mother has already passed, the kids are now on their own, first trying to provide a proper burial and then trying to survive. Their childhood and the lives of their mother and father are told within the text, painting a wider picture of the time and the destiny of Chinese-Americans. Zhang clearly made an effort to give different perspectives: The mother has arrived on a ship as a worker, the father, a man with Chinese roots, was already born in the area. Lucy, the main character, and her androgynous sister Sam grow up in a family that struggles to make a life for themselves - indeed, "home" and all its meanings are a central theme in the book. The mother dreams of going back to China, the father claims the title-giving hills as his home - while the many fortune seekers and workers who arrive discrimate against him, the foreign-looking local. As a backdrop, the Native American genocide, the exploitation of nature, and the hunt for buffalos play an important role - the siblings themselves ponder what the term "home" even means in these surroundings. While at the beginning, the novel has a strong Faulkner-As I Lay Dying-vibe, thus playing with a classic American tale, it later incorporates magical realism: The hills are haunted by tigers, Chinese symbols of luck, but also dangerous creatures. While I found this to be a wonderful idea, the problem with this and, honestly, the whole text is that it is overly descriptive. The second flaw of the book is its messy structure - the flashbacks do tell interesting stories, but instead of communicating with the main narrative thread, the whole thing starts falling apart into multiple texts - and when the narrator suddenly changes, that doesn't help either. Plus, lastly: After the first quest, the burial of the father, the main therad starts meandering as well - of course you might say that this fits the bill of two lonely kids wandering around, but we all know by now that meandering texts drive. me. nuts! So all in all, a highly interesting topic and an inspired mixture of Wild West mythology with Eastern elements, but it starts to fall a little short as the story progresses. To me, this is no Booker winner. Now also available in German - you can learn more about Wie viel von diesen Hügeln ist Gold in our new podcast episode.

** spoiler alert ** Set in northern California in the mid-19th century, Lucinda and Samantha are sisters who follow their itinerant parents, their father a gold prospector or coal miner as their economic situation allows, born in the territory to Asian parents but orphaned before he could remember them, and their mother, a strong, smart and beautiful Chinese immigrant who is overworked and hungry and dreaming of taking the family back home. Home becomes the theme, where do the girls belong, what is home? The first part of the book is a litany of racism and oppression, greed and violence, and I struggled to continue. But then it shifts into a survival and resilience tale after the parents are gone. Lucy and Sam travel together only long enough to bury their father and learn they can't stay together. Sam wants to stay wild, Lucy to settle. Voices shift, including a section of the father speaking in first person to Lucy, explaining his full story that he never gave her when he was living. Is it his ghost speaking from beyond, is she dreaming? We don't know, but it gives her some grounding about where and who she came from. What the sisters did apart and their coming together again after several years wraps up the story with a full arc though the author leaves us with enough ambiguity to ponder the possibilities. Sam has passed through the world as a man trying to right injustices. Lucy's life in town is more conventional as she befriends a wealthy white girl. The strangest thing is that Lucy was always wanting to be seen as an individual, not just as a girl or a Chinese outsider, but she reduces men to stick figure stereotypes in the worse way. Well-written with some depth. Passages about despoiling the earth to rape it of treasure and the subsequent wildfires are nicely done and speak of how badly and arrogantly we’ve always treated our home world.

I liked this enough. But didn’t love it. I might just start and say that this was a very impressive debut novel from this author. Although the writing style was definitely not my favourite, I appreciated the complexities of the story with the focus on family, race, gender, mining, and immigrants. There were a lot of things left to interpretation which was interesting. The writing took me a fair few chapters to get used to and ultimately I wasn’t sure if I was a fan of it. I think because of that there were some parts in the story that lost me. Out of the four parts, I enjoyed part two the most and I also liked the short chapters. Lucy and Sam were good characters to lead us through the story (mainly it was told through Lucy, and one part told through Ba, Lucy and Sam's father) but I felt they weren’t fully fleshed out by the end and some things just felt like they were missing. As I said in the beginning, I liked it but didn’t love it so it’s sitting at a 3 stars for me.

There is claiming the land, which Ba wanted to do, which Sam refused — and then there is being claimed by it. The quiet way. A kind of gift in never knowing how much of these hills might be gold. Because maybe if you only went far enough, waited long enough, held enough sadness pooled in your veins, soon you might come upon a path you knew, the shapes of rocks would look like familiar faces, the trees would greet you, buds and birdsong lilting up, and because this land had gouged in you an animal’s kind of claiming, senseless to words and law — dry grass drawing blood, a tiger’s mark in a ruined leg, ticks and torn blisters, wind-coarsened hair, sun burned in patterns to leave skin striped or spotted — then, if you ran, you might hear on the wind, or welling up in your own parched mouth, something like and unlike an echo, coming from before or behind, the sound of a voice you’ve always known calling your name — How Much of These Hills Is Gold started so intriguingly — a pair of young Chinese-American orphans, fleeing a tapped-out coal-mining camp, need to bury their newly-deceased father according to vaguely understood cultural customs before figuring out the rest of their lives — and with debut author C Pam Zhang’s lyrical and entrancing prose, I thought I was in for a beautifully written account of a unique struggle. And while this book does give us some of that, somewhere between the novel’s time-jumping structure (that pretty much skips over the struggle) and Zhang’s conspicuously precise writing (I loved her sentences, but was always aware that they were impressing me), I was left with the sense that this was more about style than substance. There is certainly skill here and I would read Zhang again. The family chased the next mine, and the next. Their savings swelled and shrank in seasons as reliable as dry and wet, hot and cold. What’s home mean when they moved so often into shacks and tents that stank of other people’s sweat? How can Lucy find a home to bury a man she couldn’t solve? Lucy (“who after years lived in towns like this has no more tender parts to tear”) and Sam (“young enough to think desire alone shapes the world”), at twelve and eleven, flee into the California desert with their father’s body tied to the back of a stolen horse, knowing that according to their dead Ma’s “burial recipe”, their Ba would need to be laid to rest with silver (to weigh down his spirit), running water (to purify his spirit), and the body must be placed in a “home” (so the spirit will rest and not repeatedly return “like a migrant bird”). Although the older sibling, Lucy (who takes after Ma) must take direction in this quest from Sam (who is the squint-eyed image of Ba), and Lucy despairs of finding an appropriate resting spot for the failed and violent man who had taken to drink after the death of their Ma. And as I wrote above: I found this opening section to be intriguing and affecting. But then the narrative jumps back three years (to 1862), and I thought, “Okay, this is how the family lived when Ma and Ba were still around.” And then it jumped to the newly dead father’s perspective as he tries to whisper to Lucy the story of how he met her Ma in 1842 (weird, but okay). And then we are in 1867, catching up with Lucy and Sam again as they make their way in the West as absolute outsiders. And again: I think that Zhang writes really fine sentences, but the plot doesn’t stand up to the unconventional structure, and the whole doesn’t add up to something deeper. I grew up in these hills and they raised me: the streams and rock shelves, the valleys where scrub oaks bunched so thick they seemed one mass but allowed me, skinny and swift, to slip between trunks and pierce the hollow center where branches knit a green ceiling. If I had a people, then I saw those people in the reflecting pools, where water was so clear it showed a world the exact double of this one: another set of hills and sky, another boy looking back with my same eyes. I grew up knowing I belonged to this land, Lucy girl. You and Sam do too, never mind how you look. Don't you let any man with a history book tell you different. At its core, this is a story about otherness; about the history of Chinese-Americans and how their contributions to the building of America have been overlooked and erased. We learn that not only Lucy and Sam, but also their Ba had been born in California, but even so, they are all treated as no more American than the Native Peoples who were repeatedly driven further and further off the lands that the newly arrived white men from the East claimed as their own. But while these facts colour everything that happens in the plot, Zhang doesn’t really probe the facts deeply enough to make this a satisfying piece of social or historical commentary. Things just kind of happen, and although they are prettily described, I was left wanting much more.

Another literature attempt to demythologise the Western concept in American culture. Quite a fresh approach though, especially due to fragments which read like a political commentary on appropriation of history.

"You get lost again, you remember you belong to this place as much as anybody, Ba said. Don’t be afraid of it. Ting wo?" I was ready to love this debut, but sadly I don't think How Much of These Hills Is Gold can carry all the themes that the author put into the story. The synopsis sold me immediately: the history of the American Goldrush told from the perspective of the Chinese immigrants who faced so much racial abuse and exploitation? Legends about extinct tigers and bizons? A dead body in need of a burial? Those elements, placed in the beautifully described ravaged desert wherein Sam and Lucy are looking for a place to belong, completely draws you into the story. “What makes a home a home?” Lucy says. Sam faces the mountains and roars." Yet Zhang wants to discuss many more topics, that eventually crowd the plot. How capitalism and the greed for gold destroys the environment is important, but feels a bit too modern. With Sam we have a girl who dresses and identifies as a boy, but since we don’t get to know him well, I can’t say if Sam truly feels himself a boy or does this to please their father and find a job. Moreover, in every part of the novel the narrative shifts: we have flashbacks, a jump from the present to 5 years in the future, and a stream of consciousness told from a ghost’s perspective. All these parts vary in strength – especially part four feels rushed. And so, although this story shows a lot of Zhang's potential and talent, I give it 3 stars. However, I am certainly interested in reading more from her in the future.

This book aims for a Cormac McCarthy vibe, but misses in this reader's opinion. The writing aims for grit and violence, but the descriptions often fall short and have a hollow echo. I really wanted more from the story of Lucy and Sam, but was frustrated by the predictability of the story. I would have liked it more had we learned more about China (no spoilers here). I think it does have an important message here about the violence on the American frontier towards Chinese immigrants, but we never learn exactly how and why Ba and Ma left China for the American mines. Perhaps it is my own ignorance, but my understanding was that the bulk of immigration from China was for the railroad later in the 19th century than this book is set, but then I suppose there were other immigrants such as this family as well. I don't know precisely how to describe it, but I was left feeling a bit frustrated and numb at the end of this one. My List of Pulitzer 2021 Hopefuls: https://www.goodreads.com/list/show/1...

Winner of the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade 2021 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2020 First of all a major shout-out to this year's Booker judges for including a novel from Zimbabwe - needless to say, the prize is often way too Euro-centric. By including texts like this, the Western readership gets duly challenged, because the story is not easy to understand and appreciate for people who are more or less unfamiliar with the country and its history. Our protagonist is Tambudzai Sigauke, a traumatized woman nearing 40 who struggles in a sexist, racist, post-colonial and post-war society. Tambu has two degrees, but abandoned a job as a copy writer because she could not deal with the fact that her white colleagues took credit for her ideas. Now she is descending into poverty, trying desperately to find a constant, affordable home, even contemplating to build security via marrying the son of a landlady or a foreigner - and she does not give up: Applying for jobs, fighting severe mental health problems brought about by trauma, trying to preserve her optimism in a hostile environment facing humiliation again and again. In the end, colonialism and capitalism culminate in eco-tourism targeted at (mainly) Europeans, a field in which Tambu gets a job. And the shocking core of the story is this: How do you judge people from a moral point of view when they are in situation where they are trying to survive? As Brecht put it in The Threepenny Opera: "Erst kommt das Fressen, dann die Moral." (First comes a full stomach, then comes ethics.) This is a dog-eat-dog society, and if you're a Black woman without a man, you're in serious trouble. The whole book is written in a detached "you"-voice, thus underlining the alienation Tambu feels - she constantly seems to wonder whether the person who is undergoing all of these experiences is still her, how all of this could happen and keeps on happening. While "This Mournable Body" is the final installment of a trilogy and reading the first two parts would probably help understand the whole ordeal, the main challenge really is to get some information about Zimbabwe and what it must be like to live through such times. This is a very, very dark historical novel. The story alludes to the colonial era, the war of independence and its victims, the brutal agricultural reforms, corruption and institutionalized racism, a system that is designed to hold certain people back. The book is set in the late 1990s, so during the dictatorship of Mugabe when the economic decline and hyperinflation started to take a toll on the young nation that had only gained independence from Britain in 1980. Quick personal story: When I studied in the States in the mid-2000, I had a fellow student from Zimbabwe who spoke the Queen's English (educated in a British school in Harare) and utterly refused to tell us any stories from his home country: He said it was so terrible that we wouldn't believe it. I have to admit that this book gave me a better idea of what he might have referred to. Which brings us to the fact that Tambu's experiences are beyond anything that we might imagine, and some reactions to the novel give me flashbacks to The Ministry of Utmost Happiness, where a number of readers complained that the whole thing was a mess and not understandable although the book was clearly written for an Indian audience that was able to recognize all the political circumstances portrayed - so not everything Westerners do not immediately get is badly written, sometimes Westerners are just badly informed. This also goes for Tsitsi Dangarembga's book. So I'm glad I read the book and learnt something new, although I could not really find access to the text. Maybe I should be grateful for that.

My opinion improved slightly. The climatic scene at the end finally engaged me, really delving into the rural/urban divide in Zimbabwe i was hoping to get more of. I think i would have gotten more out of this had i read the first two books of this story. Also, the use of second person just does not work, at all.

This is the third book in the 'Nervous Conditions' series and my failure to enjoy it maybe down to starting with book 3. This book was long listed for Booker Prize so obviously thought highly by many but sorry not for me. I am always keen to read new authors and genres but struggled to get into this book at all. Tambu is living in a run-down youth hostel in downtown Harare and anxious about her prospects after leaving a dead end job. Faced with humiliation and close to breaking point she takes an ecotourism job that forces her to return to her parents home. Parts of the book were enjoyable and many tough subjects are dealt with such as racism, violence against women and mental health but I found the reading hard work.

I cannot give this novel a fair review, having not read the earlier books in the trilogy, but the book I read did not hold my attention consistently, and I felt the stronger elements were outweighed by filler.The novel is saved by a strong ending but the middle section could have been less oblique.

“To love is to admire with the heart; to admire is to love with the mind.” This quote sums up the difference between loving a book or admiring it. For this reader, This Mournable Body is a book of the mind, not the heart. It was only after I finished it that I learned it was the final part of a trilogy, which answers some questions for me. I felt that the writer was giving short shrift to references to the past, and now I understand why. Certainly there is a lot to recommend the book. It’s a searing look at Zimbabwe life, particularly for a driven woman who is now under-achieving. Written in the second person, which typically “twins” the reader and the narrator, in this book, the second person tense in this book oddly feels more distancing and reproachful—as if the narrator has separated from herself. She muses, “When you were young and in fighting spirit, growing mealie cobs in the family field and selling them to raise money for your school fees, you were not this person that you have become. When and how did it happen?” Some of the reasons are circumstance: a rural family life, a sister who was maimed in the war while she was safe at a private college, a preference towards whites in the career market. Others are internal: her own resentment and simmering rage that spill over to ill effect. This is a novel that doesn't shy away from the hard topics misogynistic violence, a joke of an education system, the egregious manipulation of the working people by largely white opportunists. From time to time, there is a scene that is truly gasp-worthy: for example, Tambu’s inability or unwillingness to react when a hostel-mate is turned on by a mob or her inexcusable violence towards someone in her charge. But for the most part, the pages turn at a glacial pace, punctuated by powerful episodes like these. Ultimately, I was intrigued but not engrossed, much as I wanted to be. There was a lot to admire here, but not enough to make me love this book.

I also posted this review on my book blog: This Mournable Body is the third novel in Tsitsi Dangarembga’s loose trilogy that begins with her breakthrough 1988 novel Nervous Conditions. Just as a disclaimer, I have not read either of the previous novels in this trilogy. I went on the advice of other reviews that it wasn’t necessary to do so, and I agree with that assessment, but I can see how my experience with the novel would have been very different if I had read the other two books first. The trilogy follows the life of Tambudzai (aka Tambu), and This Mournable Body opens on Tambu approaching middle age and living in a hostel in Harare with little idea of what her future looks like. From there, the novel follows Tambu as she moves between the homes of others and falls in and out of various jobs as she grows more and more convinced that she has squandered her promising youth. For me, this book was a little difficult to get into. While it is told chronologically, it doesn’t adhere to a conventional narrative arc. It relays various developments in this period of Tambu’s life, but to me it didn’t feel like there was anything that held the plot together other than the passage of time. I couldn’t figure out why the author decided to start and end the story where she did. The ending left me scratching my head, as the two-year period of the final job Tambu takes is relegated to a space of only a couple of pages. One thing that often gets talked about in this book is how it is told in the second person. I personally found that I stopped noticing it almost immediately. We spend so much time in Tambu’s head that to me it read the same as a first person or third person narrative would. Other reviewers have had different responses to its efficacy, so it definitely depends on the type of reader. If the purpose of the second person is to put the reader in Tambu’s shoes, then I would say it contributes to making this an uncomfortable reading experience at times. Tambu, while her motives are understandable, is far from the most sympathetic character. In fact, she is outright despicable at times, such as when she participates in the public shaming of another woman and during one particularly violent incident that occurs when she works as a biology teacher. Luckily, I don’t think it was the author’s purpose to make us sympathize with Tambu, but I think instead we are meant to see the flaws of the wider nation through her story. There is a scene where Tambu seeks forgiveness from someone she has hurt, but they refuse to give it to her. This mirrors how the issues that Zimbabwe faces can not be so easily resolved. My favorite part of the novel was definitely the way it presented various social issues that have been haunting Zimbabwe since, and sometimes before, its independence. The lack of awareness of women’s movements and the treatment of women is much lamented by Tambu’s cousin Nyasha, who runs workshops meant to educate women about women’s movements. Nyasha’s husband, Leon, is a white man who manages to both romanticize Zimbabwe and denigrate it in favor of his native Germany when it suits him. The closest thing to a climax that the novel has occurs when an ecotourism company Tambu works for decides to use Tambu’s home village as an example of rustic village life for European tourists. The best parts of the novel come when Dangarembga portrays the imbalance of power between the villagers and the tour company who looks to profit off them. Tambu’s white boss requests that the female villagers go topless during a dance welcoming the tourists to the village, as she believes this would conform with the Europeans’ preconceived notions of Zimbabwean villagers. Tambu’s mother is outraged and humiliated by this development, and it goes to show the way village life is distorted and exploited by the tourism industry. In the background of all this, the memory of Zimbabwe’s independence struggle looms large. Tambu’s aunt Lucia and Lucia’s friend Christine fought in the war and state multiple times that the country is heading in a direction that deviates from what they fought for. To them, it seems like the country has forgotten why it fought for independence in the first place. If the first two books in the trilogy go into more detail about Christine and Lucia’s lives, then I would definitely consider picking them up. While this novel didn’t completely work for me, I can definitely understand why the jury decided to longlist it.

This is a tough read. First off, it’s written in the second person, which I struggle with, but it’s also relentlessly bleak. About a woman in Harare and all the compromises she makes to keep surviving, it is hopeless, miserable, and full of broken people. The protagonist is unlikeable, unkind and self-loathing and I nearly gave up a few times. But it’s an important book to read, especially with what is going on in Zimbabwe right now. It stops us looking away. It makes us feel the real pain, rather than just see stories on the news. It is unflinchingly brutal, but that is the whole point. Dangarembga writes well. Her language is precise and original, her imagery and metaphors unexpected and impactful. Glad I finished it, and more than a little heart sore.

My thanks to Faber & Faber for a digital edition of ‘This Mournable Body’ by Tsitsi Dangarembga in exchange for an honest review. It is currently shortlisted for the 2020 Booker Prize. Tambudzai (Tambu) is currently living in a run-down youth hostel in downtown Harare. She’s aware that she might be asked to leave due to her age. She is in her late 30s, so not an unreasonable request. She is also anxious about her prospects after leaving a stagnant job. She takes a teaching position that doesn’t go well. The contrast between the future she imagined and her daily reality ultimately drives her to a breaking point. This is the final book of Tsitsi Dangarembga’s semi-autobiographical trilogy that opened with ‘Nervous Conditions’ in 1988. It had chronicled Tambudzai’s girlhood in Rhodesia (later Zimbabwe) in the 1960s. The second book, ‘The Book of Not’, was published in 2006 and picked up Tambu’s story and focused on her further education and subsequent desire to get as far away from her home village as possible. After reading a detailed synopsis of this second book it appears to have concluded with Tambu leaving her job as a copywriter after a white colleague is unfairly given credit for her work. This leads naturally into the opening of ‘This Mournable Body’. Some aspects of Tambu’s earlier life are provided, though I feel that I would have fared better if I had sought out details of the earlier novels in advance. I found older Tambu quite difficult to empathise with and this might have been different if I followed her journey throughout the trilogy. As I appreciate that this trilogy is an important work of African literature, I am hoping to read the novels in order in the near future. ‘This Mournable Body’ is written in the second person, which I found a difficult narrative style to engage with. There were episodes in the novel that definitely held my attention: Tambu’s frustration with her distracted students, her stay in a mental hospital, which was harrowing, and the surreal nature of the Eco Village Transit tourism venture. I ended up going back and reading a second time, which definitely improved my experience. Even so, I felt as if I was looking in on Tambu’s life from a distance. Note: I am due to attend a virtual library meeting this week to discuss this book and may amend my feedback following this. Edit: our library group had been chosen via The Reading Agency as one of the national reading groups to ‘shadow’ the Booker Prize shortlist. We were assigned ‘This Mournable Body’. In our discussion many of the same points that I made were raised by others about the narrative voice and the difficulty in reading the third book of a trilogy as a stand-alone. In addition, members noted the problems associated with having little foreknowledge of Zimbabwe’s history and culture. As a group we have read the Booker Prize shortlist for a number of years so used to reading literary fiction; yet no one found it a particularly accessible novel.

Altho on a sentence level this is written beautifully, it falls victim to its style. The second person does not work. This would have been much stronger if told in third person. I didn’t hate this book but I also found myself lost - I did not grasp the big picture of what was happening and the “slice of life” aspect was hard to follow due to it being disjointed and the aforementioned second person perspective.

Solid three-star read for me. Important themes about gender and class, one’s pursuit of a scientific career, and of course the devastating Russian invasion of Ukraine. I think this book did an excellent job of portraying the horrifying effects of war and how it disrupts and dismantles people’s lives. That said, unfortunately the writing style felt too quirky and experimental for me to develop a sustained interest in the characters. This felt like a “message” book, which is fine because the messages are important, though when I read fiction, I tend to want more of an emotional connection to the characters. It was okay!

Not an easy book to have a clear opinion about because it was doing a lot of different things. This left it a bit muddled for me. Character development... not much. It was more of a fable or morality play. Not sure on the intent. The book was interrupted by the war, its focus changed. I guess this was the same for the author and many whose lives were interrupted and muddled up by the war.

I stuggled and I (got) lost. Albeit a perfect fit for my reading block :-(

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2023 Listen, I just can't with this Booker longlist: Sure, this is a decent historical novel based on real events, but it's far, far removed from any aesthetic decision that would indicate that postmodernism ever happened and from any plot points that are of heightened relevance for the social and political climate we live in today. This wouldn't bother me so much if the whole list wasn't such a mess, I guess, but alas, I'm annoyed. The book revolves around the real W. Somerset Maugham who in the early 1920's travels to the Straits Settlement of Penang (today part of Malaysia) with his lover Gerald Haxton. He made bad decisions at the stock market and finds himself almost broke, plus he contemplates divorcing his wife back home - which means he is in desperate need of money. Enter Lesley Hamlyn, the wife of Maugham's good friend Robert. The chatty woman is the second main character, inspiring the famous author to craft new texts based on her stories, among them the play The Letter about the Ethel Proudlock case (Proudlock shot and killed a man in the colonies, she was sentenced to death and later pardoned), contained in Maugham's collection The Casuarina Tree set in the Federated Malay States. There is love and intrigue with an exotic (I know, I know) back drop, there is some commentary on queerness as well as colonialism with its bored and useless settlers, plus there is a plotline featuring Sun Yat-sen, a (real) Chinese statesman. Ergo: There are a lot of people and ideas thrown into the mix, plotlines intersect, there are time jumps etc., but somehow the language remains slow and portly like a day in the extreme heat of the places depicted. This is well done and all, but where is the edge? Where is the surprise? Where is the punch? This fits into the classic canon that British authors have established when writing about the colonies, and in that respect, the novel sometimes comes across as a pastiche. Another entry that remains just too prim and proper for my taste.

The House of Doors reads like a novel that was written for adaption to the big screen. It is bracketed by a narrated prologue and epilogue, marked by repeating conversational references, and teeming with visual motifs (the Hamsa symbol, the Casuarina tree, the titular house of hanging doors). It even contains guidance on the musical score (with frequent references to by Reynaldo Hahn’s L’heure exquise). As a novel, however, it was less successful for me. The writing is functional and pared down, with occasional bursts of poetry. These tend to arrive at the end of chapters where the author has the strange habit of pausing scenes to have characters stare impassively at a patch of nature, contemplating eternity. For example: “That night, side by side, we drifted among the galaxies of sea-stars, while far, far above us the asterisks of light marked out the footnotes on the page of eternity.” And: “We watched the two birds run on and on, into the horizon, into eternity.” The romance at the heart of the story also felt overly “constructed” to me. When the romantic characters kiss for the first time, it is to the soundtrack of a thunderstorm (“and then he was before me, his hair dripping, rain plastering his shirt to this body”) – a scene which could have been lifted straight out of Middlemarch. When one of the lovers serves the other tea, the latter remarks, “It smells of the first drops of rain falling on the lawn on a scorching day.” I need some wine with that cheese, please. One could argue that these nods are intentional – the writing leaning on Somerset Maugham’s, the romantic subplot leaning on the traditions of Victorian fiction – but unfortunately these factors hampered my immersion in the story. Ultimately, this felt like a novel designed by a civil engineer. Thoughtfully constructed. Carefully plotted. Meticulously researched. But lacking a certain quality of novelty, for me. I still think the film adaption, when it comes, will be excellent. Rating: 6/10 for the overall reading experience; 8/10 for the ending Also on Instagram.

99th book of 2023. 3.5. I am always excited about a book that's about real people, and Eng's newest is a book about W. Somerset Maugham. It helps that I'm already a fan of Maugham's work and have read four or five of his novels, I don't know what this would read like if you haven't read any of his work or know much about him; but I tell a lie, because the book isn't really about Maugham at all. There's two stories running parallel throughout the novel at different timepoints. Although the novel begins in 1947, almost all of it jumps between 1921 and 1910 and alternates every chapter from Lesley to 'Willie' Maugham himself. Eng's made an interesting structure with the book: Maugham is the 'listener', as we are; the parts in 1910 are Lesley's remembering. It's full of adultery and murder. I suppose if you're going to tell a tale like that, you want to tell it to a writer. The 1921 deal with Maugham's present day life in Penang staying with Lesley and her husband with his male secretary-lover, trying to write and dealing with all the other issues in his life like his wife back in England or his finances. I'm not often one for flashbacks, but I found Lesley's story compelling and Eng's framework (using Maugham as the listener) was a good way of doing it. And Eng's writing is like water; it's lucid and clear. I fell through the pages with ease. In fact, it reminded me of Maugham's writing and I wonder if Eng is attempting to replicate that. There are still lines like this to catch onto, That night, side by side, we drifted among the galaxies of sea-stars, while far, far above us the asterisks of light marked out the footnotes on the page of eternity.

This Booker longlisted novel is mostly set in the Malaysian province of Penang. Lesley and Robert Hamlyn live a comfortable life, though their marriage has begun to strain. They welcome the author, "Willie" Somerset Maugham, an old friend of Robert's, to stay at their sizable home. Maugham has troubles of his own - he is a closeted gay man, travelling the world with his "secretary" Gerald, much to the chagrin of his wife Sylvie. But he's also in financial trouble and running out of things to write about. That all changes when Lesley begins to unburden her secrets to him - there are stories of revolutionaries, infidelity and even murder in her past. For an artist fresh out of ideas, these shocking revelations couldn't have come at a better time. This is an elegantly told story. I don't know a huge amount about the life of Somerset Maugham, but from what I can gather, the narrative blends fact and fiction together very well. We surmise early on that Lesley has some mysteries to spill, and though the reader might try to predict them, the twists still come as a surprise. I also found the dichotomy of Maugham's existence interesting - a sought-after celebrity who succeeds through meeting new people and spinning their stories, but also an introverted soul who wrestles with a clandestine sexual identity. I did find the pacing a bit off - the first act of the novel is a slow burn that might test the patience of some. However, those who persevere to the end will be rewarded with a neat pay-off.

a generous 3 stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️ Well, I have to agree that this book is beautifully written, and I would have rated it 5 stars if based on that. But the storytelling did not work for me. I didn’t think that the author was able to evoke the atmosphere of that time and place. And the writing felt too modern. This is a work of fiction set in Penang (Malaysia) in the early 1920’s (with flashbacks to 1910’s), and W. Somerset Maugham, the writer, is one of the characters. I think the author took some liberties to imagine his way of thinking and acting. His characterization felt out of time. Also, the development of the storyline wasn’t that engaging or interesting, and it was hard to feel any connection with any of the characters. To me the story lacked an emotional depth. With the number of adulterous affairs, I would expect some heat, at least. Anyways… this book was longlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize and lots of readers loved it, so I may be considered the outlier. Hardcover (Bloomsbury Publishing): 320 pages e-book (Kobo): 320 pages (default), 99k words

Living in 1921 Penang, Lesley Hamlyn, the wife of well-to-do lawyer Robert Hamlyn, tells of the time Somerset Maugham stayed with them for a couple of weeks. During the stay she tells Maugham of her own life and of a local crime which Maugham goes on to use in his story, ‘The Letter.’ I enjoyed the opening of this novel and its setting up of the scene. However, I was left disappointed when the much hungered for plot eventually surfaced, for much of it is a retelling of Maugham’s ‘The Letter’ – which I was already familiar with, and which frankly Maugham did far more concisely, atmospherically, and with the use of far more interesting characters. The novel also involves Lesley’s telling of her own life story and that of her husband’s; as well as events and politics in Penang. And here my interest waned. The opening scene-setting was far better than the narrative storytelling. The novel meanders between times and events in an awkwardness of construction that, for me, affected engagement with characters and situation. Although there were moments that pulled me in, there were times when I felt the writer was overwriting and striving too hard for effect. On page 217 for instance we have, ‘…the words I wanted to use were rusted with lack of use.’ Though the book was written in English, this reads to me more like something of a clunky translation. I regret not noting others as I read, because there were quite a few jarring examples. Overall, I was disappointed after the promising opening. I found the storytelling awkwardly constructed and unfocussed - with events spread thinly and choppily; and the novel peopled by characters who are given little illumination. I am being hard, but then expectations on writers with glowing testaments and awards are obviously higher. A rather dull affair.

3.5 stars. As with Tan Twan Eng's previous novel, The Garden of Evening Mists, the writing in The House of Doors is exquisite. Set in colonial Malaysia in the 1920’s, the author’s descriptions effortlessly conjure up the sights, smells and sounds of a different time and place. The characters, historical and fictional, are complex and authentic. The reason I didn't rate it higher is that there were just too much going on. Even though it was interesting to learn about the Chinese nationalist revolutionary, Sun Yat Sen, I didn’t think it added anything to the novel. If you enjoy literary historical fiction this is definitely still worth the read.

Dear Tan Twan Eng, Can we have a heart-to-heart? You’re a phenomenal writer. THE HOUSE OF DOORS is a superbly-crafted tale that weaves in so many strands of both real and fictional colonial Malaya: Somerset (“Willie”) Maugham’s time there, Ethel Proudcock’s murder trial, the Chinese revolutionary Sun Yat Sen’s brief stay in Penang, and the fictional Lesley and Robert Hamlyn’s personal dramas that tie these all together. My attention was rapt throughout the story, from the lush and evocative details of the setting to the well-paced plot to the keen character studies. THE HOUSE OF DOORS is the kind of book that I’d normally call a triumph, but I have to ask, a triumph for whom? The novel focuses almost exclusively on white characters in an Asian setting; the two Asian men who feature in the story (even someone as legendary and interesting as Sun Yat Sen!) merely serve as one-dimensional foils to the main characters. Only the white characters are written as having rich interiority, complex psychological motivations, or full social lives. If you felt inspired by Willie Maugham and wanted to tell a story about him, fine. Artists must follow the creative impulse. But why not also feature Asian characters who are every bit as robust and well-developed? Also, how did it escape your notice that the Asian women in your story are either long-suffering maids, mistresses, or wives to be cheated on? What a slap in the face. By elevating the British colonists’ dramas while erasing the lives of the locals, it felt like you were using the gorgeous, sensual backdrop of Malaysia to tell white peoples’ stories. It felt like you were mining the setting (your homeland, I’ll admit, and not mine) for exotic details on the backs of the nameless, faceless Asian population. It felt like a re-colonization via literature. If you wanted to tell the story of the colonizer (which has been told countless times), I would hope that you’d do so in a fresh way. Not all literature has to be radical, but if we’re going to adopt the colonizer’s mindset and give voice to her thoughts, then I’d argue that it should be done subversively. (Maybe ask R.F. Kuang for tips?) Sure, you made it clear that your main characters are overtly racist and/or homophobic, but not in a way that implicates the reader or societal power structures. The reader can leave the story thinking “Wow, glad I’m not homophobic like Lesley or racist like Gerald” and never question the whole enterprise of imperialism. In fact, the reader leaves with stereotypes reinforced: that white people’s stories are the ones worth telling, even in Southeast Asia. It's not your fault that writing white (especially famous white) characters gives this book more gravitas and selling power in the Western world. And it’s not your fault that the Booker Prize judges chose only this book for the longlist from all of Asia (Chetna Maroo’s little gem also gives Asian rep, but she and the characters are situated in the UK). Your two other novels (both also longlisted or shortlisted for the Booker!) do feature Asian characters, and I don’t think there should be guardrails on what authors can and cannot write about. But I can only tell you, as an Asian woman, how this particular novel of yours made me feel. The best (albeit flawed) analogy I can come up with is that it’s like if you were a Black man – one of the few Black writers deemed “literary enough” by the Booker – and wrote GONE WITH THE WIND (without its problematic racism). An incredible work of literature? Yes. A betrayal of sorts? Also yes. Like you, I am of Chinese descent. Like you, I have a professional degree, which has implications for how we’ve conformed to what’s required of us to succeed in this world. Like you, my natural tendency is to be strait-laced and easily co-opted by the powers that be. Ten years ago, I suspect I would not have read this novel with the same eye. I suspect I would have unconditionally loved it. As you write your next novel over the next ten years, my hope is that you will step outside the academy, so to speak (which may be difficult since you were a judge for the 2023 International Booker Prize and rub elbows in those circles). Don’t write for anyone else: reviewers, critics, prize judges, or amateur bookstagrammers. Your novels are written with meticulous craft. I would love to see you get messy. Get radical. Loosen the tie. Question the authorities, our education, our history. And if you don’t, well, I’m sure you’ll keep writing best-selling, critically acclaimed novels, so there is no real reason to listen to me other than I think you could write something dynamite, something so explosive that it will rock readers to their core and knock the wind out of them. I can’t wait to see it. Your sister in solidarity, Kristin P.S. Thank you @bloomsburybooksus for the ARC!

Can’t believe there was an Andie MacDowell “Is it raining? I hadn’t noticed” moment in a Booker novel. Anyone who writes a scene in which a couple has their pivotal romantic moment in a rainstorm, wet hair and clothes plastered to skin, should be shot. Ok not really. Exiled from the artistic community perhaps. Despite that, not too bad. Not too great either, for me.

Thank you to NetGalley and the publishers for an advanced copy of this book. This was my first Richard powers read and I requested it because I’ve heard good things about his previous novels. I appreciated the environmental issues that were raised in this book. Although no time era was specified it felt very relevant. I know astrobiology was a key part of the novel but I found it a bit much at times and wanted to skip over the details as I didn’t think they added to the story on the whole. I thought the ending was sudden and short although I did feel it coming just before

Shortlisted for the Booker Prize. I loved Power’s Overstory, so I was beyond excited to read his new offering – it sounded right up my alley, especially given its environmental themes. The narrator of this novel is Theo Byrne – a forty-five year old astrobiologist, recently widowed, and the father of a challenging but interesting nine-year-old boy, who may be on the autism spectrum. So besides the environmental themes, we also have grief, parenting and some politics – as I said, themes right up my alley. I’m trying to make sense to myself why I didn’t love this novel. Was it my disinterest/ignorance of all things astronomy related? Could it be that it bugs me to no end that we spend so much money on astronomy projects, university courses etc, when this planet is dying? I found the astrobiology and the astronomy passages beyond boring, not to mention they pulled me out of the story. As someone who generally bemoans the dumbing down and anti-intellectualism of society, I also gave myself a stern talking to - Bianca, just because something is beyond your understanding, knowledge and capacity, means nothing. So, I’m conflicted. Let’s forget about the astronomy bits, how did the rest of the book go? Well, the more relatable aspects of it were fine – the challenges of sole parenting, especially parenting a neurodiverse child, were well done. I did have a few quibbles about the father’s opinions on diagnoses and treatments, amazingly enough, they didn’t bother me that much, even though his views didn’t necessarily align with mine. His nine year old son, Robin, is a very interesting character, intense, super intelligent. An alternative treatment, a sort of cognitive manipulation using the mother’s old profile is used to create new neuropathways for Robin. Those aspects were interesting, I should do some googling to see if they actually exist. Powers uses the child as a conduit of ideas, not unusual in literature. Unfortunately, I never thought Robin as a believable character and I was never truly touched on an emotional level, which I found disconcerting. The mother and wife sounded like an incredible person, out of this world. Both husband and son put her on a pedestal. Now onto the political, topical aspects of the book. As I’ve confessed before, I’m a full-fledged lefty. I loath Trump & Co, I greatly admire Greta Thunberg, and the environmental concerns are close to my heart and mind. While Trump remains unnamed, you would have had to live in a cave not to recognise the president’s stance on things. Thunberg is given a different Scandi name, but you’ll recognise her as the teenage girl on the Autism spectrum, who’s scolding the politicians of the world. It pains me to say this, but I found these aspects a bit on the nose – for lack of a better expression. So, I don’t really know how to rate this. The reading experience wasn’t smooth, I appreciated some aspects of it, but emotionally I was completely disengaged. I’m bewildered baffled I didn’t love Bewilderment. I’ve received this novel via Netgalley, in exchange for an honest review. Many thanks to Random House UK for the opportunity to read and review this novel.

They share a lot, astronomy and childhood. Both are voyages across huge distances. Both search for facts beyond their grasp. Both theorize wildly and let possibilities multiply without limits. Both are humbled every few weeks. Both operate out of ignorance. Both are mystified by time. Both are forever starting out. Longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize and a book I suspect has a strong chance of winning, one I'd recommend to other readers, but just wasn't for me. It was certainly a quick read, but otherwise shared the faults of the author's previously Booker nominated The Overstory without the depth of story that distinguished that novel. The reader's reaction may well depend on their like for the narrator's character and his son Robin. I, unfortunately, found the narrator's tone rather cloying - the hagiographic treatment of his apparently universally admired, now deceased, wife ("my wife was admirable the way I was tall"), the way even Robin is apparently universally loved (the repeated 'and everyone on/at the bus/plane/lab laughed' anecdotes), and struggled with the extensive exposition thinly disguised as Sophie's World style narration, something of a Powers trademark. Narrator to 9-year old son: Come on, buster. We should try it. He’s doing wild things. The Currier Lab was exploring something called Decoded Neurofeedback. It resembled old-fashioned biofeedback, but with neural imaging for real-time, AI-mediated feedback. A first group of subjects— the “targets”— entered emotional states in response to external prompts, while researchers scanned relevant regions of their brains using fMRI. The researchers then scanned the same brain regions of a second group of subjects— the “trainees”— in real time. AI monitored the neural activity and sent auditory and visual cues to steer the trainees toward the targets’ prerecorded neural states. In this way, the trainees learned to approximate the patterns of excitation in the targets’ brains, and, remarkably, began to report having similar emotions. The technique dated back to 2011, and it claimed some impressive early results. As for Robin, as an inveterate non-re-reader, I knew he and I wouldn't click when I read early on: His pronouncements were off-the-wall mysteries to everyone except me. He could quote whole scenes from movies, even after a single viewing. He rehearsed memories endlessly, and every repetition of the details made him happier. When he finished a book he liked, he’d start it again immediately, from page one. The rather unnecessary light fictionalisation, again from The Overstory as well, bugged me - why can't a book set in the present day have Greta Thunberg give a TED talk, raising the hackles of the Q-Anon crowd, whereas the book would have 'Inga Alder' give a 'COD' talk, raising the hackles of the 'Theory X' crowd. Apparently God had made life on one planet only, and only one country of that planet’s dominant species needed to manage it. Oddly this is the narrator criticising the Trump figure (who of course isn't called Trump) and his followers, but he seems to only disagree with the first half of the statement, obsessed as he is with extra-planetary life, his interest in the impact of the nationalistic administration on the other peoples of the world limited to whether he himself might lose some students and lab assistants ("continuing to flail against the Asian grad student visa crisis"). Overall - read Gumble Yard's review for a more positive take https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... but only 3 stars for me. Thanks to the publisher via Netgalley for the ARC

Richard Powers Bewilderment is an eye-opener. It’s a novel I wouldn’t usually gravitate to, tackling subjects of neuroscience and astrobiology, but by the end, I'm glad I gave it a read (kind of...) I enjoyed this novel to some extent. It’s first half started strong, real strong. Powers sets out to tell a story about grief, a father-son relationship and how one raises his troubled child when everything in the world is going wrong. His writing is marvellous and some of his sentences cut too deep into my skin. The father-son relationship felt real and raw, intimate and integrating, digging into their unconscious and unveiling their deepest thoughts. However, my biggest issue with the novel was that it felt like an environmentalist manifesto rather than a novel. Not that I have a problem with it, but I felt like it was a bit too much. Therefore, I personally felt it read more like an essay or research paper. Furthermore, the second half of the novel felt like it dragged on. Although the visits to fictional planets seemed intriguing at first, they got repetitive later on. The novel seemed to have a specific prose at first but diverged into other directors later on, making the second half a drag to get through. Overall, this was a good book. Although Powers has written a novel that includes one of the best sentences I’ve read in a long time, tackling subject matters that are relevant to today's society, he seems to have written an environmentalist manifesto rather than an actual novel, and sometimes, that’s not the best thing to do.

On Saturday, the President declared the entire election invalid. He ordered a repeat, claiming it would require at least three more months to secure and implement. Half the electorate revolted against the plan. The other half was gung-ho for a retry. Where suspicion was total and facts were settled with the like button, there was no other way forward but to do over. I wondered how I might explain the crisis to an anthropologist from Promixa Centauri. In this place, with such a species, trapped in such technologies, even a simple head count grew impossible. Only pure bewilderment kept us from civil war. This is the third novel that I’ve read by Richard Powers, the third to have been nominated for the Man Booker Prize, and I’d rank Bewilderment at the bottom of the three. Powers’ last novel, The Overstory, was a high-level piece of Ecofiction; a love letter to trees and forests that went on too long and eventually felt too baggy and pedantic to really wow me (on the other hand, I found the earlier Orfeo to be sublime). As a follow-up to The Overstory, Bewilderment (another Ecofiction effort) is much more accessible, with a family drama at its heart that would appeal to your average book club — and maybe that’s the point. Maybe Powers decided to bring his — undeniably important — ecowarnings to the mainstream; but if The Overstory muddled the power of its message by being too dense, Bewilderment felt lightweight and predictable, full of narrative choices that eventually grated on me. I’m all for bringing the core message of this book (that the health of the Earth and all of its inhabitants is more important than economics) to the fore, and while it would be impossible for an author to please every reader, this book did not really please me. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) Watching medicine fail my child, I developed a crackpot theory: Life is something we need to stop correcting. My boy was a pocket universe I could never hope to fathom. Every one of us is an experiment, and we don’t even know what the experiment is testing. Theo Byrne is an astrobiologist, balancing his search for extraterrestrial life with parenting a special needs child after the recent death of his wife in a car accident. The eight-year-old boy, Robin, has had various diagnoses (from OCD and ADD to “something on the spectrum”), and with high anxiety, learning challenges, and violent outbursts against his bullies, Robin’s school is keen to see the boy medicated into submission. Theo resists the idea of “psychoactive drugs'' for his child, and when he remembers the work that a Neuroscientist on his university campus was doing with “Decoded Neurofeedback” — essentially mapping the brains of neurotypical subjects with an fMRI and then training those with psychiatric disorders to better respond to emotional cues by mimicking these “healthy” brains — Theo is able to get Robin enrolled in the program. As Robin responds incredibly well to this therapy (which is explained as more of an exercise in learning empathy than anything else), he grows from a little boy who is uncontrollably anxious about species-at-risk (Robin’s dead mother was an animal rights advocate and the boy honours her loss by attempting to take on her responsibilities) to becoming really Zen about ecology; his “everyone is in everything” message eventually making him a viral internet meme. But as the nightly news tolls warning after warning in the background — crops are failing, rivers are dying, some scary virus has made the jump from Texas cattle feedlots to humans — the unnamed President of the United States (he’s totally Trump) goes from outlawing public criticism of his administration, to attempting to rig the next election, to cutting the funding to both the deep space telescope program that is essential to Theo’s research and also the Neuroscientist’s “DecNef” program. So far as the plot goes, that’s a strong storyline, but here’s what didn’t work for me: Theo’s research is interesting — having read “two thousand sci-fi paperbacks”, he has a good idea of the diversity of life that could be out in the universe, and he has assembled what his fellow astrobiologists refer to as the Byrne Allen Field Guide; the best guess for what kind of lifeforms could account for the spectographic readings for various distant planetary atmospheres. But what this means practically is that Theo tells Robin the story of an imaginary planet every night and it’s written as though the two of them are out exploring them — they discover together that planet Dvau is unstable for life because it doesn’t have a moon, the planet Pelagos is one huge ocean (and no fire means no technology for its inhabitants) — and a few of these might have been charming, but it happens ad nauseum. It bothered me that once Robin has his emotions under control through therapy, everyone reacts to him as though he’s the cutest, smartest, most interesting kid in the world; everyone remembers Theo’s dead wife the same way. And it really bothered me that Powers set his story in our recognisable world but wouldn’t name any of the real people in it: What is obviously Trump is an unnamed president, people participate in “COG” instead of TEDtalks, and the following character stands in for Greta Thunberg: In one go, Inga Alder opened my son’s feedbackprimed mind to a truth I myself never quite grasped: the world is an experiment in inventing validity, and conviction is its only proof. There’s some unfortunate timing for this book: It’s maybe hard to get worked up with Theo as he goes to Washington to fight for tens of billions of dollars for space exploration when the internet has spent the summer mocking today’s billionaires playing Rocketman when they could be using that money to make things better here on Earth (and even in the novel no one notices the irony of Theo lobbying for a fortune in government-funded telescopes while Robin sells his paintings at a Farmer’s Market for animal-focussed charities). But what bothered me the most: Early on, Theo and Robin listen to an audiobook of Flowers for Algernon, and as one might imagine, that’s a significant (verging on melodramatic) choice. Earth had two kinds of people: those who could do the math and follow the science, and those who were happier with their own truths. But in our hearts’ daily practice, whatever schools we went to, we all lived as if tomorrow would be a clone of now. I can see this being Powers’ most popular novel, and this essential message deserves to be widely read and pondered (I did like when Robin sees a bunch of people looking at their phones in agitation and remarks that they seem to be rewiring their brains just like he does in therapy; we may all be training our responses to the devices we focus on and that may be the deeper meaning of the title even though the word “bewilderment” only occurs in the book in my opening quote). But while all of this might be important, the writing, to me, obscured the message.

Well, I honestly think this book has a great chance of winning the Booker (because usually the popular book that I don't actually like all that much wins). Bewilderment is the story of a father, Theo, parenting a son, Robine, who is beset by grief due to loss of his mother and anxiety due to climate change. He also may be neuro atypical, but that's not completely clear. Theo is very reluctant to use medication to help his son and instead gets him signed up for a behavior feedback protocol which works wonders initially. While I was engaged by the story of Theo and Robin, I had a lot of issues. First, this book doesn't feel original. It lifts from Flowers for Algernon blatantly, and that book is shorter and much better. I sobbed when I read it. It also is reminiscent of The Road, a dystopian novel that also details a father/son relationship. Again, The Road, is one of my favorites, and I BAWLED when I read it. Finally, this book strongly focuses on science, in this case environmental and astronomical, and after reading When We Cease to Understand the World, I just think that that Bewilderment pales in comparison. In addition, as a parent of two sons and a sister of a young man on the autism spectrum, I really don't see Robin as a realistic characterization of a child his age. The author really did little to make him actually endearing, but implied that he was in some way. I didn't feel it at all. He seemed pretty annoying by and large. The end should have been catastrophic and made me cry, but I just didn't like either Robin or Theo enough to muster up much emotion. Plus, at least four times during the novel, Robin makes some pronouncement that is clearly supposed to be profound and impactful, and I didn't actually have the first clue as to what the author was trying to convey. My final issue, is this book is basically propaganda disguised in novel form. It's one thing to have a theme. It's another to hit the reader over the head with it repeatedly and blatantly. I don't really care if the theme leans left or leans right, if you want to convey a political message, it just needs to be more subtle to be effective. This book is not subtle. So why 3 stars? Well, I will give Powers a nod for his incredible imagination which was mostly expressed in his description of different planets he imagined for his son. I don't even like science fiction much, and I would have loved to read a book about any one of the planets he describes. Great ideas! Also, when Powers describes nature, I can picture it, and it's beautiful. Finally, he does do a very good job of building suspense. I didn't feel any desire to stop reading despite the fact there were a lot of sections I didn't really enjoy. He piqued my curiosity, and was able to keep me interested the whole way.

Longlisted for International Booker Prize 2025 - It is so rare to encounter a person with a disability being sexual in a book. I only remember Mishima doing that. The sensibilities of the modern audience are different, but Hunchback also wants to shock and, maybe because it is so short, it doesn’t do much else. The comparisons with The Convenience Store Woman are an exaggeration, but there are some signs that it could have been more than just a curiosity.

Book club: recommended if you want a feisty debate over controversial issues. The author and main character have a physical disability. The protagonist finds it hard to navigate a sex life and in this case, an opportunity arises under some less-than-ideal circumstances. Should they have hooked up? Given the circumstances? Do the circumstances matter? Are people free agents or do they need protection? From others or their own desires? Ethics and morals…an opportunity too good not to take or an offer that never should have been made to begin with? Or should it? This ‘greasy’ story is provocative. It also questions personal biases. Ableism is a major theme. The others thought the writing wasn’t bad. We mostly got bogged down in the controversy rather than discussing the usual aspects of a book, but it was interesting. There was a gender divide. The guys had an opposite outlook on it from the ladies. Anyway, definitely worth it for book club. And a short, easy read for those wanting to think more on the sex lives of physically disabled people. Ratings: 3.5, 3.5, my 3.5, 3 and 2.5 = 3.2.

Hunchback is a highly unique and original story. Saou Ichikawa has dared to challenge the perceptions of readers by exploring the desire, lust and sexual imagination of Shaka who is wheelchair bound; has a curved spine and requires a ventilator to breathe. Shaka spends much of her writing explicitly erotic stories for an online site; she also posts challenging / contentious comments on social media. This leads to one her carers providing her with the opportunity to undertake a sexual act with him This is a book that opens our minds to consider the sexual desires that frequent people who are not able bodied - reviewed by some as comedic … not so sure ..but this novella certainly has a punch and will divide readers

A confronting novella narrated by a middle aged disabled woman living in a care facility. I’m not sure I liked it… there’s lots of sex (she writes erotic fiction), details about her day to day life (suctioning the mucus from her tracheostomy tube etc) and her thoughts about things she can’t do. There’s also class, the politics of disability and abortion which made it an interesting read.

a novella (or a short story, really) following shaka, a woman in her 40s who was born with a congenital muscle disorder. shaka lives in a care home outside tokyo and the novel is made up of reflections on her days - the e-learning courses she takes, the anonymous erotica she writes online, and her provocative trolling on twitter. it’s quirky and humorous and i really enjoyed the narrator’s voice, especially her frustrations at the difficulties faced by disabled people on a societal level that are often overlooked. it touches on so much: desire, individuality, gender, reproduction, disability, ableism, the duality of mind/body, power (to name a few). i just wish it was a bit longer so we could really dig into those themes properly, the book felt like it ended just as it was really beginning. but still a kooky little book which deserves its place on the international booker longlist. thank you penguin uk books for the netgalley arc!

Disabled people were not sexual beings - I had assented to the definition that society had created. To do so, I had fed myself a convenient lie. This is a difficult novella to review. Hunchback by Saou Ichikawa critiques how society has de-sexualized the disabled community, how Japan renders it invisible, and how the literary world has done nothing for disabled people. Ichikawa's main character, Shaka, shares the same disability as the author, so the vivid descriptions of spinal deformities and dealing with the body's mucus (she can't swallow and has related challenges) are as prominent as the sexual content. We see Shaka beyond the confines of her disability—she's a student, she writes erotica on blogs (which is actually very common in Japan and other parts of Asia; many novels start as blog series), and she runs a social media page where she shares her dark thoughts and desires. Most notably, she has one dream: to get pregnant just so she can have an abortion. I appreciate the themes and discussions this book brings to the table. However, a certain part grossed me out—let's just say there's an incel character and a situation that isn't quite sextortion but feels eerily close. It's consensual, technically, but it left me questioning: how consensual can something really be when someone is using your private thoughts and disabilities to exploit you? I'm not sure how to process it. This might be one of the most thought-provoking Akutagawa Prize winners I've ever read. -- I opened the Twitter account on my iPhone and tweeted: I want to do the job in swingers' clubs where you get to scatter condoms from the ceiling. My account had barely any followers, and didn't get any likes. I had to assume that people didn't know how to respond to a more or less bed-bound woman with a serious disability who's constantly tweeting things like: In another life, l'd like to work as a high-class prostitute. *ARC received for free. This hasn't impacted my rating.

I went into this expecting to be shocked, disturbed, and intellectually wrecked — especially after seeing people call it bold, transgressive, and wildly provocative. And yes, I can see why it got that reputation. The book follows Shaka, a severely disabled woman living in a care home whose online life, desires, and blunt narration challenge society’s assumptions about disability and sexuality. The writing is sharp, confrontational, and unapologetic, and the novel itself has been widely praised as a daring critique of ableism and social norms. But here’s my honest take: I *like weird books*. I actively seek out strange, uncomfortable, boundary-pushing stories. And maybe that’s exactly why this didn’t hit me as hard as it seems to hit other readers. I kept waiting for that moment where I’d feel shaken or stunned — and it never quite arrived. It’s provocative, yes, but not as shocking as I expected. Maybe I’ve just read too many bizarre things for this to feel truly extreme. That said, I still respect what the author tried to do. The voice is distinctive, the perspective is rare in literature, and the intent behind it is bold and important. Even if it didn’t fully excite me, I can appreciate the ambition and originality. **Final verdict:** not mind-blowing for me personally, but undeniably daring and worth reading — so I’m settling on a solid 3.

3 / This is a short, bold and confronting, award-winning debut from Saou Ichikawa. At face value, it can be taken as vulgar and shock-inducing, but if you learn more about the author and also the horrific 2016 massacre in a Japanese care home, then you’ll see there is definitely more to it. I would not say that I enjoyed it, but it definitely provoked thoughts of life for someone living with a disability, daily minutiae, planning even the smallest things to get through their days. The inner guilt and thoughts of the character Shaka were wild yet somewhat relatable. I enjoyed the sarcasm and wit, but for me, it could have had the same impact with a little less graphic sexual detail. A bold choice longlisted for the International Booker Prize that shines a light on ingrained biases that people with disabilities deal with on a daily basis. Below are a few of my favourites “I guess furikake was one of those things that saved people regardless of their financial status.” “Japan, on the other hand, works on the understanding that disabled people don’t exist within society, so there are no such proactive considerations made. Able-bodied Japanese people have likely never even imagined a hunchbacked monster struggling to read a physical book.” “Disabled people were not sexual beings – I had assented to the definition that society had created.” “Of course, the tweetings of a hunchbacked monster would be more twisted than those of someone with a perfectly erect spine.” “Without mud the lotus could not survive.” 3 ⭐️ Audiobook read by Yuriri Naka

3.5 ⭐️ I was really intrigued by the narrator and her day to day life, especially writing erotica. Well written, definitely, however I found the second half to be extremely quick and the ending too abrupt. Had this been longer, I think it would’ve been 5 stars for me.

I’m left a bit speechless by this novel. I would have liked it to be a bit longer so there is more time to digest what is going on, but the ending has left me so confused and is so thought provoking that I’m struggling how to rate it. The novella is about a disabled woman who isn’t able to live in the outside world because of the lack of her mobility, and so she lives inside her own head a lot by writing erotica and tweeting obscene things into the void. I liked how the book discussed sex and disability, and how despite being wealthy and from a good family you can still be looked down upon if you aren’t able bodied. The ending was so crazy and just flips the entire book on its head. I did love it but I’m also just say with my head whirring trying to figure out what actually happened. There is a lot of sexual content which is visceral in gross kind of way and I liked how it forces you to look at the awkward and disgusting aspects of sex. I didn’t think I was going to like it from all of that but by the end it contains a sort of psychological twist which is quite meta-fictional. The more I think about it the more intrigued and impressed I am, I just wish it was a lot longer!

Just as the stories that she wrote were a way for her to survive in society. Maybe I have no brother-maybe I myself don't exist. Down here in the mud, the seeds of life come falling from above, dazzling in their whiteness.

Hunchback started out strong for me, but slowly declined. I really wish it had been longer... it felt like it was building toward something that never fully landed. I didn’t get the chance to truly know the characters, and that left me wanting more depth. The premise is powerful. I expected this to be a book that would shift or enrich my perspective, especially since the main character lives a life so different from mine, facing struggles I can’t even begin to imagine. What drew me in was hearing the voice of someone who is physically limited but doesn’t let that dampen her sexual desires or experiences. That angle felt fresh and necessary. If it had gone deeper and given more space to the story, this could have easily been a five-star read for me.

Boulder (2020) by Eva Baltasar is as dark and bleak as the cover suggests. It is also raw, addictive and intense. One aspect is optimistic though: it turns out there are places in the world where gay people do not suffer for expressing their sexual identities, queer couples are treated with respect, and their love feels as natural as air. For example, Iceland, where this novella is set, seems to be free from homonegative attitudes. I wish I could enlist my country here but truth be told, I have goosebumps when I imagine what Samsa, Boulder and their daughter's life would be like in Poland, where the ruling party holds and freely expresses negative feelings towards LGBT people. In his famous Meditation XVII John Donne argues: No man is an island entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main; Eva Baltasar begs to differ. Some people are independent islands and their efforts to belong, to be a part of something are doomed. For example, the protagonist of this novella. There is a grain of irony in Boulder's name: the main character and narrator, two in one, turns out to be much more fragile and less dependable than a rock. This theme appealed to me much more than the love story or the parenting drama part. Boulder is a study and a chronicle of a relationship gone awry. Unfortunately, none of the conclusions sounds like a revelation, more like advice from women's magazines: poor communication leads to disaster; love is a neverending project which requires engagement, devotion and time from both partners; you have to be assertive in the relationship because sacrificing your own needs leads to frustration. From the very beginning, it is obvious that despite physical dominance, it is not Boulder who sets the rules here but Samsa: She doesn’t like my name, and gives me a new one. Then more demands follow with no consideration of what Boulder thinks/wants/needs. These conclusions are never told expressis verbis, they are veiled in poetical prose but hover in the air. Eva Baltasar has published ten volumes of poetry so I hoped I was for a real treat. The stylistic cocktail which the author serves consists of opposites: the trivial and the lyrical, the crude and the tender. Unfortunately, these registers did not blend smoothly here. Manneristically short sentences are overloaded with similes and metaphors. Besides, some passages sounded oddly familiar, for example: Her quiet body opens like a peony or She looks at me. I feel myself die a little. Please, note that I am an outlier here. Almost everyone marvels at Eva Baltasar's writing style. I am trying to imagine homophobic readers' response to Boulder, provided they reach for it someday. Would this novella reduce their hostility and stereotypical beliefs about homosexual people? Would it be an eye-opening experience teaching them tolerance and understanding? Samsa and Boulder's problems are so relatable, heterosexual couples face them also. Or perhaps quite the opposite: would this book be grist to the mill of the homonegative attitudes? How would prejudiced, anti-gay readers react to Samsa and Boulder's flings, to the fact that their relationship is based mostly on physical intimacy? Fingers crossed for my first theory. Two Women by Carl Hofer.

i appreciate that we're finally starting to see deadbeat lesbians enter the literary canon in a beautiful way. also i think there's a refusal in commercial literature to depict sexual desire between women as anything but purifying/soft/liberating/empowered—which is not to say sexual desire between women cannot be those things. but sometimes you want to read a book about women objectifying each other.....trying to eat each other whole......being unhealthily horny....this is that. having said that, i enjoyed the concept of this more than i did the execution. at first, i was vibing to the vignette-style literary ruminations (sans dialogue), but i think about halfway in, the overwhelming amount of similes + metaphors and time skips started grating. this felt more atmosphere- and prose-focused than character-driven, and unless the prose is raven leilani levels of engaging, i tend to tire pretty quickly of the lack of conversation/scene work. there were undoubtedly pretty moments in this, and i think the frame + ending were amazingly unique, but personal taste has brought my rating down to a 3/5.

35th book of 2023. 3.5/4. Hard to tell, so my rating may change. I picked this up in a London bookshop, began reading out of curiosity, and before I knew it, I had read the whole thing there. It hasn't got 2hrs reading in it. Like Still Born (which I'm currently reading and also, with this, on the Booker International longlist), this novella explores motherhood (lesbian motherhood, too) and more than that, the idea surrounding not wanting to have children. The prose is the main feature of the book. It's sometimes a little overwritten, definitely feels like a poet's novel. I wouldn't say it's a dark book, but it's certainly sly. There's a toxicity to it, a cold shoulder to children and the idea of children, even one's own. Seems to be a recurring theme of this year's longlist looking at Mother is Dead, too. Honestly I think this year's is already better than last year's and I've only read two and a half from the list.

** spoiler alert ** Another ok if underwhelming for me International Booker shortlister, we have here a novella that supports the old truth of “don’t agree to have a child just to save a relationship.” Samsa from Iceland feels a strong desire to have a child. Her long term partner, a Chilean woman she nicknames Boulder for her solidity in standing apart, feels a strong desire not to. Samsa, as a well-read person can foresee, changes greatly after the baby enters the scene, at least from Boulder’s point of view, and the relationship ends. I don’t see how a reader could feel anything much about the troubles in and finally the ending of this relationship, as Baltasar puts scant effort into bringing it to life despite putting us there from its beginning. With little apparent in common, all that seems to hold them together on these pages is lust, which I wouldn’t think is often sufficient glue for a decade long relationship in which one partner leaves their home continent and reluctantly agrees to have a child together. It’s not really about the relationship, then, it’s about the effect of motherhood on women. And it’s not the same for everyone, naturally. Boulder, who guards her personal freedom fiercely, often losing jobs for not working well with others, sees it very negatively: The moment she was inseminated, Samsa changed. The feeling I had was one of unfamiliarity - an anxious, nomadic unfamiliarity that came from Samsa. It took over her while at the same time soaking through her and turning her radioactive… motherhood is the tattoo that defines you, brands life on your arm, the mark that impedes freedom. You know what they say… when you’re associating pregnancy with being turned into a cockroach, you aren’t a fan. And of Samsa’s motherly love for the child, rather than being something positive, to Boulder “it’s more like a parasite that has usurped her and now rides her in victory.” Boulder sees Samsa’s personal freedom as something being taken away by this love and connection. Samsa on the other hand seems to be pretty happy with motherhood. She enjoys being a mother, breastfeeding, going to infant swim classes, meeting up with other new mothers, co-sleeping with the baby, spending her days with her. Her career meanwhile seems to have lost its appeal, as has having sex with Boulder. This all leads Boulder at the novel’s end to think in regards to Samsa that “I look at her and see a woman who has sacrificed her own self-worth for the well-being of a child”. Which seems entirely unkind and wrong to me: Samsa seems rather to have increased her sense of self-worth, as she’s found more personal meaning in raising a child than in a career or the freedom of being child-free. Boulder is unable to comprehend such a choice improving one’s sense of self-worth; she completely fails to understand Samsa. In contrast to Samsa’s happiness, Boulder informs us that “I don’t believe in this island and I don’t believe in happiness, or in relationships, or in children, or in God.” I can believe that her character has that dispiriting outlook; I have a harder time believing these two characters stayed together for so many years to get to the events of this story!

Update 2: It has been apparently long-listed on the Booker International 2025. I think it has got a solid chance to win, sadly:-) If it does, I will then really write a big and not very congratulatory review:-) This exhausting and mediocre book with a lot of superfluous intertextuality, an occasional sparkle of surreal imaginary and moments of literal and figurative navel-gazing seem to make people who read it very pleased with their intellectual taste which I always find a bit trying. Having said that, if the prize would finally lead to the translation of the two remaining parts of his Orbitor, I would be happier overall. Update: apparently it has won Dublin award and will be published in the U.K. very soon. I feel I will have to write a proper review at the end. It seems to be getting a lot of praise. But on this one, I seem to be a contrarian:-). I was underwhelmed. I loved his “Blinding”. I still regret that only the first third was translated into English so I would not be able to read the whole book anytime soon. But this, in my view, is the paler, less inventive meditation on the same themes. Surreal, sometimes beautifully so; baroque, excessive but repetitive in some parts. Derivative in others. It is also full of pathos and Existentialism on the level of a teenager: would you safe a masterpiece or a child from a burning building? The question is helpfully answered for us not to despair, but it takes 800 pages. And the endless sequences of dreams that seemed to be taken verbatim from the author’s older diaries were as tiresome as they usually are in the novels: revelatory only to the dreamer. This novel (though the narrator prefers to call it anti-novel) has been highly praised by others and I might write something more in depth to show more nuanced opinion. There were many elements I enjoyed. But for now I am glad to “escape” not unlike the narrator of the novel constantly searching for “escape” routes. I agree it might be easier in my case. The translation is superb though.

The highs of Solenoid are maybe not quite high enough to justify the slogging, self-indulgent, lows. And it’s hard to call a book with such incredible sections of prose and such moments of ideological brilliance a failure, but I do think in some ways Solenoid is a failure. This is in part because of its instant reputation as one of the great books of this century, but more interestingly by the parameters with which the narrator/author is defining the work internally. This is a book that purports to be transcendent, an internal exploration of the author’s mind for his own purposes, destined to be burned a la Kafka’s diaries. But it exists in our hands as a novel (very overtly in belief of its own brilliance), published and incapable of fulfilling the promises of the content. When the author asks “Could he have levitated with his pockets full of glory?” I think the answer is “no”. When he writes: “He is satisfied with the false escapes he promises his readers, the false, illusory doors painted on the thick walls of the museum of literature.” It rings hollow. The novel promises to be more than novel, it promises to be the escape plan from the confines of our three dimensions, an impossible standard for a book to hold itself to. In this way it reminds me of the recent academy award winner “Everything Everywhere All at Once”, although this a much more aesthetically engaging work of art. But it feels like both of these intense, heady explorations of higher dimensions, these attempts to follow the forking paths of an exponentially diverging universe, end in the same trite places - although at least that movie leans in to its emotional core throughout. Solenoid on the other hand only accepts that inevitability at the very end. That doesn’t take away from some brilliant moments of surrealist imagery, particularly early in the novel and then again right at the end, which is definitely the strongest section. There’s a particular fascination with insects and the microscopic which lead to some really incredible sections. And there are some really memorable stand-alone pieces of prose. And some chapters - the descriptions of sleep paralysis, the anti-death picketists, and the Borgesian faux-historical figures - were really well done. But if the standard we’re holding this humorless 600+ page monster to is canonization, I’m not convinced of it. “I was enveloped in a fear that I had never felt before, even in my most terrifying dreams; not of death, not of suffering, not of terrible diseases, not of the sun going dark, but fear at the thought that I will never understand, that my life was not long enough and my mind not good enough to understand. That I had been given many signs and I didn't know how to read them. That like everyone else I will rot in vain, in my sins and stupidity and ignorance, while the dense, intricate, overwhelming riddle of the world will continue on, clear as though it were in your hand, as natural as breathing, as simple as love, and it will flow into the void, pristine and unsolved”

Longlisted for the Booker Prize But if the different bits and pieces of his life, rising, lofted as if by a bubble of force from below, are arranged in a messy spiral of hours and years, then mightn’t it be the case, mightn’t there be a place, mightn’t there be an angle, from which you could see the whole accidental mass composing, just from that angle, into some momentary order you could never have noticed at the time? Mightn’t there be a line of sight, not ours, from which the seeming cloud of debris of our days, no more in order than (say) the shredded particles riding the wavefront of an explosion, prove to align? Francis Spufford’s previous novel Golden Hill was deservedly much acclaimed, winning a number of awards for debut novels (which as an aside was slightly odd, as to me his debut novel was the fascinating Red Plenty, which was marketed as non-fiction). His latest novel, Light Perpetual, to be published in 2021 (thanks to the publisher via Netgalley for the ARC), was inspired by the real-life V2 rocket attack in November 1944 which struck Woolworths in New Cross. See here for some eyewitness accounts: https://ww2today.com/25-november-1944... Spufford explains the background to Life Perpetual: For the last twelve years, I’ve been walking to work at Goldsmiths College past a plaque commemorating the 1944 V-2 attack on the New Cross Road branch of Woolworths. Of the 168 people who died, fifteen were aged eleven or under. The novel is partly written in memory of those South London children, and their lost chance to experience the rest of the twentieth century. The book would have been finished sooner had I not taken a detour through the back of a wardrobe (This last a reference to the fact that between Golden Hill and Light Perpetual he wrote a novel to fill a gap in CS Lewis’s Narnia series, but one that the estate of the author did not authorize and so which may only be published in a decade or so when the copyright on the novels expires) The UK publisher hails Light Perpetual as ‘ingenious’ and the US one as a ‘boldly inventive novel tracing the infinite possibilities of five lives.’ Which, unfortunately, I think it to missell it. The novel’s concept is to imagine 5 children who might have died in the attack (we actually get very little detail on them pre their death) and then to imagine their lives if they hadn’t died. But it doesn’t really work - what we get is an account of the lives of 5 people who were children in 1944 in New Cross (which oddly becomes the fictitious Bexford in the novel, rather incongruous with an otherwise detailed recreation of London) but one where the link to the bombing isn't really relevant. Kate Atkinson this isn't. The story itself is a beautifully written sketch of London life during the period 1944-2019 (the story skips decades giving us snapshots of the five protagonists in different eras, their stories only occassionally overlapping except for two who are sisters) albeit one that was a little sentimental for my taste (perhaps an odd comment in a book with drug addiction, bulimia, mental health issues and a racially-motivated murder but the book has a strong and compassionate heart at its core). It also has a strong musical flavour that may work for other readers but which didn’t click for me. Overall for me rather a disappointment but largely as I was expecting something more formally ambitious and what the novel was, although executed well, isn't my style of novel. 3 stars for me although approached as what it is, I can see other readers appreciating this far more.

Come, other future. Come, mercy not manifest in time; come knowledge not obtainable in time. Come, other chances. Come, unsounded deep. Come, undivided light. Come dust. At the sentence level, Light Perpetual feels kind of remarkable — the language is lyrical, the scenes rich in specific detail, fates ebbing and flowing like the roar of a crowd at a football match — but overall, as a novel, it feels kind of pointless. I understand why Francis Spufford wrote this book (daily walking past a memorial plaque at the site of a London Woolworths that had been bombed during WWII — killing 168 people, including 15 children — Spufford decided to bring a fictional five of those children back to life and explore what those lives might have been had that bomb never landed), but beyond the satisfaction of playing God and resurrecting dead innocents, there’s really no literary payoff in this novel. Spufford imagines five ordinary, often unhappy, fates for these children — none of them goes on to cure cancer or prevent 9/11; the world seems utterly unaffected whether they live or not — and with just the one timeline given, with no contrast with how the world would have looked if they had died as children, the central concept feels like a big so what? (By contrast, Paul Auster’s 4 3 2 1 describes four different lives that might have played out for one character had small differences occurred in his surroundings; and while I might have found it a bit dull and self-indulgent, I understood the point of it.) This book is fine; I didn’t find it literarily strong enough to have been a real contender for this year’s Man Booker Prize, am not surprised it didn’t make the shortlist, and I could have skipped it without feeling poorer for it. Had some lovely sentences, though. He gazes. A rose-coloured scratch is travelling on the blue, high and far. The last plane of daylight. The celestial clock is evolving and bringing on the night. Even happiness can’t stop it. Time is his friend now, but it goes by so fast. There’s a truly surreal prologue in which the destruction of the Woolworths is described and then we are invited to imagine an alternate reality in which some hiccup, failure, some tiny alteration, sent that bomb off course. The novel then starts properly five years later, in 1949, with a class of schoolchildren having their Singing Class and we are first introduced to the five: Jo has a beautiful singing voice, and synaesthetically, sees music as colours; her twin, Val, is more interested in boys than singing; Vernon is a piggish bully who wishes he had a good singing voice because he is helplessly in thrall to music’s beauty; Alec is clever and smart-mouthed; and in a separate scene, we meet poor little Ben, undersized and scatterbrained, as he attends the footie with his Da. From here, the timeline jumps ahead fifteen years at a go (to 1964, 1979, 1994, and 2009), and in each period, the characters’ basic traits are pretty much what they had been as children. Spufford does add some incredibly detailed scenes that must have been the result of extensive research — the operation of a linotype machine at a major newspaper, the mechanics of writing a song and laying down multiple tracks, the routine of a double-decker bus conductor in London’s core — but they were more like impressive vignettes than scenes integral to the story. And Spufford introduces a bunch of issues — schizophrenia (which can apparently be cured by the love of a good woman, and an exorcism), labour strikes during the Thatcher era (but are we honestly meant to support the typesetters’ right to do their job forever at the dawn of the digital era?), neo-Naziism (but does anyone buy the explanation for Mike’s need to crack skulls or Val’s inability to leave him?), and bulimia (and honestly, this granddaughter seemed written into the plot just so Spufford could make her sick. Why?) — but these seemed more for colour than as points of entry into exploring the changing social scene over the decades. There are stories here, but not a satisfying novel. People say the world gets smaller when you’re dying: but there it still is, as astonishingly much of it as ever. It’s you who shrinks. Or you who can grasp the world less, who can take hold of less and less of it, until you’re only peeping at one burning-bright corner of the whole immense fabric. And then not even that. Einstein said that we can live our lives as though nothing is a miracle, or as though everything is, and that may have ultimately been Spufford’s intention with Light Perpetual: He writes five incredibly ordinary lives here, maybe daring me to say that these lives were not important enough to write about. Either all of our lives matter or none of them do; we are either all miracles or none of us are. We all amount to dust in the end and the world is poorer for it. There’s a nugget of something interesting there, but it didn’t carry the novel for me.

I struggled with this book until about 60% of the way through. Spufford manages beautiful climaxes for his characters, but there is a huge amount of set-up work in the first half which almost lost me. I loved the premise, but it didn’t work in practice - it felt like a rather gimmicky frame for the individual stories and doesn’t really add anything much to the mix except a bravura creative writing exercise in chapter 1. Spufford’s exquisite prose by itself is worth 3 stars and there are some good things in this novel (especially if you stick with it all the way through). Update 27/7/21 - This has made it to the Booker Prize longlist! To be honest, I’ll be surprised if it progresses to the shortlist.

3.5 stars. The characters shined in the second half of this novel and, for some, I developed deep affection. I found the first half difficult to penetrate (and remember each character) as there was a big gap from childhood to adulthood and this meant I struggled to reset and re-engage with the characters. I would have liked some more frequent and shorter sections on each character in their early years as I established who they were. The relationships and challenges each character faced were the highlights of this book. It liked the idea of creating alternative futures for these children and it was achieved in an honest and realistic way.

3.5 - I did really enjoy this one but I feel like I would have enjoyed it more as a collection of short stories? It was a bit too disjointed and overwritten for me but I did really like it!

I found this a bit of an up and down read. It was interesting in patches. I really liked the premise of the book, and having loved Golden Hill was keen to jump in. It brought some unwelcome reminders of Thatcher’s Britain and I generally found the whole book too pedestrian for my tastes. Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.

Well I guess I knew what Spufford was trying to do here, but I just don’t think it was done very well. Light Perpetual starts with a literal and figurative bang. The first chapter is out the gate EXCELLENT writing. From there? Fizzles like a sparkler at the end of its thread. In the end I felt like this novel had a lot of potential, that just wasn’t realised. For the most part, I was unmoved by the exploits of the 5 protagonists as they grew up. There was the odd moment of redeeming stuff in the final third (I’m thinking that last scene with Vicky) but this was just an okay read for me.

The frame of this story – five children surviving the Blitz in 1944 unlike in real life – is interesting but, alas, remains undeveloped. Spufford rather focuses on developing individual, almost short story like segments that are poignant at best, yet my own readerly expectations looked forward to some sort of innovative treatment of the protagonists’ alternative futures. A good read that will unlikely stick to my mind.

Spufford's latest left me a bit puzzled. After setting up a dramatic prologue in which five children die during the Blitz bombing, he then goes on to tell these children's lives in episodes right up to the present. Sadly, it wasn't at all obvious to me, what the purpose of the prologue was. If he just meant to chronicle the nation's recent history through the biographies of a group of diverse people, why did they need to "die" in the Blitz first? The various biographies were grippingly written and very entertaining. However, only getting glimpses of their lives and jumping forward decades in between means that my understanding of the various chracters tends to be a bit sketchy. I enjoyed reading it, but ultimately I fail to see the point of some of the narrative decisions.

What if? What if a V2 missile launched from The Netherlands during World War II didn’t hit London and killed five children in the process. What would’ve happened to those kids? This is the only connection these five storylines have over 60 years (and some mashups here and there). A book about the lives of five London people, living or no longer living in the big city. In a way it was even more impressive not to have the connection mentioned anymore after the first beautiful chapter, yet, I also missed “the connecting thread”.

5 children who were to die in a German bombing in 1944 at a Woolworth store survive. Then the novel revisits the characters every few years to look in on their lives. It was good but not as good as I’d heard.

There's some wonderful writing in this novel. Some individual stories that stand out. But I most struggled with the point of this novel. The premise is simple, this is the imagined lives of five children who were killed in an air raid during WWII. What would their lives have looked like in 15 years? 30? etc. For the most part, their lives are pathetic and sad. There's definitely a shot of realism to their stories, but not much hope. So is the author's intent to illustrate they were better off dying before they had to suffer? Or that living sucks? And in the end, there was no clarity for me, as a reader. These characters didn't live these lives because they'd died. So what? And what if they had lived these lives? Why does this story need to exist? I think this novel would've been more enjoyable without that initial detail clouding everything that came after.

It took me nearly half the book to get your invested and interested. 5 main characters… I barely liked 2 of them. The writing is a bit strange, overwrought with descriptions that don’t feel effortless and often redundant. This historical shifts were well done albeit one sided and a bit too Pollyanna for my taste.

a booker prize longlisted fitzcarraldo edition? that's like an incantation to guarantee i'll read it. this has some moments of real brilliance, especially in dialogue, but ultimately this story of bereavement and punishment and loss and grief and travel and change gets too bogged down in attempts at subtly and mysteriously conveying all of it. i tried to work myself up to liking it as it crescendoed to its limp reveal, but the big swing of the final chapter knocked my chances out entirely. bummer. bottom line: this is a not-bad book, but it's a not-good one just as much.

The plot of One Boat is pretty scant. A woman visits a village in Greece when her mother dies and then revisits the same village nine years later when her father dies. She meets an assortment of characters and then revisits the same characters. The author brings two distincts strengths to the table: the beautiful descriptions and his philosophical discussions. Unfortunately, as a fan of more minimalist prose, I don't care that much about the former. And the latter felt a little too much like "telling" (as opposed to showing) to really light my fire, but I did find the topics and insights quite interesting. The ending chapter kind of has a "twist" to it, and I think that it was original and to me, as an avid reader, interesting. The book has many of the qualities I liked in Audition, a fellow nominee on the Booker longlist, but the setting and characters definitely didn't interest me as much and the suspense was not as high.

Echoes of Rachel Cusk's trilogy. Half-way through the book I read the blurb on the back only to find an unforgivable hint to a major spoiler in a book which was never plot-dependent to begin with. Very disappointing... or maybe I'm just a bad reader. I struggled with the defiantly unlikeable narrator, but was more uncomfortable with an unlikeable, first-person narrator, mentioning more than once her handsome-rather-than-pretty looks and other icky things for a male author to impose on a female character. I'm not saying that men can never write from a woman's POV, I'm just saying that this author was not wholly successful in the attempt... at least for this male reader. The last chapter which does for the rest of the work what the last chapter of Rejection tried to do also fell a little flat. I've just talked myself down a star. Not terrible, but not terribly good.

(3.5) Halfway through reading this, I found another Goodreads review comparing this to Rachel Cusk and that’s when the familiarity I was sensing finally clicked. Even though it doesn’t quite hit the same heights as Cusk usually does (for me), I quite enjoyed getting lost in the writing here. P.S: would’ve loved to read this on a beach in Greece instead of my less sunny hometown, but alas. Maybe that’s why I was so eager to spend time with the narrator, looking at the boats in the bay.

In the wake of her father’s death, a woman returns to the small Greek town where she mourned her mother nine years earlier. The narratives of her two trips are interwoven, and fragmented, making it difficult to follow at times. Buckley is vague about the location and the character of the narrator, as if he intends to wrongfoot the reader into making assumptions. It’s a complex novel that refers to Homer, and one in which I was never absolutely sure what was going on; the sort of thing Fitzcarraldo often publish, which, though I enjoyed parts of it, feels overdone and turgid, like it’s intended to be a mission to get through.

I was gripped tbh which is saying something because attention span has been rough recently. Don’t think it managed to do enough with what it wove together. Also yawn writers writing about writing. Bit clumsy.

One very long Paris Review short story. Come on man booker judges... give me something good PLEASE 2025 Man Booker longlist ranking: 1. Love Forms by Claire Adam. 2. One Boat, Jonathan Buckley. 3. Universality by Natasha Brown. 4. The South by Tash Aw.

Jonathan Buckley’s One Boat is a quiet, meditative novel that asks readers to sit with the ordinary and find meaning in its stillness. Buckley’s prose is elegant and deeply observant, sometimes to the point of obsession, but always with intention. The absence of heavy backstory gives the book a certain lightness, even if it occasionally leaves you wanting more to hold onto. What makes One Boat linger is the language itself. Buckley captures the smallness of life with stunning turns of phrase that seem to pause time. Like: “I am proficient, and so I don’t fall, but I am not in charge.” A beautiful contradiction tucked inside a quiet moment. Or: “The openness of the smile… made me flinch. Exit… into memory.” It’s a subtle, reflective read. One that rewards patience, even if it moves at the gentlest of paces.

3.5 A very well-written and thought-provoking book that touches on themes of self and memory. Though a bit navel-gazing, I think the philosophical musings were well placed. I fear that the disjointed timeline hurt the overall narrative, especially when placed alongside these aforementioned musings. We also have a dual timeline that I found difficult to distinguish. What made this distinction easier was the characters and the way each felt older. It's important to note that this is different from them feeling like they have changed because some of them do have qualities that have stayed the same - a highlight for me in this book. It takes a gifted author to write a static character and still make them feel as if they have lived a full life, and Buckley did just that! My biggest complaint with the book is the lack of clarity about some of the plot points. I feel as if there was an overall mystery - an inside secret - that was happening between the characters that I did not pick up on. A part of me wants to praise this feeling because it reflects how one may feel when coming back to a place they have not visited in a long time - a feeling our main character shares. Yet another part wants to ask why make everything so hard to see, if you're not willing to allow the sun to reveal what is being hidden?

One Boat is a quiet, meditative novel set in a Greek coastal village. Teresa visits the town after the death of her father to try to process her grief. The story moves slowly, focusing on conversations and reflections that explore mortality, desire, and the meaning of companionship. Much of the narrative is carried by dialogue, giving the book an almost philosophical tone. I really wanted to love this novel, but the long philosophical discussions between two of the main characters strained my patience. Do people really interact in this way? Not in my experience. While the setting and premise were intriguing, the extended exchanges felt artificial and pulled me out of the story rather than deepening it.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2025. I was excited to see a Fitzcarraldo finally nominated after already achieving several nominations on the Booker International lists. And ‘One Boat’ by Jonathan Buckley has all the promises of a worthy nomination – a meta narrative of a woman who revisits a Greek town after the death of her mother. This is a well-written narrative that is philosophical and filled with lines to savour, yet I wasn’t fully satisfied with this one. Especially after the strength of ‘Flesh’ as the last book I read, ‘One Boat’ missed the unique selling point for me. Not that this is not still a great read, and indeed it will resonate more strongly with others, it was overall an okay book from a publisher I usually love.

Three stars only because there are some passages that were worthy of being highlighted. There were times when I felt invested in the story and others where I was rushing to get through it. I actually forgot who the author was, thinking it was a woman author then realized my mistake. I’ll give him congrats on writing a somewhat insufferable female lawyer, fairly convincingly. I do think there is some interesting themes in the story, hense my highlighting but I’m thinking it’s a bit too pretentious for me.

Readable, but also totally forgettable. Despite some strong themes about immigration, domestic violence, and harassment, the tone is casual. That’s a choice I respect, especially in this political environment. However, I couldn't be sure whether this casualness isn't actually randomness. It is an unconvincing choice from this year's Booker, at least for me.

I really struggled with this novel, and if it hadn't been nominated for the Booker Prize, I might not have finished it. This came as a surprise to me, because, on the surface, the plot sounded intriguing, and I enjoyed the first few pages. The story follows a translator in New York who meets with a client who needs to go to the dentist and then asks her to interpret at his therapy sessions. He is young and awaiting the birth of his child, but he is plagued by mental health issues. We later understand that he sees monsters and green dogs and hears voices. Our translator is passive to the point of weirdness. I actually expected some kind of grand reveal, perhaps a spy story. However, it transpires that she is simply very compassionate and naive, and unable to communicate with the world around her. Her relationship with her husband is especially fraught. She also tries to save a Kurdish woman who may be being stalked, and everything escalates. My main problem with this novel is the protagonist, whom I just don't understand. The book wants me to feel a lot and be invested, but I just felt like I was watching someone taking themselves far too seriously, digging themselves into an ever deeper hole and creating unnecessary problems. I think Ledia Xhoga wanted us to understand something about the protagonist and her relationship, but I just found it annoying and boring. Maybe it's in the title: It felt like one of those stories that only exist because no one is talking to each other and the most stupid missunderstandings follow. The second issue is that all the other characters felt one-dimensional and were created solely to fit into the interpreter's narrative. Perhaps this is intended to reflect her perspective, but I really had to force myself to continue reading. While I appreciate the attempt to leave much unsaid, I found what was hidden there just not interesting enough to justify all the fuss. I am glad to see Albanian representation, and I do like the concept of the novel. The prose was also fine if a bit distanced, but it made me expect something more uncanny, something th more than what the novel delivered. It's not a horrible offering and has interesting parts, but it's not a contender for my short list.

kind of a fever dream-esque book with engaging writing, but it feels like a novel that isn’t quite sure what it’s trying to do. i think it would’ve worked well as a short story, trimming some characters and focusing more on the narrator’s relationship with her client alfred.

Promise I’ll write reviews for these past couple books ❤️ been busy

This book was longlisted for the Booker this year. It concerns an Albanian main character living in NYC who translates for a living. Like this year's Booker winner, Flesh, I think the main character keeps a lot of trauma repressed inside. Both main characters are Eastern European & both are "making it", living in America/UK, being "successful" (of a sort) in their respective lives. In Flesh, the male MC seems to glide along, not feeling or experiencing a lot of inner anything (at least as far as the readers are concerned), letting life wash over him for good or for bad. In Misinterpretation, the female MC is constantly parsing, processing, analyzing, & replaying things to the point it's hard to know what she is doing irl vs. imagining; she becomes an unreliable narrator. (view spoiler) I'm not quite sure what to think of this book but I do think it's interesting to consider in conversation with Flesh. Similarly to Flesh, opinions seem to be sharply divided among readers. Overall, I very much preferred Misinterpretation.

Vocational jobs can intrude into one’s personal life, and this is the story of one such case. The unnamed narrator is a woman originally from Albania living in New York and working as an interpreter for other immigrants. Her husband, Billy, is a film producer and, aware of her absolute dedication to some of her clients, asks that she takes a break, and focuses on translation instead. But she takes on Albert, a Kosovan Albanian refugee, initially to help with a dental appointment, and then at a therapist, where he attends for traumatic stress after the war. She helps a Kurdish woman desperate to evade a stalker and a former client who needs a new immigration attorney, at which point her relationship with Billy struggles further, and they agree to a trail six month separation during which he takes a residency in Hungary. While he is away, the interpreter just falls deeper into her work, to the point where she mixes with some desperate and dangerous people. This is a debut novel, and it reads a bit like that. The overall thread is an absorbing and convincing one, but tangents meander and interrupt, never getting fulfilled. It is to Xhoga’s credit though that she does nonetheless create moments of tension, and relevant and believable characters.

This is the kind of book that feels like it should have been great, but instead lands somewhere in the middle. It has everything going for it: themes of language, identity, the immigrant experience, the quiet erosion of relationships. There are glimpses of greatness, like the narrator’s reflection on living between two countries and how one life always feels more “real” than the other until the roles reverse. But the rest? Honestly, it felt undercooked. The novel gestures at big ideas without ever fully diving into them, which left me frustrated because the potential was right there. The writing itself is smooth and occasionally engaging, but the story never really decided what it wanted to be. At times it felt like a fever dream, at others like a meandering character study, and in the end, it didn’t commit strongly to either. I kept wishing it had been a short story focused tightly on the narrator and her client Alfred, instead of sprawling across so many threads. By the last stretch, I was skimming just to finish, and if it hadn’t been longlisted for the Booker, I’m not sure I would have. Readable, yes. Memorable, no.

For me, this book ranks at the lower end of three stars. Not one single character, not even the relationships between them, seem plausible. Despite following along topics that yield such literary potential (immigration, marriage crisis, domestic violence, family trauma (…) to name a few) the book feels like the author just freestyled throughout the pages, coming up with another happening or super random side story every two pages. The emotions were not believable, character development did not make any sense. Everything was random, nothing was deep.

This is the end for me. I would be fine with Flesh, Audition, Seascraper, Love Forms or Misinterpretation winning (Rest of Our Lives is too ... unliterary.) The rest are really bits of nothing. But really Flesh or Audition should win. If I could go back in time and tell my past self what to read out of this list, it would really only be Flesh and Audition. So anyone reading this review... those are the only books you need to read! 2025 Man Booker longlist ranking: 1. Flesh by David Szalay 2. Audition by Katie Kitamura 3. Seascraper by Benjamin Wood 4. Love Forms by Claire Adam 5. The Rest of Our Lives by Benjamin Markovitis 6. Misinterpretation by Ledia Xhoga 7. Endling by Maria Reva 8. Flashlight by Susan Choi 9. One Boat by Jonathan Buckley 10. The Land in Winter by Andrew Miller 12. Universality by Natasha Brown 13. The South by Tash Aw

This is Booker Prize Nominee 3/13 for me. I liked this one, but not nearly as much as Flashlight or Endling. This is a novel that tackles so many things at once. It’s a thriller, a commentary on domestic violence, a book featuring magical realism, a love story, a family drama, a political commentary on immigration, etc. While there were many things I enjoyed about this one, it doesn’t stick out to me nearly as much as the other two Booker Prize nominees have. Overall I think it’s a great debut novel, quite lofty, but unfortunately just covered too much in one novel. 3.5 stars rounded down.

The start of this book felt promising and then devolved from there into a waterfall of one dimensional characters, miscommunication masquerading as an expose on language and just an overall boring story. It wants you to look at cultural identity, empathy, trauma and belonging, but feels like it breadcrumbs all of these themes to point it feels frenetic. The writing was nice and there were some points that had me very engaged but overall this was a bit of a letdown. 2.5/5

I felt paranoid the entire book and wanted it to be over quickly, but perhaps that was Xhoga's goal. The only time I smiled was at the shoutout to KGB bar lol

An unnamed Albanian-American interpreter appears to be professionally successful, happily married, in the midst of a pleasant New York cosmopolitanism, when several encounters with clients and contacts destabilizes her life, casting doubt on her marriage, risking her career and even threatening her safety. Largely contemplative and insular, Xhoga writes an intriguing first-person account that delves into the ambiguity of communication: how we talk to each other, how we keep whole truths from those we love and those we don’t, and the problems that arise from the lack of clarity these interactions provide. I’m a sucker for first person narratives: the doubts inherently sowed into the words on the page, and how those doubts present readers unanswerable questions about what the protagonist decides to tell us. The strength of MISINTERPRETATION is its wholehearted embrace of this, sitting very comfortably in the discomfort of a narrator unsure about what she can say those she crosses paths. That said, I still felt rather nonplused, the slow meditations felt draining, the writing a bit mundane. This novel was fine but did not have the verve I am looking for.

Misinterpretation by Ledia Xhoga is one of this year's longlisted contenders for the Booker Prize, and is set in New York City, where the Albanian protagonist lives with her husband, Billy. In the course of her work as an interpreter, the unnamed protagonist agrees to work with Alfred, a Kosovar torture survivor who believes that the pair share a special connection. Following her meeting with Alfred, the interpreter's life and marriage start to unravel around her. 📚 I've seen a fair bit of hate online for this book, and heaven forbid that I be a dissenting voice of uncharacteristic positivity, but I actually quite enjoyed it. Yhoga explores some complex themes, from love and language to the immigrant experience. To me, there was something interesting about the contrast between the protagonist's personal misinterpretations and the professional precision that she was expected to employ, and I was left with the sense of a well-intentioned individual who knows all the correct words to say but still finds herself utterly incompetent relationally. 📚 I liked the author's take on immigrants belonging to two different nations while simultaneously not belonging anywhere, and there was some loose commentary on boundaries, from the protagonist's lack of personal boundaries to the geographical and emotional boundaries between her two lives. Unfortunately, while there were obvious connections and parallels, they were never explored in any depth, leaving me questioning exactly what the author was trying to say. 📚 In spite of that, I appreciated the pervasive sense of unease that I felt while reading, which was skillfully drawn out. I also became quite invested in the central marital relationship, although I do think the book was more lengthy than it needed to be, and it was a little tedious in the middle. 📚

I just finished and I’m still waiting for something to happen. This novel flirts with the almost, the missed, the passing, the misinterpretation, the uncertainty and the transitory, which to me is intrinsic to the New York City immigrant experience, but the narrative didn’t land anything quite enough to mean anything I could take away. A couple of memorable scenes will linger with me, but I’m left sad the opportunity I wanted this book to grasp wasn’t taken.

Longlisted for the 2025 Booker prize. Sadly not one of my favourites and I became bored near the end of the book. It did nothing for me and I didn’t give a damn about the characters. The narrator is an interpreter which takes her all over even abroad at times. Billy her husband feels she becomes far too involved with her clients. And wants to cure everything they’ve been through as Sunday’s refugees fleeing war zones. Thus causes her to become too attached to them. The writing is quite good but it just didn’t grip my interest as much as other books did and I skimmed the last couple of chapters to see if anything remotely exciting happened. Not for me unless I totally missed plot.

3.5 lovely writing plot did not feel complete in a way

Too disjointed and clunky. Has its moments, but too few and far between. Might improve on a reread. 2.5 stars

rtc

Hmm what are you trying to say, Kazuo Ishiguro? I really don't know. Did I love Klara and the Sun? No. Did I hate it? Also, no. While this seems like quite the polarizing book for everyone else, it didn't really elicit any strong emotions in me. In fact, if I had to sum up my feelings in one word, it would probably be "meh." We start off with Klara at the store, hoping to be chosen as the Artificial Friend for a family. Since she's a robot and the story is told from her perspective, her narrative comes across a bit robotic and detached. But it fits the tone of the story, and I really enjoyed reading her growing awareness and insight. And I'm not afraid to admit that her search for her "forever home" tugged at my heartstrings. But I got a little bit confused soon after because I'm not sure where Ishiguro is trying to go with this story. The potential for something profound is there, but the narrative doesn't get anywhere close to that. And when we reach the ending, it feels convenient, as if the author ran out of steam or doesn't quite know how to wrap up all the concepts he introduced. With this being science fiction, I have to make a comment on the science part. To me, it feels clumsy and not at all well thought out. The technology comes across as both more advanced than our current world with AI, but also less advanced with Klara's lack of understanding for how humans function. There were also concepts referred to throughout without explanation until much later in the book, and it created this artificial sense of bewilderment that I didn't really see the point of. Overall, it was hard for me to know what to think of this book because it didn't say much. There was a lot of potential, but it ended up only scratching the surface. It feels unfinished, with a fluffy slapdash ending that didn't even come close to addressing any of the worthwhile topics in here. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

I was super into this book in the first half and could have easily given it 4 stars. It was charming to see the world through the eyes of an innocent and optimistic AI, and the audiobook narration added to the whimsy. I was excited to see all the potential developments unfold among the protagonist and the family she lives with. Unfortunately, the story didn’t go anywhere from there. There weren’t any groundbreaking observations of human nature, nor enough emotional stakes to make the book special.

This was ok but sort of missed the mark for me. Interesting plot but lacked real impact.

As my first Kazuo Ishiguro book, I was pretty excited to read this. Indeed, I've had it on my shelf since the first week it came out. Now that I've finally read it, I have to say that I feel let down. The writing is fine, and everything is well-paced; my main issue here is with the story itself. Klara is an AF (Artificial Friend). Outside of her store, she can see everything- the Sun, the people passing by, the Cootings Machine emitting Pollution (don't expect an explanation for that as Ishiguro doesn't provide one), and within the store, she interacts with other AF's as well as Manager. She's taken with this girl who comes to her window one day, promising that she'll come back for her, which she eventually does. The story then moves from the store to her new home. Now during this part of the book, a lot happens. Unfortunately, I didn't find much of it very interesting or engaging. The girl who comes back for Klara (Josie) is sick, and there's a whole storyline about her interaction with Rick, a boy her age, and her mother. We don't know why Josie is sick, or even what's wrong with her. This is probably the part that frustrated me the most with this book. Ishiguro owes us no explanations about what's happening in the world he has built- that's lazy writing. As readers, we have our imagination for that. But in using Rick as the antithesis of Klara, a little explanation or backstory would have been appreciated. It's obvious Klara is one of the privileged children in her society, and without explicitly pointing us in that direction, the writing suggests that she was selected (or "lifted") for some kind of genetic modification. On the other hand, while obviously gifted in his own right, Rick is poor and struggling. Living on the fringes, his mother struggles to get him into a good college. Again- we don't know anything- we don't know why Josie and her family are privileged and Rick and his mother aren't. With as much pathos on display, the book still managed to keep me at a distance where I honestly didn't care much about its characters or what was happening. I hate to say it, but at times, I was bored. And let me not start with the whole sun motif because I did not get it. I'm pretty surprised that this was chosen for the Booker longlist and I'd be even more surprised if it was shortlisted, but maybe I shouldn't be- it's Ishiguro we're talking about here. He's hugely popular and has previously won the Booker in addition to the Nobel Literature prize. It's just unfortunate that as a first time reader I was so underwhelmed. Here's to hoping that Never Let Me Go (I read it already years ago and remember nothing, so I’m gonna count my re-read as the first time) will be a better experience. Update: I'm glad this did not make the Booker longlist.

3.5/5 another Black Mirror esque story that made me overthink everything lol artificial intelligence is super scary and really makes you consider all the ethical issues surrounding it. overall, i really enjoyed this and liked the little mysteries due to reading from Klara’s perspective. think it started stronger than it finished but still great :)

This is an interesting collection of short stories about a wide variety of people--from beach boys in Mexico to traders in derivatives, and three people trying to become a family. In sometimes almost surrealistic ways, they all try to come to terms with the world they live in.

"There's a sweet, heavy, electric smell of thunder and sweat. There's a time, between when the rain appears in the clouds and when it hits their bodies, the guests refuse to believe it. They're still lying there, in 24 rows of 20, with glossy tanned stomachs and sunglasses on because they've paid to lie in the sun. The drops fall and prick the sand dark, shattered by the plastic of the beach chairs, multi-plying, impossible to tell apart from the sea and the sky and the beach." After the Sun collects weird fictions, dealing with very odd concepts and ideas. It doesn't wear this outlandishness on its sleeve either, choosing to immerse the readers in a pot of water slowly coming to a boil. "Alvin" follows a chance meeting of two men and their foray into derivative trading; fairly straightforward but undercut by its ending. "Rachel, Nevada" is about an old couple who move there after their children's deaths and slowly join the local alien obsession. "Me, Rory and Aurora", set in an uncertain future, revolves around a strange love triangle & addiction to strange drugs. The most bizarre story of the bunch though is "Bad Mexican Dog". It's the longest story here, divided non-continuously in two. Arcane rituals, uncanny undertakings, eerie mixing with the hyperreal; it's quite brain melting. Eika definitely has a flair for crafting highly original stories with peculiar premises that throw conventions outside the window. It's well translated by Sherilyn Nicolette Hellberg from Danish. (I received a finished copy from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.)

3.5 um. what the fuck

3.5 Off to a storming start after the release of the International Booker Prize longlist this morning. This is a fascinating short story collection that takes us around the world delving into intimate stories that really seem to explore queer relationships in all sorts of forms. Like many collections, this one is uneven, but there are a few gems here. I have heard this is one of the weaker books on the longlist, and if that's the case it sets a pretty high bar.

I'm not sure what to make of this collection of stories. Interesting but perplexing combination of sexual politics (maybe?) with some science fictional elements added into the mix.

Strange, weird, bizarre and truly queer biology implemented into human intercourses. Imaginative exercise in describing most exploated topic in art. And at the same time whole unsettling scenery set — yet bodily-ruthless, is deeply rooted within earthly infatuation or tenderness.

it felt like a novella with interruptions. also made me uncomfortable but not really from its weird/surreal elements but moreso its plot points. that said the surrealism and imagery was really nice!

Short story collection with some pretty gruesome stuff. Two are hard hitting, others not quite as good.

Literally when I was typing this, the book was shortlisted for International Booker Prize 2020. In one sentence, if you are a fan of the classic magic realism a-la One Hundred Years of Solitude , you will probably like this book. And it is a harder call, if you like me are not armoured with this work by Marquez. I personally prefer Borges and Cortazar. For the first two chapters, I really thought i was going to admire this book. For a while now, I've been trying unsuccessfully to find something good from modern Iranian fiction. And for the first two chapters of this novel, I enjoyed the blend of the family's story with Iranian history peppered with traditional Central Asian folklore. It reminded me a book of old Persian and Tadjik fairytales I've read as a child. But then i realised that the story is being told by a ghost of the 13 year old girl burnt to death, but still pretty much present in the life of the family. And it went downhill for me from there. All the usual magic realist tropes were present there: the ghosts in huge quantities, the rivers of tears, the stopping of the time, the women's exodus to look for their dead children, black snow falling etc., etc. It was very pity as the other mystical elements of traditional Persian storytelling were buried for me in this hotchpotch. There were two more things which rubbed me in a wrong way. The first was the simplification of the politics. The story is told from the perspective of a well-off cosmopolitan family who became the victims of the Islamic revolution. They endure enormous personal loss. But they still manage to drive an expensive American car and build a huge house in a remote village. And I felt the story was understandably full of angst and bitterness not only for the victims but also for their lost cosmopolitan life style. What was missing for me is why and how so many poor people supported this barbarous regime at the first place. They are represented at the book at best misguided and at worst barbarians with the "calloused hands" murdering alive mermaid. Another thing I did not like is how Azar re-imagined the last days of Khomeini. I thought it was primitive. I have to admit that I personally do not like when the dictators appear at the novel without good reason and the authors are trying to speculate about their thoughts and characters. It is often happens with Hitler or Stalin. I do not mind when a whole book is devoted to the one of them or when they have just cameo appearance. But trying to re-imaging their thinking in an episode normally does not lead to a good result. Here, I doubt Khomeini was so much afraid that he wet himself or he devoted his last minutes thinking about his first masturbation. Why do we need it in this novel? And now, the last maybe minor complaint - love scenes! At the middle of it all, all this violence, all this magic and all this realism, we have two scenes which borderline cliches. Here we go: "The man plunged wildly into her and she grabbed greedily at his hardened loins. Later, when each of them remembered that wild, rebellious night in the recesses of their heart, they could not recall, how many times they climaxed inside each other... three times?" And guess what? "At the end, they found themselves high upon the enlightenment of love". I was so happy for them, but i was glad that they got it over with. That was page 112. I really dreaded that would continue. Fortunately, after one more chapter with another two characters, the torrent of love-making activities described as above have subsided. Now, to good things. I have to admit, i've exhausted my energy somewhat writing about what i did not like. But I liked the poetic language in many cases. I think the incorporation of Persian folklore was successful, if only it was not mixed with the magic realism that much. I enjoyed her forays into Zoroastrian traditions. The scene with the fire and the enchanted villagers was really memorable. Though I do not share her excitement with Zoroastrian religion. She seems to juxtapose the Islam and Zoroastrianism. But i think, she herself shows that in extreme the older traditions could be as well self-destructing. Another element I really appreciated was her intertextuality. She and her characters love books. It shows all the way through the novel. I was not particularly excited by the lengthy lists of books' titles in the text. I did not think they brought much. But I loved the poetry she quoted. And closer to the end, I've discovered the new author, Herve Bazin with: Viper in the fist. A mixed bag for me, but I can see why people would like this novel.

This is a novel on the verge between contemporary lit with magical realism and fantasy. I read it as a part of monthly reading for May-June 2022 at Speculative Fiction in Translation group. The story starts with its title – one day in August 1988, Roza, the mother of the protagonist gets on the highest greengage tree in their family grove to achieve enlightenment. This happens when her only son Sohrab is executed by a firing squad in Tehran, together with hundreds of other prisoners of the Iranian regime. This is a grim start, but the continuation won’t be much easier. This is a story of a family that had a long history of ‘manias’: “If there is one thing we inherited from our forefathers it’s this mania; a mania for new things. For impossible things.” and these manias can be from innocuous like collecting sea shells or enjoying poetry to more exotic like levitating after learning with Indian yogis and Tibetan monks. After the 1979 Islamic Revolution, which considers all these deviations as sins or misdemeanors, the family moved from Tehran to a small village named Razan, among other things in order for the women of the family not to cover their heads each time they leave the house. The family is rather small – Mon, Dad, two daughters and a son. In the first chapter, we glimpsed the fate of the son and in the second we find out that our narrator, a thirteen-year-old says to her mother: “Have you forgotten? I’m not going to grow up!” and soon it is confirmed - (view spoiler). What follows are a series of tale-like stories, some from the past, others from the present, some quite mundane like a kid accidentally murdering his family, others – quite magical, like ghosts of Zoroastrian keeping the family and the villagers warm during a cold winter. The magic here is behind every corner, jinni, ghosts, and mermaids; but it is tale-like, without a structure, as is common with fantasy. It is a part of life, neither more nor less important than saying hello to one’s neighbors or tolling in one’s garden. The story tries to emulate One Hundred Years of Solitude by Gabriel García Márquez, the book mentioned several times in the novel, but it quite quicker goes to supernatural and instead of generations as in Márquez’s book, there is a family plus flashbacks. It is interesting to note that one of the ways to escape the dreary present is plunging into the past, to the time before the Arab invasion (that’s 1400 years ago!) and plundering the ancient Persian culture by simple-minded fanatics. A similar approach can be seen in works of some Soviet Ukrainian authors from the 1960s to 80s, who sometimes saw salvation in returning to villages from Russified towns or to the past, either Cossacks of the 14th-15th centuries or earlier, to the times of Kyivan Rus. The story is interesting, but it isn’t a book that grabs you, there is too much tragedy to make it into a page-turner. “I don’t care if people’s lives are divided into before Nowruz and after Nowruz, or before the Revolution and after the Revolution, but in my family, it’s divided into before the Arab invasion and after the Arab invasion.” After that event Mom always said Arab invasion, not fire or burning . . . She still insists on the fact that they came and burnt, plundered, and killed. Just like 1,400 years ago.

SECOND READING | MAY 2020 So I made it the whole way through this book this time around, which is a very good sign! But, I do have to mostly stick with what I said last time. I think it's beautifully written, but I still really struggled to follow what was happening. I think every time I got a grasp on a character, the story would then switch to someone else and I couldn't keep track of who was who. Like I said, extremely beautifully written and much deserving of the accolades it's been given, but I just don't think this is the book for me. FIRST READING | MARCH 2018 I hate to do this for another Stella Prize read this year, but I don't have time for books I'm not enjoying. I made it 112 pages into this one before giving up. The thing is, I thought it was beautifully written for most of those pages but I found the style and plot so confusing that it ultimately wasn't worth it. I'm starting to think magical realism isn't my thing.

Moving, Imaginative, Powerful. I was disappointed to be honest. It really didn't meet my expectations sadly. RTC.

i absolutely adore reese witherspoon and enjoy her book club choices, but this one isnt quite the hit i was expecting it to be, unfortunately. i appreciate the dialogue this story opens about heavy topics such as racial inequality and ‘white saviour’ complexes. racism is a topic that tends to be discussed in fiction, but focuses more on the aggressive and antagonistic part of it. this is the first novel ive read where white people treat POC fairly, but only because they think it makes them a good person/better than everyone else. its just another form of racism that i havent considered much and is really eye-opening. that being said, i couldnt get on board with the writing. i understand this is a debut novel, but wow. the writing just did not click for me. its disjointed, has no flow or pacing, the dialogue is either forced or cringy, and it does not leave room for me to bond or relate to any of the characters. its quite unfortunate. the message of the story is important, i just wish it had been executed a little bit better. ↠ 2.5 stars

2.5 stars. An easy read that lacked the emotional connection and powerful punch that I had expected. This book is all the buzz lately. I couldn’t wait to dig in and see what all the hype was about. I’m not sure if the overhyping is what made me feel like I was missing something or this simply wasn’t a powerful book for me. Yes, there are some very heavy topics covered within these pages, but the way they are presented didn’t impact or resonate with me. From start to finish the narrative made me feel distanced from the characters and storyline. I never felt completely immersed in their lives. It was like I was being told this story without being given the opportunity to truly experience it. Often times the dialogue felt awkward and somewhat forced which further distanced me from the characters. I didn’t like the way the changing perspectives overlapped - it often felt choppy and lacked flow. Overall, it was an easy, quick read, but not one that lived up to my expectations. Please read the many raving reviews before deciding on this book, as I am clearly the outlier. Thank you to Edelweiss for my review copy!

This book was so different from what i thought it would be. Everything that it says in the synopsis happened in the first chapter so i was really worried about what the rest of the book was about. I was pleasantly surprised as i read on. This book is actually about performative activism and how white people tend to use black people to get further in their lives. You have the main character’s boss who has a very weird obsession with the main character where she wonders what Emira- the main character goes to sleep while she’s breast feeding and you also have the white boyfriend who is the one recording the situation that happens in the first chapter and how he tends to speak over Emira at times, it shows that even white characters are trying to do right they’re still speaking over black characters. Aside from the very important topics, this book was messy as hell and i really fuck with that.

"Such a Fun Age" by Kiley Reid is a bit of a miss for me! Alix Chamberlain is a 33 years old white woman who has life all figured out! She's a Blogger with scads of followers, has a handsome news-reporter husband, two beautiful young daughters, a lovely home and a new book deal. Yep! She's got it goin' on! She's the 'Boss'. Emira Tucker is a 25 years old African-American woman who doesn't know what she wants to be when she grows up. Maybe it's more about finding the right job and making the right choices. She's not sure about that either, so maybe not. She's the 'Babysitter'. Late one night while out dancing and drinking with friends, the 'Babysitter' is asked by the 'Boss' to take her oldest daughter, Briar away from the house after an unexpected disturbance. The 'Boss' suggests the local high-end market down the street as a safe place for them to wait until the 'Boss' calls them back. Seriously? So picture this: An African American woman holding a white child in a high-end market late at night, not dressed for work and smelling of alcohol. Can you guess what happens next? The 'Babysitter' is approached by store security, questioned, accused of kidnapping and the police are called. The Babysitter is humiliated, angry and uncooperative. Other customers stop to watch. One customer pulls out a cell phone and begins to record the incident. Mr. Chamberlain is called and defuses the situation immediately. Enter Kelley Copeland, the customer who recorded the incident. He offers the recorded video to Emira but she's not interested and prefers to forget the incident ever happened. So is that really it? What if the incident isn't forgotten and the recording surfaces later? What happens then? There is no shortage of 'hot button' topics in this book: Relationship challenges, styles of parenting, varied economic levels, blatant racial profiling and innuendo of 'living on the fringes' of mental illness. Alix is a little over-the-top and I have to admit, 'cray-cray' appropriately comes to mind here! No joke! I had trouble liking any of the main characters with the exception of sweet little Briar. She was so special and unique! I felt sorry for Emira and wanted to help her but she can't make a decision about her future. She continues to spin in place while her life revolved haphazardly around her. Alix and Kelley are horrible and all the friends of everyone are annoying. Not connecting with the characters is always a big deal breaker for me! Even with the important topics, this story feels too full. Too much going on. Too many friends with too much dialog. I wanted a break from all the busyness and chatter. It was just too much for my ears to handle. I was on overload! Perhaps this is an example of when reading rather than listening would have been the better choice for me. With that said, Nicole Lewis did a fine job with her narration of this story! Really superb! Now, I'm off to thoroughly enjoy my next amazing read...

3.5 stars I decided this year to write my thoughts about every book I read, looking back I remember nothing about some books or not even my general impression. I honestly don’t have much to about Such a Fun Age. It was indeed such a fun book yet dealing with serious and important issues. I was debating whether to read this book or not but I'm glad I did. It was a good audiobook and the narrator did an amazing job. I can see why this book is hyped. I liked Such a Fun Age and there was nothing wrong with it. I enjoyed this novel but it's not a book I'd remember or that'll stay with me (hence the 3 stars). It's one of the audiobooks I'd recommend if you're an audio person, though.

3 stars “I don't need you to be mad that it happened. I need you to be mad that it just like... happens.” Such A Fun Age is such a hard book for me to review. I think the story is interesting, and it’s most definitely an important book to read, but I’m not sure if I liked it, and I know I didn’t like a lot of the characters. I liked Emira, but everyone else… not so much. The writing was okay but I never got invested in any of the characters or their stories. I wanted to love this one, but it was just okay for me.

Such A Fun Age is Kiley Reid’s debut novel that’s been getting a lot of attention and I am here for the success of a black woman writer. In Such A Fun Age we meet twenty-five year old, black babysitter, Emira whose insurance is about to expire and needs to find a “real job”, the problem is, she has no idea what she wants to do with her life….none. Emira baby sits for Alix Chamberlain, a lifestyle blogger and influencer who recently move to Philly with her two daughters and husband Tucker who is a News Presenter. Emira is smitten with Briar who she’s formed a strong relationship with and looks forward to babysitting. When Alix called her late one night to come over and take Briar out, Emira shows up- no questions asked. It was during that late night outing with Briar that Emira was accused on camera by a security guard for kidnapping. Emira is mortified but stands her ground, Alix while furious does not know how to handle a situation like this, which led to a break down in the relationship. In reading the reviews for this book I realize I am in the absolute minority. I did not like it….there, I said it. I wanted to be in the group that loved this book. Here are the list of things that did not work for me: 1. While it was a pretty easy read, it felt very surface level. I am of the opinion that a book can be an easy read and deep. I felt a lot of the issues eg. Racism and white privilege was glossed over and not addressed with the importance that it deserved. For example- Kelley using the N-word and Tucker being a racist. 2. I understand that Emira is just twenty-five years old but I felt her lack of ambition was startling. Sis had no clue what she wanted to do with her life… while that is (not) fine, she also didn’t have any goals… I just could not even take her serious. The lack of ambition really threw me off. 3. Emira as a character was so aimless, unformed, one dimensional and a general push over- this infuriated me. Even though Emira was the character we spent the most time with, I still did not feel like I know her. 4. Alix was just eye-rolling to be honest. 5. The problem from the past that came into Alix and Emira’s life was so ridiculous I could not even handle it. Here is Alix still hung up on something that happened to her while she was in high school- COME. ON. I could go on and on but I will stop with this list. I really really wanted to love this one, I even selected it as a BookOfCinz Book Club read for March but this missed the entire mark for me.

2.75 stars Okay but why isn’t this book a thriller?? Because I can totally see those characters in a thriller book. The mother and the boyfriend were so unlikable, you can’t help but think they belong to a thriller. That being said, this wasn’t a bad book, it just wasn’t the emotional hit or the powerful book I expected it to be. Or maybe It just wasn’t for me, I guess. ”I don’t need you to be mad that it happened. I need you to be mad that it just like...happens.” So I really disliked the mother and the boyfriend. They were getting on my nerves and maybe that’s what the author wanted, but they were just too much. They both have a huge “white saviors” complexes and they weren’t even subtle about it. The mother was over dramatic and I was rolling my eyes every time she talks. being inside her head was painful. The boyfriend was no better. Everything he says or does just makes me cringe. All the dialogues in the book just felt so forced. It was an easy read with an important message, but I just couldn’t connect and I felt so distanced.

The story is engaging enough, but the writing is stuck in clunkety-clunk. My advice? Wait for the movie.

“I don't need you to be mad that it happened. I need you to be mad that it just like... happens.” Such a Fun Age was a powerful, thoughtful debut that makes me so excited to see what Kiley Reid will write in the future. The catalyst for this book is when Emira, a 25 year old black babysitter gets detained at the supermarket for 'kidnapping' the white child she is caring for. The encounter is caught on video by a bystander, and from there a complicated chain of events begin. The synopsis all happens within the first chapter which caught me off guard. I spent the rest of the book trying to work out what it was actually about, because there seemed to be a lot of unnecessary descriptions and convoluted plot points. Once I decided to go with flow, it became more enjoyable- but I would recommend not going into the book expecting it to be about that inciting incident as it really doesn't play that big a part in the rest of the story. My favourite part of Such a Fun Age was undoubtably the social commentary on performative activism, white savour complexes and class. It dealt with the topics in a nuanced way, where it didn't explicitly say 'this character is bad, this character is good' but let the readers come to their own conclusions. I really enjoyed how developed and morally grey some of the characters were, they felt like people I have known in real life. That being said, some of the dialogue felt a little... off. I can't quite put my finger on it but it felt stilted and inauthentic. I tried not to let that factor into my enjoyment too much, especially considering this a debut. We follow a couple of different POVs and this book fell into a common pitfall I find with those types of stories. I had a favourite perspective, Emira. Every time we switched back to Alix I found myself wishing we were following Emira again. I understand why Alix's perspective was there, but I didn't enjoy it as much. All that being said, this is a good book. The beginning and ending was really well done and the themes were tackled in a nuanced yet approachable way. I would recommend this book for those new to the literally fiction genre, or wanting an own voices book about performative activism and microaggressions. While it wasn't my favourite book ever, I got something out of it and am intrigued to see what Kiley Reid comes out with next!

This was... fine! I have no strong opinions on it whatsoever. I enjoyed it well enough while reading it, but I don't think anything from this will stick with me. Although it is a piece of autofiction, I never felt a genuine connection to the author, and the ending felt somewhat unsatisfactory. This leverages a satirical narration voice, which helps bring the story some levity. Raimo's eccentric family is interesting, and I liked her reflections on grief. It sits somewhere in the middle of a coming-of-age and reflective memoir, and the lack of commitment to either has me torn between the two. On one hand, I like the idea of writing a memoir without claiming to know all the answers or having grown into a new person, but it also left me wanting more of a purpose or intent behind the selected scenes. Her relationship with her brother in particular felt a bit haphazard in execution. All this to say - a completely inoffensive book that left me as the epitome of no thoughts, head empty .

Quite a strange, coming-of-agey novel about a writer who is essentially writing anecdotes about how messed up she and her family is. The book felt a lot like it was just episodes of the narrator’s most traumatic incidents as it kept just moving from one disturbing scene to the next and filling in the gaps with a bit of dry humour. I’m not sure I ever felt like I was fully invested in the book and never felt as though the family were super strong characters. There would be bits where she’d write an odd thing about the brother or the mother and it would be quite funny but then it would talk about another weirdly traumatic thing the narrator went through again. Like being flashed at on the street and having a random naked man come up to her when she was near a lake with her brother. This isn’t a very good review but the book felt kind of disjointed and didn’t have much of a focused plot which I guess is one of the only ways you can write about memories that are quite tainted and hard to talk about. I don’t think this is one of the top books from the IB longlist but we’ll see what the judges think.

It’s 1919 in Kyiv, Ukraine, where things are roiling in chaos. The First World War is over, but the Tsarist Russian empire has crumbled and Ukraine is experiencing ongoing violence as several political factions, including the Bolsheviks, struggle for dominance. The opening sentences leave young engineer Samson Kolechko an orphan, as his father is cut down by the sabre of a passing Cossack on horseback and Samson’s ear is severed. With very few infrastructure institutions still functioning, Samson has nowhere to practice his profession, but when he goes to the police to report two Red Army soldiers billeted with him for thieving, his coherent and literate report lead to an offer to join the police. With absolutely no training other than a couple of hours of instruction in how to shoot, Samson has to learn on the job, with precious little guidance from his superiors. His first big case is a double homicide, and a solid silver femur found on the premises one of the only clues. Interesting because of the comparisons that can be drawn with the current situation in Ukraine and its picture of people getting by in a chaotic political landscape.

In the mad, violent days of the Bolshevik Revolution and Russian Civil War, Samson Kolechko finds himself with two near-impossible tasks. The first task is to stay alive—easier said than done in the Kyiv of 1919. The second task is to turn himself into a police detective as quickly as possible. Andrey Kurkov’s The Silver Bone begins with Samson’s first (and certainly not last) brush with death and gallops headlong into a tale of corruption, terror, and absurd weirdness. Boris Dralyuk does sterling work translating this odd, often funny, wild tale... Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type. I received a free copy of this book from the publisher via NetGalley, for review consideration.

Kurkov has opted for a more serious approach to his crime as here, he embarks on a series of novels, the Kyiv Mysteries, set in 1919, involving his protagonist, Samson Kolechko, an unemployed electrical engineer who by chance lands a detective job. Though there are crumbs of the signature surrealism of his earlier work here, but it is thin on the ground. What we get, unfortunately for me at least, is a police procedural that is at its best when detailing the Kyiv of the time. It’s isn’t as entertaining as those other historical crime series that come to mind, Mukerjee’s set in Raj-era India, or Celestin’s City Blues Quartet. More than that, it’s hard-going at time, lengthy when it has no need to be, and notably lacking the dark satirical humour that drew me to his writing with Death and the Penguin.

As a disclaimer, I won this in a goodreads giveaway. I struggled with the rating on this one. On one hand...it's not a "bad" book...I just really struggled with keeping my interest. The Silver Bone follows Samson...a man who loses his father in a very tragic way, and in turn also loses his ear. In an effort to make money, or at least fees himself, he joins the police. He becomes embroiled in a strange case involving a cache of stolen silver, stolen patterns for a suit, and curious of all...a femur cast in silver. The underlying story is intriguing. I just felt that the delivery was a bit emotionless. It could be the result of translation, as I believe this was translated from another language. A lot of high-energy things happened...but the action was delivered very flatly. It was hard to get invested in the characters and their interactions. It wasn't bad...it was just kind of bland for me.

This was an interesting story set in Kyiv after the First World War. It was depressing and unemotional and very similar to other books I’ve read by Russian authors. Is it the translation? Or is it the culture? It’s very interesting since I grew up with Russian grandparents and I realize they were also a little depressed, mostly unemotional and very no nonsense. The story was good, the characters rather one dimensional, the living conditions were very bleak and unpredictable. Probably realistic but what a confusing time. And in Ukraine now I imagine it is just as confusing and bleak.

I wanted to like this book much more than I actually did. Revolutionary Kyiv? What a great setting for a mystery series! Unfortunately, the mystery itself is quite underwhelming, and it moves at a snail's pace. The eponymous silver bone, i.e. the thing that finally sets the plot in motion, doesn't even appear until three quarters of the way through. Still, though, it's a fascinating setting. And the first book in a series always has the unenviable task of dumping exposition. Maybe the sequel will strike the balance right.

More of a historical fiction book though there was a crime in it but I think I would struggle to get my Lee Child/Michael Connelly readers to enjoy it. Passable but not jumping to read the next one.

Read in Russian. Unclear why this was nominated for the International Booker. It was entertaining but not Booker worthy imho.

It's perhaps amazing I got on as well as I did with this novel given that I disliked one of its two main voices, from its tone to its very existence. The personification of cancer as a self-aware entity who knows popular song lyrics, reads books, and riffs on art and contemporary political history, just missed me completely as a concept. The lovely and graceful writing about flawed people grappling with faith and religion did a lot to win me over. For instance this passage, in which Lia's mother Anne - who has come across as rather cold and haughty - emerges from a store after receiving a call while in the check-out line from Lia, informing her of her terminal diagnosis, and thereafter telling the clerk and other shoppers this information in a daze and receiving generous compassion: It was waiting for her at the bottom of the ramp, it seemed. That familiar lucid glow, the radiant presence, swelling and singular. Quite unmistakable. For it was love, thought Anne, barely able to stop her body from shaking, from taking flight, she did not know, it was love through which God revealed Himself most clearly. The street was replenishing itself before her eyes. Hello there, she whispered quietly, through her tears, hello again. It was simple and yet too easy to forget, that for all the scripture and prayer, the sermons and services, love was the thing, and as long as she knew it, understood it as her only duty on this earth, He would remain close always. Mortimer credits Marilynne Robinson as an influence, I believe; this passage also put me in mind of Tolstoy's short story Where Love Is, God Is. However the writing had its down aspects for me as well. I could accept the poetry and Max Porter influenced playing with text shape to create spirals and fireworks and other images from time to time, though I tend to think novel text should stay in straight lines in readable fonts. The frequent poetry influenced enjambment, I didn't really care for, ie: Her lips whispered a sorry, God to the ceiling. It lingered and soured in that way a thing does when it is not quite true enough to assimilate into the night. In contrast to reminding me of Tolstoy that reminds me of Rupi Kaur. Not ideal. The last pages come to the rescue again however, being a dazzling and affecting scene of dying with 0% sentimentality. They definitely bump the novel up to a 3.5. Early in the novel, and in her life, Lia had been asked if she'd ever experienced God. Mortimer writes, "she had hoped very privately all her life for a dazzling numinous moment - because how easy it would be to believe, she thought, when given a sign like that. I don't know, she said, honestly. Either I've had thousands or none." Now dying, the final pages give the reader this exchange, with her husband and young daughter experiencing her last moments with her: Soon now, he says, soon now I think. Thousands, I try to say, I think thousands. What's she saying? Something about trousers.

3.5 Torn on this one—did not jive with the writing too much, yet one of the most sweet and sad books I’ve read in the most genuine and good way that I can’t imagine having had the same effect not having been written in this style

Longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize as well as an Oprah Book club pick – an impressive double for a debut novelist under 30. The book opens, in my view, very impressively for the first 150 pages or so with a restrained and distinctive look at what initially seems like it is going to be a combination of say “Days Without End” and “Underground Railroad/Washington Black” and is marketed like that by its UK publishers. For this is US civil war/slave era historical fiction – a period which unfortunately seems a rather unimaginative go to staple for UK literary prize juries (the 2017 Booker for example – one of the best longlists ever in terms of the literary reception and success of the books – had no fewer than three, including the outstanding winner “Lincoln in the Bardo”). Many of those books added an additional element to a familiar tale - be it spirituality, steampunk ("Washington Black"), science fiction ("Underground Railroad") or additional intersectionality ("Days Without End" and "The Prophets" which was heavily tipped for this year's list) with varied success. This one I feel is aiming to be distinctive more on the strength of the writing, and on the quiet message at its core, and that is a hard task to pull off. The novel is set immediately after the end of the war in a small Georgian Town – Old Ox – coming to terms not just with its defeat but with the implications of the emancipation proclamation. The book opens with a landowner – George Walker – walking his fields at night and stumbling across two black men – the garrulous Prentiss and his silent slack-jawed brother Landry. For a fleeting moment he thinks they are a legendary beast his farmer father (from whom he inherited the 200 acre land) told him about and which he saw as a youngster. But rather than any immediate confrontation or violence all of them seem rather lost in themselves - and their meeting only pushes each of them further into their own thoughts (which is what I found refreshingly different about the beginning). The brothers are freemen who have chosen to leave the neighbouring plantation – but have still to resolve on their future plans - Landry in particular reluctant to rush into moving away from a familiar area. And George’s midnight walk is haunted both by news he has heard today from his son’s best friend (a well connected August Webler) that Caleb was killed in the war – news he still does not know how to break to his wife Isabelle. George, who has never been a farmer, but largely survived by selling of properties and parcels of land, decides to channel his grief into starting a peanut farm, paying Prentiss and Landry fair wages to assist him. When Caleb suddenly returns harbouring two secrets, of his own desertion and of his love for August, as well as the scars of some beatings at the hands of those who captured him – he finds that August is about to be married off by his rich father and is unwilling to acknowledge their relationship, and that rumours of his war actions are widespread. George and Isabel always had something of a distanced albeit loving marriage – both largely keeping themselves to themselves, both believing that the other is holding their true selves back. Caleb’s return and George’s scheme to involve the two freemen only seems to exacerbate this sense of distancing. He often had this same feeling in his own home, facing Isabelle: that the space, although shared, had been cordoned off, with invisible lines demarcating who belonged where. They spoke more than they had before, since the night she'd joined him at the table with Caleb and the brothers, but the cold front holding them apart was taking its time in dissipating, and meanwhile he walked around her like a child tiptoeing at night so as not to wake his mother. George’s only real consolation is a whore Clementine that he pays to listen to the feelings that would he thinks make him appear weak if he shared with his wife. Isabel gains strong consolation in a close but non-sexual female relationship with a widow. Further both are considered something of outsiders – even Northerners – in the town and George’s decision to employ two blacks as fair-paid labourers when the town is full of out of work soldiers and other plantations (including his neighbours) are having to adjust to a sudden loss of their entire economic basis – only adds to this. Caleb is haunted both by his own cowardice and by August’s apparent rejection. We also learn more about Landry and Prentiss – their mother having been sold by the plantation slave owner, before that Landry inadvertently became for many years the literal whipping boy for all the others slaves misdemeanors, in a collective punishment devised after two of their number escape. Over time with the monthly beatings he retreated into silence – focused more on the natural world on the sound and sight of running water. For this period the novel becomes very much one of interiors – with the character’s thoughts, their pasts and their inability to communicate, much more central to the novel than their actions, the present day developments around them and their dialogue. And the book is all the better for it – and different both from what I had expected and more standard civil war/slavery novels but without relying on the need for a gimmick or an added intersectionality. But then the outside world intrudes violently and disturbingly on their world – and I had something of an analogous feeling as a reader that the publisher and/or author’s need for a plot intruded on my own contemplation of the novel with a series of violent (but disappointingly cliched) acts and ideas: a brutal beating, a crooked sheriff, a bent judge, a horse theft, a jailbreak, a runaway black man and a pursuing posse, a sacrificial action, an arson attack and a friendship forged on the run. While I would not go anywhere near as far as the back-page quote from Richard Russo that “The result is better than any debut novel has a right to be” – I did think there was a lot of writing promise shown here and I will be interested to follow the writer’s career. I did also feel that this was a more measured and unusual debut than say “Real Life” by Brandon Taylor on last year’s Booker shortlist. That made the classic debut novel mistake of packing in too much of the author’s autobiographical essays and other writing ideas/exercises: this by contrast reads very much like a fully formed novel although one I wish had stuck to its initial understated intent rather than feeling the need to spiral into action. The Booker Judges citation to me implies that it was more the first part of the novel that engaged them as they said how they were incredibly impressed by the way it probes themes of trans-historical importance—about race, sexuality, violence, and grief—through meticulously-drawn characters and a patient examination of their relationships And on the characters I would say that those of George, Landry, Prentice, Caleb and particularly Isabelle are definitely meticulously drawn. The portrayal of Isabelle and George’s lengthy marriage and of Isabelle’s platonic female friendship with Mildred are (returning to Russo - much better than a 29 year old has the right to write). But those of many others - mainly the bad characters (Austen’s father, the “Sheriff”, the nearby landowner) but some others (a somnolent hat wearing man who suddenly springs to life to save the town, a “tart with a heart”) are more like caricatures borrowed from Westerns or (like Austen himself) rough outline sketches. The legendary beast storyline slightly strained my credulity but I did appreciate the way it was ultimately used with a jovial conversation revealing the truth but causing George to question what he has perhaps seen as the one true friendship of his life and had been looking possibly to reproduce in his relationship with Clementine (interestingly Prentiss too projects a fantasy relationship on to her). I would agree on the trans-historical importance – because ultimately this is a book about how differences need to be set aside and replaced by empathy if a nation is to be healed of racial divides – something as true for America now. I think this is an author to watch in a literary sense, particularly if he can dial down the need to add borrowed plot and characters (which may well have come from editor and publisher) and use the huge success this book will bring him (Oprah and Booker) to be able to forge his own path and write to his obvious great strengths.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2021 This is a formally unambitious, conventionally told novel set right after the Emancipation Proclamation - it's not that it's a bad effort per se, but all the hype suggests that this is some larger-than-life masterpiece, and it's just not (at least not for this reader). It's a good story, told in decent prose. It opens with a landowner named George Walker (not Bush, it's probably more a nod to George Washington plus his ability to cross social and geographical lines, thus Walker) who has moved from New England to the South. He is grieving the death of his son Caleb, as he's been informed that he died in the Civil War. To get to terms with his sadness, he decides to farm his land, which lay fallow for years. In order to do so, he employs two newly freeman, the brothers Prentiss and Landry. Especially Landry is severely traumatized by the abuse he suffered as a slave on a plantation. In a second narrative thread, we hear the forbidden love story of two Conferedate soldiers, and when the stories overlap, tragedy ensues... The Booker has highlighted quite a few novels about slavery and emancipation in the US, and rightly so, and that gives us the opportunity to make some comparisons: Booker winner Lincoln in the Bardo was formally highly ambitious, a challenging read with a stunning final image -great stuff. Washington Black turned a slave into the hero of a fantastical adventure story, and while you could argue about the literary value, it was at least a new, creative concept. The Underground Railroad was a historical novel that worked with portals, a concept taken right out of science fiction, to weave together numerous stories about slaves. All of these books added a new spin, they framed history in a way that allowed readers to gain new insights, they conveyed historical truths in fictional form. As the "Washington Post" points out about Harris' book: "His prose is burnished with an antique patina that evokes the mid-19th century." They mean it as praise, but, alas, I don't want prose that is so conventional that it reads like I was transported back into the 19th century. Please: No patina. The narrative structure is also quite in-your-face. What Harris does well is drawing believable characters and conveying emotions, he illustrates the political standpoints of his literary personnel with great detail and thus manages to point from singular people to the historical landscape at large. That's very well done, but is this exciting, surprising storytelling? It probably comes down to what you expect from a novel and from the Booker: I enjoy historical stories, but I want them to radiate that they have been written now, in our time, thus adding aesthetic and narrative aspects that add layers of meaning. I want the Booker to highlight ambitious literature that stands for the year the respective longlist is published (and a historical novel can easily achieve that, it's just a question of how the story is told). Harris is certainly a talented author, but I'm sure he can do more than this. The truth is: This novel bored me. It reminded me of The Water Dancer, a book I wanted to love (it's by Ta-Nehisi Coates), but couldn't. If I decided what was on the shortlist, "The Sweetness of Water" wouldn't be on it.

Longlisted for 2021 Man Booker Award The Sweetness of Water is full of surprises. It is a debut novel and one of the most unevenly written books I have read. The first half of the book is outstanding. The setting is a small town in Georgia, Old Ox. It is just after the Civil War, and George Walker, a white southerner, is hiking across his land when he comes across two newly freed slaves, Prentiss and Landry. George has been contemplating planting his land with peanuts, and Prentiss and Landry need work. Their dream is to travel northward and search for their mother, who the plantation owner sold before the war. Prentiss and Landry agree to work for George only if he pays them the same wage he would pay white workers. George concurs, and this simple act of decency creates such controversy that George and his family become the focus of malicious gossip. As a result, the majority of the townspeople slowly ostracized them from the community. Nathan Harris does an excellent job creating an ambiance of violence, hate, and resentment that underlies a thin veneer of civility. I recently read Isabel Wilkerson's book Caste, and I felt like I was watching the underlying structures of Jim Crow take hold. However, as the second half of the novel unfolds, there is a crime, a murder, and the writing and character development become uneven, lacking the subtlety of the first part of the book. There are some poignant scenes, but there is also much overwriting and melodrama. I especially had difficulty with Harris' portrayal of some of the female characters, which at times seemed like well-meaning male fantasies. For example, there was Clementine, the hooker with a heart of gold, stoic Isabelle, all-giving and forgiving mother, wife, and savior, and Martha, her perfect best friend. While these characters were likable, admirable even, they are a bit too good. Despite my criticisms, I feel that Nathan Harris shows excellent potential as a writer. I will be curious to read his next book.

It dawned on him that there was less to fear than he’d once imagined, which was maybe a truth he’d long wished to believe — that all danger carried the faint trace of comfort, all wrongs the hint of what may be right. How else to explain a world of cruelty that had also carried in it the great joy of watching his mother at the mercy of Little James’s fiddle on a Sunday afternoon, the miracle of a fresh tick mattress, the sweetness of water after a day spent picking in the fields? Set after the Emancipation Proclamation and before the actual end of the American Civil War, The Sweetness of Water examines a time of incredible stress and flux: The Union Army has gone plantation to plantation in the fictional town of Old Ox, Georgia, telling the slaves that they are free to walk away, but where can they go? No money, no education, no social programs, some of the freedmen set up tents in the woods and beg for change in town, some stay on with their former owners — working for little better than slave wages — and some just start walking. In this fraught setting, author Nathan Harris shifts an omniscient third person POV between a large cast of characters — from well-spoken and dignified African Americans to white people who range from ambivalently decent to fools to the depraved — and while at first I was totally pulled into the story, it eventually went on too long and fizzled out for me. Harris definitely got his money’s worth with his MFA — this reads exactly like it was written by someone with an MFA — and while I certainly did admire his sentences, and appreciated what he showed me of this time period, this novel was missing the it factor for me. Ted Morton was a dimwit, a man who, if offered a fiddle, would be as liable to smash it against his own head to hear the noise as put a bow to its strings. His parcel of land bordered George’s, and when an issue arose — a runaway most often — the ensuing spectacle, rife with armed overseers and large-snouted dogs, lanterns of such illumination that they kept the entire household awake, was so unpleasant that George often deferred all communications with the family to Isabelle just to avoid the ordeal. But to find Morton’s former property on his land now carried with it a welcome irony: Emancipation had made the buffoon helpless to their wanderings, and for all his great shows of might, these two men were now free to be as lost as George was in this very instance. After receiving word that his only son had died in battle, landowner George Walker takes a long walk in the woods and discovers two recently freed men — brothers Prentiss and Landry — and conceives of a plan: George, who has never farmed his land (or owned slaves) decides to set up a peanut plantation, using the brothers as well-paid labourers. This serves to ostracise George and his wife Isabelle from their former friends and neighbours, and when a horrible crime occurs, they will realise how deep-rooted the community’s hatred is for the Black folk who now roam free among them. Harris is an empathetic observer of these four characters (overall, he spends the most time from George and Isabelle’s perspectives, and they are complicated characters who end up doing the right things for complicated reasons), and I was very interested to know how Harris would deal with the aftermath of this crime: What would “justice” believably have looked like in that time? And while I was more or less satisfied with how that worked out, I didn’t love that the novel went on for another third of its length, tying up all the loose ends and going to places that were less believable to me. I was intrigued by a forbidden love between two Confederate soldiers (but think that Harris could have done a lot more with that storyline), and while I appreciated that the Black characters were written with dignity and agency, I don’t know if I really bought how articulate they were for recently freed slaves (or, for that matter, how like a therapist savant was the mixed race prostitute with a heart of gold.) As for the white people: It’s hard to imagine what it must have been like to have those Union soldiers come along and free the slaves that were essential to the running of a plantation, at a time when one’s own son could still be off fighting the Civil War, and with the level of systemic racism and ugly superiority that would have made them believe that they were justified in owning people in the first place, it would be impossible for Harris to portray them as anything but angry and aggressive as their systems fell apart. As a result, there are some very unappealing white people in this book — offset by the decency of George and Isabelle and a couple others — and while most of them are violent bigots, some of them are played for laughs: For no other reason than boredom, Prentiss had begun to tabulate the many symptoms that Hackstedde’s girth inspired. The man’s mouth closed only when he needed to swallow; he was unsteady in his chair, prone to falling over but never quite doing Prentiss the favor; his skin was blotchy; and when he breathed, especially after one of his monologues, it sounded like the airy whine of a child nearing the end of a tantrum, so labored that the flame of the candle atop his desk would often flicker. His daughter, a young woman, had brought him lunch wrapped in paper — from the tavern next door, Prentiss guessed. It had been too hot to eat, but after a few minutes Hackstedde stuck his finger in the mashed potatoes, judged the temperature, and commenced. In contrast to what one might expect, given his slovenly appearance, he ate daintily, quietly, and with a solemn devotion to the task, as if it were an act of prayer. The Sweetness of Water employs high-level, well-trained writing, without becoming dense or tedious, and throughout, I was struck by many nice passages: Such comments had once harmed her grievously, yet she’d developed a resistance to such attacks; from the stares in town and the words uttered behind her back. A hollow pit, somewhere within her, where she stored such viciousness away, let it die, then released it to the air to float off forever. She sensed it, somewhere beside her heart, a compartment at her core — her hand felt the spot, let it rest for a moment, before her anger settled and she closed the door to the cruelty of his words. I hadn’t known that the Emancipation Proclamation came a full two years before the end of the American Civil War — or that the Union Army was enforcing it in the South as the war dragged on — so this, to me, was a very interesting time and place for Harris to have explored with his first novel. I don’t know if it deserved to be longlisted for the 2021 Man Booker Prize, but I would be interested to see what Harris writes next.

It's difficult to visualize how a monumental shift in society such as the end of the American Civil War changed the ways in which people related to one another in their communities, but Nathan Harris has imagined one such story in his debut novel “The Sweetness of Water”. Brothers Landry and Prentiss were born into slavery at a Georgia plantation. Though they have left as free men they don't yet have the foundation to build independent lives for themselves and dwell in the forest of a nearby farm owned by a kindly rotund white man named George. While on the plantation Landry suffered immeasurable daily abuse which left him with injuries so severe he can barely speak. Both he and Prentiss also still suffer from the loss of their mother. Since George and his wife Isabelle are also dealing with their own grief and planning how to manage their property for the future, they invite these men to work with them so that they may all prosper. But the brothers' former owner still thinks of them as his property, the locals are wary that the newly freed slaves will take their work from them and a secret love affair threatens to disrupt the social order of this community. The novel follows a series of heartrending events which result from these conflicts and how individuals struggle to insist upon their rightful place in this newly reformed society. Though the central characters are sensitively drawn with many quiet, contemplative moments and evocative dialogue, there's something about this story which failed to fully capture my imagination. I think it's to do with how the high drama of the plot felt so tightly controlled in a way that seemed more manufactured than logical. Read my full review of The Sweetness of Water by Nathan Harris on LonesomeReader

Rating: 2.7/5 This debut novel from Nathan Harris, set shortly after the conclusion of the American Civil War, left me with mixed feelings. The writing itself is very impressive and belies the fact that this is the author's first publication. There is a maturity and deftness of touch that would suggest it had come from the pen of a far more experienced writer. The descriptive language is incredibly evocative at times and some difficult and emotive subject matter is handled both delicately and adeptly. On the downside, I had some issues with the pacing of the novel. This could, perhaps, be described as a "slow burner, but even making allowance for that approach, I found the first 40% of the book quite heavy going at times. Yes, the writing was still attractive, but I was crying out for some impetus to move the storyline forward. The second half of the novel makes for far more engaging reading in that respect. By setting "The Sweetness of Water" in this particular point in history, Nathan Harris is able to home in on some of the major social issues of the day - most notably, though not exclusively, racial prejudice. The concerning thing is that reading this material more than 150 years later, it is apparent these same social issues are still relevant and are far from being entirely resolved.

3 stars = Good and worthwhile. “The language of grief was often nothing more than silence.” Set in Georgia right after the emancipation proclamation, this is a novel about redemption and retribution, filled with both sorrow and inspiration. The sadness is contrasted with witty dialogue that provides welcome moments of dry humor. There were limited passages that I found to be quotable, but the storytelling was solid. “When I look in the mirror in the morning I see a miserable old bastard looking back at me. Yet when I see you, I take great comfort, knowing how much progress I have left to make on that same path.” It was my first novel by Nathan Harris, a satisfying debut, and I enjoyed his quiet, peaceful way of narrating the tale with memorable characters. There are a couple of side plots that were not seen through to their conclusion that I would be interested in following should the author ever write a sequel. Recommended to readers of historical fiction who appreciate narratives exploring the full spectrum of human virtue and evil. “And perhaps that was the great ill of the world, that those prone to evil were left untouched by guilt to a degree so vast that they might sleep through a storm, while better men, conscience-stained men, lay awake as though that very storm persisted unyieldingly in the furthest reaches of their soul.” ----- First Sentence: An entire day had passed since George Walker had spoken to his wife. Favorite Quote: Maybe with time there were parts of the past that could be forgotten, their sway over him toppled, but there would always be certain memories that survived the fall and stood amid the rubble. Monuments of loss.

A great debut by Nathan Harris, a beautifully written book. I almost gave this book 4 stars, and really wanted to give it 4 or even 5 stars. I enjoy reading historical fiction set in the Civil War period, which can also include "westerns." A great example would be " News of the World" set in post-Civil War Texas. But, I'm afraid this fell short of that. The story is a good one, centering on five interesting characters--a white man named George Walker, his wife, Isabelle, his son, Caleb, and two black freedmen who are brothers--Prentiss and Landry. I particularly liked George, who hated farming but loved reading books and hiking in the woods. For the most part, the story moved slowly, which was all right--until I felt it got too slow after 250 pages or so. The story could have benefited by being at least fifty pages shorter. But more than that, the background of the story, which was the Civil War and the beginning of Reconstruction just did not ring true for me. The setting is a small town in Georgia but there is no mention of Sherman, who devastated much of Georgia on his "March to the Sea." Maybe the fictional town of Old Ox is north of Atlanta? We have no idea. A Georgian boy, Caleb's friend August, was sent to help take Fort Myers in Florida. There was a Battle of Fort Myers on February 20, 1865. Florida state militia troops (called "Cow Cavalry") numbering 275 attacked the fort and were repulsed by the black and white Union troops holding the fort. No Georgians were involved and it makes no sense that Georgia would've sent any troops to a sideshow like Florida in 1865. And what were Union troops doing occupying a small Georgian town at the end of the Civil War? Sherman marched through Georgia and didn't occupy any towns on the way to Savannah. Military occupation of the South as part of Reconstruction didn't occur until sometime later. I know these and other details are minor points in the story to be sure but historical details gotten wrong really irk me. When I read historical fiction, I know it's fiction but I want the author to have done his/her research. You might as well set the story in Mordor or on Barsoom. I don't mean to seem overly critical. I did actually like the story and I do look forward to reading Nathan Harris' next book!

Update : Now shorlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 This is the sort of okay book that you don’t want to find on a Booker longlist, but you understand why it was chosen. It deals with the most fashionable subject at the moment (see how Adolescence won everything at the Emmys while being just an okay show): the crisis of masculinity. For me, it didn’t say anything new or in an interesting way. I also understand the comparisons with All Fours, but the protagonist here is so much less compelling. His interests were just boring, and the author seemed too afraid to say anything meaningful about his chosen themes, such as wokism or racism. Anyway, I’m gonna repeat myself. Despite the criticism, this is an okay book. Hopefully, the win was simply making it onto the longlist.

I didn’t feel like emotionally invested in this.

a review in the guardian billed this as ‘a male counterpart to all fours’, a book i didn’t really like much, so it was up in the air as to whether i’d like this. the rest of our lives follows tom, a middle aged professor, who, after his wife’s affair, resolves to leave her once their youngest daughter turns eighteen. 12 years later, when that day arrives, tom drops his daughter off at college and then keeps driving, dropping in on various people from his past. it was a quick read with easy, stream of consciousness writing, but the interesting premise sadly never lives up to its potential and ultimately makes for quite a dull book. it offers up a lot of themes that could be explored well - ageing, marriage, midlife, identity, empty nest syndrome etc - but it never lets itself dig deep enough and therefore the book doesn’t have much emotional weight. the ending just fizzles out in quite an unsatisfying way, and dare i say the ending was a little corny too. 2.75

3.5/5 The Rest of Our Lives is a very voicey novel that places us inside the mind of a narrator whose dry wit, weary intelligence, and sharp observational skills carry us through a sustained examination of the long, uneven arc of marriage, parenthood, and the sudden onset of physical ailments and mental crises that arrive on the other side of fifty. The narrator, Tom, dwells on the granular details of domestic life, all the petty little jabs and subtle manipulations that accumulate between long-married couples. Staying married, the novel suggests, is less about maintaining passion than about accepting the limits of who the other person is and learning to live within those limits. Tom’s narration is ambivalent. He sees himself as a mild person, but his calm surface belies an undercurrent of bitterness. He insists on his devotion to his family, yet does not seem to realize he has built up a wall that keeps everyone out. He critiques the outdated entitlements of powerful white men while remaining too afraid to admit that he is complicit in them. The voice balances humor with sadness, exploring what Tom calls the “heavy tread of middle age on the family stairs,” meaning the absurd and terrifying experience of aging and facing a midlife crisis. Tom embarks on an unplanned road trip across America, visiting figures from his past, and discovers that everyone, as it turns out, is improvising their way through life, dealing with their own set of problems. Though this novel is somewhat lighter in tone, Ben Markovits is a good writer whose insights into the specificities of human behavior felt accurate and believable. The novel succeeds in capturing the fragile, often comic, and sometimes brutal process of reconciling who we once were with the person we settle into as we age. In that regard, it also reads as a deeply American novel, rooted in the particular cultural anxieties of its milieu, yet broad enough to speak to the universal problems we all confront as we grow older.

Tom, our protagonist, is a 55-year-old man, a law professor, whose life seems to be collapsing gently around him. Nothing catastrophic, just… nothing is going well, either. He’d caught his wife cheating 12 years earlier, and said at the time he’d stay till their two kids were out on their own. There’s no reason to believe there’d been a recurrence, but their marriage has since become a tense, joyless thing. So when he takes their youngest to her college dorm, he drops her off and just keeps going. The novel is narrated in the first person, and Tom seems an intelligent and self-aware guy, but, I dunno, there’s just no there there. He seems to have no goal, no idea what he’s doing on this road trip, and the reader is right there with him, lost in limbo. This was short-listed for the Booker, and while it’s not a bad book, I just can’t figure what elevates it into a Booker-worthy read.

About a guy who's been unsatisfied with his life for so long that, after he drops his youngest child off at college, he just decides to drive west — away from wife and home and into the past. Reminded of the 1968 Burt Lancaster film "The Swimmer" which is, similarly, about a WASP-y upper middle class type who decides to "swim home" by plunging into all the swimming pools that dot the route. It's an easy, enjoyable read, but certain things left me shaking my head — like the inability of some folks to just communicate about their issues, both relational and physical. As someone who loves road trip novels, this one ran out of road too fast.

I read this purely because I’m reading the Booker Prize shortlist. If not for that, I’d probably have DNF’d it. Nothing really happens, wasn’t interested in the characters. Not for me but I also didn’t hate it so it’s an ok, 3 stars.

Booker Book 8/13, 5 out of 10: Well, here we are in the doldrums phase of the Booker list, apparently. This book was fine, as far as it goes, a super quick read that feels more like popular fiction than like Booker material. But the blurbs said it was funny, and I never even chuckled! Markovits plays on the well-trod terrain of the middle-class American male mid-life crisis, but have no fear, no one is ever going to say: Updike, Cheever...and Markovits. It reminds me a bit of Tom Perrotta, although Perrotta is much better (even though I daresay he'll never get a Booker nomination). It's entertaining enough but just all a bit flat and inconsequential - and the terrifying health crisis that frames the book gives the book a trajectory but doesn't really bring it deeper meaning. Incidentally, the second Booker book I've read by a Yalie (when did all the writers get younger than me!), although Markovits and I didn't overlap as Choi and I did. Finally, not sure how long its been since Markovits lived in the states, but no one from Westchester ever drove "up to Pittsburgh". Out to Pittsburgh, maybe. That's total trivia but maybe it irked me because it was representative of how our solipsistic selfish narrator never really seemed authentic or real to me.

I was waiting for more, but was left hanging. I am not sure what the point of some of the story was...

Book 9 of my Booker Prize longlist challenge, each year I dedicate my time to reading all the books on the booker longlist/shortlist so I can attempt to predict the winner. (Key word here is attempt) This has led me to read some incredible books, pushing me out of my comfort zone & expanding my taste. Congratulations to Flesh by David Szalay for wining the 2025 booker prize! For the first year ever I was able to correctly predict the winner, woohoo! My full booker prize video of my experience reading through the entire longlist + winner reaction will be on my Youtube Channel! A story about a man as he is reminded of his wife's affair & his promise to himself to leave her once his daughter goes to college. The day of dropping off his daughter he continues to drive, visit an old friend & then drive some more. Seemingly not reaching a destination, lost in his thoughts of the time lost. This was ok. Average. Easy to read, starting off strong. I didn't find myself super invested in the story but I also didn't want to put it down. A novel that others might love, but I didn't resonate or engage deeply with it.

it was fine! but my least fav out of the booker prize shortlist

Was okay! Didn’t like the lack of chapters, beginning and end were interesting but the middle was kindaa boring. Maybe would have been better if read in one go in the sun somewhere!

A pleasant enough read, but a bit surprised about the Booker prize nomination.

I listened to this audiobook this past weekend. There was a certain casualness and relaxed atmosphere to it that I enjoyed very much. Tom is a lawyer that wanted to be a writer. After he dropped his youngest daughter off at college, he decided to keep on driving... Even tho Tom, the main character is a man—he is in his mid-50s, and I am approaching 50—I could enjoy some of his reflections and experiences. He has a mysterious health issue that is an underlying theme in the book. There is a certain aspect in the book that I can see will be viewed as controversial, it deals with race and basketball and I will leave it at that. Overall I enjoyed the book, didn't love it, didn't hate it. Where I feel it is lacking is in its failure to commit to ANYTHING. Tom is unsure of what he wants in life—we are propelled along on this journey of his, witness to his superbly laissez-faire attitude about literally everything. He seems apathetic. Middle age can be very apathetic, trust me, I'm there. I think this was the point of this book. So I find myself at odds, sharing Tom's apathy. Part of me wanted more, and part of me was ok with what was. I feel this is one for those of us who can fall into indecisiveness at times. And with that being said, the more I think about it the more I like this book and may end up changing my rating after I stew on it a bit longer.

** spoiler alert ** As I started to read this book I had to do a double take: this is the one from the Booker longlist? The headlines of the Guardian reviews seemed overwhelmingly positive ‘quiet triumph, an elegant devastating book’ and ‘quietly excellent’ - two separate reviews mentioning ‘quiet’. I was perplexed but no I will stick to my guns. Although Markovits lives in the UK - he teaches creative writing at the Royal Holloway, London where my daughter incidentally studied English Lit. before Markovits tenure - he was born in America and loves basketball. The plot of the novel is basically a sub Updike Rabbit-like road trip by a New York law professional, Tom Layward, who is at crisis point in his marriage (his wife had an affair 12 years ago and he decided to leave when the youngest child went to university - I know talk about revenge best served cold…) and his professional life. After dropping off his youngest child, Miriam, at university, he then takes a semi spontaneous road trip right across America visiting all the significant people and places from his past: his estranged brother, Eric; first serious girlfriend, Jill; a friend from college, Brian, who has entangled Tom in some questionable dealings with an angry young white basketball player; his father’s grave in LA which is also where his son, Michael lives. There are some clever and funny quips and asides, but overall Tom appears to be a very unemotional person: life happens and he responds. In the text there are a lot of mundane descriptions of everyone’s clothes, food, endless short basketball (yawn) and lots of American present day cultural signifiers which left me a bit nonplussed. For me the book was saved somewhat by the last 10%. As a retired medic I was worrying about 50+ year old Tom’s health and it turns out quite justifiably so. Anyway I think the hospital scenes and general family reconciliations at the end weren’t too sentimental and were dealt with quite well. I understand that the author has had similar health issues, like his fictional character Tom,and been diagnosed with lymphoma. Rather like in Endling where real life events interrupt a novel and change its direction. Overall a pleasant although at times irritating but not memorable read. I won’t necessarily be searching out other titles by this author.

3.25 stars Intensely lonely, nostalgic and reflective, 'The Rest Of Our Lives' will leave you feeling hollow after finishing it. I will say, as I was reading this book I didn't feel so emotionally attached to the main character, Tom, even though he shares all of his life experiences in a vulnerable and unfiltered way. I grew fonder towards him as the book went on and by the end I genuinely felt a sadness for what he was and is going through. This book is written like an internal monologue, an endless stream of Tom's consciousness. It almost feels biographical, some details shared are so menial I find it hard to believe his character is a work of fiction. Reading this book felt like watching a documentary play out, especially as it builds up towards the end. I would compare this book to the movie 'Ladybird' in some ways which is quite funny as that's one of my favourite films and this book is defo not up there with my faves at all (even though I did enjoy it) !! It seems to master the 'nothing happens' genre in a way that isn't boring for audiences. It gives a glimpse into the realities of someone's everyday life - even if they aren't relatable to you personally. I feel an emptiness and nostalgia after finishing this book. It is extremely reflective and raises a lot of questions about morality and mortality. Not something I would usually go for but I would say overall I enjoyed it ! some parts did feel a little slow which is a let down as it is a shirt book but I would said the majority of it is well paced - so much distance happens within the books timeline. Thank you to Faber and Faber, and NetGalley for this arc !! **All opinions are my own !!**

I wanted to love this one from the Booker shortlist. I liked the premise (I'm always a sucker for an introspective character on a journey forwards and backwards in life), and the title carries the promise of a weighty punch. But, for me, the story failed on the very promises I was drawn to. To say that this story begins at a rather monumental moment in the narrator's life (after learning of his wife's affair he decided to stay in the marriage until his youngest child left for college. Now the point of leaving has arrived), it just feels very flat and uninvolving. There are some strong themes here—the idea/nature of masculinity being one such example—all of which seem very in vogue right now (some of which have me rolling my eyes) but have probably been done better and more comprehensively before. There's nothing new. The narrator's perspective on these very topical issues just doesn't resonate much with me. By the end, I was left feeling a bit flat, and even less interested in basketball than I was at the start (NB. Basketball is not very big in the UK compared to the US). It was ok. And that's a shame.

Ben Markovits writes Tom, his protagonist, in a brisk and earnest style that is so casual that it is captivating. His thoughts have a flow and guiding tendencies that endear -- a fully convincing life. The reader hears about law school, basketball, and an awful wife, and there's no reason anyone should care about any of it, intrinsically, but this kind of literature isn't about what a character does or says or thinks. It is about who the character is, and on that level, the novel succeeds. Now, someone Tom is very conscious of being is a middle-aged straight white man -- many of the other characters are, too, and they resent or feel anxious about that. Tom, not so much: he hears occasional scoffs and he mostly feels like, okay, I get it... The plot is a parallel lesson in acceptance: in his struggle against passivity, Tom learns about and humbles himself for he must in the end bow to the inevitability of aging. The Rest of Our Lives seems to say that the middle-aged straight white man in America had better find what quiet, individual wisdom he can get in his widely advertised and hard-earned obsolescence as a valued social being. It is a novel that genuflects to the progressive worldview rather than analyzes it. But what else was I supposed to say? When you talk to crazy people, they're all expert in their particular branch of craziness. So you can't win these arguments, you just have to let them talk.

*3.5 This book was better than I expected; maybe it was easier to get through because I listened to the audiobook (which was very well done). I heard so much disappointment that this was shortlisted for the Booker Prize, but honestly, I think it was deserved, and it would probably be in my personal shortlist (mostly because many of the other books disappointed me). My main critique of this book is not the pacing or the plot, where most criticism seems to lie, but in the main character, who seems to position himself as the victim in every situation and seems to view himself as the victim of his own marriage, which he neglects. His wife, Amy, is being framed as annoying and nagging when, really, behind the lens of Tom, she is dutiful and caring. I'm disappointed that this narrative is still so prevalent in literature, I'm hoping the author was levying for a critique.

Whale by Cheon Myeong-Kwang is a multi-generational story about Geumbok, a gifted businesswoman, and her daughter Chunhui, who is physically extraordinary but unable to speak. Their lives unfold alongside a mix of eccentric characters, all set against South Korea’s rapid transformation after the Korean War. Geumbok starts out as a poor village girl but becomes a successful entrepreneur, seizing opportunities in a fast-changing capitalist world. Meanwhile, Chunhui’s immense size and strength make her stand out, but her inability to speak leaves her vulnerable in an increasingly harsh society. The novel introduces many side characters, which add richness to the story but sometimes slow down the pacing, making parts of it feel like separate short stories rather than a cohesive novel. Cheon blends satire and magical realism, creating a book that’s both funny and unsettling. While the book was surprisingly captivating, I found it challenging to fully embrace its unique style. This made it feel like a dark tale with s3xu4l 4ss4ults presented in a detached, almost emotionless fairy tale style (but what can we expect from a straight man writing about such sensitive topics, right?). I don’t regret reading it, but I struggled to fully connect with the story.

Winner of the 2025 Jan Michalski Prize for Literature Shortlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize Who has not plunged headlong into an irreconcilable love affair knowing it has no future, and clinging to a glimmer of hope as flimsy as a blade of grass. Pourquoi durer est-il mieux que brûler ? wondered Roland Barthes, sceptically. Love and common sense are not always compatible. In general, one tends to choose intensity no matter how little time it lasts, and in spite of all that it puts at risk. Still Born (2022) is Rosalind Harvey's translation of Guadalupe Nettel's La hija única (2020). It opens with a eloquent description of the fragility of life expressed through a new born: Watching a baby as it sleeps is to contemplate the fragility of all life. Listening to its soft breath generates a mixture of calm and awe. I observe the baby before me: its face relaxed, squishy, milk trickling from one corner of its mouth, its perfect eyelids. And yet I know that, every day, one of the children asleep in all the cots around the world will cease to exist. It will be extinguished without a sound, like a star snuffed out in the universe, a void amongst the thousands of others that continue to light up the darkness, without its death throwing anyone into disarray. Perhaps its mother will remain inconsolable for the rest of her life; perhaps its father as well. The rest of us will accept the circumstance with astonishing resignation. The death of a newborn is something so common it surprises no one and yet, how can we accept it when we have been so moved by its beauty? I watch this baby sleep, swaddled in its green sleepsuit, its head to one side on the little white pillow, and I wish fervently for it to carry on living, for nothing to disrupt its sleep or its life, for it to be shielded from all the dangers of the world, and for it to be overlooked by the destructive path of life’s whirlwind of catastrophes. ‘Nothing will happen to you while I’m here,’ I promise, knowing, even as I say it, that I am lying, for deep down I am as helpless and as vulnerable as this baby. The novel is narrated by Laura. She and her closest friend Alina are in their mid-30s. both strong feminists, and each has, or had, firmly rejected motherhood, not just for themselves, but generally. But when both women enter relationships, Laura in Paris and Alina back in Mexico, they reach opposite decisions. Laura's partner starts talking about children and she has her tubes tied, behind his back, causing their relationship to disintegrate. When, after a spiritual pilgrimage to Nepal (Laura's philosophical worldview an odd blend of Buddhism and Tarot cards), she returns to Mexico, she finds Alina is undertaking fertility treatment, desparate to conceive. One day Laura gets a call: 'I’ve got good news,’ she told me, ‘and I wanted you to be the first to know.’ She didn’t need to explain any further. I had known her for years and it was enough to hear her tone of voice to know what she was going to tell me. When eventually she pronounced the word ‘pregnant’, my heart leapt in a feeling so close to joy that it threw me. How on earth could I be rejoicing? Alina was about to disappear and join the sect of mothers, those creatures with no life of their own who, zombie- like, with huge bags under their eyes, lugged prams around the streets of the city. In less than a year she would be transformed into a child-rearing automaton. The friend I had always counted on would vanish for good, and here I was, at the other end of the line, congratulating her? I have to admit that hearing her sound so contented was infectious. Although throughout my life I had militated against my sex carrying such a burden, I decided not to wage war against this happiness. This passage is from when Laura accompanies Alina to a first scan to determine the baby's development and, incidentally, its gender, the latter immediately assigning her baby a name, Ines, when she discovers she is having a girl. I wondered what our world would be like if we were given a combination of letters, or images like Cloud over Lake or Ember in Fire, and were left to decide what gender to choose or invent for ourselves. And finally, I asked myself what happens when a child is born with an ambiguous sex, or with two, and, years later– once the doctors, with the parents’ consent, have amputated or closed off the rejected sex forever– this child refuses to accept the gender that was arbitrarily assigned to them? But Alina's pregnancy takes a dramatic adverse turn, when after a later scan she is informed that her daughter's brain is not developing and the baby will likely die immediately after birth: 'But what if she does live?' Alina insisted, perhaps trying to hold on to one last hope, the possibility of a miracle, or perhaps afraid to of this very thing. 'Will she just be a lump without emotions, without any intelligence?' 'If she were to live, then that's how she would be, yes' the doctor said.' But Alina decides to carry the baby to term. Meanwhile Laura becomes increasingly involved with her neighbour and her little boy, both troubled after the death, in an accident, of the neighbour's abusive husband, and takes on a sort of motherhood role of her own. In many respects the novel is a gripping and powerful exploration of motherhood, and indeed of what it means to live. My reservation is the prose style, where powerful passages such as those quoted come between pages of relatively quotidian story. Perhaps that is deliberate - even dealing (I suspect no spoiler alert needed) with a severely handicapped child - has its elements of routine, but it meant a 203 page novel felt too long. The narrative perspective was also odd - a favourite bugbear of mine - with Laura's story in the first person, and Alina's narrated by her in the third, but with little difference between them (Laura forming at times the role more of an omniscient third person narrator) So I can see why others have found this impressive but 3 stars for me.

The obvious quip is that everyone is in fact talking about this. I first read this several months ago and recently re-read it again. The first half is clever and I’ll give Lockwood credit for being modern and interesting even if I didn’t like it. The second half is set up to pack an emotional punch, but it just fell flat for me. The autofiction and genre-bending make this worthy of the attention this is getting. I just personally didn’t enjoy it.

"The words merry Christmas were now hurled like a challenge. They no longer meant newborn kings, or the dangling silver notes of a sleigh ride, or high childish hopes for snow. They meant "Do you accept Herr Santa as the all-powerful leader of the new white ethnostate?" The book is rich with these perfect digressions and Patricia Lockwood gets a ton of leeway for writing the absolutely fantastic Priestdaddy ...but this reads like an advanced AI was fed Twitter posts and Reddit memes and forced to regurgitate a tragicomic novel. Lockwood is a Grand Master Twitter user and there is no shortage of fragmentary emissions here that will elicit an ahahahahaha! (the newer, funnier way to laugh - don't ask me about sneazing) But you still have to read this like a novel and not the endless doom-scrolling consumption the internet invites. And I think that's what broke me. Besides, it's hard to keep up with the online easter eggs. While some memes like the "this is fine" dog can reach ubiquitous status so that even the normies on Facebook are gleefully reposting it as a reaction to the last year, most bits of online ephemera never rise above their brief, blazing week of relevance. We're all ants now? Big Hero 6 suddenly relevant? What's up with Ocean Spray Cranberry juice or Gorilla Glue? Is everyone eating ass now? And just as Twitter can foster an endless stream of hot takes, irreverent shit-posts and ironic trolling it can just as quickly offer up flashes of sincerity and heart. Here too the book switches gears in the second half when the protagonist's sister's baby is diagnosed with Proteus syndrome - mirroring Lockwood's neice's condition that would ultimately take her life at 6 months of age. Lockwood is momentarily seized with doubt "If all she was was funny, and none of this was funny, where did that leave her?” The endless scroll turns stream of consciousness and you remember that before she was writing enigmatic tweets like "can a dog be twins" Lockwood was a poet and memoirist of the highest order. The book didn't fire on all cylinders for me but I will still pick up anything she writes.

It was a marvel how cleanly and completely this lifted her out of the stream of regular life. She was a gleaming sterilized instrument, flashing out at the precise moment of emergency. She chugged hot coffee and then went, “AHHHHH,” like George Clooney on ER, like she was off to go slice out the tumor that had lately been pressing on the world’s optic nerve. She wanted to stop people on the street and say, “Do you know about this? You should know about this. No one is talking about this!” No One Is Talking About This begins so achingly hip and of the moment — written like and about a string of (sometimes familiar) memes and tweets that attempt to capture the experience of they who mindlessly consta-scroll through their various feeds — and as shallow and as meaningless as a life described thusly may seem, the novel takes a swerve in its second part: with a family crisis (apparently one based on author Patricia Lockwood’s own experience) serving to remind the unnamed narrator of what is really important, her life pivots from one of inanity to one of deep meaning. In its overall construction, I found this to be a bit like Brave New World come to pass, but in its details, the midnovel swerve was incredibly radical in a way that no one is talking about. I have to say that the first part — in which, for example, the narrator becomes internet famous for tweeting, “Can a dog be twins?” and then proceeds to tour the world to speak on panels about internet culture — did not really engage me; nothing about “Can a dog be twins” is amusing or provocative to me; I would not stop to read that sentence twice, let alone tweet cry emojis at it in appreciation. So while the first part had me imagining that this novel might be more meaningful to my daughters — on the cusp between Millenials and Gen Z, they are infinitely more immersed in the tiktok-insta-twitterverse than I am — the second part seemed designed to provoke them at the level of their most deeply held personal beliefs and I could not imagine them following where the narrative leads (even if it represents the author’s own lived experience). I understand that’s kind of vague, and I’ll be more specific behind spoiler tags, but I’ll say again that this didn’t really feel aimed at me — there were some nice sentences, but it felt mostly like in-jokes that failed to intrigue me — and the novel’s most radical aspect is the one that no one is talking about. I have no idea if this book will one day be regarded as a perfect time capsule of our moment or if its content was passé the moment it was sent to print. “You could write it,” she had said to the man in Toronto, “someone could write it,” but all writing about the portal so far had a strong whiff of old white intellectuals being weird about the blues, with possible boner involvement. I did not find it particularly charming that the narrator only refers to the internet (or is it specifically Twitter?) as “the portal”, or that she only refers to the otherwise unnamed president of the United States as “the dictator”, but I can recognise that Lockwood engagingly uses her short passages format to experientially capture the feeling of a social media feed while writing about such feeds. The narrator finds herself a slave to the portal — wanting to be aware of all the latest content while trying to create her own next viral post — and the memes and tweets she reads/creates/reacts to are generally vulgar and shallow and heavily ironic, all serving to create a group of people who think exactly the same way: she learns a “funnier” way to laugh, who to cancel (war criminals but also people who make guacamole wrong), and she happily locksteps along with all the latest groupthink: The words Merry Christmas were now hurled like a challenge. They no longer meant newborn kings, or the dangling silver notes of a sleigh ride, or high childish hopes for snow. They meant “Do you accept Herr Santa as the all-powerful leader of the new white ethnostate?” As she travels to the various panels on internet culture around the world, she meets a fellow influencer who admits that his own balls are always somewhere in the pictures he posts online and she laments the fact that she had been banned from the portal for two days after posting a picture of herself crouched over and dripping period blood onto a sculpture of pipe cleaners (labelled THE TREE OF LIBERTY) after the election of “the dictator”, and this type of content is treated as normal and expected. But then the family crisis begins and this novel becomes something else entirely. (view spoiler) “I can give them to her, I can give her my minutes.” Then, almost angrily, “What was I doing with them before?” So, yes, this is, generally, about remembering that real, authentic life happens off of the internet, but in its specifics, No One Is Talking About This is even more radical than that anodyne summation suggests. Even so, it didn’t really engage me (beyond wondering what my daughters would make of it) but it wasn’t a waste of time.

** spoiler alert ** Fair warning: the final third of this book is almost unbearably poignant, and it is to the author's certain credit that she has rendered human suffering with not only great skill, but with wisdom, compassion, and even humour. Quite coincidentally, I had planned on reading Terry Eagleton's newish excursis, Tragedy (before being induced to jumping on the Lockwood train by friend ATG's review), and in the former, TE writes: In the view of some modern critics, philosophers such as Hegel gentrify the unspeakable by insisting that tragedy discloses a rational design. It is a persuasive case, though the very fact that tragic art exists suggests that there is more to the world than pain. Tragedy is not a cry without words. The trauma of the Real for Jacques Lacan lies beyond language, but tragedy remains just on this side of that silence. ‘Language by means of sounds, or better still words, is a vast liberation,’ writes Bertolt Brecht, ‘because it means the sufferer is beginning to produce something. He’s already mixing his sorrow with an account of the blows he has received; he’s already making something out of the utterly devastating. Observation has set in.’ Rather than "gentrifying" trauma, Lockwood makes it speak, and so has indeed done what Brecht suggests in that final third of her book: observing, suffering, mixing, making: they point toward a kind of possible liberation because they document the interpersonal nature of, and possible for solidarity in, a grief that is shared. For the first two-thirds of the book, though, our narrator is observing, sure, the ir-rational design of the "culture" of the interwebs (or the Portal, as she portentously calls it), but she is largely alone in her togetherness with millions of other twitterers, and while we should be eternally thankful that we are in her head-space (in which she interrogates her place in the culture with such typically satirical nano-essays such as...) How were we supposed to write now that we could no longer compare anything to a phantom limb? Was the phrase “the Braille of her nipples” to be absolutely retired? Were we just never to say that someone “inclined her head like a geisha” ever again? Could we not call the weather bipolar without risking the prison of public opinion? Not imply that birdwatchers are autistic? Could we not say the crescent moon was “as slender as a poor person”? Not say the sun “crashed inevitably into the mountains like a woman driver”? ...rather than endure too much of a re-presentation of what it's like to engage with the nastier corners of the Web/Net (substitute whatever word I should have used if I was not a dad-jean-wearing Gen-Xer), but that does raise a bit of a limitation to this book. For all of her verbal agility (and it is considerable!), this is largely (until Part Two, of course) a pleasure cruise through Junk Culture with that high-level solipsist, the Hive Mind—albeit with a whip-smart version of Julie the Cruise Director keeping us...diverted. Nothing wrong with that! But I think that in his I Hate the Internet Jarett Kobek does a better job of portraying online culture (there's that word again) while gaining some critical distance on its socio-politico-economic implications. Also, you might have to be more on Twitter than I've ever been to really, really dig Part One of this book (and Part One really, really digs Twitter, I think, and maybe a bit too much for its own good). I was entertained, made to think, stymied a little, went "Woo!" along with the rest of the Portal a couple of times, but was not wooed, and not "wowed"—until Part Two, of course, and its tale of bottomless woe, its terrible beauty—just...wow. Woah. 3* overall, then, but with a deep respectful bow to that Part 2...

This too is real life, he thinks. Not merely the accumulation of tasks, thinks to be done and sorted, but also the bumping up against other lives, everyone in the world insignificant when taken and observed together. Slow moving and utterly captivating, this was a series of slow and cautious breaths— a slice of life of a young black man studying in a predominately white setting in a midwestern university. The way POC deal with grief and trauma will always be something more and much deeper than most non POC will realize. This was a lonely visceral look of seclusion and adhering to the level and gaze of scrutiny, race, class, and privilege. Taylor's writing was so goddamn beautiful!!! It takes place over the course of a three day weekend but I felt like I knew some of these characters all my life after I finished reading. However, on another note, I felt like I couldn't connect to other characters in Wallace's life and in that context, it was a miss for me. Overall, loved the themes of the exploration of grief and sexuality touched upon in this book. It wasn't a full miss yet, but still a lingering touch I can still feel and relate to. 3.5 STARS Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |

I can’t figure out if it’s me or the books I’ve been reading, but I feel like I’m in a bit of a reading slump after a strong beginning in 2020. It took me forever to read Real Life. It’s getting a fair bit of attention and is on several books to watch in 2020 lists, but I found it hard to keep focused on the narrative. Wallace is an African American graduate student in biochemistry at a mid western university. He comes from a brutal impoverished family in Alabama. He is gay. His father died recently. The story focuses on a weekend in Wallace’s life amongst his classmates when his emotional life seems to unravel. He feels out of place and misunderstood. But there are no better places on the horizon. The author paints an intimate portrait of alienation. It’s well written and delves deep into contemporary interpersonal dynamics, but I didn’t feel very engaged by the story or the characters. Perhaps it was too much of a micro-emotional exploration for my current tastes. Thanks to Edelweiss and the publisher for an opportunity to read an advance copy.

“Real Life” by Brandon Taylor is beautifully written; his prose is phenomenal. The story though, for me, wasn’t my thing. Perhaps it’s because I read it during the COVID-19 lockdown, and I should not be reading bleak novels! This is a depressing story of a black gay man getting his degree in biochemistry in a small midwestern university. He’s working in a lab, which is cut-throat and isolating. He’s found a group of friends, yet he doesn’t allow them to get close. He’s endured trauma as a child, and his dysfunctional coping mechanisms don’t serve him well as a young adult. This is a raw and emotional story that is written so perfectly that I wanted to take to my bed. The main character, Wallace, is depressed to the point of being robotic. His melancholy follows him in his schoolwork at the labs and with social situations. Author Brandon Taylor drew on his own personal experiences, developing Wallace as a character in Taylor’s stead. Again, this is an excellently written story. It deserves 5 stars in literary value. I didn’t find the story to be a good one for me.

2.5 ⭐️ a lot of this book felt like a labored and overwrought creative writing exercise – throughout, I found myself bogged down in the excessive (& often meaningless) description, clunky dialogue, and over-abundance of half-baked MFA symbols and similes...unfortunately, not for me :/

i have a lot of complex feelings about this book, especially the ending (which swayed my rating closer to a three than a four, for reasons having to do with miller's character and wallace's perpetual inertia), but i will say this: brandon taylor does gay misery + trauma better than hanya yanagihara ever will. and get this! he isn't a straight woman! he's not obsessed with torturing gay men for no reason that readers can discern (and in fact, he has lived stories like this one himself) and he also isn't anti-therapy! so if you've been a fan of her gratuitous trauma porn in the past, i implore you to pick up this book instead and give money to actual gay men who are offering critical examinations of darker themes like depression, child sexual abuse, and intersections of oppression. it's a little wild to me that yanagihara has been allowed to uncritically obsess over gay men's misery (to great success!) and no one wants to stop and ask why that is. worse: she refuses to answer! i need all the a little life girlies to put on their thinking caps for this one 🤣🫣 but i digress. back on the topic of real life: i was moved immensely. i cried quite a bit. i felt frustration so acute i had to periodically put down the book. taylor paints a complicated portrait of antiblackness and the loneliness it inspires on both personal and institutional levels. there's a lot of passivity built into wallace for this reason; i understand the purpose of this character choice, but i think i ultimately wanted more for him by the end of the book. i wanted movement. action. some level of change, even if forced. so i was let down by the stillness of taylor's conclusion (of wallace pinpointing his own people pleasing tendencies and doing nothing about them), though i understand why he might have made the creative choice to end the novel that way. his prose is definitely mfa-inflected. it's glossy and overwrought, at times prone to over-monologuing about seemingly meaningless details in setting or daydreaming. but that's to be expected with a novel that takes place over the span of a few days, and i did enjoy his writing enough to read half of it in one sitting. i will say that his dialogue is much weaker than his description; it often lacks flow, originality, and depth, and the content can sometimes feel confusing or head-scratching. i hope that improves in his short story collection. overall, though, i think this was an incredibly powerful debut and one that taylor did well. his character writing is ultimately what sold me. 3.5/5. that ending tho💔💔💔💔💔💔💔💔💔

Can somebody PLEASE point Wallace in the direction of the black student union? Please. That’s all I kept thinking as I trudged through the pages of this book about a black, gay man named Wallace attending graduate school. I kept asking— Is he really going to keep subjecting himself to the pain of dealing with people who do not understand him and don’t care to understand him? Is he going to keep exhausting himself by spending time with people who only really use his presence as a way to pacify the guilt of their own biases? Wallace, you’re a mascot. You’re the black friend of the “I’m not racist I have a black friend” guy. Deep down you know this. But your experiences have made you insecure. I get it. You cling to abuse because that’s all you know. I’m sympathetic to that. I just wanted so much more for Wallace. Why didn’t he want more for himself? It wasn’t until about chapter 6 that I realized he could not. Real Life by Brandon Taylor explores the complicated reality of Wallace, an educated black, gay man that grew up poor in the south. And boy is it complicated. The entirety of the story occurs in one mundane weekend during the end of then summer and sheds light on what is real life for a lot of people: The isolating experience of being a minority attending a university in the Midwest and navigating white academia. Having gone to two PWI universities myself, I know for a fact that it can be exhausting. The relief you get comes from peers who identify with your own intersectionalities. Wallace desperately needed that. While I would have liked to see Wallace explore relationships with others with whom he could have related to, that layer wasn’t there. Overall the writing is, in some ways, exceptional. But the dialogue and descriptions were way too overdone for me. I could barley get through the drawn out description of Wallace breeding nematodes or describing the colors and movement of the lake. Every little thing was described in excruciating detail. I got very bored and started to skim through those parts. Sure, it helped paint a vivid picture of the scene, but a lot of times it was unnecessary. Additionally, some of the dialogue felt too forced and even trite at times. On the other hand, there were parts of this novel where the prose was intoxicating and my eyes were glued to the page. In short, usually when I like or love a book, I don’t want it to end. I could not WAIT to finish this book. 3⭐️ for me.

this book is one of #those literary fiction books that we have been plagued with for the past 8 years. Person of color in an academic setting being tortured by the white people they keep CHOOSING to be in community with. I find these books to be so pointless and lacking self awareness. The premise rest on the idea that our black character is OWED white community because it's the most valuable community. In this book our main character Wallace spends page after page hating all the white people around him yet deeply desiring their company, which would be fine if we were interrogating internalized anti blackness. I am positive he is NOT the only black person at this school and the book doesn't discuss why he won't make black friends and instead he keeps looking for "good white people" until of course he finally finds one. I hate this genre of literary fiction "woe is me upwardly mobile black person who deeply wants white people to like them.". With that being said there are some profound quotes in here. Specifically in chapter 5 about nostalgia and the past and thats why it gets 3 stars.

This too is real life, he thinks. Not merely the accumulation of tasks, things to be done and sorted, but also the bumping up against other lives, everyone in the world insignificant when taken and observed together. Immediately upon finishing Real Life, I found it hard to evaluate: decidedly well-written, it nonetheless has the feeling of a series of strong vignettes, not quite a fully formed novel. Now having learned that Brandon Taylor wrote this in five weeks, that makes total sense of the experience; I’m sure many of the longer scenes (detailed lab work, a tennis match, a dinner party) and the frequent aphorisms (on sympathy, memory, “good white people” who are more interested in the opinions of other white people than doing right by their Black friends) were likely already mostly formed in a notebook somewhere, and by laying on his own experience as a gay Southern Black graduate student at a Midwestern university, Taylor was able to make a cohesive whole of his various writings; but only just. Again, the writing is really very good and Taylor has important things to say, but this just barely missed the “love” mark for me and I’m rounding down to three stars. I would gladly pick up whatever Taylor comes out with next. That he wants to be alone. That he does not want to speak to anyone. That he does not want to be around anyone. That the world has worn him down. That he would like nothing more than to slip out of his life and into the next. That he is terrified, afraid. That he wants to lie down here and never move again. What he means is that he does not know what he wants, only that it is not this, the way forward paved with words they’ve already said and things they’ve already done. What he wants is to break it all open and try again. Set over one weekend at the end of summer — a new academic year is just about to start but we are following science grad students who work in their labs year-round — Real Life inhabits the mind of Wallace: probably the smartest student to come out of his Alabama hometown (and as a gay Black man, he had been excited to make the move to the Midwest, where he thought he might better blend in), but as the only Black student, and somehow deficient in his scientific knowledge and practical skills after his undergraduate degree, Wallace has always felt himself inhabiting the edges of life and work, despite having a group of close friends. Conversations are stilted between them, awkward and full of misunderstandings, and Wallace is always refusing their invitations to hang out; when they do get together, he feels othered as they discuss what they did the last time they hung out without him. Taylor does this disconnection really well, and as exhausting as it could feel to read these stalled and stilted conversations, it’s obviously more exhausting for Wallace; twenty-five and never been kissed, Wallace is walled-off from everyone and everything, some of it his own making, some of it racially motivated, and as this weekend begins, he’s wondering if he should just leave the program and get on with “real life”. Events will occur, and Wallace’s hidden past will be revealed, and the people around him who looked like they had it all together will be exposed for what they are, too. Wallace feels a chasm opening up beneath him. He could say what Dana said to him. He could say that she is racist, homophobic. He could say any of the things he has wanted to say since he came here, about how they treat him, about how they look at him, about what it feels like when the only people who look like him are the janitors, and they regard him with suspicion. He could say one million things, but he knows that none would matter. None of it would mean anything to her, to any of them, because she and they are not interested in how he feels except as it affects them. Racism and living on the outside are frequent themes in Real Life — Wallace suffers microaggressions and overt provocations, usually without his white friends backing him up — and he seems to think that if he just keeps his head down and does his work, he’ll get by. But over and over, friends and coworkers tell Wallace how selfish he is, and I thought Taylor did a really good job of slowly exposing the fact that maybe Wallace isn’t as blameless as he thinks he is: Is he a misogynist? A racist? Could he be a better friend if he wanted better friends? Is Wallace even as good at the lab work as he believes himself to be? Taylor gave me a lot to think about while reading this, and he was very skillful at drawing uncomfortable emotions from me, but I didn’t fully connect with Wallace (even less so with the supporting characters) and I was left wanting something more from the experience. Amazing for a debut novel, though.

It's a campus novel, Brandon Taylor's debut whipped up in just under 5 weeks - less created and more exhumed from his memories of being a young, gay, black man in a sciences PhD program at a midwestern university. An institute of higher learning, bastion of progressive politics, cherishing notions of inclusion and gesturing broadly to their own wokeness — that is also SUPER white. Like students sailing in their off hours white. And it's here under the crush of accumulating micro-aggressions, in a space that holds so much sway over you and your perceived notions of what your future can hold, that we find Wallace. Dismissed, made to feel small and unseen, and yet to give voice to that isn't an option. The evasions and justifications that flare into righteous indignation from white people when confronted make it easier to just shut down and move on. All of this is happening in an academic space that Wallace has been working towards all his life but suddenly is feeling ambivalent about. What does it mean to have second thoughts when he's so close to finishing his PhD? What even is the world outside the walls of academia? Of course this is only a glancing way into the novel but it's what stuck with me. Otherwise I admit I found it baggy, Taylor meandering around a burgeoning relationship, interpersonal drama amongst friends, and tennis. Wallace exists within this constant thrum of anxiety, a persistent discomfort that infuses every page expanding outward. Maybe it's the perfect manifestation of where he's at, an interstitial space seeking, but never quite finding, resolution. In that sense my frustrations could instead be read as recognition of how well Taylor captures the maddening inertia of academic life.

“An intimate portrait of alienation.” I have to say that I was quite impressed by the writing. I thought it was very solid, although a bit dry. But the good writing was not enough to make me feel engaged. I did not care for the story line or the characters. I think that the author failed on the storytelling factor. One reviewer called this book “a writing exercise”. Well, it’s not bad for a debut. It’s was a finalist for the 2020 Booker Prize. At 76% I had lost my interest and I was tired of the main character and his mean friends. I lost count of how many times I read “I’m sorry”. Those kids are so confused. I really wanted to love this book but it only left me feeling incomplete and totally unsatisfied.

[31st book of 2021.] A fine debut, but frankly, nothing remarkable. This joins the ranks of other similar books that have gained popular readership in recent years like A Little Life and Normal People. On starting this novel I thought I was going to be impressed with the writing which seemed sharp and clear, but as the novel progressed it became more laboured and I now agree with all the comments that say it reads like an MA project. The dialogue also got on my nerves to no end, but I'll discuss that slightly later on in the review. Overall I think it's an important book and I think Taylor is a talented writer and certainly displays it infrequently throughout the novel. Firstly, the friendships in this were almost unbearable and it caused me to reflect on how real they appeared to me, from my own experiences. Real Life barely gives us any reason to care for a single one of the background characters here, for that's all they are. Taylor never shows us their friendship at best moments. There were no wholesome moments of beauty that allowed the characters to bond before our eyes. Their constant bitching and attacking of one another was boring because I didn't care one way or another who was hurt by it or not. By not representing moments of beautiful friendship between them, their downfall meant nothing to me as a reader. The dialogue started off as seeming strong but quickly became repetitive and annoying. By page 150, I felt as if I was reading the same conversation over and over again, slightly rehashed, between shallow characters. Characters were consistently saying things that were then misconstrued, either honestly or not, as character assassinations. Characters were constantly saying "Fine", "Okay", "I don't know", causing the dialogue to constantly fall short of anything profound. It reminded me of some arguments I've had with girlfriends in the past, the frustrating going-around-in-circles kind where you know there's no resolution but keep arguing simply because you've both made yourself angry and keep getting angrier. They did not seem convincing as arguments between friends but then that's my own experience. Last year I did travel to see N. in Winchester where she was attending University and though I was under the impression it was only going to be me attending, her boyfriend also decided he would visit at some point that same weekend. In fact, the day before I was meant to be travelling, he dropped an inflatable roll-mat in my front garden, after asking my address, to ensure that I would not share the bed with N.; I didn't want to cause a fuss so I thanked him and lugged the thing up there with me. I hadn't seen N. in a while and we are terrible at communicating. She met me at the station and we walked through the city together as she pointed out bars and restaurants of interest, recounting memories. Things got off to an okay start. She was living in a giant shared housing-type building with a large kitchen shared by many different occupants. All the doors were of the same beige colour, including the toilet, which disconcerted me about trying to find it later that night. Her close housemates weren't my type of people but we got on well and all spent that first afternoon in the shared kitchen sharing stories. The late afternoon then collapsed into evening and we went out and came back with bottles of wine which we began drinking. It was a good night. I inflated the roll-mat to be respectful to S., her boyfriend, but had imagined that N. and I would share the bed. In the end, we stayed up most of the night drinking in the kitchen anyway and only slept for a few fitful hours as the following day was already getting light. S. showed up and we continued drinking the following day. I put it down to the drinking but in the end N. and I began to snap at one another, lightly at first, but then viciously. S. left on the second day of his arrival and on the final night together N. and me went for a walk around the city past midnight, drunk, and argued the whole time. I can't remember what we argued about. Partly it was about a relationship I had just come out of, partly about our own lives and where we presumed we were heading, what we believed in regarding our education, almost everything. I don't remember us ever reducing our argument to "Fine" or "Okay". We probably said "I don't know" because who at 20-something doesn't say "I don't know" a lot? She left me awkwardly at the station on the last day. We hugged non-committedly and were both glad when my train arrived to take me away again. In Real Life the arguments didn't feel real to me at all. The dialogue seemed almost entirely constructed of one-word answers or vague banal ones. Maybe that's what Taylor was going for, maybe its irritating repetitiveness is saying something about "real life". It triggered nothing in me. At times I was glancing over pages before reading them and realising that nothing of any importance was going to be said. The emotional climax of the novel slips into first-person and is a difficult read. Though it borders on stirring some powerful emotions and tackles big themes, I did feel like I had read it all before. I was greatly looking forward to this and found myself disappointed. I'll be keen to read Taylor's later works though and see how he develops as a writer. As I said, he's certainly talented, but it felt formulaic at times with the incessant reporting of touch and smell like a Creative Writing exercise. I also found the dialogue, struggling enough, was broken up by descriptions of the setting every so many lines. The characters would be by a lake and begin talking, then it would be interrupted by a bird flying, then they would continue, then it would be interrupted again by the moon going behind clouds, then continue, then sounds from the flats in the distance... I felt as if Taylor was trying too hard to get the senses in and it felt unnatural most of the time. All this being said, for a debut, it is fine. Wallace's emotions are displayed well and as a character, he is well realised. It tackles some big stuff, namely, abuse, which one finds in the other aforementioned novels too. I'm glad I read it, but also glad it's over. So, yes, it felt like a less melodramatic version of A Little Life with Miller and Wallace reminding me somewhat of Normal People. If you liked those novels, you may like this.

I've not read many Brooker Prize nominees, but this one sounded quite interesting. The story itself is pretty basic as the reader follows Krishan who undertakes a train journey from his home in Colombo to the Northern part of Sri Lanka so that he can attend the funeral of his grandmother's former carer Rani. The narrative is told through streams of continuous as Krishan thinks through various topics. With each chapter touching on various themes like death, love, desire or grief. I personally found certain sections to be much more interesting than others. I know little of the Civil War that engulfed the country for over 25 years and was frustrated that the book didn't go into more depth in this topic. I reckon that if I'd known more about the conflict prior then I'd probably have enjoyed this more.

This book was not for me - it's a slow meditative distanced book on trauma and vision, and desire and loss. It takes place against the background of the still-fresh trauma of Sri Lanka's civil war as experienced by the Tamils, but we experience that (and most of the book) through removed lens, as our narrator, a young man, tries to understand the experiences of an older woman who is left indelibly scarred by her losses in the war. The problem is that Arudpragasam uses so many words - so many heady philosophical winding words - that the emotional impact felt muted to me (as I believe it does to Krishan, our narrator, who spends his time in self-analysis and reminiscence). The most vivid parts of the book are when the narrator recounts stories, poems, or most memorably, a film, that has influenced him. These interludes contrast with Krishan's painstaking dry recounting - different textures and rhythms briefly add color to the story, before returning us to the lull of Krishan's memories and musings. As others have said, Krishan, a stifled, almost suffocated character, afraid always of doing the wrong thing and (likely because of his own PTSD) almost entirely devoid of strong emotion, is the least interesting thing about the book - and yet he is most of it. The glimpses of the war and the atrocities inflicted on the Tamils are of course harrowing. But they are just that - glimpses. I could appreciate the artistry with which Arudpragsam works away at the mystery of PTSD, individual and cultural, without ever truly being drawn into the book. Maybe in the end, it's a peculiarly male book - a story of a young man trying and failing to understand the women who surround him, lover, mother, grandmother, and Rani, the war victim he tries and fails to save, and any of the women would have been a more compelling center. If you like me are interested in Sri Lanka, its fiction and its recent tragic history, I highly recommend Nayomi Munaweera's novels, as well as the stories of Romesh Gunesekera.

Rating: ***1/2 This book in summary is a series of reflections - a self reflection by our protagonist, Krishan, a reflection on the life of people that he has met and has had an impact on him, in his short life - be it Rani, his grand mother's companion, who tried unsuccessfully to over come her trauma, or his girl friend, Anjum, who decides to forego what was possibly a beautiful relationship, since her yearning tells her that her liberation is in a different path, and the two black tiger cadres - Dharshika and Puhal - who he reflects upon, upon seeing them in a documentary. And liberation ? Liberation will mean different things to different people at different stages of their lives. The sexual undertones of the friendship between Dharshika and Puhal in unmistakable, and it suggests that their cause - a liberation for a new home land, was not the only liberation they were seeking - a mixture of desire and a yearning - two separate longings, which the author goes to some detail to elaborate towards the end of the book. Rani, after all she has lived through is convinced that there is only one liberation for her. She has only one yearning - to escape.. "...what Rani's life had been like since the end of the war, physically located in a world that was shorn of the people she loved and unable therefore to participate in it, her mode of existence more akin to that of ghosts than humans, even if she'd existed in a body that possessed weight and could move physically through space, even if she'd remained capable of love and pain, laughter and generosity..." ( page 280) The novel is devoid of any dialogues. The narration is through an implicit third person, but this narrator presents to us the sentiments of our protagonist, Krishan. We understand how troubled he was during the last years of the war, how the allegations which the narrator tells us, Krishan was not willing to accept, was subsequently "proven to him" with the BBC channel four video. That he's been following up what the diaspora has been saying, is again informed us by this narrator. As a reader, trying to read this book as closely and objectively as much as possible, despite it talking about a war against the separatists, ( in which I clearly backed the State - let me admit,) I didn't find any of the protagonist's stances surprising. I don't even think of it as an out and out biased account, just a natural one, given the background of Krishan. The success of this novel is in Anuk's ability to apply his writing skill to detail out each of the areas of his focus ( that it is also his downfall, reminds me of a master batsman perishing to his pet shot) - be it in the detail of Krishan's relationship with Anjum, or even Krishan's grandmother's traits and character ( which admittedly is not much different to many old women, who hunger for attention, with life automatically moving them to a role of relative inactivity ), which Anuk spends many pages explaining in detail, which to my surprise I found myself reading with surprising interest. There is a six page summary of cloud messenger, or the meghadutha, a classical Sanskrit poem, a favourite of Krishan's. There is a recollection of a few incidents on a particular new year's eve in which Krishan understands how Rani goes through life - this memory comes to him while staring at a funeral pyre - the memory takes nine pages to describe, whereas what is needed for the novel is how Rani lived her life without actual participation in it. But we must know much more - how defeated Krishan felt that night, how much he smoked - this kind of detai is the only major problem I have with this novel. Anuk can construct, long, half a page sentences, in which he successfully retains the reader. This is the beauty of a the book, in which the main theme is reflection on subjects like liberation, yearning, and death. Yet, later, I joked with a friend of mine who read this book a few weeks before me, that I really needed to know every detail about Krishan's grandmother's temperament. I further joked with her that, Anuk is such a writer that he can explain the daily life of a sloth in such detail that the reader will be with him for most of that while - until she realises the pace, and questions, did I really need to know all that ? - translated as: 'Did I really need to know how high he was that night ?', 'Did I really need to know each and every detail of Appamma (Krishan's gran) ?', 'Did we really need to hear a summary of the directions that the cloud received in the poem, cloud messenger ?', 'Did we really need to know the early life of Sidhdhartha Gauthama in such detail ( which is easily found for anyone with interest ?' Clearly, thirty to forty pages could've been docked from this book, while maintaining Anuk's fine style of long sentences, his finesse in reflecting, and nuances in philosophy which he has inserted with much skill. For this am constrained to dock him half a star, from an otherwise four star book). Yet some of those long detailing work in Anuk's favour. Both Kuttumani's story and the fore-mentioned Dharshika/ Puhal narrations. Even his digress into the Therigatha, using Hallisey's translation throws in subtle meaning to the idea of freedom. There is a comparison between the two ideas of liberation - that of the early Buddhist nuns, and the tigers. The subtle sexual undertone build a common base, and a subtle deploying of sociological contexts, is used with some skill here. The reader too needs to read this area with caution, to save herself from a superficial comparison. In essence this is a book I want to love - for its reflections. But I only end up liking it ( i.e. see why I docked half a star above). One could say that the account in the excesses of the war is largely one sided - but then it is presented from the viewpoint of our protagonist, who seeks a path of liberation by serving in the North and the East, to overcome a sense of guilt for the safety he lived in, in the South, further fueled by an idealistic girl, who won't let a good thing take fruit. Plus, Rani's story is harrowing - and I cannot possibly contest that such things that she faced didn't happen, even though am reluctant to accept the figures quoted by that channel 4 video. So, my take is, this work of fiction ( or any work of fiction) is not the ideal ground to build up an argument on who were the bigger monsters in a long stretched civil war. All in all, am glad that a Sri Lankan is nominated as a Booker finalist, that he crafts such long, reflective sentences, which brings to mind Michael Ondaatje, for the pure beauty of the language used. I was also overwhelmed with this particular book cover which shows our cheap train tickets to an international readership, with our local language scripts and all - for which reason itself I bought a physical copy of this book ( I usually prefer reading on my kindle). That it was a book I enjoyed, caps it all. I hope Anuk Arudpragasam all success, ( and may he save us from the details of any grand parents that his future fictional characters should have ).

Longlisted for the 2022 International Booker Prize Rafael was fifteen years old when his mother died and put him out of her misery. Rain poured down on the mourners huddled under umbrellas in the small kibbutz cemetery. Tuvia, Rafael’s father, sobbed bitterly. He had cared for his wife devotedly for years and now looked lost and bereft. Rafael, wearing shorts, stood apart from the others and pulled the hood of his sweatshirt over his eyes so that no one would know he wasn’t crying. He thought: Now that she’s dead, she can see all the things I thought of her. That was in the winter of 1962. A year later his father met Vera Novak, who had come to Israel from Yugoslavia, and they became a couple. Vera had arrived with her only daughter, Nina, a tall, fair- haired girl of seventeen whose long face, which was pale and very beautiful, showed almost no expression. The boys in Rafael’s class called Nina “Sphinx.” They would sneak behind her and mimic her gait, the way she hugged her body and stared ahead vacantly. When she once caught two kids imitating her, she simply pummeled them bloody. They’d never seen such fighting on the kibbutz. It was hard to believe how much ferocious strength she had in her thin arms and legs. Rumors started flying. They said that while her mother was a political prisoner in the Gulag, little Nina had lived on the streets. The streets, they said, with a meaningful look. They said that in Belgrade she’d joined a gang of feral kids who kidnapped children for ransom. That’s what they said. People say things. More Than I Love My Life is translated by Jessica Cohen from the 2019 Hebrew original אתי החיים משחק הרבה by David Grossman, the same author-translator team that deservedly won the 2017 Man Booker International Prize for the brilliant A Horse Walks Into a Bar. The novel based on the real-life story of Eva Panić Nahir, which is summarised in this article from Haaretz from 2003 https://www.haaretz.com/1.5495098. The documentary referred to in the article can be found, subtitled, on YouTube: https://youtu.be/Erw-lDi93-Y and Eva’s story was also the subject of an earlier documentary in 1990, co-written by the novelist Danilo Kis, Goli Zivot. Eva Panic and her husband Rade were loyal members of Tito’s partisans in WW2, helping save many from Nazi forces, although Eva’s own parents died in Auschwitz. But in the post world-war rift between Tito and Stalin, Rade was accused, in 1951, of being a Russian spy (an accusation fiercely denied by Eva until her death in 2015 aged 96). Rade, his world collapsing around him, hung himself in his prison cell. And Eva was confronted with a stark choice by the authorities - denounce Rade as a spy, go free abs receive a pension; or herself go to prison, practically orphaning her 6 year daughter Tiana. Eva chose prison, and in effect loyalty to her late husband over her own but also her daughter’s welfare, and was sent to forced labour in the Goli Otok women’s camp on an island, a place whose very existence was a taboo topic in Yugoslavia until after Tito’s death in 1980 (the aforementioned 1990 documentary one of the first on the camp). Eva later moved to Israel, to live in a kibbutz, and remarried a widower, albeit making it clear to him that Rade remained her own true love. Tiana and Eva only really discussed Eva’s decision, and its adverse implications for Tiana, in the 2003 Israeli documentary, which also features Tiana’s daughter Emily. David Grossman had befriended Eva a few years before the 2003 documentary, after she wrote to him to correct a newspaper article he had written. She told him her and Tiana’s story and asked him to novelise it, the two women granting him (per the afterword) “the freedom to tell the story but also to imagine and invent it in ways it never existed” and this book is the result. In the novel, Eva becomes Vera Novak, the elderly matriarch of her family, her 1st husband Milosz, and Tiana becomes Nina. But Grossman introduces additional dramatic, and I believe fictional, elements: Vera’s 2nd husband Tuvia has a son Rafael, and Nina and Rafael sleep together, have a tempestuous relationship and a daughter, Gili, before the troubled Nina leaves her newborn baby in Rafael’s care and flees Israel. Rafael and Gili, who narrates the novel, are both filmmakers and indeed they make a documentary as the family, including Nina, reunite to celebrate Vera’s 90th birthday before travelling to Croatia to trace Vera’s past. The novel opens, with the passage that begins my review, with Gili recounting Rafael and Nina’s first meeting as related to her over the years by her father, the meeting just after Rafael’s mother had died following a lengthy illness, leaving the 15 year-old boy emotionally numb. At times the fidelity to both the fictional project and the non-fictional truth can create a tension, with certain elements of the real-life story included but not really done justice (it reminded me a little of the same phenomenon in film adaptions of novels) and some additional storylines included for effect (Rafael’s affair with Nina) in a story that hardly needs more drama. The, literal, framing device of Gili’s film can also at times be a little forced. Nevertheless Grossman is a master craftsman and brings the characters to life, and a strong sense of compassion to the story, the fiercely determined Vera on the page consistent with the Eva of the documentary (a reference to her determinedly striding around the Kibbutz swimming pool for her morning exercise taken directly from a scene in the film). But then I found myself questioning whether I needed the book to illuminate what was already apparent from the film. Grossman is also adept at linking the personal and political, and while he never needs to state it, the novel can be read as a parable for how the traumas of the 20th century, and totalitarianism, echo even today in the lives not just of individuals but also of nation states. Overall, 3.5 stars. While I admire Grossman as a novelist that if anything meant I came into this with (too high?) expectations and this lacked the wit and sheer inventiveness of A Horse Walked Into a Bar. But a book I would not be surprised to see featuring in the longlist for next year’s International Booker.

3.5 stars. This novel is based on the life of Eva Panic Nahir. I’ll let you uncover her story as my words are unable to do it justice. You can find a documentary on YouTube if you want to create the scene before reading this novel. I found her story to be fascinating and the extra information helped support this story. With that said, I found reading this novel to be a bit bumpy. The writing is beautiful but It wasn’t a smooth read for me. I would be lost in the story and then I would be a bit lost for a moment as It would move to a new scene without a smooth transition. Maybe it’s just me. It’s a terrific story and worth the abrasive transitions.

