The 7th book in the Amos Decker series, I found Long Shadows to be quite a mundane murder investigation that rarely scaled any significant heights. When he first appeared on the scene Decker was a fresh take on the quirky, hard-to-get-along-with investigator. The perfect memory and synesthesia he picked up after a brain injury from a football collision was a significant point of difference. Now, it seems, the memory thing is just a handy tool, the synesthesia is a hindrance and we’re left to be amused by his abrupt manner. The case to be investigated here is the murder of federal judge Julia Cummins and her bodyguard Alan Draymont inside her Florida home. It’s a case that finds Decker assigned to travel down along with his new partner FBI Special Agent Frederica “Freddie” White to investigate. And this is the first complication that must be overcome. Decker doesn’t work well with others and he’s just had the traumatic experience of listening to an ex-partner commit suicide. He’s not exactly in the most amenable of moods when it comes to new partners. There’s going to be a feeling out period, you can be sure. When they get there they find a complicated crime scene. The bodyguard, Draymont, was found downstairs shot to death while the judge was upstairs in her bedroom where she had been stabbed multiple times. To top things off, Draymont had a wad of foreign currency stuffed down his throat. The vastly differing methods of murder suggests strongly to Decker there were more than one perpetrator responsible. But getting a handle on exactly how things played out and, just as importantly, who was responsible will prove difficult to ascertain. Although Decker works as a kind of consultant with the FBI, this reads like your typical private detective investigation. Once we’d gotten over the reminder of the brain injury that he suffered plus the fact that he had to deal with taking on a new partner, the investigation consists largely of schlepping from one person’s place to the next, asking a series of questions, picking up a lead to the next person and questioning them. Occasionally they would return to an earlier person, re-question and so on. To be fair, this is actually quite a complicated murder mystery and it does require a reasonable amount of lateral thinking which is where Decker’s specific skills come in very handy. Where things started to fall down for me was in the preponderance of theory and guesswork that went into the reasoning of both Decker and White. It depended largely on confronting a person with a theory, gauge their reaction, threaten with some kind of exposure if they didn’t provide the information they were seeking and then move on to the next person. Investigation by blunt force, if you like. The case itself, a double homicide, was an interesting one. The newly developing relationship between Decker and Freddie White shows a lot of promise. But the pacing was all over the shop and, in fact, never really clicked into gear until right at the very last moment and even then, it felt over before it really began. I’ve read all of the Amos Decker books to date and this is the first one that I’ve finished feeling a little flat and underwhelmed. Hopefully it’s just an aberration, there’s more of the Decker/White partnership to discover and the magic from Memory Man returns.

Pretty good, but too long. Lots going on and I didn’t like the ending, obviously a sequel on its way that I probably won’t read. Page 298 was a dead giveaway to whodunnit, so it was downhill after that.

I'm a big Amos Decker fan. And Baldacci, well, he knows how to deliver a good story! But sometimes, with a murder mystery or investigation, it feels like the main characters are running around in circles, interviewing the same people again and again. This felt like that. The ending though? Spot on. I love me some Amos Decker.

This is second in the Wilde series, but I read it as a standalone. The author gives a recap of Wilde and how he survived in the woods on his own for years as a child. I guess his name is appropriate, because he was also known as Little Tarzan and the feral boy. He is grown-up and curious about his background and the circumstances that led to him being abandoned. He succombs to the temptation of one of those online DNA genealogy databases and soon gets a hit. He starts digging up the past and learning about his family ties. I had high expectations going in, even though it has been a long time since I've read a Coban novel. The DNA aspect and some raving reviews really piqued my interest. A bit far-fetched and confusing at times. Ultimately, it was just an average read for me, just fine. Thanks to NG and the publisher for my arc. OUT March 15, 2022

3.5 stars This is the second book in the 'Wilde' series, featuring the former 'feral boy' who lived alone in the woods as a child. Though the novel is a sequel, Coben provides enough information to read the book as a standalone. ***** After Wilde was found in the forest when he about five or six, the boy grew up in a foster home, and later became a special forces soldier. Wilde now lives in an ecocapsule in the woods, and being an expert in surveillance and tracking, works as a private investigator. People close to Wilde have urged him to look into his background, and perhaps identify his biological parents, which might explain how Wilde ended up a virtual orphan in the woods. Wilde resisted examining his history for years, but now - at around the age of forty - Wilde takes the plunge and sends his DNA to a site called DNAYourStory. Wilde gets two hits, a man named Daniel Carter who seems to be his birth father and a second cousin named Peter Bennett, who's a reality TV star. Wilde contacts Daniel Carter, who claims he never knew Wilde existed, and says the boy must have resulted from a one-night-stand. Wilde then tries to get in touch with Peter Bennett, who appears to be missing. Bennett's siblings fear he may have committed suicide because Peter's reality career - which began on a dating game that led to marriage - hit a giant snag, and Peter's been tormented and doxxed by trolls ever since. It seems producers of reality shows are manipulative and sneaky, and will do almost anything to boost audience interest. Wilde thinks Peter might lead him to his birth mother, so he sets out to search for the reality star, whom he hopes is still alive. In this endeavor Wilde is assisted by his friends, including famous criminal attorney Hester Crimstein and Hester's sheriff boyfriend Oren Carmichael; Hester's grandson Matthew; and Wilde's foster sister, security expert Rola Naser. Wilde's investigations are interspersed with chapters about 'Boomerang', a very secretive group of computer experts/vigilantes who target online trolls. When a troll is deemed to have crossed the line with despicable/damaging comments, Boomerang takes action, and the 'revenge' is commensurate with the offense, though killing is definitely OFF the table. As things play out, someone starts murdering online trolls, and some of the victims seem to have a connection with Wilde's inquiries. This puts Wilde on the cops' radar, which is never a good thing. Meanwhile, Wilde - who was previously involved in a romance with Hester's widowed daughter-in-law Laila - is drawn to the beautiful woman once again. By the end of the book we know more about Wilde's backstory, and a sequel would seem to be on the horizon. This fast-paced thriller is a page turner that would probably appeal to many fans of the genre. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

A great thriller wrapped up in a confusing muddle about DNA and family relations. The first 100 pages are slow as Coben tries to twist and turn and artificially position characters so that his plot will work. Once it settles down into a missing person, killer whodunit it gets a lot better. Wilde is a decent character, but his convoluted family backstory weighs the whole thing down and by the end I'm still not sure who was related to who. It is though, a pretty good comment on reality TV and social media and the horror they have unleashed on society. 3.5*

I really enjoyed the first Wilde book so I think my expectations were super high for this one. I liked this but not near as much. It seemed a tad confusing at some points and a bit far fetched. The ending seemed rushed to tie it all up in a neat bow. I’m a huge fan of HC so I feel bad giving it 3 stars but it is what it is.

I received a free advance copy of this for review from NetGalley. Wait a minute. This is the THIRTIETH Prey novel?!? That can’t be right because I remember buying the first Prey book when I was about twenty so that would make me…. Damn. I better get this review done before I drop dead of old age. The teenage daughter of a US senator is running some internet photo searches to see if any pics from her Instagram account have been shared when she stumbles across a chilling discovery. Someone has posted secretly taken photos and of her and other children of prominent politicians on a web site featuring racist propaganda as well as providing personal details on the kids. While there are no overt threats the implications are clear, and the fear is that some nutjob with a rifle will take the hint. Deputy US Marshal Lucas Davenport is brought in by some of his political pals to quickly and quietly try to pin down the source of the pictures. With few clues to go on Lucas has to start talking to members of organized alt-right groups, but since most them are armed and make no secret about their hatred of the government it’s hard to whittle down the list of suspects. As Davenport tries to figure out who was behind the whole thing, a quietly angry man inspired by the site starts to make plans including committing his first murders. This one starts with an intriguing and timely premise, and for most of the book it's John Sandford delivering as usual so I had no complaints. However, some serious cracks show up in the third act that undermined the foundation of the book for me. First off is the political angle. Sandford has long been carefully walking through the minefield of having his lead character linked to prominent politicians without Lucas being particularly political himself. That’s served the series well because it provides the story logic as to why this one cop/federal agent keeps being involved in all these high profile cases without Sandford alienating readers from one side or the other. However, these days it’s getting increasingly hard to believe that Lucas can continue to dance between the raindrops while having powerful friends from both sides of the left/right divide. The idea that he doesn’t have any real political enemies coming after him while being able to solve the problems of other highly prominent people is getting increasingly hard to buy, especially because his cases usually make national news. Somebody would be trying to tar and feather him these days. The other problem I had with this one is due to a shift in the ending. When the series started Lucas was more of a lone wolf who was more than willing to do some highly illegal stuff to get what he considered justice. That’s faded over time, and since he’s become a federal agent he’s much more of a team player so that we haven’t seen Davenport running a shady solo operation for a while now. Without giving anything anyway… It seems like Sandford made a conscious decision to bring back some of the old Lucas for the climax of this one, and we once again see Davenport pulling sneaky and underhanded moves to get the outcome he wants. The difference this time is that in the previous books Lucas was always very careful about covering his tracks, and his manipulations were generally subtle. This time his scheme is glaringly obvious with none of the cleverness or caution that we’ve seen him use in the past in similar situations. None of the shortcomings ruined the book for me. It’s still Sandford doing a Prey novel so it’s highly enjoyable to read, but tight plotting and thinking through ramifications of actions have long been a hallmark of this series so it’s jarring to feel like the ending of one was a little sloppy.

I know I'm beginning to sound like a broken record because I keep repeating the same concerns about all of the more recent Lucas Davenport novels, but I'm just not buying into the concept of Lucas Davenport, U.S. Marshal. Shorn of his familiar Minnesota surroundings and, more importantly, cast adrift from the cast of characters that accompanied Davenport through the first twenty-some novels in the series, these don't even feel like Lucas Davenport novels to me. And I'm not feeling the love for his new sidekicks, Bob and Rae, at all. I've said before that I thought this concept was too cute by half, and everytime they show up in a novel, I find myself practically grinding my teeth. It also doesn't help that this is perhaps the weakest story that John Sandford has yet devised for Davenport. It involves a confusing and somewhat unfocused plot in which some right-wing extremists may or may not be targeting the children of U.S. Senators for assassination. The central villain of the piece doesn't begin to measure up to some of the truly scary and dangerous antagonists that have populated the earlier Davenport novels and, in consequence, unlike a lot of the Davenport books, I was easily able to set this one aside for long periods of time before finally finishing it. Overall, I love this series; it's one of my favorites of all time. But it feels like it's running on fumes these days, which is a sad thing to see. I live in hope that Davenport will somehow find his way back to Minnesota permanently, to be surrounded once again by his old comrades in arms. But at this point, I'm not holding out a lot of hope.

U.S. Marshal Lucas Davenport is asked by his Washington Senatorial buddies to find the party behind an alt-right website that appears to threaten the children of key D.C. politicians. The website is found by a friend of one of the children, who is working to become a social media darling, when searching for her images online. The amateurish website is filled with clip and paste articles from neo-Nazi, White Supremacist, and other hate groups, and seems to catch the interest of lone wolves. Davenport uses his wily skills to solve the mystery of the website's origins by approaching organizations opposed to the deep state, using an unlikely ally, and then shifts gears to stop a misguided devotee from following through with the website's supposed intent. Unlike many other GR reviewers, I could care less about John Sandford expressing political views, but I object to the wholesale changeover in Davenport's character from a legendary law and order man to the stone-cold (view spoiler) that he has become in the last few books. A damn shame really.

Another solid addition to the series, if pretty typical. A bit more politics, but if you've read the series chronologically (highly recommended) you'll know that's where Lucas is these days. There's still plenty of action while Lucas interviews my neighbors. Seriously, a lot of those nuts sounded just like them. The end was great.

While net surfing, Audrey Coil finds pictures of her on a far right, hate mongering website, with details of her locations! Other Politician's children are there too. It's just a matter of time before some nutcase takes it seriously and does something terrible! US Marshal Lucas Davenport is brought in to investigate. Can he find out who's behind this crazy scheme? Read my review here https://rb.gy/iz3sjq Please Like, Share or Comment

Thirtieth in the Lucas Davenport mystery-thriller series and revolving around a US marshal who marches to his own drum. This story is set around Washington D.C. My Take Surprisingly enough, Masked Prey is about greed. Hmmm, maybe not so surprising. Sigh. It is an interesting start with our introduction to Audrey's and Blake's relationship. It's also sad as it pretty much sums up today's high schoolers' extracurriculars. Back in my day... *grin* Sandford uses third person global subjective point-of-view primarily from Lucas' perspective but also from Dunn's and Randy's. Yep, there are others, and they're minor. Global subjective gives us insight into what they're thinking, feeling, and doing. Hmmm, Sandford has introduced a new conflict, one that's between Lucas and Weather. He's a lot more conventional than the liberal Weather, and they are so disagreeing about the American medical system. I think they're both right. Wow. Paranoia and a single thought that only whites had rights, that only whites deserve to exist. Talk about an appropriate topic in these months of #BlackLivesMatter! It is interesting how evenly Dunn assesses his ability to kill. As for Blake, he did surprise me at the end. There's hope yet. I was also impressed with Old John's decision at the end. It makes perfect sense and keeps him in the game. Old John also makes an excellent point about guilt by association. It's like putting blinders on. An action indulged in by too many. Later on Sandford claims the ANM hates everybody, etc., and I don't see that at all. Ohhh, never mind. I read it over a few times, trying to figure it out, and found the comment is actually about Forlorn Hope. That makes sense. Alice Green isn't the only person with whom Lucas has been talking fashion. Seems he's been advising Bob too, and has taken on Donald. As for Bob's and Rae's back history as babies...L.O.L. It's a combination of action and character. Well, the lack of character is what drives most of the action. And I gotta say, these people are scary. And so stupid. Although, I do sympathize quite a bit with the ANM group. We do have "too many idiots in high office, spending money that we don't have." On the negative side, I was disappointed with Masked Prey. Sure, the mystery aspect was fascinating, but Lucas didn't feel like the same guy. His actions were so low-key and, I gotta say, rather boring. Those last two lines in the book are something of a cliffhanger and foreshadowing. Sure hope it's better than Masked Prey. Doesn't everybody have a gun?? I feel so left out, lol... The Story It's a Dark website, 1919, one that encourages the idea of assassination as a way to kickstart a change of views. To get someone else to pull the trigger. It's a way to escape the consequences. They thought. The Characters US Marshal Lucas Davenport, a millionaire through development of role-playing and computer games, loves being a cop. His current job gives him the freedom to hunt bad guys, providing he does the occasional political task for either of the senators. He does have a reputation as someone who takes care of business, despite events in Neon Prey , 29. Weather is his plastic surgeon wife, who now operates only on indigent cases. Sam is their son. The very rich Democratic Senator Elmer Hudson is the former governor of Minnesota. Jasper is Elmer's aide. Oona is a friend of Elmer's wife. Republican Senator Porter Smalls, Elmer's longtime friend, is also rich and from Minnesota. Alice Green is a former Secret Service agent (with a passion for clothes) now running for a seat in the US House of Representatives. Denise is an assistant federal attorney. Eric Gabriel, a.k.a., Angel Gabriel, is an Ag Commissioner who intends to run against Roberta. He's been a bad boy. FBI Special Agent Jane Chase ( Twisted Prey , 28) is in charge of the investigation. Donald is her assistant. Doug is undercover as the stinky street guy. Deputy Director Mallard is a friend of Lucas'. The FBI has a division that tracks the HVE, Homegrown Violent Extremists. US Marshals Service Russell Forte is Lucas' boss. US Marshals Bob Matees and Rae Givens (her dad was a pharmacist) are part of their Special Operations Group (SOG), which specializes in kicking in doors and taking names. Rae really likes full-auto M4s. Special Agent Sandro Tremanty had been the guy Rae was seeing after events in Twisted Prey . Andi is a gym teacher Bob is seeing. The Watergate Hotel is... ...where Lucas is staying in D.C. Jeff Toomes, an ex-cop, is plainclothes security at the hotel whom Lucas met the last time he was in D.C. ( Twisted Prey ). The Claridge School is... ...in Reston, Virginia, where the publicity-hungry Audrey Coil, 17, runs a teen blog, Young'nHot'nDC, with four paying sponsors. Her mother is Democratic Senator Roberta "Bob" Coil of Georgia and is on the Senate Armed Services Committee. Her father, George Coil, runs his grass-development company in Tifton, Georgia. Clayton Delaney is just an excuse. Blake Winston is 17 and Audrey's boyfriend, already operating an after-school business in video production. His father runs a hedge fund. Mary Ellen is his mother. Anne-Marie is Mary Ellen's assistant. 1919 is... ...a Dark Web blog for a neo-Nazi group. Its graphics encourage a chain letter that gets sent to Francis Bacon and William Christopher Walton (among many others), who was discharged from the Army after four months. Brett "Brick" Abelman is a public defender and former cop. It's showing images of politicians and/or their kids, including the son of Burton Cherry of Colorado. Molly McWilliams is a friend of Audrey's. Senator Ross McGovern of Arkansas' son is a fifth grader. Jamie Wagner's parents won't be thrilled to know he's a mistake. Cynthia Cootes is the daughter of a junior senator from New Hampshire, Franklin Cootes. Randy Stokes, a construction worker, is an addict who loves guns, and it's all the fault of greedy non-whites. Oy. He's living in The Plains with his sister, Rachel, a quilter — her business is Bear Wallow Quilts. Elias Dunn is a fascist civil engineer with his own survey crew who happens to look like a comic-book Nazi. From the sound of things, I can understand why his wife left him. Bill is the job foreman; Spencer Monroe is another foreman. Tommy and Frank Bixby, a building contractor, are some of Dunn's neighbors. Charlie Lang is a Nazi specialist with a degree in international relations whose family money was made under Hitler. Stephen Gibson has been Charles' assistant and researcher for the past thirteen years and has a PI license and concealed-carry permit. Andy Jackson is a cop. Barney Grier, a former Navy SEAL, is another expert on the alt-right. Carl Stanley, who set up a charity scam, and Rollie Klein, a minor official at the Port of New York, are in prison. Harold Sandberg is right-wing, hard-core, and smart. A number of organizations are named including Pillars of Liberty led by Leopold Brooks; the American National Militia; Richard Greene, a right-wing podcaster and shoe store operator, which he took over from his parents after he retired from the Navy as a lieutenant, is with the Greene Mountain Boys, an alt-right group; Patriotus with Roland Carr as its leader; Forlorn Hope; White Fist; Controlled Burn is a gang of parolees led by Sawyer Loan (Daniel McCutcheon had been his holdup partner) with the idiot Dick Willey a member; Lethal Edge is about white power with Dominick Caruso as its leader; River Klan; Bellum is led by Lawrence Gray; and, The White Gazette. The American National Militia (ANM) is... ...a group of extreme libertarians whose leader is Old John Henry Oxford, a retired postal worker. Marty is his militant wife. They like private property and self-reliance and don't allow orders. Marcia Miller is their public representative. David Thomas Aline, an ex-Army captain, can run fast and works for Bechtel. Mark Sutton and Jack Byrd live a few blocks apart in Frederick and are involved in three or four alt-right groups. Amy is Sutton's wife, and they have two young children. Milton and Barbara Faye own a farm in Piner, Kentucky. Butch is their Rottweiler. Forlorn Hope thinks... ...rape is a natural right. Probably because they're such losers, no woman would touch them. They're led by Mark Stapler who lives in the back of the Woke Café in Dover, Delaware. Its members are a bunch of incels angry 'cause they can't get a Stacy (Chads are good-looking guys; Stacys are good-looking desirable women) and include Darrell, Jason, and Ron Linstad. Goochland, Virginia, is... ...where Tabitha Calvin, Sawyer Loan's girlfriend, lives. Sheriff Preston Uwell says she has a mean streak. Larry McCoy is an investigator. Deputy Eric Cousins works patrol. Bill King. It's The White Gazette... ...a newspaper published by Jackson Wheatley. Constance is his crazy wife. White Fist is... ...led by Toby Boone, who runs Boone Precious Metals and Pawn, which also functions as the group's HQ. Tom Brenner and Tom Nader work at the shop, Rusty "Cop" Wannamaker is a UPS driver, Ross, Shirley, and Andy appear to be White Fist members. Leroy Nathaniel Carter, a.k.a., Linc, is one of their members who shouldn't be seen. His girlfriend, Carol Lou Lacey, works for the US Department of Health and Human Services. Scary. Adam Carlucci is a SWAT commander with a team Lucas describes as thugs with law degrees. Rick is the UPS supervisor. Figueroa & Prince is... ...a custom tailor shop where Lucas has previously purchased suits. Ted is the sales clerk who has helped Lucas in the past. Jim is the tailor. Chuck's Wagon is a country music grill. ZOG is Zionist Occupied Government. Elliott Horton was a loser criminal Xeroxing counterfeit $20 bills. Dave McCall is a journalist with the Washington Post. Lee Wilson has a federal firearms license and runs Wilson's Outdoors in Glen Allen. Mandeep Kaur owns the mall. Will Gentry and Bunny are vendors at a gun show. The Cover and Title The background of the cover is an uneven gradation from blue to bright red-violet, left to right. On top of this is boxed lines representing data with the author's name in the top half and the title in the bottom half. The gridded strips and the text use a more even gradation of lime green to blue. Next to the author's first name is an info blurb in mostly blue while the series info is between name and title following the same color gradation but without the grid. The title is the creator behind 1919, the Masked Prey they are all hunting.

Let me start with daying Johm Sanford is one of my favorite authors. I have read everything he has written. All 30 Prey books, Virgil Flowers books (my personal favorite) and his stand alone books. Well I think this will probably be my last Prey book. I feel that people including myself are getting and reading these books just because we did all the oyher books in the series. Well I was disappointed after Neon Prey. Not that the story was but it should be included in the Prey series. Same as Masked Prey. I miss the old characters. I miss Lucas being in Minnesota. The Prey series lost something for me when Luvas became a US Marshall and left all the old characters behind or maybe only referred to them. Sanford should have retired Davenport about 3 books ago and maybe these books would be better if the expectations weren't so high for me labeled as Prey books.

This is difficult for me. I love John Sandford. His books and the works of Michael Connelly have really formed me as a reader and given me countless hours of enjoyment. But let's be honest, the Davenport series has become a loop of essentially the same story with similar characters and plot points since he has become a federal marshal. Time for an update. Don't get me wrong, I will continue to read each installment because they are entertaining, and I need my yearly installment of Richard Ferrone, who does a great job reading this series.

Not quite as engaging as other Lucas Davenport tales. I almost lost interest at several points in the book.

Another solid instalment. Love Bob and Rae and an exciting ending

Let's hope the change in a "number-less" title means it's finally the last one. PLEASE be the last one.

A fairly decent mystery and adventure but the inclusion of the Gabriela Rose character really cheapens the story. The character added nothing to the narrative, wasn’t very interesting, and it felt like she was added as an afterthought only to be a lead in to a new series. If the character had been developed more over 2 or 3 three books it would have been much more appropriate instead of feeling like a blatant cash grab.

Three stars for instalment number 27. Also titled ‘Tantalizing Twenty Seven’ Stephanie Plum returns with co-conspirators Lulu, Grandma, Connie, Ranger & Morelli (no Vincent in this one). Absolutely nothing new about this read except the version of the crime. I know exactly what I’m getting into when I start an Evanovich - some good crass humour, unlikely events and characters; and a super quick read. No let downs in this area but I am really losing faith in Stephanie (and hamster Rex who has been running that same wheel for at least a decade now) - surely at some point she needs to stand on her own two feet and achieve something on her own. Nonetheless I will be back for #28.

I liked: (1) Stephanie gets a boy-fan bodyguard, who tries his best to protect her, (2) Ranger gets a turn this time, (3) a little more action in this one as Stephanie and Grandma Mazur search for Jimmy Rosolli's treasure is constantly under attach by Jimmy's buddies and their hired thugs, and (4) the mysterious Gabriela Rose, and what she seeks. I did not like: (1) less humor than normal, (2) not enough Lulu (which is probably partly responsible for less humor), (3) book title should be Tantalizing Twenty Seven (Fortune and Glory, gimme a break), and (4) weak ending.

Not to crazy about the shake up. This is book 17, why change up the formula now?!? And maybe this is my bad, cause I just wanted the same old, same old...the story isn't bad and it's a decent enough mystery. But where is my slapstick humor? It missed those key points that make the Plum novels what they are. This follows the plot from the previous book as well which was odd to have an over-carrying plot. And some things were a bit too rushed, lacking the emotion that drives these stories. So not awful, just subverted my expectations.

Readers and fans of Janet Evanovich know what you get with a Janet Evanovich “Stephanie Plum” book. An independent, pretty girl, a couple of hunky guys – Moretti and Ranger - to team up with, and an adventure full of mystery and silly zaniness. Solving the mystery usually involves visiting different locations, lots of overwhelmingly crazy characters (especially Grandma Mazur), and comical situations throughout the quest. There is lots of teasing and innuendo between the Stephanie and the hunky guys as they work together, but in the end the mystery will be resolved whether on purpose or by accident within 300 pages of reading. This describes her Stephanie Plum bounty hunter series and pretty much everything else she’s written. You may think it sounds fairly formula-matic, and that’s true. The formula is the same, tried and true. However, in all honesty, nobody else is better at writing this type of sarcastic humor and risqué laden banter than anyone else. Evanovich gets you to chuckle at least once every other page and laugh out loud at least once a chapter. However, Evanovich has changed it up a bit by creating a multi-book arc. “Fortune and Glory” continues the storyline from “Twisted Twenty-Six” in which Stephanie’s Grandma Mazur shook things up by deciding to run and elope with a local gangster named Jimmy Rosolli at a Casino in the Bahamas. However, things don’t go as planned and forty-five minutes into her new marriage, Jimmy hits a jackpot on a poker machine, suffers a massive heart-attack, and falls dead. Her trouble only gets worse because Jimmy was known as the “Keeper of the Key’s” to some great secret Stache of wealth and his mob partners are convinced that before Jimmy died, he passed on the “Keys” to Grandma Mazur. These killers want the “Keys” back and any cost, including taking out her family members in order to get them. At the end of the prior book Grandma Mazur and Stephanie discover his “Keys” in his old beat-up easy chair and as “Fortune and Glory” starts, they begin their search for Jimmy’s hidden treasure. However, Stephanie and Grandma Mazur’s search for the treasure comes with several challenges. The first challenge is that Rosolli’s remaining mob partners, Lou Salgusta (who loves a good flamethrower) and Charlie Shine (who isn’t afraid to torture and kill) want the treasure too, and have the troops to back them up. There’s also another mysterious adversary that brings an Indiana Jones vibe and is everything that Stephanie is not. Gabriela Rose is a dark-haired beauty that is athletic, smart, able to defend herself, and has a strong taste for designer clothes. And to make matters worse, she is always one step ahead of Stephanie and Lulu in their hunt for the mob’s hidden treasure. In other words, the normal salad mix of crazy that comes with a Stephanie Plum adventure. Having read all of Evanovich’s Stephanie Plum books, I found this outing both satisfying and disappointing. What you ask? I shall do my best to explain why. Things that satisfied: Surprisingly, the mystery wasn’t that bad. Usually, the over-arching storyline is usually simple and easy to figure out, which has never been Evanovich’s strength as a writer. However, this time her plotline actually provided some surprising interest as I enjoyed trying to figure out what the clues meant and how they led to the treasure’s location. The clues actually made sense when they were figured out, which was a pleasing touch. In addition, the storyline was more fluid and smoother than normal. Usually, there are points along the way that actually bore me and I find myself distracted from the story. That was not the case this time out. Evanovich even pulled off a successful multi-layered ending, which was another nice surprise. Things that disappointed: This is going to be a bit tougher to share, but let me give it my best shot. Evanovich shines best is in the charm and idiosyncrasies of these unique characters like Lulu, trying to fit into clothes way too small for her and needing to eat comfort food 24 hours a day, and Stephanie flirting back and forth between Morelli one moment and the mysterious testosterone-filled, Ranger, who need only gently whisper “Babe...” to cause most women to shake in their lower extremities. And of course, it wouldn’t be a Stephanie Plum book without at least one car or truck being destroyed with her somehow involved in the outcome. Evanovich’s greatest strength lies in her ability to keep these unique and crazy characters bumbling along and the reader chuckling at every couple of minutes or more. However, after 27 outings with the same script, it cannot but eventually get old. There’s only so many times that Lulu can fire a gun and miss the target… Stephanie loses her bounty and gets Ranger to help her… Stephanie gets a vehicle blown up… The black-clad Ranger saying, “Babe…” Not even a midlife crisis this time can help Stephanie overcome the fact that we’ve seen all of these activities before. Many, many times… The reality is that what made Stephanie Plum and her gang so enjoyable has just grown repetitive and old. The inside flap of this book advertised that Stephanie “could finally be forced to choose between the two most important men in her life, Joe Morelli and Ranger.” Really? Anyone who reads these books knows that is so unlikely. Stephanie spends several books with Morelli and then about every three or four books she has hubba-hubba moments with Ranger. Nothing changes. Lulu, Connie, Grandma Mazur, Morelli, Ranger, and Stephanie’s parents never change. And I absolutely hate to say this – what was once creative, unique, and funny, as unfortunately become casual and old. It’s gotten to the point that I am not sure how Evanovich can make Stephanie Plum fresh again. It seems like a rather large challenge at this moment. Overall, reading Stephanie Plum is a double-edged sword. The good news is you get what you expect. The bad news is you get what you expect. However, I just don’t know how many times can you tell the same story over and over again without losing interest. I don’t know if there’s any connection or just coincidence, but at the end of this book is a sneak peak for Evanovich’s next book, which just happens to be a Gabriela Rose adventure that is hoped to jumpstart a new series for her. There’s also an advertisement page for the next Fox and O’Hare series book. I can’t help but wonder if Evanovich is not getting tired too and looking for new characters and other series to focus her time and energy on…

** spoiler alert ** This book confused me so much. For some reason when I read the description summary of this book, I felt like there was going to be some growth of character or at least a choice of either Ranger or Morelli by the end of this book... I am sad to say that neither happens. Stephanie starts the book in an off the wall situation with Lula. Lula talks about nothing but food and seriously has no common sense. Her character is getting less and less funny with each book. I am starting to skip it when she is there. Grandma is crazy and funny, but has an unhealthy obsession with going to viewings and funerals. Stephanie's car is totaled.... again.... Stephanie gets another car on fire. Stephanie gets stalked in her apartment parking lot... again. Stephanie sleeps with Ranger but gets jealous when she thinks Morelli is dating someone else. Oh yeah, and she gets herself in one situation after another because it is too much for the woman to stay home and clean her house or something, LOL. Seriously.... can Janet Evanovich PLEASE change the formula up a bit and have Stephanie's story move forward just a bit?? I love this character so much and I continue to read these books because I want to see where this character ends up. I have invested so much time reading her story. Please give back to the readers and take it somewhere other than the same story over and over again... PLEASE. There are so many characters that have been in these stories in that past that have never been seen again. What happened to her friend in One for the Money she hung out with? Where is her sister? Stephanie needs a life, even I am getting tired of her NOT getting any better at bounty hunting in all this time. Even if she never has kids, she at least needs to have some friends with common sense (meaning other than Lula). She needs a come to jesus moment to get her to get her life on track at this point.

As someone who has read the Stephanie Plum books from the very first book and up-to-date with the series, it made sense that I would read the new book which is now Number #27 in the series. Fortune and Glory follow on from the storyline that was in Number #26 with Grandma Mazur being left the keys to the mysterious treasure after her husband for not even a week died of a heart attack and left everything to her. Though some of the others in his "recliner club" aren't very happy and want those keys and the treasure and are even willing to kill for it and so of course like the previous books in the series we have Grandma Mazur and Stephanie trying to dodge death, more blown-up cars from Ranger and Lula's adventures. In Book #27 Stephanie has ended up with another hanger-on after she saved his life, a bit like how Lula became part of her crowd. We also read that Stephanie and Joe Morelli are on the outs and it looks like there is a new female bounty hunter in Trenton who has her eyes set on Joe Morelli and seems to be getting in Stephanie's way as everywhere she turns - there she is. Is she trying to steal everything in Stephanie's life? As Stephanie and Joe are on the outs, this book was very much a Stephanie/Ranger romance novel. Once again as I finish this book, it does seem a bit of a few recycled moments and I wonder how long this series has left and please can we finally have Stephanie make up her mind of whom she loves.

Also known as Tantalizing Twenty-seven, this is the twenty-seventh in the Stephanie Plum romantic suspense series and revolving around a lucky, if inept, bounty hunter in Trenton, New Jersey. If you're interested, there is a chronological listing of the Stephanie Plum books on my website. My Take While it's always fun to go for a ride with Stephanie, the lack of romance was a bummer. Oh, sure, there are little tidbits in here with Ranger (but nothing exciting) and a few moments with Joe (with whom Stephanie has broken up), but...blah... The excitement just isn't here. Stephanie has been getting serious for the past few books, wondering who she really is, what her life goals are, wanting to be a better version of herself. We know this partly because Evanovich uses first person protagonist point-of-view from Stephanie's perspective; I can't see that's she made much progress, well, except for Trotter and that shopping binge. That was righteous. We hear almost nothing about Vinnie (who was always good for a laugh); Lula's wardrobe doesn't get much mention (which was always good for a laugh!); and, Ranger and Joe don't have that friction going between them anymore, or else it's way under the surface. I do enjoy Lula's take on life. She's always threatening to shoot someone but couldn't hit the broadside of a barn. Ranger sees Stephanie as entertainment, and he wants to keep her alive, so he's always tracking her. You can better understand why when you think of Stephanie and her grandma as having Superhero Derangement Syndrome. Oh man, there is somethin' about Grandma — even Benny wants to marry her, lol. "I'm already too old to die young." Stephanie's dad does make me laugh. He'd love to be rid of Grandma Mazur, and I loved that thought Stephanie "sees' going through his head when Grandma mentions going to Hawaii, lol. George Potts is both annoying, funny, and a treat-and-a-half at the end. Unfortunately, none of it is enough, as Evanovich is just going through the motions. The Story It's bad enough that Stephanie and Grandma Mazur witnessed Shine and Salgusta murder a man, but these two also want Grandma for the keys they're sure Jimmy gave her. There's a fortune at stake. Shine and Salgusta want it. But Grandma "knows" she deserves a share. The Characters Stephanie Plum is a fugitive apprehension agent, a.k.a. bounty hunter, who's always, almost, one step ahead of being totally broke. Rex is Stephanie's hamster. Her parents, Frank and long-suffering Mom, live in the Burg. Grandma Mazur, a.k.a. Edna Rosolli, is Stephanie's maternal grandmother, a widow for the second time, which comes with some scary perks. Valerie is Stephanie's practical sister, who is married to Albert Kloughn. Stephanie's hated back-up transportation is a '53 baby blue Buick Roadmaster. Vincent Plum's Bail Bonds Vinnie is Stephanie's weasel of a cousin who fronts the company, which is actually owned by his father-in-law, Harry the Hammer. Connie Rosolli is the office manager whose family is not as tightly knit into the criminal underground since Uncle Jimmy died. Lula is a former hooker who is Stephanie's permanent sidekick. More of Connie's relatives include an Uncle Big and Aunt Cookie. Rangeman is... ...a high-end, under-the-radar security firm owned by Ranger, a.k.a. Carlos Manoso, who is all that when it comes to apprehending and security. He's amazing in bed as well. Put that together in the gorgeous package he is...mama... Tank is Ranger's second-in-command. Ramone is his tech guy. Others include Rafael, Wayne, Calvin, Rodriguez, Baker, Sanchez, and Jake. Ella is Ranger's housekeeper. Trenton PD Detective Joe Morelli is one hunk of a plainclothes cop working crimes against persons and is Stephanie's on-again, off-again boyfriend. He, um, doesn't want a relationship with Indiana Jones. Bob is Joe's huge shaggy dog who adores Stephanie. Joe is slowly redoing the house he inherited from Aunt Ruth. Tom Schmidt went to school with Stephanie. Manny Bartok. The mysterious (and sexy) Gabriela Rose is slinking about. FTAs George Potts, a.k.a. the Pooper, is a crack-up, obsessed with all his allergies, PTSD, and other issues. Morgan, a fry cook at the Lucky Lucy Café, is his friend. Arnold Rugalowski is a fry cook who was arrested for a hate crime; the wife says it's attempted murder. Rodney Trotter is doing rear-end enhancement without a license and does taxidermy for relaxation. He lives with his mother. The La-Z-Boys are, were... ...a criminal partnership that always hung out at the Mole Hole, a strip club, in their lay-z-boys. Jimmy Rosolli, a.k.a. Mickey Gooley, Mickey Fast, +++, is Grandma's recently deceased husband. Charlie Shine is a dandy, always with the flashy everything, only he likes to abuse women. Ed Gruman and Chick Rizer are the rude henchmen imported from Miami. Kenny Farmer is Shine's nephew. Sanchez is a replacement. Lou Salgusta, Charlie's partner, likes to torture with fire and knives, and he has an intense interest in Grandma and Stephanie. Benny the Skootch is another partner — he's not in good shape. Nor is his wife, Carla. Julius Roman had been one of the La-Z-Boys ( Twisted Twenty-six , 26). The Margo is, was, a hotel. Friends and Neighbors Jean Mulanowski has a nephew who's a pit boss. Loretta Bettman saw him at Dunkin'. Mary Jo Krazinski's daughter works at the bank. Dottie Clark's son is a fireman; she and Irene Hurley have styling stations at the beauty parlor Grandma goes to. Angie Mackie. Ruth Kaleski. Ranger Race is a video game with a character, Mugman, whom George wants to emulate. Philip of Salon Philip is a genius at cut and color. Good thing for Stephanie! Lena Kriswicki lives right behind the funeral parlor, and she has a Scotty. Mo Bernardi lives across the street. Marie Georgio spotted Lou. Jimmy Lucca likes to go fishing. Lolita Sue always has a nice selection of guns. Leticia (she has a cat named Kiki), Lizzy, and Patches, a.k.a. Alice Smuther, know each other...and Georgy. Samantha forgot her paddle. Lucy and Sharon used to share a corner with Lula. Tim Windrow is one of Alice's neighbors. Carlotta's is an Italian bakery owned by Emelio, Benny the Skootch's cousin. "Lester March" rented a Kia. "Lou Balou" also rented a Ford Escape. Bobby Ragucci used to own a building on Cannon Street. Steve owns Used and Abused used cars. Louis is Steve's assistant. Then there's Uncle Matt's Used Car Lot. Anthony Rosolli was Jimmy's grandfather. Pauli Valenti used to be a tech for a security company…back in the day. The Cover and Title The cover has a soft royal blue background with a blue-tinged white at the top for the info blurb. The author's name is below that in a chiseled blue. Immediately underneath is the series information in the same white to the left of a brass key with a nice three-dimensional feel to it, inserted into a traditionally shaped keyhole. Below that is the title in the same chiseled font and a metallic color; both author and title are embossed. At the very bottom is the series number in the same white. The title is what Grandma Mazur and Stephanie seek, Fortune and Glory.

My name is Stephanie Plum and I'm a fugitive apprehension agent in Trenton, New Jersey. The twenty-seventh book in the series strays from the usual numbered name. I'm not sure if that was a bit off for me, but I didn't love this one as much as I usually do. The bad guys are still after Grandma Mazur (Rosolli) for the treasure they think Jimmy left her when he died on their wedding night. There were still laugh out loud portions to the book but it seemed forced at times. I still love Lula with all my heart! Morelli and Stephanie are on the outs again so she hooks up with Ranger. I adore Ranger and tend to look forward to he and Steph being together. It just seemed off. I got a bit miffed at Stephanie when she was upset that Morelli was seeing someone when she was doing the deed with Ranger. Of course, there are madcap adventures and situations that make Stephanie's mother drink. I simply wasn't feeling it this go round. This will not stop me from reading the next book. I am addicted and I have to get my fix.

Was the Lincoln Lawyer framed? Ya think?! A brisk effortless read but i didn't buy the plot. Loose lips sink ships. The problem with conspiracies on a grand scale is there are too many moving pieces to keep it quiet. Also you have to believe in an incompetence on a grand scale. The DA, police, FBI, and judges are not only incompetent but on the take. No. A fast moving story about framing Mickey Haller with murder by stuffing a dead body in the trunk of his car. Is Harry Bosch the only competent police officer in Los Angeles? A semi competent detective would have realized Mickey was set up. Once again an easy read with a far fetched plot. One more thing. A couple of reviews gave this one star because Michael Connelly had a couple mentions of Donald Trump. The author being anti/pro Trump is no reason to give this a negative review.

Mickey Haller, hero of Michael Connelly’s popular series of legal thrillers is back in The Law of Innocence. Haller’s nickname is the Lincoln lawyer due to his affinity for wearing stovepipe top hats and sporting a chinstrap beard. But unlike “Honest Abe,” the 16th president of the United States, Haller has just been found with the murdered corpse of a client in the trunk of his car. Murdering your clients doesn’t sound very honest to me. Haller claims he is innocent and is tasked to defend himself from the pits of his prison cell, constructing a defense more solid then the Illinois log cabin Abraham Lincoln grew up in. Haller is prepared to fight for his innocence even if it takes him four score and seven years to prove it. The pages fly by, but the ending was a disappointment. The conclusion was the result not of any legal finesse on Haller’s end but on the bad guys making dumb mistakes and Haller catching lucky breaks. In books like this there is an expectation of legal razzmatazz to blow the minds of those of us who seldom interact in courtroom settings. Instead we are given the equivalent of a poorly written Perry Mason episode where he wins by getting the accused to lose his cool on the stand and admit to everything. This is a letdown coming from such a skilled author as Connelly. How great of an author is Connelly? Well, if you were to multiply every hair in his thickly coiffed beard by 10 (obviously subtracting any pasta, half chewed hotdog droppings or dried minestrone soup stuck in there) you would achieve a number that comes to only 20% of his writing greatness. The Law of Innocence actually includes the current COVID nightmare into the story in a way that flows naturally and does not detract from his tale. I believe this is the first time I have encountered this in popular fiction. Overall a strong start that was undone by the poor conclusion.

I am an avid reader with over 100 books per year on my reading list. My favorite fiction writer is Michael Connelly and I always look forward to his latest books. I was enjoying this book until the author and the main character decided to turn political and insult at least half of the people reading this story. On page 264 we are introduced to a member of the jury pool who an investigator finds has a 'Trump 2020' bumper sticker on her car and because of this Mickey Haller states he doesn't want her on his jury because this is an "indicator that truthfulness was not an important part of her framework". First of all, this isn't believable because the story takes place in Los Angeles and no one would dare put a Trump sticker on their car. Haller later refers to this juror as a "Trumpette". I used to watch sports to escape politics and problems of the day but can no longer do so because of the politics displayed. Reading was my escape and Connelly was someone I faithfully turned to for this release. What a shame that I, and many of his other readers, have been devalued. It always seems to happen after they have made their millions or billions off of us and we are no longer important. Goodbye, Harry Bosch and Micky Haller.

To date I've read, in order, every Joe Pickett novel. The series is set in a mountainous, sparsely-populated corner of Wyoming and features a fish & game warden who finds himself and his family threatened by bad men intent on raping the West. Overall they're great reads, engrossing and hard to put down. This one, #23 in the series, was a bit of a letdown. C.J. Box injects right-wing views into his characters and tends to portray the people of the mountain West as monolithically conservative. While Joe Pickett generally remains apolitical (with a minor slip here and there, as when he makes a nasty crack to a cross-country skier about the "coexist" bumper sticker on her — what else? — Subaru), the storylines constantly highlight C.J. Box's political inclinations, holding leftists, government officials, and environmentalists up to scorn. Countering this is Nate Romanowski, Joe's sidekick, naturally distrustful of government and a survivalist by nature, who paradoxically winds up fighting villains who share his worldview. It's as if Box wants to push the Fox News/MAGA narrative while giving himself wriggle room to disassociate himself from it, putting me in mind of the late Rush Limbaugh, who when called out would always claim he was "just an entertainer." With each succeeding Box novel, though, it becomes increasingly clear the author listens to a shitload of AM talk radio. That's part of the letdown, but so are the bad guys, characterless and cartoonishly evil, incapable of insight or change, the batch in "Storm Watch" more unbelievable than most. I was disappointed in Geronimo, introduced as a new ally of Nate's in the previous novel, "Shadows Reel," who in this novel is no longer a street-fighting BLM activist but a hanger-on. A promising (and promised, at least in pre-release publicity for this novel) tie-in with Box's Cassie Dewell series doesn't materialize. We learn Joe's daughter Sheridan goes by "Sherry," which has me questioning everything I ever thought I knew. The bitcoin mining subplot leads ... nowhere. Maybe in the next novel we'll find out Nate and Geronimo lost their shirts. I dunno ... it feels like C.J. Box was going through the motions with this one. Still highly readable and hard to put down, but not as satisfying as most of the earlier novels in the series.

Another dead body found in Joe Pickett’s district. Illegal elk shedding and murderous bitcoin operations; a weird combo but it works. Glad to see ex-governor Rulan back as a main character. Does anyone find it strange that the law enforcement is portrayed as idiots and his wife and daughters solve the murder instead? Hhhmmm two days later and I’m still offended by Box’s “libtard” statement.

My first in this series and probably my last. Jumping in with book 23 wasn't a problem; it worked just fine as a stand alone. The problem was the tone and worldview. I had a hard time connecting with the main character, Joe Pickett. He was basically a good guy and was reasonably flawed. I just had a hard time connecting with him. The mystery was well done and interesting if a little too reliant on conspiracy theories. In the real world, I have little patience for conspiracy theories while in books, I love them or hate them depending on how the author handles them. In this case, it was too twisty and convoluted yet aspects were frighteningly believable. I'm glad I tried the author as several bloggers whose opinions i trust and respect have recommended the books. But in this case, not a good match.

C.J. Box and Joe Pickett are very reliable, and the viewpoint of those who live in the rural Western states is well represented. Joe is on the side of law and order and his friend Nate is on the side of keeping nature as it is. There are surprisingly many overlaps for them and so they remain friends while he is a law breaker by nature and Joe is one who upholds the same. In this one Joe's mother in law and the current governor are fomenting dissent and they step in to stop them.

Author has always had a conservative flavor to his books heroes, but this was off the wall crazy. He’s spent too much time in the Fox News, conservative radio bubble.

Having read all of the books in the series, for the first time I’m disappointed with the political story.

A Review of the Audiobook Published by Recorded Books in February of 2023. Read by David Chandler. Duration: 9 hours, 4 minutes. Unabridged. Synopsis: Game Warden Joe Pickett is out in a snowstorm chasing down an elk with a broken leg. An out of state driver plowed into an elk herd while consulting the GPS app on his phone and an injured elk somehow limped away. Joe and his dog Daisy are on a big ranch owned by an out of state multi-millionaire trying to track down the elk to put it out of its misery. Joe finds the elk, an SUV from a different part of the state, a metal building that is very out of place in this out of the way valley, and a dead man. Joe starts to nose around and gets shot at twice by snowmobilers at the top of the valley and that's just the beginning of his troubles... My review: For the past 13 years I have been happily reviewing C.J. Box's novels. I went back and looked at those reviews and bit-time politics has been a part of them since almost the beginning. His early books featured eco-terrorists, an EPA ruling about water rights, wind turbines, and more. Warning: ***spoilers follow*** But lately, the books are just... Read more at: https://dwdsreviews.blogspot.com/2023... A link to all of my reviews of books by C.J. Box: https://dwdsreviews.blogspot.com/sear...

I will not read another C.J. Box book. So disappointed that he felt he had to support with his story the current insurrectionists and conspiracy theorists of the day. I liked the various characters Mr. Box created and I’ve read all his books. No more. He occasionally alludes in this current book (twice as I recall) that the FBI individuals might be rogue, but it reads as an afterthought perhaps insisted upon by his editor. I purposely seek out fact based news and information. I read to relax during these difficult times. Mr. Box is no longer an author I respect, support or read. I gave this book a 3 out of love for the characters. I give the author a 0.

In recent years, I have instituted a strict policy: I can't watch any tv or movie adaptation without having read the book first. And so in this fashion, many shows are forced to languish while I furiously try to read through my TBR. The Duke and I was one such victim, but no more. And now that I'm done with the book, I can't help but feel slightly underwhelmed. Like, is this what everyone is swooning over? To be fair, the story is mostly fine, though a bit superficial. The majority of it is told via dialogue form. And while witty repartee is a big part of reading a Regency romance, this felt less witty and more cheesy. So while I smiled a lot, I also cringed at the overwritten and hammed up style. The characters are all fairly one-dimensional. The only personality I was able to ascertain were from the men, who behaved ever more apelike as they asserted dominance over situations and each other. It really was a bit over the top. The fake dating trope of Daphne and Simon is one I'm normally a big fan of, but somehow I didn't quite connect with it this time. One moment, they were fake dating, then the next moment they were in love. Where is the transition? Still, it was mostly a bit of harmless fun. However—and this is a big one—there is one particularly questionable scene near the end that I think most readers will object to. Reproductive coercion is not okay, and I'm baffled that this book not only portrayed it as no big deal, but in fact made it into the moral high ground. (I know this book is set during the 1810s, but was it written during that time too?) Maybe I'm just too used to historical romances with more substance, where women are actually empowered, the plot is complex, and the dialogue makes me swoon. In comparison, this book feels rather simple, with a thin premise, fairly bland characters, and questionable scenes that masquerade as romance. It's an alright way to pass a few hours, but that's about it. At least now I can finally go on to watch the show, so yay me! ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

Man, I've heard some weird things about this book over the years - none of them good. So, even though Quinn is a super popular author, and I'd already read and likedish a few of the Bridgerton books, I just sort of crossed The Duke & I off my list. Because life is too short. And then the Netflix show dropped. *sizzle, sizzle, sizzle* So. I grabbed the audiobook from Hoopla and dove in. And it was great! I couldn't help but picture the actors from the tv show speaking the lines from this book and I just melted. Probably my favorite Bridgerton book so far. It was adorable! You know, until it wasn't. Oh my, yes. There were definitely some hinky goings-on that despoiled the fun vibe this one was rocking. It wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be in the same sense that I thought it was going to be bad, but there was just too much grey area in that one little scene for me to not cringe. A lot. If the roles had been reversed, I don't think anything about it would have played out well at all. So, buckle up because I'm going to have to say something that hurts: The tv show did it better. Here's the thing. Daphne and Simon were one of the best couples Quinn has written. But between the THING Daphne did, the THING Simon lied about, and the fact that Daphne never confronted her idiot mother for doing such a terrible job explaining life to her child? It really put a kink in my enjoyment. And you know what? Violet and all of her flubbering, twittering, and blushing without actually telling Daphne about the mechanics of sex was maybe the worst sin this book committed. What the hell is so difficult about it? His penis goes into your vagina. And by the time that happens, you should actually want the penis to be there. FUN MOVEMENT ENSUES! There's some white sticky stuff that squirts out of your dude, which will head towards your eggs and may fertilize one of them. If so, this will eventually grow into a baby. It's not hard. Sorry, sorry, sorry! Anyway. I've been reading the series willy-nilly, and have always thought of Violet as a good mother. This completely changed my mind about her. As a woman first and mother second, you have a serious responsibility to get the fuck over whatever imaginary mortification you've drummed yourself up about when it comes to sex and reproduction, and you need to make goddamn sure your daughters are educated about their bodies. And while you're at it, make goddam sure your sons are equally educated about themselves and women. <--periods aren't gross! I think I would have felt much better about the outcome of this story if Daphne had given Violet a boot in the ass for sending her off into the world without the protection that comes with knowledge. But that's not what happened. Violet was a product of her times and apparently, Daphne was ok with that. I doubt I would have been as gracious. Having said that, it was overall a very cute story that I would recommend to anyone who is interested in the Bridgertons.

Dear Reader, This Author's heart is in Regency England with horsedrawn carriages and ballrooms and fake courtship and secret rendezvous in the gardens. 2022 seems so... dreadfully dull in comparison. where are the duels?? where is a man who will walk twenty paces and face a pistol when someone offends my honour?? where are the real men?? it saddens This Author that handwritten letters and courtship have been replaced with Snap Scores and swiping right. This Author would like to do this to the stammering rakish duke of hastings: LADY BRYCELEDOWN'S SOCIETY PAPERS, March 30 2022

I think this is one of the few cases where the show is much better than the book.

3 Stars Overall Opinion: This was an enjoyable read. I did, however, have some major issues with Daphne's behavior towards the end that causes their separation (view spoiler). I felt like if the roles were reversed, readers would be upset at the H doing something like this! I understand her desperation, but it was wrong. It all worked out it the end for her, but I personally never fully recovered. I enjoyed their banter, overall relationship, and the H! It's just a bummer that that one scene caused me to struggle with an otherwise enjoyable book 😕🤷🏻‍♀️ Brief Summary of the Storyline: This is Daphne and Simon's story. Simon had a sad upbringing, and he returns to London only when his father dies to take on the role as the new Duke of Hastings. He meets with his friend from college, Anthony, who happens to be Daphne's older brother. Daphne is out in society and has struggled with her options so far. After forming a friendship, Simon proposes that they both use one another to help with the pains of being in the market for marriage and Daphne agrees. There are some funny moments, some sad and sweet scenes, and a few sexy times...and they get a HEA ending. POV: This alternated between focusing mainly on Daphne and Simon in 3rd person narrative. Overall Pace of Story: Good, I never skimmed and I thought it flowed well. Instalove: No. They become friends first then develop stronger feelings. H rating: 4.5 stars. Simon. I really liked him! He was damaged, stubborn, and even bitter -- but I got it, and his past broke my heart! h rating: 2.5 stars. Daphne. I really liked her until a particular scene at the end where I couldn't believe her behavior! Sadness level: Low/moderate. I never needed any tissues, but I did shed a few tears. Push/Pull: Yes (view spoiler) Heat level: Good. They have some good tension, chemistry, and scenes -- but not so much it takes away from the story. Descriptive sex: Yes OW/OM drama: No Sex scene with OW or OM: No Cheating: No Separation: Yes (view spoiler) Possible Triggers: Yes (view spoiler) Closure: This edition that I read even had a second epilogue! So, lots of closure and a HEA! Safety: This one should be either Safe or Safe with exception for most safety gang readers depending on personal preferences. (view spoiler)

I didn't espect for this novel to take this weird turn. My mind is still confused and my morality can't support it 💯, even thogh it was entertainig most of the time.

** spoiler alert ** As I read The Duke and I, I kept having the feeling that I had read it before. That could be because it fits all the same Regency Era romance tropes or maybe I really did read it many years ago. Either way, it was a pretty good way to spend a few hours. Daphne is the oldest daughter from a large family of eight children. She’s expected to make a match during the season. While quite a few men have made offers, she is hoping for a marriage based on love, or at least mutual fondness. Simon is the new Duke of Hastings, which means mamas are parading their daughters in front of him. He doesn’t want to get married or have children. Instead, he wants to let the title his horrible father left him die out. Daphne and Simon enter into a pact to have a fake courtship so other men will see her as an attractive woman and he can have fewer daughters thrown in his path. Eventually, the fake courtship leads to a real relationship and all the drama that inevitably follows. I loved the first half of the book a great deal. Daphne’s relationship with her family is sweet. She is extremely close to her three older brothers, the siblings closest to her in age. Anthony, Benedict and Colin are a great mix of overprotective and fun-loving. Their bond with each other and Daphne is sweet. Add Simon to the mix and the resulting banter and sarcasm are so much fun. The matriarch, Violet, is also a gem. I loved the family dinner scene. It reminded me of my own family dinners when we had guests over. Each chapter starts with a quote from Lady Whistledown, an anonymous gossip columnist, which add commentary and flavor to each chapter. Quinn writes her characters well and creates a familial bond that is quite enjoyable to read. Her writing is quite good for the romance genre. She blends background knowledge, character development, dialogue and plot-moving narration well. I didn’t find myself skipping or skimming sections out of boredom. I enjoyed her writing style. I never really bought how the fake courtship would work. Daphne had suitors before, so why would she need Simon? Maybe she didn’t like the suitors she had, but she had some. Simon wasn’t going to bring her more suitable suitors. There is a scene where she has more men visit her but that angle isn’t explored enough so it doesn’t go anywhere. It would have been interesting to see this pact help her more and give Simon a little competition for her. The deal mostly helps Simon, which Daphne said wouldn’t happen - so that felt off. It really was just a simple plot device to get the characters together, which is fine for a romance novel. I just wish Quinn had spent more time developing that plot device, instead of the second half of the novel. Simon and Daphne end up married and that’s when the drama ramps up. Simon convinces Daphne that he can’t have children. Daphne figures out that Simon just doesn’t want them. In a scene that is uncomfortable to read, Daphne takes matters into her own hands. Her actions are not good, but she never really has to make amends for them. She is forgiven quickly and doesn’t pay any real consequences. Simon is painted to be the one who is in the wrong, which isn’t fair since his decisions were based on parental abuse and trauma. That didn’t sit well with me. I wish Daphne had worked harder to make up for her betrayal, instead of making it seem like Simon was the only wrong-doer. The last half is more focused on this part of the relationship than I would have liked. While this was a pretty good read in the beginning, it didn’t hold its charm throughout. This might be why I can’t remember if I read any of the sequels or not. Who knows if I will now.

2.75 OH BOI sooo I finished this book (I FINALLY FINISHED A BOOK OMG I CAN READ AGAIN) and I have like a GAZILLION thoughts about it. I have no idea how the hell I'm going to rate this. My mind is SWIRLING LIKE A FREAKING TORNADO with opinions on this, and I need a minute to put them in order so I can try to write a somewhat coherent review. EDIT: So I come from the future to say that I actually enjoyed this book a lot, uuuntil the protagonist did something extremely fucked up and problematic towards the end, which left me shooketh because when I decided to give historical romance a chance I always thought that if someone was going to screw up it would be the male romantic interest (bc let's be honest that's usually the case), but nope. I actually felt bad for him, because if the roles were reversed he would get a lot of shit because of that, and rightfully so, but since she's a woman the author made it seem as if it's like... okay? Up until that point I was surprisingly having a great time with this novel, which is the ONLY reason my rating didn't drop to the floor. I might give the next book in the series a chance because it has a different protagonist, but now I'm a bit concerned with the author choices. We'll see what happens. ------------------------------------------- PREREVIEW Ok I've been trying to come out of the Great Reading Slump of 2019 (haven't read a book in 3 months 😵) and I've been particularly struggling to figure out what to read. I was never much for romance as a genre, especially not historical romance books. Idk, I don’t find very captivating to read about the less than ideal way women were gererally treated back then and I'm very picky when it comes to the development of relationships. That said, I know Julia Quinn's books are quite popular, and since there's a netflix series coming out on the Bridgertons (and I heard people discussing the casting choices) I was like "oh what the hell, I'll give this a shot". This is completely out of my comfort zone, so let's hope I can make it through.

Have you ever "outgrown" an author? My love for Nicholas Sparks started when I was younger and movies like "A Walk to Remember" and "The Notebook" came out. I was so excited when I found out they were based on books; I read them and have been a fan ever since. Even though some would regard Sparks' writing as formulaic, cliché, and predictable, that was something I kind of enjoyed, like I could always count on him for a good story. His last book, Every Breath, was disappointing to me, but I let that one slide because I had loved every other book of his. Enter The Return. I don't even know where to start with this book. I thought it was very similar to Dear John (although I enjoyed DJ MUCH more). There was hardly a romance in this one... characters that fell in love too quickly (she is a cop who shows up at his house and he falls in love with her), and none of their relationship was developed. I found myself rolling my eyes, laughing out loud, and saying, "omg" at how CHEESY it all was. There was more about beekeeping than there was about anything advertised in the blurb. Maybe I feel this way because I have read so many amazing romance stories this year. I feel like someone else is writing for Sparks, because this is definitely not the Nicholas Sparks I came to love. I had to finish this book because of my past love for Sparks, but I think my relationship with him might be over. Sorry, Nick...it's not me, it's you.

The book centers around Trevor Benson, a Navy doctor. During a tour in Afghanistan, Trevor suffered multiple injuries, including losing a few fingers terminating his career as an orthopedic surgeon. He is suffering from PTSD but he's in therapy to help him deal with it. Trevor recently lost his grandfather whom he loved and while waiting to begin his second residency as a psychiatrist, he moves back to his grandfather's town in North Carolina. Here he meets two women. One is a young girl by the name of Callie. No one really knows much about her except that she works at a local store and lives in a trailer park close to Trevor grandparent's property. Yet, Trevor believes she knew her grandfather and he cared for her. The other woman is Natalie Masterson. She is a local sheriff and someone Trevor starts developing feelings for. I wish I could say that I loved this romance but I just can't. The insta-love killed it for me. They met a couple of times and Trevor was in love with Natalie already. Now, the mystery surrounding who Callie is and why it was important to find out was much more interesting to me. I loved learning about beehives. Keeping bees alive is primal to our survival. So I was very interested in them. I also thought the PTSD angle was important since so many live with it and The Return gives you some idea on how those affected by it can be treated. Cliffhanger: No 3/5 Fangs A complimentary copy was provided by Grand Central Pub in exchange for an honest review. MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Dry eyed and mostly satisfied! No tissues required for this contemporary but slightly uncharacteristic Sparks novel. Protagonist Trevor, a war-veteran surgeon who finds himself home in New Bern, North Carolina. He is there to recover and retrain, after a career-ending injury in Afghanistan. Suffering from PTSD and physical injuries he returns to his grandfather’s house, following his death, to tend to his bees and decipher the message he was given from his grandfather's death bed. Natalie, a police deputy, in New Bern catches his eye and his heart. She seems equally smitten but for the sense, she is hiding something, is always on guard, and never opens up. The storyline is a connected by sullen, isolated teen Callie, and his grandfather and you guessed, Trevor. Secrets, the death-bed message and all their relationships collide and intertwine through Callie but this takes a while to be unfold. A very slow burn and definitely not the typical romantic tearjerker.

This was a nice book. I use the word nice deliberately as it wasn’t dreadful but it also wasn’t outstanding. It was a nice, average book. Our main character Trevor is a good guy, but he’s a little creepy for my liking. Almost obsessive and stalker like in places. Natalie is a bit unlikeable. She could have explained her situation quite easily and spared them both heartache! I did enjoy the story and, whilst predictable, I’m glad it ended as it did. Thank you to NetGalley and the publishers for my copy of this book.

Nicholas Sparks is not my everyday go to book, but I do like the occasional emotional drama with an emphasis on true love, so I picked this one up without doing much research. I have to admit I agree with a lot of the reviews I just glanced at that this book moves too slowly. There is way too much detail about beekeeping (which was interesting) and PTSD/CBT/DBT (which was much more repetitive). I work in mental health and I do agree that realistic portrayals like this are important, but the narrator, Trevor, went on and on about it and the novel read like his personal thoughts. It didn’t feel believable and it took me away from the story. I liked the side story with the troubled teenage girl, Callie, better than the main plot and I wished it had taken more of the book.

Wounded Navy Vet, Trevor Benson moves to New Bern, NC after his only remaining family, his grandfather, passes away. A lover of bees, he left his house and beehives behind to his grandson. Trevor was a surgeon, but due to his injuries he can no longer operate. He plans to do a psychiatric residency in Baltimore that starts in the summer. But in the meantime he fixes up his grandfather’s house in New Bern. It’s there that he meets two women who will forever change his life. The Return is best-selling author, Nicholas Sparks’ latest release. This was a quiet, slow-moving story. Partly about love, partly about self-discovery, a lot about forgiveness & grief—I enjoyed The Return, but it didn’t captivate me or emotionally gut me like many of his books have in the past. I still would recommend if you are a longtime Nicholas Sparks fan. 3.5/5 stars.

I'm a huge fan of Nicholas Sparks, so I had high hopes on this book and was eagerly waiting to read it. Initially it took me some time to actually get into the story and there was also a point when I thought of setting it aside for another day. However, I continued to read on since I was curious to know what happens. The plot moves extremely slow and nothing much really happens until the last few chapters. Also, I felt that chemistry between the main characters, Trevor and Natalie, was slightly missing. The part of the story I did enjoy was learning about bees and beekeeping, it was both educational and fun. No doubt it is well written book with a gorgeous cover and an apt title to describe it. But it isn’t as good or intense as other Nicholas Sparks books.

** spoiler alert ** It’s a really good book, but somehow there was something missing for me. Maybe I wanted there to be more about Callie in the book and everything she went through after running away. Also I didn’t really vibe with Trevor and Natalie’s relationship and the fact that he told her he loved her after the third time seeing her w/o even talking to her that much. Don’t know why but I even wrote down as a note “creepy” when I read that 😂 anyway, the book was still enjoyable.

There’s no doubt about it that Nicholas Sparks always creates the most beautiful heartfelt and bittersweet stories. This book had the groundwork’s of being all that and more in the making but didn’t entirely live up to my expectations. While I wasn’t AS enamored with this book in comparison to other books I’ve read in the past by this author, it was still a story I just couldn’t stop reading, once started. I feel like writing wise, looking at the storyline development and depth of some things, not everything was fluent throughout the book and the main character was a bit annoying to me for like the first half of the book. Things definitely progressed for the better in the 2nd half, when the story is building up towards the end and everything is becoming more clear. Overall looking at this story, it’s not my fave Sparks and I probably won’t ever reread it again, but it does have that element of ‘not wanting to put it down’ present as I said before. The basics of the story are interesting but deserved a bit ‘more’ development from time to time as well, but towards the end everything is being wrapped up nicely, as this author is really good at doing. This is a book I’d recommend to pick up when you’re looking for a more simpeler Sparks novel, If you ask me. Just something to read in between as a quick read and that you shouldn’t expect Too much of. Good for having read once but nothing more than that for me.

I have read all of Sparks previous books, but his recent ones has been a letdown. The earlier books such as The Notebook, The Wedding, Message In a Bottle, etc were very romantic and it brings back so many feelings of nostalgia. However, his latest books have been very disapponting, especially when he tries to add suspense to his novel, it winds up coming across as forced and not authentic. This book in particualr ironcially started off really good, great characterization in the beginning. I enjoyed reading about Trevor Benson life in the military, his family and his PTSD. Yet when the story introduced Callie, his love interest, I simply did not care anymore. The relationship felt very awkward and forced, it was like they were trying to make this medicore relationship work. It was hardly substantical and I found myself skimming too many pages to invest in them. I liked them separately but together? I just did not take him seriously, hence the story was very flat and extremely dull when reading through their life. I personally did not find them all that fascinating, also the story lacked consistency and the ending was extremely forced. After reading The Best of Me, his books just got really undwhelming and dull. Oh well better luck next time..this just was not IT at all. Three stars at best, I enjoyed what I read so far but this one just fell flat towards the end.

Was it groundbreaking, earth shattering, mind altering? No, sorry. But did I still at least enjoy listening overall? Sure! Not as much as other Nicholas Sparks books, but still yes. Wouldn’t be my first choice for a re-read basically. Not a lot of excitement in this one, but that’s okay

3.5 Having grown up on the East coast, I’ve dreamed of a Nantucket vacation. Maybe someday. In the meantime, there’s always Elin Hilderbrand’s popular novels which are often set at this idyllic and iconic summer getaway. Recently featured in a NY Times article, the author’s annual chick’s getaway to Nantucket sells out year after year. Readers are introduced to the real businesses and buildings that have inspired Hilderbrand’s storylines. Overall, this was my idea of a light, beach read! But the “ghost” storyline was just annoying at times — awkwardly inserted into everyone else’s story arcs. Still, I can see why the ladies gobble these books up— charming with multiple happy endings!! (Reviewed 2/22/23)

3.5 ⭐️ The idea was there, but I just felt like there was too much going on 😅😅

I have read multiple books by this author and really enjoyed them in the past but this one missed the mark for me. She does a great job of getting me invested in the characters but I had a hard time getting through the sections from the ghost's point of view. This remind me of Golden Girl when I was hoping for something more like 28 Summers or the Summer of '69. Still an enjoyable read that had me rooting for her characters. I received a complimentary copy of this book. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own.

What is an Elin book supposed to do but not become a hot bestseller? Is this always her destiny? Take a beautiful setting, a few interesting people, a renovated hotel with a history, an active ghost (yes, you heard me right), a mystery person who writes reviews about hotels, and some romance and you have another story to read from her. Not just another story, but a Hot bestseller. The question is, is it formulaic or a truly pleasurable read? I leave it to you to decide.

Might need to reread in future because I just could not get into this story.

I read this book as a palate cleanser between all of my thrillers. I think since I am so used to suspenseful reads, this book just did not keep my full attention. Yes, I know that this is a women’s fiction and not a thriller but I was trying new to me genres and did not find this over all enjoyable. The plot was flat and not at all suspenseful. This was a feel good book that would make a great light beach read. I listened to this as an audiobook and while the narrator did a great job, I just wanted to get through the book since I didn’t feel that it captured my full attention. However, if you enjoy women’s fictions you would like this book.

Genre: Beach Read Publisher: Little, Brown, and Co. Pub. Date: June 14, 2022 Elin Hilderbrand is the queen of Nantucket. This is the author’s 28th beach read. Many of them are set on the tiny, isolated island off Cape Cod. I have read three of them. Given that my most recent reviews of literary novels have been deep ones, I was seeking something light. My mind yearned for a vacation. Similar to the previous Nantucket books that I have read by Hilderbrand, this one isn't all that unique. Despite this, every time I read one of her books I cannot help but escape from reality and enjoy the sights and sounds of beach life. Here the protagonist is a delightful ghost. She was a young hotel maid who passed away in 1922 during a fire in the hotel. The question is did someone purposely start the fire? For decades, the hotel lay dormant. In the present, a billionaire has bought the hotel and brought it back to life, well beyond its former splendor. Other storylines include a male rich kid working as a maid to atone for some mysterious, terrible thing that he did not long ago. The female head of housekeeping has a secret. And, the nasty breakups of island marriages. This being a Hilderbrand tale, there is plenty of gossip, and love affairs. The male chef, who is hotter than any dish on the menu, falls for the beautiful female general manager as she recovers from heartbreak. The author doesn’t stray from her usual style. I don’t believe that she has ever had a gay love affair in her books. I would need to research to learn if this is true or not. Of course, there are twists, usually not believable, but heck this is a beach read. And also, of course, all the characters are chiseled or doe-eyed. However, I give the author credit for making most of her characters middle-aged, which is unusual for this genre. For the guests, the general manager creates a “Blue Book” containing all her recommended island itineraries. In the appendix, the author includes a lengthy, real-life version of the “Blue Book.” I guess if you are going to Nantucket, you will appreciate it. But, I thought she was filling up pages. Links alone would have been a preferable alternative. Still, I recommend the novel, especially if you read it wearing a bathing suit, on a beach, and drinking a chilled glass of wine. Find all my book reviews at: https://www.goodreads.com/review/list… https://books6259.wordpress.com/ https://www.barnesandnoble.com/review… https://www.amazon.com/ https://www.facebook.com/martie.neesr... https://twitter.com/NeesRecord

Last week, I read “Playground,” a timely, dazzlingly brilliant novel by Pulitzer Prize winner Richard Powers. This week I read “Counting Miracles,” a new romance novel by Nicholas Sparks. That sequence tasted like chasing a fine dish of lobster thermidor with an Almond Joy candy bar from last Valentine’s Day. As a professional book reviewer, confessing how much I enjoyed “Counting Miracles” is almost more humiliation than I can bear, but what can I say? Sometimes you feel like a nut; sometimes you don’t. This is not news to Sparks’s fans, who have snatched up 130 million copies of his books since 1996 when “The Notebook” undammed an ocean of tears. Three decades later, in a world hotter, crazier and more confounding than ever, Sparks’s 24th novel offers all the calming comforts of a weighted blanket and a warm cup of caramel almond blossom tea. “Counting Miracles” makes that offer of escape central to its plot. The hero is a former soldier in the Army’s elite Delta Force named Tanner Hughes, which also conveniently suggests his golden complexion. After his beloved grandmother passes away in Pensacola, Fla., Tanner plans to head back overseas to work a security job for USAID. But first, he wants to spend a few weeks looking around Asheboro, N.C., to see if he can find any information about the father he never knew. It’s there in the parking lot of an Asheboro bar, far from the battlefields of Afghanistan and the Middle East, that Tanner’s life takes a hit from which he’ll never recover. A teenage girl named Casey backs her SUV into his spanking-new candy-apple red reproduction 1968 Shelby GT500KR. Tanner’s muscles are unbruised but his muscle car is crunched. Nonetheless, always the gentleman, he drives the girl and her barely scratched SUV back to her mom’s house. If you’ve never watched the Hallmark channel, you’ll be shocked by what happens next: Casey’s mom has got it going on. To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

3.5 stars Tanner Hughes is raised by his grandparents after his mother dies in childbirth. As Tanner understands it, his father is unknown. In March 2023, his grandmother dies but she leaves Tanner a note. “Dave Johnson Asheboro, North Carolina. I’m sorry.” As anybody would be, he’s curious so he heads to North Carolina. After an unfortunate encounter or two with teenager Casey Cooper, Tanner meets her mother Kaitlyn, a divorced Doctor. He feels an instant connection and wants to know her story and she feels the same. Meanwhile, 83-year-old Jasper lives in a cabin on the edge of a national forest with only his Labrador Arlo for company. Jasper is haunted by his past, an incident that occurred decades ago. He hears rumours of a white deer, a rare albino, which has apparently been seen in the forest. He becomes increasingly concerned about the fate of the deer as poachers armed with rifles are hunting it. He is determined to do as much as he can to protect it. How do all these characters connect? What does fate have in store for them? Will they be counting miracles? This is a nice story but the pace is way too slow for me as it goes to Asheboro by all points south and then some. I feel the story is too long as although all the backstories are good you get chapter and verse, talking of which via Jasper there are a lot, and I mean a lot, of biblical references. His story is probably the most interesting being very sad and especially tragic, and I like the old guys intentions, especially with regard to the beautiful deer . Underneath his taciturn exterior, he is a very nice man who is suffering. Tanner and Kaitlyn are very likeable too as are Kaitlyn‘s children. I do enjoy how the story starts to connect although aspects of it are certainly predictable. If you don’t mind the authors style it is a lovely story and the ending is a slice of magic. It’s an easy read which will appeal to those who like slower paced character driven stories. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Little Brown Book Group UK for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

Thank you NetGalley for the ARC of Counting Miracles by Nicholas Sparks. I haven't read a Nicholas Sparks in a long time. This book revolves around three characters Tanner an ex-military man who has no family, Kaitlyn a small-town physician and single mom, and Jasper a recluse who lost his entire family in a fire. I liked Tanner and Kaitlyn's relationship. I felt like it was relatable. I saw a few reviews that said that it felt a bit flat, but I disagree. Immediate attraction is real thing. I felt Jasper's story was very long and drawn out. I understand giving us the back story of his family, but we got to know characters that didn't have anything to do with the current story. I found myself skimming over the information about his children.

3.5 🌟 In true Sparks fashion, he’s written a reimagined romance novel of The Longest Ride. While that book isn’t my favorite, the movie is! Therefore the bones of this novel is going to produce a great romance movie someday. It’ll have to wait because the following novels are currently in production or development: The Return, The Wish & Dreamland. Dreamland was his last book which I truly enjoyed. I went in blind and it got me. Counting Miracles is a very predictable novel with a thin plot hole (how the names were never connected exists solely as a plot device). None of it surprised me. BUT ❤️ • Sparks has the knack of making his books quite readable. This one was a little haphazard and 60% in it felt directionless despite that I knew exactly where it was going. • Sparks is one of the very few authors who can Tell, Rather than Show in a meaningful way. There’s plenty of dialogue, character development and you’re allowed into each of the character’s minds. • I rooted for all the characters, including Arlo the dog 🐾. The only unlikable character was meant to be unlikable. (Wish he was held accountable.) • There’s quite a bit of tragedy involved, yet it’s not “tragic porn” like Hannah’s novels are where it’s dumped on you oppressively without relief. • I don’t usually resonate with books that include faith, however, this one makes the story & you’re never forced into following that faith. I truly enjoyed Counting Miracles and I’m happy I read this feel good story. PS: I have grappled with the same questions Tanner has in his quest. I connected with Tanner & his desire to search. My circumstances were completely different and I chose not to seek out anyone. The author handles this topic very well IMHO

Tanner is a restless soul. He has spent years in the military and has never really built roots in one town. He meets Kaitlyn a single mom and doctor that’s recently went through a divorce. Meanwhile Jasper is an elderly man that is trying to protect a white deer from poachers. I’m a huge fan of Nicholas Sparks. I have read and loved most of the books he has written. Unfortunately this one was not for me. I do respect that the characters were older and had been through some life. I felt that the storyline moved too slow and took a long time to come together. I also couldn’t connect with Tanner. He seemed afraid of any sort of commitment and it felt strange that him and Kaitlyn would start dating in this scenario. Although this book didn’t work for me I still whole heartedly love Nicholas Sparks and recommend you read it because a lot of people are enjoying it!

I normally love Nicholas Sparks novels but unfortunately this wasn't something that I enjoyed. While the story was no doubt lovely, it was a bit too slow for me.

Another Great Grisham 3 1/2 Stars. I am very much a Grisham fan. I usually rate 5 stars all the way because of the nonstop action. However, this story starts out with a incredibly bloody beginning in Mississippi and starts a long slow decent to an unsatisfying ending. The plotline is repeated try to many times. It is my guess would that at least 100 pages of repetition could have been trimmed awe would not have missed anything. In the end, it was a good story but not great. I will let the reader make a choice on the recommendation.

Typical Grisham A fan of the first Jake Brigance book, A Time to Kill, I had high hopes. Instead of something unique, Grisham chose to mimic the story switching out the black adult, Carl Lee for a 16 year old boy and the child with a sexy but useless mother. Paced well, it's hard not to be engaged with the characters in spite of the similar plot. It's not Grisham's best but for fans of Jake Brigance might be worth reading.

Il Tempo della Clemenza (original title A Time for Mercy) is definitely a big book, since it consists of 522 pages, but it must be said that it can be read quite easily, even if certain long descriptions could be definitely shorter. On the other hand, it's a Legal Thriller and where lawyers are involved, it's by definition a bit heavy. The protagonist is Jake Brigance, previously the protagonist of other books by John Grisham, and on this occasion, Jake is engaged as defense attorney for Drew Gamble, a sixteen-year-old accused of the murder of his mother's partner. To complicate matters, the murdered man was a deputy sheriff, and therefore the whole course of events will be very complicated for Jake. The plot unfolds in a very linear way, without major twists, but the pace is always quite high and Grisham's writing style is very nice as usual. Beyond the story of Drew and his family, in the book Grisham inserts a good amount of food for thought on today’s America, for example the use of weapons, or the law on the death penalty, but also racial discrimination still present in certain states or the different interpretation of the law depending on the state in which you are. It is therefore a book that beyond the central story can also be a good starting point for chats with friends. Three stars well deserved.

Can a Killer Go Free? asks the tagline on the cover. Well John Grisham doesn't tell us - without spoiling the ending, it doesn't reach a satisfactory resolution. After a long, laboured build up which lacks much tension, the book comes alive when we eventually get to the trial, where Grisham is at his best - but then peters out with a flat ending. There's also some dubious bending of adoption laws amongst other things - safe to say honest lawyers and judges are hard to find here. Diverting, but not one of his best.

Started out strong, dragged on in the middle, trial was very entertaining but finished unsatisfying.

Loved the courtroom drama! Disappointed with the ending.....

3.5 This book was not boring and was a quick read, and when all is said and done, it can be said that it is a decent legal thriller. Taken alone, that would be fine. Only this is a legal thriller by John Grisham and is in the trilogy of A Time to Kill and Jake Brigance. The so called Legal Bar is, and should be, set higher. We should expect it to be. “Decent” is not on this proverbial yardstick. The story was okay, pretty predictable, and the ending was rushed. There was so much more that could have been done to make this of the caliber expected of this writer, and in this line of one of the most popular novels of all time. Would anything come close to what we would expect from a follow up to “A Time”? Yes, I have to believe that Grisham can write it. Is “Mercy” it? Not even. 3.5 – may be generous. My humble opinion, and because I think that much of Grisham.

This new release is the third book in Grisham’s Jake Brigance trilogy that began with A Time To Kill in 1989. Set in 1990 it’s an old school Mississippi courtroom drama and as expected for me it was a nostalgic if somewhat dated read. It starts out strong with the murder of an abusive policeman at the hands of the abused and then an exciting courtroom drama ensues? How is Brigance going to pull off a win for his client here? Sadly there’s not much satisfaction of that question and the books ending is both mediocre and incomplete. Color me disappointed especially after reading 460 pages. 3 stars

Well, I made it through my "big 3" authors who usually publish this time of year. If I had to rank their tales in terms of plot, readability, etc. first prize would go to Michael Connelly, second to Lee Child and his brother's Reacher installment and bringing up the year would be this one by Grisham. The story seemed to plod in places, got repetitive, and there seemed to be a great 300 page novel struggling to get out of a 476 page tome. But, the biggest disappointment was to have the book end with so many loose threads. Train suit? Personal suits? Follow-up to the main trial? County reimbursement suit appeal? Bill collector suits for the client's mother? Just a whole lot left hanging out there! Maybe an attempt to emulate the discontinuity of real life - but frankly, I read to get a bit more wrap up than real life. Bits of the Grisham brilliance here but frankly I think is one of his disappointing efforts.

A Time for Mercy by John Grisham #2021Reads #MayReads “I can’t believe you would represent a killer like that Jake. I thought you were one of us. xxx ‘Gotta have a lawyer, Helen. You can’t put the boy in the gas chamber if he doesn’t have a lawyer. Surely, you understand.’ xxx ‘...I can’t imagine doing that for a living, representing killers and child rapists and such.’ ‘How often do you read the Constitution?’ ‘...the Constitution, as interpreted by the Supreme Court, says that a person accused of a serious crime must have a lawyer. And that’s the law of the land.’ With Grisham being one of my favorite authors, I have to admit, I was anticipating a great novel. While A Time for Mercy is a reasonably good story, it isn’t that spectacular. A Time to Kill and Sycamore Row, its predecessor books, still reign the best among the ‘Jake Brigance books.’ A Time for Mercy started out strong, but dragged on in the middle by overwhelming the readers with too much information. The trial part was very enthralling but the ending was predictable. There’s also too much repetition of the story from the previous books, for instance, Jake kept on reminiscing how her Paralegal, Portia Lang got to work for him (she’s the daughter of Lettie Lang from Sycamore Row). I believe one of Grisham’s goals in this book is to show the growth of Jake in the legal profession, but sadly, I don’t buy it. Instead, the readers see Jake as a less emphatic lawyer who could be mistaken as a salesman. However, the readers get to see a more compassionate lawyer in Lucien, I quote: “Being fearless, unafraid to take unpopular cases, fighting like hell for the little people who have no one to protect them. When you get the reputation as a lawyer who’ll take on anybody and anything—the government, the corporations, the power structure—then you’ll be in demand. You have to reach a level of confidence, Jake, where you walk into a courtroom thoroughly unintimidated by any judge, any prosecutor, any big-firm defense lawyer, and completely oblivious to what people might say about you.” Verdict: No mistrial. 3/5 stars. FN: I really had high hopes for this book. The title is very timely since I was reading this when my grandmother passed away, her nickname was, Mercy (Mercedes Villena). I miss her so much; WE miss her so much.

Interesting enough, but I didn't think it was one of Grisham's best.

IMHO this is the weakest of the series... and I'm so very sorry to say it!!! I love this series and all the characters, but most of all I love the crimes and the reasons behind them. Here, unfortunately, the crime was and the whys were really, really weak! Also the way Eve got her clues was fortuitous to say the best! I hope the next one will be better... I really hope...

3.5 stars: There was too much slow build in the middle, but once things started moving, I couldn't stop reading. This is an interesting take (IMO) on THE MIRROR CRACK'D FROM SIDE TO SIDE by Agatha Christie in terms of its premise

3.5 stars - Crime/Mystery/Futuristic/Police Procedural

Drags a bit around halfway through, but otherwise intelligent investigation!

Usually, I'm all pumped to read a new Eve Dallas Book, but not so much in the recent past. There's a sameness to the plot of the story, practically no fillers or side stories. It seems like all her latest books begin with the crime and ends with a happy ending. I'm not complaining about the lack of cliffhangers, I'm glad in fact. But there isn't any new character development, nor any creativity that used to keep readers hooked in. This plot is based in 2050, but the environment it's set in lacks imagination. I would have given this one 2.5 if I was able to.

Not one of her better books. And I'm tired of all her books mentioning the Icove case.

This just doesn’t feel like typical J Robb. I’m at 25%, and the dialogue is far afield from what I’ve come to expect from this series. Hoping it picks up.

In this 17th book in the 'Chief Inspector Armand Gamache' series, the homicide detective investigates a New Year's Eve murder. ***** Chief Inspector Armand Gamache, head of the homicide department at Montreal's Sûreté du Québec, was visiting Paris for his last adventure. Gamache is now back in his home town of Three Pines, where he sheltered during the Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic is now over, and Gamache is asked to provide security for a visiting academic. Professor Abigail Robinson is a statistician who wrote a report on the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic in Canada, with a view to mitigating future crises. Robinson's conclusions are VERY controversial, and as such things go, are passionately embraced by some and soundly excoriated by others. Robinson has been invited to give a lecture at the Université de l’Estrie, and the school officials want to avoid trouble. So Gamache and his team will be on hand to control the crowd and protect the speaker. There's an incident at the lecture, and Robinson - who's staying at the home of a friend - is told to stay put while Gamache looks for the conspirators. But it's the holiday season, and Robinson decides to attend a festive New Year's party at the Auberge Hotel in Three Pines. When the fireworks go off at midnight..... .....someone is murdered, and Gamache and his colleagues, Inspector Jean-Guy Beauvoir (who's also Gamache's son-in-law) and Inspector Isabelle Lacoste, investigate. The detectives soon learn that Abigail Robinson had an ulterior motive for visiting Three Pines, which expands the murder inquiries to an administrator at the Universite de l’Estrie and a retired doctor. In the meantime, Three Pines has another distinguished visitor, a 23-year-old Sudanese woman named Haniya Daoud, who's a candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize. During Sudan's civil war Daoud saved many people, and ugly scars are proof of her bravery. Daoud has a grudge against the outside world, however, for turning their backs on Sudan during the crisis, and the result is rude and crusty behavior. As all this is going on Gamache's wife Reine-Marie, who's retired from her job as a library curator, is doing free-lance curatorial work. A family whose deceased matriarch left a smaller than expected estate asks Reine-Marie to examine their mother's things, to see if they're worth anything. Reine-Marie discovers that the dead woman was obsessed with monkeys - drawing them everywhere - and Reine-Marie tries to determine why. In the end all these threads (more or less) come together, and the big picture is truly tragic. I'm in the minority here, but for me this is one of the weakest books in the series, for the following reasons: ◙ It takes FOREVER for the author to reveal the divisive conclusions in Abigail Robinson's statistical report. The delay is annoying and unnecessary and the revelation is predictable. ◙ The murder occurs later in the novel than it should, for a murder mystery. ◙ The murder investigation is 90% talk. The detectives ENDLESSLY speculate about who did what and why, envisioning innumerable scenarios involving the same group of people. The book could easily have been cut by a third. ◙ There's a lot of blather about people doing this and that for love, and the power of love, and love being the most important thing in the world. It gets cringey and - in the end - doesn't provide a good rational for the crimes. I admire Penny's efforts to incorporate the Covid-19 pandemic into a novel - and the story has some high points - but the book isn't wholly successful (in my opinion). That said, I always like to visit with the residents of Three Pines, especially the eccentric trash-talking poet Ruth and her beloved duck Rosa. It's a hoot that potty-mouth Rosa (inadvertently) teaches children bad words. I've read many of Penny's Armand Gamache novels, and they're always up and down for me.....so I'll keep reading them. 😃 You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

I think this might be the first one in the series that I’ve given less than 5 stars to. Definitely the first I’ve rated less than 4. And I’ve stopped writing reviews of the books I read, but I feel like I need to explain why I rated this so low. Louise Penny is one of my favorite authors. Up there with Austen and Alexander McCall Smith. The Gamache series is powerful. It’s beautifully written and there are always so many phrases that illuminate and make me think. About kindness. About beauty. About the power of everyday life and how our actions and reactions can reverberate. But this book I struggled with. There were still some good sentences that I took a picture of so I can go back to them and think further about them. But I think the backstory of the pandemic and someone spreading damaging and hurtful rhetoric in the name of science and statistics just cut a little too close to home? And maybe it isn’t fair to rate the book poorly because of the subject matter? But three stars is what feels right to me.

Well we're back in 3 Pines but suddenly with a much bigger hinterland. The rather mannered local characters don't dominate thank goodness apart from the f***ing duck and its owner who are far too ubiquitous. And Ms Penney seems far too fond of her Asshole Saint name if not the man. The plot is still rather preposterous and involves a post COVID reaction that I simply find unbelievable, although I also thought the same about Quebec care home story, but apparently it happened. I know that the UK doesn't have a great record like some other countries in emptying our hospitals into care homes without testing, but simply abandoning the residents is on a whole other level. I am starting to wonder if Canada is quite the nice place we have been led to believe... Gamache is also acting out of character with 2 spells of angry though controlled reaction - maybe that is the author responding to some of comments about his saintliness in the previous book. There are some interesting conflicting ideas in the book, but maybe I am not ready for a book with COVID at its heart yet.

Ugh. It pains me to leave a three star review for my favorite series. PAINS me. I suspect Louise Penny and I are fairly aligned in our political and societal views. Yet, once past my disbelief that Gamache would be ORDERED to provide security detail for a minor event during a major holiday, then ALLOWED to investigate an attempted murder from that event, I had to push myself through the pure sanctimony to the end. Had it not been for the moral commentary on constant repeat, the book could've been -- should've been -- finished by 2/3's. And when I say "moral commentary on constant repeat", I mean the same commentary repeated ad nauseam. There were a few points that I had to check that I had not lost my place and was not reading the same chapter over again. I was surprised at the number of five star reviews and comments of "best one yet". Why? None of the characters were remotely likable. Even Gamache was less. Less sharp. Less leader-like. Less ... I don't know ... just less. I felt that Penny really pushed to have Gamache struggle with "who done it" when it was simple, quite literal deduction. The mystery was lacking. The character development even more so. My hero has fallen a notch or two. And I'm not speaking of Gamache.

As is so often the case with the books in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series there’s a great deal more at stake than is suggested by the crime that’s being investigated. This strongly character driven drama depends desperately on the actions and interactions of both the police and the suspects. For me, this time, those interactions tended to miss the mark more often than they hit. Gamache is supervising the police protection of a professor who is giving a talk at a local gymnasium. This isn’t the usual sort of job he’s asked to do, but the content of the professor’s work is abhorrent to many and her previous lecture ended with the crowd erupting in violence. It’s feared that this one will be no less a tinderbox. The country, indeed the world, has just come out the other side of the global pandemic and bare statistics into the deaths that occurred have led to some grim conclusions. Unthinkable for most people but espoused as a reasonable response by Professor Abigail Robinson. Her points of view go against every moral belief in Gamache’s body, and now it’s his duty to protect her. The results are predictable and Gamache once again finds himself putting his body between someone and a shooter’s gun. Back in Three Pines it’s New Years Eve and celebrations are well underway when in walks the saved professor along with her assistant and the Chancellor of the university that held the talk. Gamache can do nothing but maintain his polite facade while also confronting the interloper, questioning her presence. By the time the clock ticks over into the new year a woman’s body lies in the snow, bludgeoned to death. Gamache, along with his second in command Jean-Guy Beauvoir and his other second in command Inspector Isabelle Lacoste set to work with their investigation. Although the story takes place in Three Pines, the local characters only play a minor part with the exception of Ruth Zardo who once again offers up some surprising insights, strategically placed between her more expected insults. Unfortunately, I found the murder investigation to be the weakest part of the story which was disappointing. Rather than the usual coherent and well-ordered process that I’d expect from a detective with the experience of Gamache, backed up by Beauvoir and Lacoste, we’re treated to a vague and difficult to follow display that consists largely of accusing a suspect in the hopes they break down and confess. I lost count of the number of times they changed their mind as to who they thought the murderer was. And, frankly, it became so bad and their reasoning became so convoluted and fraught that I realised I’d stopped caring. A subplot that developed throughout the book involved Reine-Marie Gamache and the boxes of documents and personal possessions from a deceased estate that she was sorting through. The constant appearance of monkeys in various forms was, at first, curious before it became quite distressing. It proceeded to crystallise into something more important. It was following this thread that I found things becoming more interesting. Overall, I found this to be a fairly plodding affair which is a shame because I’ve enjoyed the series greatly up to now. The returning characters continue to take part and their stories are developing along a consistent yet rocky path. A new character was introduced, perhaps just for this volume, but I failed to see the point of her inclusion apart from to annoy everyone, me included. Having read all of the books in the series to this point, I’d have to wonder what someone who’s picked this up as their introduction to the series would make of it. Not very much I’d expect.

This was a good read, very heavy topics, discussed in this book.

I've had a long relationship with Armand Gamache and I regret to say that our relationship may be fading. This is only one of two series that I have been dedicated to. I enjoy cozy mysteries if they are well written, but sometimes that seem like a tall order. I have loved Penny's series for the setting, the amazing research and the wonderful characters as well as the excellent descriptions of food. The crimes have been almost secondary. In the last few books this has changed. The characters have narrowed and are beginning to seem like background. I miss them. In this installment the crime is tangled and the journey to solving it long and sometimes tedious with a lot of repetition. For many readers the change in focus to the crime might be welcome. A cozy mystery is not for everyone. I listened to the audio book and as always Robert Bathurst is an extraordinary narrator, he kept me going.

This book wasn’t exactly my style, and quite slow… Although, I am not sure if it’s the story itself or just my attention span for mystery novels at the moment. That does not change the fact that it’s a good story and very well written! I am giving this book 4 ⭐️ even though I didn’t really enjoy the read. The author is an incredible writer, who evidently puts a lot of time and research into her work and that is 4/5 worthy for me!

Louise Penny’s books are reliable, irritating and satisfying in equal measure. This one is set post-pandemic with a statistician (Abigail Robinson) gaining popularity arguing that the elderly and frail and children with disabilities need to be killed (humanely) if Canada’s finances and infrastructure are to cope. (One repeated irritation with the plot is the (largely unchallenged) claim by that character that the strategy she is proposing is factual and a direct factual conclusion of the statistics – the statistics can only show what is the case and model various scenarios going forward, and she seems uncommonly naïve in not recognizing the normative and contested leap involved when moving from what has happened to what should happen.) The characters led by Armand Ganache are familiar, as is the Three Pines setting in Quebec, and they are vivid, but each time I read another book by Louise Penny I am annoyed afresh by the writing and structuring which repeatedly does the same things and is very obvious. In the writing it is the constant use of short, grammatically incomplete sentences – these lose their impact because they are used so regularly. In the structuring it is the over-frequent use of devices that make a comment about something you want to know/need to know but deliberately not answer it in that chapter but leave until later to keep the pages turning. Again, doing this from time would be good, but doing it repeatedly chapter after chapter becomes irritating. And in terms of the ‘whodunnit’ there is always an array of potential culprits and misdirects, but it seems to be getting easier to guess some key twists (which I did twice this time). Having said all that, the books do work as comfort reads and page-turners, and the final coming together is usually not only satisfying but often has quite an emotional pull. As well this book takes on some timely issues with its post-pandemic setting and the kinds of themes regarding disability and euthanasia that are the centre of the plot, and Penny largely handles these very well (other than the caveat about statistics I mentioned above), with a range of nuances enabled by the array of characters and their experiences relevant to these issues.

Did I just give a Louise Penny book 3 stars? I did. I think it needed more editing and felt it was rushed to publication as "timely." The timeliness fell flat since we are clearly not post-pandemic. BUT I loved being back in Three Pines with favorite characters and the audiobook was great. Maybe 3.5 stars?

In this 16th book in the 'Chief Inspector Armand Gamache' series, the detective probes a criminal conspiracy in Paris. The book provides enough background to be read as a standalone. ***** Chief Inspector Armand Gamache, head of the homicide department at Montreal's Sûreté du Québec, had career ups and downs as he rooted out corruption at the Sûreté. Now Gamache and his wife Reine-Marie are visiting their married children in Paris, and Gamache once again encounters corruption, this time in industry and banking. The Gamaches' son Daniel is a banker..... .....and their pregnant daughter Annie is a lawyer. Annie is married to Jean-Guy Beauvoir, who was a homicide investigator at the Sûreté until he took a job in quality control at Paris's GHS Engineering. The entire Gamache family is excited about the imminent birth of Annie's second child, and even Armand's godfather - the nonagenarian billionaire Stephen Horowitz - is in Paris for the event. After dinner at a favorite restaurant, the Gamaches and Horowitz are taking a walk when a car deliberately hits the billionaire and speeds away. Stephen is barely clinging to life in the hospital when the Paris police begin their inquiries. Armand tells the cops he SAW the car target Stephen, but the gendarmes seem skeptical, and insinuate the incident was an unfortunate accident. Armand knows what he saw, however, and mounts his own investigation. Thus Armand and Reine-Marie visit the luxury apartment Stephen keeps in Paris, and find the home in complete disarray, a body on the floor, and the scent of an exotic cologne in the air. Oddly enough, Stephen had also rented a VERY expensive hotel suite in Paris, and that had been ransacked as well, as had the billionaire's home and office in Montreal. With a corpse in Stephen's apartment - and all his homes and offices burglarized - the Paris police acknowledge Stephen's 'accident' was attempted murder....and someone is desperate to find something. Armand discovers that Horowitz had planned to attend the annual board meeting of GHS engineering - where Jean-Guy works - and that he had been looking into serious accidents around the world, including elevator failures, train derailments, airplane crashes, and so on. Moreover, Stephen had been consulting with the bank that employs Daniel Gamache, which invests in venture capital projects. Gamache concludes Horowitz had discovered something rotten in Paris, and someone wanted to shut him up and make off with the evidence. Given Stephen's recent activities, Gamache suspects people working at GHS engineering and personnel at Daniel's bank. More ominous yet, the exotic cologne wafting around the corpse in Stephen's apartment is used by two senior police officials. As the story unfolds, it becomes obvious that an evil cabal will do ANYTHING to preserve their secret, and the lives of the entire Gamache family are at risk. The book also delves into aspects of Armand's personal life, especially the tension that's existed between Armand and his son Daniel for decades. We learn the reason for the estrangement, and see Armand's attempts to repair the damage. Armand tells Daniel "I love you" over and over and over, and other family members also continually express their love for each other. I'm all for family love but all this treacly affection is icky. Some light relief in the book is provided by the Gamache grandchildren, who do cute kiddie things. Annie and Jean-Guy's little boy Honoré loves the crusty poet Ruth and her duck Rosa, who live in the Montreal village of Three Pines. Rosa's quacks sound like f**k, f**k, f**k, and Honoré shouts this out in a crowd. Honoré also knows all the words to 'What Shall We Do With A Drunken Sailor." As always in this series, the characters eat a lot of delicious food, like baguettes, terrine de campagne, an omelet with aged Comté cheese and tarragon, rice pudding with salted caramel, and more. Baguette with butter Terrine de campagne Omelet with aged comté cheese and tarragon Rice pudding with salted caramel The Paris conspiracy is complex and there's a large array of characters, so the story requires a good bit of concentration. For readers who miss the Montreal hamlet of Three Pines, the author provides a glimpse at the end, when Armand and Reine-Marie return home and see their friends and neighbors. For me the wrongdoing at the heart of the cabal is not explained completely enough, but I enjoyed the novel and recommend it to mystery fans. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

Plot: 3.5/5 Characters: 2/5 Writing: 4/5 Number 16 from Penny’s ever-popular Inspector Gamache series. Gamache has served in a number of senior roles (including short spells of retirement) in the Surete — the provincial police force for Quebec. In this book, we are transported to Paris where his two adult children are living with their families. While visiting his family, Gamache also meets with his (never before mentioned) godfather — German-born billionaire Stephen Horowitz. Within hours of their meeting, Horowitz is intentionally hit by a speeding car and left for dead. What follows is a multi-layer intrigue concerning a gigantic multi-national engineering firm, corrupt government officials, and a whole set of characters whose allegiance is suspect and highly confusing — all sprinkled liberally with Gamache family scenes filled with love, hurt feelings, old resentments, etc. As with all Penny books, you literally can’t put it down once you’ve started. Her plot twists are captivating even when (as in this case) they are in fact kind of stupid — both the engineering and finance details on which her plot rests are completely ridiculous. I had to keep resisting irritation and just suspend disbelief and go for the story. Unfortunately, that isn’t the worst of it. What originally drew me (and I believe many others) to these books were her wonderful characters. They were intelligent, warm, humorous, capable, and had strong moral compasses. In short: potential best friends for me! But over the past 5-6 books, Penny’s characters — once so alluring — have become completely two dimensional. They are suffused with sorrow and explicitly radiate love and kindness in return. They are constantly saying “I love you” to each other and maintaining inner dialogs about how much they care. New characters are always larger than life — they are billionaires, or the best in their field, or can call the head of the Louvre for a small favor. No longer the quirky and interesting denizens of Three Pines. Even the evil corporation is a two-dimensional character — happy to let people die to make a buck. There is even a surprise twist at the end — with no impact on the plot whatsoever — which is sanctimonious, sorrowful, and completely unnecessary IMHO. Penny’s much loved husband died four years ago of dementia. I can’t help but tie the shift in her writing style to what was and still is a sorrowful time in her own life. She gets to write whatever she wants, and I respect that! However, in its current form I don’t find the insight that might be gathered from her experiences. Instead I have a kind of mixed experience reading these part crime / part “the world is full of sorrow but we must love each other and be kind” drama. The crime part is fast-paced, engaging (if technically full of beans), and impossible to put down; and the second part a little too Hallmarky for me.

Please know I wish I could give this 3.5 stars. DAMN YOU, GOODREADS, FOR THE LACK OF HALF-STARS! First: I found it so interesting, and weirdly coincidental, that when one types the name of the latest Louise Penny into the Goodreads search field that the first result is this: - All the Devils are Here: The Hidden History of the Financial Crisis Second: I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed the Paris setting of this book. As a teenager and young adult, I wanted to go there with a passion that was fervent and deep. Sit by the Seine, smoke Gauloises, write poetry in a garret. As I grew older, other places bumped it out of top of the list. Plus, I got to enjoy it vicariously when my mom, my aunt (her sister-in-law) and my niece/cousins traveled there at different times. Third: As I told my husband earlier tonight, I think (guess/surmise/suppose) that more women than men enjoy this series because we hold out the hope that our life partners are strong, noble, honest, fearless, treacherous and violent when need be, and above all loyal to their families. Armand Gamache, he is all of this, non? And somehow more, because he realizes that he, deep in his heart, is but less -- a human being like us all? Fourth: If I could roll my eyes all the way back into my head about all that Daniel-Armand hooey, I would. Fifth: Absolutely take every hint you're given, about every single thing, in this book. If you do, when you get to the end you'll be like me, going, "Aha! I knew that about W! I knew that about X! I was pretty doggone sure about Y! And I wasn't the least bit surprised about Z! Z.1. Z.2. Z.3. Z.4.....etc." Sixth: Picking nits here. Have grown to absolutely loathe the juvenile silliness that goes on in Three Pines with friends and loved ones picking on one another. At some point it grows old. We are in book 16. We are past it all. Seventh: I was kind of surprised that Our Ms Penny hooked her car to the train of the French Resistance and the loathed collaborators of the same time. She is usually very ahead of trends in popular fiction. Perhaps some files are about to be brought to light that paint very different pictures (book pun intended) of leading and popular figures of the time??? Well. All that said, of course we all know how I will sum this up: Give me No. 17 as soon as you are possibly able, Ms Penny. Armand Gamache is who gives me hope in these dark times.

In a Nutshell: A historical fiction retelling the story of Mark Twain’s Huckleberry Finn from another character’s point of view. Important to remember that this is satirical in nature, else some of the inclusions will feel farfetched. Other than the exaggerations, it is fairly truthful to history as well as to the historical classic. Dark humour at times; dark emotions more frequent. Triggering for several events related to human enslavement. Works well as a standalone, but you might appreciate it better if you are familiar with Huck’s story. Recommended, but not a must-read. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Plot Preview: When Jim, an enslaved man, hears that he is to be sold and hence separated from his wife and his daughter, he runs away until he can come up with a plan to save them all. While in hiding, he bumps into young Huckleberry Finn, who has faked his own death to escape from the clutches of his abusive father. The two begin a journey down the Mississippi river, hoping to reach the free states. But if you know the classic, you know that this journey is easier said than done. The story comes to us in James’ first-person perspective. ‘The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn’ was the first ever (abridged) classic my father purchased for me when I was in the fifth grade. (I have no idea why he thought I would like this story at that age!) I completed it only because I completed every book. I remember being utterly bored by it midway, not even understanding some parts of the story. I vaguely remember reading it one more time during the next vacations, then never touched the book again. (Fun fact: I still own that copy in pristine condition. 😅) It’s not like I didn’t like Mark Twain’s books: ‘The Adventures of Tom Sawyer’ was more to my liking. But this one just didn’t click with me. Given this background, I had absolutely no interest in reading a retelling based on this classic. All the more because I always read/reread the original story before picking up a retelling, and I had no desire to read Huckleberry’s story again. But all the positive reviews for this novel finally made me succumb and try the audio version. It worked decently, but I think my dislike for the original seeped a little into my experience. I read a summary of the classic before beginning, which turned out to be more than enough as a refresher. If you know Huck’s story, then many events of this novel will be familiar to you but still interesting from the new point of view. If you haven’t read the original, I think you will miss out on the nuances and also won't be able to appreciate the cleverness of this version as a retelling. It is amazing how faithful it stays to the classic while still creating a new story. James is interesting as the lead character: resourceful and brave while still trying to live under the radar of the white overlords. The secondary characters are also interesting, several of whom are from the classic. Huck Finn doesn’t have that extended a role to play in this version, but most of his scenes work well for the plot. The only significant exception was the forced connection between Jim and Huck; that felt unnecessary. Using James/Jim as the narrator is a critical change that makes a lot of difference. Many classics gloss over the experiences of enslaved people as they are written mainly by white writers and hence come from the external perspective. The authenticity of voice is always missing. This book makes recompense for that, allowing us to see the same events from the view of an important yet secondary character in the original. What makes the POV even better is the satirical tone. To be honest, I didn’t initially know that this novel was a satire, so at the start, when I read the scene where James, who has impeccably highbrow vocabulary, was teaching Black children how to deliberately speak a distorted version of the English language to fool the whites, I wondered what the author was trying to do. But viewed through the lens of a satire, the scene makes perfect sense. Given how many elements of the original are included in this version, it shouldn’t be surprising that it also contains the offensive stuff. Several scenes are disturbing, especially as they are reported first-hand by the character who experiences racist brutality. This gets a bit intense on the head; it is tough to acclimatise to such language and scenes no matter how prepared you are. The final few chapters went the mixed way for me, feeling more Hollywood-y than classic or realistic. The abrupt cut-off of the last scene didn’t help. 🎧 The Audiobook Experience: The audiobook, clocking at 7 hrs 49 min, is narrated by Dominic Hoffman. He does a commendable job bringing James to life. As the story is fairly linear, the audio is a good option. (Editing to Add: I learnt from my GR friend Karen's review that the conversations are written in their dialectical spellings rather than plain English. As such, I need to appreciate the narrator's performance even more. No way would I have been able to read such writing so smoothly!) Overall, I liked this version better than the original, but only once I learned that it was a satire. The story has a strange mix of reality and compromised reality, which both intrigues and hinders. While the book works well on its own, I would recommend reading the original (or at least, a detailed summary) so you can appreciate some of the plot inclusions better. Recommended to historical fiction fans, preferably those who have read ‘The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn’ Whether you liked it or not is immaterial. 3 stars. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I follow the Goodreads rating policy: ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ - Lifelong favourite! ⭐⭐⭐⭐ - I loved the book. ⭐⭐⭐ - I liked the book. ⭐⭐ - I found the book average. ⭐ - I hated the book. The decimals indicate the degree of the in-between feelings. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Connect with me through: My Blog || The StoryGraph || Instagram || Facebook ||

I haven't read a lot of Nicholas Sparks, but what I have read has been hit or meh. Never a miss though. Sparks has a way of climbing into your heart. I found The Wish to be a nice way to pass the time but the plot's extreme predictability (in my opinion) distracted away from those intense emotions Sparks is known to solicit. Still, the story showcases important subjects, and at its core, it is sweet and redemptive. Pretty perfect for its Christmas setting. If you're a Sparks fan, definitely check it out. My favorite quote: "That was the thing about battling cancer. The waiting. So much of the last few years had been about waiting. Waiting for the appointment with the doctor. Waiting for the treatment. Waiting to feel better after the treatment. Waiting to see whether the treatment had worked. Waiting until she was well enough to try something new. Until her diagnosis, she viewed waiting for anything as an irritation. But waiting had slowly but surely become the defining reality of her life. Even now, she suddenly thought, here I am waiting to die."

Contemporary Women Fiction Publication Date: September 28, 2021 This is a story about talented photographer Maggie Dawes (39) who's struggling to come to terms with a skin cancer diagnosis. As she has to cope with her growing weakness, she finds herself more and more dependent on her young assistant Mark. To her surprise she begins to tell him the story of her teenager years from the 1990s—and the love that introduced her to photography, a passion that defined the rest of her life; she also has to face the decisions that have haunted her... I like how THE WISH remind you that good can come out of hard times; that there are lot of kindness around you when you open your heart. But this story also remind you that life is short and every moment is precious because you never know how many days are left for you or for your loved ones. I was drawn to Maggie's story. It was interesting to read about her as a 16-year-old pregnant teenager, and the woman she had become. I couldn't stop reading at the same time fearing approaching sad ending for Maggie... The present day chapters were difficult to read as story progressed. To be honest those past chapters were no easier as I knew what struggles she has to go through two decades later and I feared something bad will happen to Maggie's first love, Bryce as well. Lets say that there were too many things that were predictible although I hoped author won't go that path! This was bittersweet story of life, love, loss, friendship, lost chances and so much more. I think they should sell this book with extra large box of tissues included because there are lots of unhappy and sad moments! (view spoiler)

I was sent this book from the publisher/publicity team. My ratings and reviews will be my own personal opinions and are in no way influenced by publishers or authors who may have sent me books to review. I love Nicholas Sparks but the last few releases just have missed the mark for me. When this one started I was hopeful it was going to be that heart breaking love story that I used to love about his work. This was closer to what I wanted, but I am still waiting for an epic romance from him. This is more womens fiction than romance. It does involve a love story, but I do not consider it romance. This also deals with a very heavy topic as the main character is dying from cancer. I was expecting my heart to break. It was very sad as we see Maggie getting worse and worse but it did not bring that heart wrenching ache that I wanted and needed. This was pretty predictable and I figured out the twist as soon as the first flashback story was told. I did not see how it unfolded and did tear up at this moment. The story was just so slow. Not much happened at all and it just dragged on at times. We are following Maggie when she was younger as well as when she is older. Her story was very sweet. I just wanted more. The audiobook was pretty good. The narrator did make younger Maggie sound much younger than she was at times. Overall, this was better than the last few but still not what I want and expect from NS.

It was hard for me to get through this one but I think a big part of that was how LONG the chapters were

I love my physical edition of this novel...while the reading experience wasn't as good as always thought that it would be. MANY SHADES OF GREEN A thing that I got amazed when I started to "label" this book, in the process of my review, in my virtual shelves of Goodreads was how many different genres the novel touches... Politics, Religion, Romance, Humor, Fantasy, Magic, Mystery and even Espionage. And I was very tempted to select Military too but I opted not. And certainly the mood and themes of the story embraces all those genres and maybe more. I knew about this book series some years ago while I was researching about the topic of Oz in general and since then I thought that it could be good to read it. LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT... FOR A BOOK'S EDITION Some months ago (2013), by chance, I found this edition in a shelf of a local bookstore. I recognized the title of the book and I took it by impulse. The cover was gorgeous with the poster of the musical version BUT what stunned me was the detail that this particular edition has the edges of the pages colored in green... GREEN!!! Ah?! Honestly I can't think in something cooler to make irresistible this edition. Those marvelous green edges on the pages of the book sold me the novel right away and I couldn't took back the book on the shelf. Thanks goodness the wicked magic of the credit card allowed me to go out of the bookstore with the novel. THIS IS NOT KANSAS! Certainly when I started to read the book, I knew that I wasn't in Kansas anymore! Geez! The Cowardly Lion and the Tin Woodman kiss their mothers with those filthy mouths?! The introduction of the book is like a slap to the readers to make them understand quick and hard that this is indeed an adult book. You know? I am not a prude, not in the least, but I think that Maguire made a hard effort to make sure that this will be an adult novel since I think that many of the issues touched here could work just the same without the need of some big words and sex scenes, while the drugs had to stay, hehehe, since indeed here the drugs played an important purpose on key moments. It was like: "well since we have sex, drugs and rock n' roll (well no, no rock n' roll, really, not even on the musical version) this is a story for only we, the adults, sorry kids, you will have to keep busy with the Baum's cute books meanwhile you grow up some years." Well, C.S. Lewis said that any children's tale that it can't be enjoyed by adults just the same, it's a poor children's tale. So, facts of life... first, kids aren't dumb, they can understand heavy topics, even more the new generations that grow up with internet as nanny, and second, adults don't need sex, drugs and r... (you got it) to enjoy an intelligent story. IT'S NOT EASY TO BE GREEN Since this is a really smart tale, but maybe I had some expectations that affect my final rating of the book. First, there are really big "jumps" between the chapters and while there some unexpected turns and twists (that one can think that it's something good) but some of those twists were... ah? With him? Really? Geez! And romance left the building! Later, I really expected an explanation of how a person can turn to be evil or be seen as evil, but Elphaba turned out to be wicked not as evil but as crazy and for reasons really odd. Also, since the beginning there is something that I don't understand. Elphaba born with green skin, okay, HERE, in our beloved Kansas and the rest of the Earth around, it could be a real trouble but hey, they aren't in Kansas anymore, that's Oz, a land where animals can talk and people can do magic! How odd really can be a person with green skin over there? Honestly I could be more freak out for a talking goat or lion than watching a person with green skin. Also, the green skin resulted an odd issue again at some point, you see, Elphaba is in hiding, but hey, she is walking around the city... how good can be in hiding for "several" years if she is supposed to be the only woman with green skin in all Oz?! What? The Gale Force recluted colorblind people?! Geez! Also, I have my theories about the physical problem of Nessarose (Elphaba's sister) but since it wasn't approached beyond of being just a birth defect, I don't see the point of her problem. Even I think that the story was evolving quite fine until Maguire tried to put together his own story with the original story when Dorothy arrives to Oz. WICKED READING Besides all my complaints, the book is still a smart vessel to touch sensitive topics of politics, religion and social interaction without worrying to be subjected to harsh critique since he smartly uses characters and themes in Oz and you have to deduce those allegories on your own and at the end, they will be your own ideas and not necessarily what the author wanted to say. However, the book lacks of some action, all stuff happened in a very appeased tempo. Nevertheless, I want to try in the future the other books by Maguire, on this Wicked series and his other stand-alone novels based on retellings of classic children's books.

⭒⭒𖦹☽⚚☾𖦹⭒𖦹☽⚚☾𖦹⭒𖦹☽⚚☾𖦹⭒𖦹☽⚚☾𖦹⭒𖦹☽⚚☾𖦹⭒⭒ ⭐ 𝟑.𝟐 𖦹 𝐏𝐥𝐨𝐭: A dark and ambitious reimagining of a familiar villain, Wicked sets out to explore the origins and motives of the Wicked Witch of the West. The premise is rich with potential: political unrest, moral ambiguity, the making of a misunderstood outcast - and on paper this should have been my cup of tea; unfortunately, I felt that the (somewhat uneven) execution hindered my ability to engage with large portions of the story. 𖦹 𝐖𝐫𝐢𝐭𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐒𝐭𝐲𝐥𝐞: Indulgent, heavy and often meandering, Maguire leans deeply into philosophical and sociological discourse, frequently prioritising thematic exploration; large portions of the novel are consumed by dense political exposition, often at the expense of narrative clarity, structural consistency and momentum. Key events are sometimes glossed over far too quickly, while minor or symbolic moments are drawn out extensively - creating a noticeable imbalance in pacing. The prose is intelligent and layered, but sometimes lacks focus. However, on the occasions the narrative narrows, the writing becomes far more effective. 𖦹 𝐂𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐚𝐜𝐭𝐞𝐫𝐬: Elphaba is a morally complex and deeply isolated protagonist - rigid, principled, and emotionally unavailable; while this ensures she is intellectually interesting, it can also make her a little difficult to connect with. Her dynamic with Glinda is a highlight, offering heartfelt, if bittersweet glimpses into the characters' bond, bringing warmth and contrast that the rest of the tale often lacks. 𖦹 𝐈𝐦𝐩𝐚𝐜𝐭: The themes: propaganda, systemic oppression, moral relativism, and the construction of villain narratives - are undeniably compelling. However, an intriguing concept is buried beneath lengthy theoretical descriptions. Despite this, the climax lingers emotionally, reframing the original story through a fresh, thought-provoking lens. 𖦹 𝐄𝐧𝐭𝐞𝐫𝐭𝐚𝐢𝐧𝐦𝐞𝐧𝐭 𝐕𝐚𝐥𝐮𝐞: Wicked is not a light or accessible read, and its style won't work for everyone (I'll admit, it tested my patience). This is very much an acquired taste: while much of the journey feels distant, the closing act cleverly delivers a surprisingly poignant alternative perspective. 𝐆𝐞𝐧𝐫𝐞: ⚚ Fantasy / Political Allegory 𝐓𝐫𝐨𝐩𝐞𝐬 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐓𝐡𝐞𝐦𝐞𝐬: ⚚ Villain origin story ⚚ Moral ambiguity ⚚ Political oppression ⚚ Misunderstood outcast ⚚ Propaganda ⚚ Complex characters 𝐂𝐨𝐧𝐭𝐞𝐧𝐭 𝐖𝐚𝐫𝐧𝐢𝐧𝐠𝐬: ⚠ Political themes ⚠ Sexual content

i love the wizard of oz movie from the 1930s + the wicked movie//broadway show so i enjoyed delving deeper into this fantastical world. it's not the same at all but i still had fun. things i didn't like: the writing style made this book really hard for me to get through and there were some slow parts ⋆⭒˚.⋆pre~read⋆.˚⭒⋆ i watched the movie in theaters and i loved it so much that i've had the soundtrack on replay ever since. now i want to read the book too lmaoo. i have heard mixed reviews so i hope i enjoy it *fingers crossed* ♡ i rented the audiobook + ebook from the library ♡

So, I have never seen the musical, but I do have plans to watch it and the movie, and I thought this would be a good place to start...you know what? I was wrong. Because this book is A LOT. I wasn't a fan of the writing style, or the constant sexualisation of everyone and everything, half the time I had no idea what was going on because it was so jumpy (probably shouldn't have picked the audiobook), I had trouble liking the characters, so I 100% believe everyone who says the musical is better. And if you were thinking about reading this before the movie...mayhaps reconsider. I might still give the second book a try, because I at least liked Liir, and it was published 10 years after this so it's hopefully better?

3.5 stars - It was a bit strange and wasn't really what I thought it was going to be, but it was entertaining enough.

"The world was floods above and below. If there was such a thing as a soul, the soul had gambled on a sort of baptism, and had it won?"

It took me a bit to get through this one. It was a little too political for me but there were parts that I did enjoy.

** spoiler alert ** What the frak was this!? I have a list: 📃 Too slow 📃 Too much political garbage 📃 I don't mind a bit of covid talk, but every chapter had some sort of reference to it 📃 All of the above overshadowed the actual storyline. I loved hearing about Holly and how far she has come but I feel the narrator didn't portray her correctly, didn't come across as the Holly we know. If you can get past all of the above the story and plot was great. Loved the added plot of canabalism but its probably not everyone's cup of tea.

3.5 stars. Mostly enjoyed the story, but there were so many irritating aspects and felt like I was rolling my eyes a disproportionate number of times while reading it

"I could never let Holly Gibney go. She was supposed to be a walk-on character in Mr. Mercedes, and she just stole the book and stole my heart. Holly is all her." - Stephen King I could not wait to get my hands and eyes on this book. I wanted more Holly and was curious to read a book with her without Bill Hodges in it. Having read the above quote from Stephen King, which is on the back of the book, I knew this was his love letter to her. If any constant readers follow King on social media, you know he is not shy about voicing his politics. Nor was he shy about sharing them in this book. Holly was written during the pandemic and there is a lot (and I mean a lot) of COVID and political talk/opinions in this book. Will it be too soon for some readers? Perhaps, but keep in mind that Holly takes place during COVID. His characters will be wearing masks (or not), washing their hands, not shaking hands, talking about vaccination, etc. Plus, this is King's book, so he is free to write and have his character's feel and express whatever he pleases. I have no problem whatsoever with his viewpoints, but eventually I began to wonder if it was just too much. For the first half of the book, I struggled with getting into the story. It felt slow and honestly, it didn't grab my attention as his other books have. There are some "bad" characters in this book doing some bad things, but I wasn’t creeped out by them as I usually am by King's villains. I felt very meh about them. They were not that interesting in my opinion. Peculiar, twisted, bizarre, yes but also bland and I'll say it again meh. What was not meh, was Holly and her approach to solving a case and how she looked at things. The second half of the book, and especially that last third of the book, moved much faster and I was finally invested in the plot. The latter part of the book is also when King cooled off on the political and COVID talk and got to the business of Holly doing detective work. The book began to feel tense and there was a sense of danger at the end which I always enjoy in books in this genre. I so wanted to love this book as I have enjoyed Holly as a character. For me, this was enjoyable but way too slow. I struggle with slow books. Plus, I was hoping to be creeped out. Readers know who the depraved characters are, so we are watching and waiting for Holly to solve her case. King has always written interesting, unique, and engaging characters. No matter how I feel about them, I am usually intrigued and captivated by them. In this book, as I mentioned, Holly was the only one who I felt one way or another about. The other characters just didn't stand out for me until the end. For me, not his best. This won’t stop me from being on the lookout for his future books. King is well, the King of horror in my book. He knows how to spin a yarn. We can't love them all, even books we are highly anticipating. Many are loving this book more than I did, so please read their reviews as well. Read more of my reviews at www.openbookposts.com

SK has taken a liking to crime stories the past 15 years or so. He may have been a master writer long before that, it doesn’t mean a writer can’t get get better at it. I think SK has gotten better at writing crime since he first introduced Holly in mr. Mercedes. One thing SK has always done well was write characters that are easy to become attached to. He gives everyone he writes about enough room to expand and feel real. There was a fair bit about Covid and recent politics in this one. It’s not often to see this from SK. He has made his opinion of these matters clear long before this book. I found that that it wasn’t heavy-handed enough that it would take away from the story, no matter what your opinion on these matters are. Give that crime fiction isn’t my preferred kind of story. I’m happy to read this and SK proves that he still has it, and is always worth returning to.

Near Dark spent a lot of time talking about the past. I know that the author is capable of better. The novel also lacks the consistent mind-boggling action that i've come to expect in Scot Harvath novels. Hopefully the next novel in the series will be straight-forward and action-packed.

Scot Harvath is in bad shape mentally, drinking to forget the devastating personal losses he suffered in the prior book, Backlash. He is lured outside a bar to fight two thugs as part of an assassination attempt, which fails only because his team arrives in time to save him. When he finds out a close Norwegian friend was tortured to death to get to him and someone has put a $100 million bounty on him, he decides to bust out of his funk. Eventually, he meets up with the female Norwegian prodigy of the dead man (Solvi), and their relationship starts to smolder. (Harvath's code name is Norseman from having bedded so many SAS flight attendants.) Things seem to point back to Russia, but it's a feint.

I was a little disappointed in this book, judging from all the reviews and “best in the series” hype. A lot of time was spent retelling the details from the previous release, and it seemed like Near Dark could have been added as several chapters in the last book instead of a stand-alone. The ending felt extremely rushed and anti-climatic. That being said, there’s enough here to satisfy the series fans (like myself), but I think I was somewhat blinded by the advance reviews, and I was expecting more.

So who put a 100 million dollar bounty and a pool of assassins after Harvath? I have heard that the Scot Harvath books are excellent international spy thrillers. Unfortunately Near Dark is #19 in the series and while usually these types of books can be read as standalones, this one just didn’t work. It is based very heavily on the events of the past few books, with TONS of recap. I think if I had read the prior books, the recap would be boring, and since I hadn’t, I had no clue what they were talking about. Also since I don’t know the characters that had died, all the grief and past recollections didn’t affect me. Having read a few other reviews from long time series readers, I’m not too far off the mark there. Either way there was tons of intrigue and I think it would be worth trying prior novels in the series. It also took a long time for Harvath to do anything exciting since he spent much of the book reeling from prior events and in hiding. Once the action got going it does seem like Thor can write a good spy thriller. I liked Harvath and Sorvi, the Norwegian spy. These characters just kick ass and have some Bond-like qualities and sometimes that’s what books need. I liked that he went there with the torture and murders too. My favorite side character was Nicholas the dwarf. A real dwarf isn’t something I see often in books and he was hilarious plus a brilliant hacker. Would love to go back and read the history there. In short … I would start back at the beginning and try the first book in the series before judging too harshly. The recapped action sounded awesome but I can’t recommend these as standalones based off Near Dark.

Pretty much a vengeful rehash of the previous 18 books. Lots of it was just blah blah blah.

Almost gave up a quarter of the way through - soooo much exposition and filler and repetition of the history of Scot's angst and why he's now a boozer and giving up on life... A lot of talk talk talk and review review review of previous ops, characters, and situations from earlier books. If you're a huge fan, I'm sure it's a nice romp down (previous novels') memory lane. Thin plot: Scot is the target of a bunch of assassins loosed by someone offering a huge bounty. I thought there were subplots to this story, which kept me reading, but really it was just find one assassin, torture him to get to the next guy, find that guy, torture him to get to the next guy, then torture him to get to the next guy. The last three links weren't even shown, just explained. Very weak ending when Scot goes into the final confrontation. Miracle, all is solved. Also, a lot of deus ex machina saves sprinkled throughout. Not a lot of action (except the fight and torture scenes - solution to all problems is shoot the guy in the knee). If you insist on reading it, skim! If you are into listening on audio, it doesn't merit close attention. 2.5 stars.

I felt the ending was rushed.

We were looking so forward to this book after the high-action ending of the last book. There was a lot of backstory telling and not much action here. It was fine and mostly a setup for future books but not what we expected.

This is a bit of a different look at Scot Harvath. It is not the usual action that you would expect. That being said it is still a good book and gives a glimpse into the character's life. Which makes sense since in the last book his life took a big hit and he lost people dear to him. It makes sense that he would need a bit of a chance to re-assess life and see where to go from there. He takes on a new mission to track down the killers that killed his wife. But who can he trust? The situation is made more complicated by he fact that there is the world's biggest bounty on his head. Will he be able to outrun the assassins and still be able to complete his mission? Well written but a bit different than you would be used to-still worth reading.

I thought this was good, but I didn’t quite feel it lives up to my expectations. In many ways, it was a continuation of the previous book which I didn’t mind, but it felt like a lot of time had to be spent retelling what happened vs. advancing the story. I found some the character development lacking as well, and some of the issues the characters were dealing with just seemed to end at the flip of a hat with little consequences. I found the ending extremely rushed and anti-climatic too. All of that is to say I do enjoy the Harvath series quite a bit especially the last few, but this one fell a bit flat for me.

(3). like a dependable restaurant, a go to place for coffee, a bartender who knows your name, you mostly know what you are going to get in a Scot Harvath book. This one has more planning, more figuring out and a little less action than some of the previous offerings, but the feel is still there. This isn't the best one in the series, but it isn't bad. There are a couple of fast turnarounds here, and the ending wraps up so quickly it is almost hard to believe, but the overall product is still solid. always a fun ride. Good stuff.

This was good, but not Thor's best.

Not my favorite by Brad Thor. Maybe is was just me, but I couldn't get into it. It turned into one of those books that I had to finish. I kept reading hoping it would grab me. That it would interest me. But it never did.

Scot Harvath has a bounty on his head. Who is after him? The Russian? Islamic Terrorists? Someone else. Harvath has to overcome his depression to team up with a Norwegian operative to find out who killed Norway's top operative. The chase goes through Norway, Lithuania, and France, and if you know France, you may recognize the structure on the cover of the book. Despite the bounty, overall there weren't a lot of hit men after him in the book. Pros: Steady ready, intrigue, Scot is human after all. Good action sequences though limited. Reminds me of James Bond going after Spectre. Cons: Long way to get to the one person that helped the bounty, but once they talked, the puzzle pieces fell too quickly and the ending was rushed.

Really struggled to push through. It had some interesting parts but overall was a chore to finish.

3.0 stars— At 677 pages Dan Brown’s latest book, “The Secret of Secrets”, is a difficult book to finish within the 14 day window given by the library to read this book. I did it, but let’s just say my family is very happy this colossal undertaking is over. My history with Dan Brown is a mixed one, as I have enjoyed several of his books, but the more of his books I’ve read the more I have noticed he has used his platform as a bestselling author to attack and ridicule Christianity every chance he gets. One good thing about this book is that other than a few inaccurate claims that had nothing to do with the story, this book didn’t focus on Christianity. The book follows the traditional Brown plot of having his protagonist, Robert Langdon, put in a life or death situation with a love interest in a foreign country with twists and turns throughout. Unfortunately, this book also was filled with a huge amount of filler on some very outlandish theories on consciousness and how it can be separated from our physical body. This is covered in such excruciating boring detail that I eventually began skim-rimming entire pages of complicated explanations of how out-of body experiences and consciousness can be manipulated and monitored. I read another reviewer say that Brown’s novels read like lengthy ‘Wikipedia’ entries regarding different places and artifacts found in Czechoslovakia (the setting of the book). This is very accurate, but I did enjoy learning about such things as “The Devil’s Bible” while making my way through this very lengthy book. Dan Brown always does a great job of researching his books and includes a lot of information you don’t normally find in thrillers. The main storyline was not quite as good as previous Brown books and seemed to be very similar to several of his older books (except the villain was less believable and intimidating than earlier books). In summary, if you are a first time reader you will probably find this book an amazing thrill ride, but if you have read 5 or 6 previous Brown books you will probably find the story all too familiar and a little less satisfying than his previous works.

As the 6th book in the Langdon series, Dan Brown sticks to the same storytelling formula as before - an ordinary, decent guy, dropped into some international metropolis or historic city, barely a few chapters in, suddenly gets swept up in a massive secret or global conspiracy. The police are usually either incompetent or corrupt, the line between good guys and bad guys keeps shifting, and the only things our hero can rely on are his wits - and a mysterious woman by his side. Of course, times have changed: she’s no longer the Hitchcock-era blonde bombshell, but someone who’s either smart or physically capable. This time, she’s the “brains” type. In the end, the ordinary man uses his intelligence to defeat the big boss and win the girl. So if you’re hoping for some breakthrough in Brown’s narrative style, don’t hold your breath. But honestly, that’s not what disappointed me. From Angels & Demons to The Da Vinci Code, to Origin, what really drew me in wasn’t just the themes, but the way Langdon used obscure bits of knowledge to guide me through puzzles tied to real history. Of course, every reader sees history differently, but at least the novels offered interpretations most of us could accept. The problem is balance. A good interpretation, dropped in at the right moment, can drive the plot forward and keep us hooked. But when it turns into long-winded science lectures, it’s just not friendly to the average reader like me. Unfortunately, this new book falls into that trap. Ever since The Lost Symbol, Brown’s tendency to “show off his research” has grown worse, and here it really explodes. Part of the issue is that Langdon isn’t the main puzzle-solver this time. That’s not shocking, since the story - though set in historic Prague - tackles a very modern question: where does “thought”come from? That’s outside Langdon’s comfort zone, so Brown pairs him with a female scientist specializing in cognitive science. She’s the one driving the decoding. Which means Brown uses her to dump tons of explanations about neuroscience - some old, some new, some well-known, some obscure, even secret government experiments. The pacing gets weird. Unlike Angels & Demons or The Da Vinci Code, where short but sharp interpretations link 1 action climax to the next, here the action often screeches to a halt so we can sit through flashbacks or dialogue-heavy science lessons. If they were short, fine. But when they stretch into long passages - like “giant chunks of Wikipedia” - the rhythm collapses. You lose that addictive cycle of suspense → action → puzzle → suspense → action → puzzle. And you definitely don’t get the ticking-clock tension of Angels & Demons. Instead, the story feels slow and uneven. Because Langdon isn’t the lead decoder, his character also feels weaker. Between the romance subplot and being out of his depth professionally, he comes across less like the calm, unflappable scholar we know, and more like a reckless younger guy blinded by love. Nothing against a smart female lead, but it makes me wonder: is Brown planning to make her the permanent heroine of the series? Otherwise, if Langdon keeps showing this kind of cheesy affection toward future partners, won’t he always be haunted by memories of Prague’s “summer rain girl”? On top of that, the heavy science explanations and Langdon’s occasional use of obscure knowledge mean there aren’t many high-stakes action scenes where I can really feel the danger. The solutions feel clumsier compared to the elegant problem-solving of earlier books. The biggest action set piece doesn’t even show up until 3-quarters of the way through. And the final quarter, which should deliver a strong “verbal duel” scene - Langdon negotiating under huge pressure between national interest and personal conscience - gets skipped. Instead, Brown cuts to another scene where the female scientist delivers an idealistic monologue. Once she’s done, Langdon casually announces the problem is solved. It’s anticlimactic. If there’s 1 real highlight, it’s Brown’s travel writing. He turns Prague into a fantastic guidebook, describing both famous landmarks and hidden gems with rich historical significance. That part is genuinely excellent - it makes you want to book a trip right away. The theme is strong, and the interpretations are grounded in real theories and experiments (Brown even emphasizes this before the novel starts). But the overload of scientific explanations throws off the balance between education and entertainment, and the pacing suffers. Compared to Angels & Demons or The Da Vinci Code, this 1 really falls short as a commercial thriller. 3 / 5 stars

“The right book at the right time can save your life.” This book may not have been the right book to save my life, but that is a quote I believe readers will appreciate! Returning to Robert Langdon always comes with a mix of anticipation and hesitation. As Dan Brown’s longtime Harvard professor of symbology, Langdon has taken readers on globe-spanning chases fueled by secret symbols, shadowy organizations, and world-altering ideas—sometimes thrilling, sometimes taxing. With this being the latest installment in the series, the real question wasn’t whether the familiar formula would return, but whether it could possibly surprise. Langdon was memorably portrayed by Tom Hanks in The Da Vinci Code (2006), Angels & Demons (2009), and Inferno (2016), with Ashley Zukerman later stepping into the role for the television adaptation of The Lost Symbol (2021). Needless to say, Dan Brown’s work has reached a wide audience, whether through his books or their film and television adaptations. Across the novels (and adaptations), readers/viewers are routinely sent racing through multiple countries in pursuit of individuals bent on doing something deliberate—and often deeply disturbing—to the world. For many of us, that pace now comes with a sense of reader whiplash. Another global conspiracy? Another breathless chase? Another ticking clock? So why read this one? I’ll be honest—I haven’t rated Brown’s last two Langdon novels above three stars. (See below, if interested.) Did I really want to commit to yet another mad dash across the globe with our dear Harvard professor? Not especially. I fully intended to skip this one. And then this book was donated to my Little Free Library Shed. At that point, resistance felt futile. Yes, I protested the 670 pages. But curiosity won out. Could it recapture even a fraction of the excitement The Da Vinci Code once delivered? Did the eight-year hiatus between his last book in the series and this one, allow Brown to approach the formula with fresh energy? Unfortunately, not for this reader. But—please be patient for my “but” point later in the review. As expected, Brown tackles a major global issue, and the politics surrounding scientific discovery—especially when there’s a looming threat to militarize emerging ideas. The novel leans heavily on research, grounding its story in real-world art, artifacts, symbols, and experiments. Readers who enjoy a dense blend of fact and fiction will likely appreciate this approach. Despite its length, the pacing is brisk. Brown wastes little time launching into an action-driven plot, complete with murder, a missing key character and Langdon under suspicion. The buildup is strong, the stakes are high, and the familiar formula remains effective—up to a point. And here is my “but” point. Ultimately, familiarity works both for and against this installment. The ideas are ambitious, and longtime fans will immediately recognize the formula at work. While the novel is engaging and fast-paced, it’s unlikely to convert skeptics or reignite the magic for readers hoping for something truly new. 3.5 stars, rounded down. The Da Vinci Code: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Inferno: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Origin: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...

Can’t recapture that moment in time when The Da Vinci Code was a cultural phenomenon, but it was an entertaining curiosity to read my first Dan Brown. This one lacks any innovative or controversial ideas, but I knew the protagonist from the movies, so it felt like an okay episode of a TV series I like.

I was between 3 and 4 stars and the reason is because I love Robert Langdon. I LOVED the previous works of Dan Brown but this time I felt somewhat disappointed. Maybe because I had a higher esteem of his work I expected this to be something grand, something beyond comprehension. But it felt quite dull and I admit I struggled to finish it even though I'm no stranger to lengthy novels. This story by no means will stir the waters like for example The Da Vinci code. It feels like it had the potential but didn't reach the expectations.

Overall Rating : B "Knowing the future is a human obsession." Robert Langdon is in Prague with Katherine Solomon, longtime friend and recently turned lover. While there, they both find themselves entangled in a conspiracy involving the CIA, mind projection, collective consciousness(?), alongside the mythical Golem of Prague. Just how are Langdon and Solomon involved? What really brought them to this fated city? And who will stop them from trying to solve the mystery? It sucks when you expect so much out of a book, just for it to fall flat. Previous Langdon books had this mystical/mythical air about them. Combining science and religion into this beautiful story alongside ancient history, solving riddles, and trying not to get killed. This just felt like your run-of-the-mill thriller with an almost sci-fi quality. Sure, there were some moments Langdon brought up Prague's history, but it never really mattered to the storyline itself, unlike his previous adventures. Also, and this might just be a "me thing", but Katherine was in a previous book of Dan Brown's - The Lost Symbol - and it was NEVER mentioned. Not once. And she had a major role in it! I just thought it was weird, and if you're set on bringing back characters, at least give it a mention. But maybe Brown just wanted this to be a sort of stand-a-lone series, which also doesn't make sense to me. So I know it seems like I'm ragging on this book, but overall it was good. A decent mystery and quite a lot of intrigue and suspense. And if that's what you're looking for, check out. It just wasn't a "Robert Langdon" series addition good.

3.5 Audiobook was a full cast! My feelings on this sequel: If you have read book one, this was fun to see how the story finished up. It stayed as a mystery for the majority of the story. The last 25%, it picked up and felt more suspenseful. I wasn't surprised by the ending, but it was a fun ride to get there. Nothing felt "new" or fresh, so that's why I don't think it'll interest people who haven't read The Perfect Marriage.

This was a sequel we did not really need. I have to finally acknowledge that Jeneva Rose is really awesome, but her books: not so much.

3.5 stars just because I wasn’t as shocked by the plot twists this time!

3.25 stars - thank you blackstone publishing and netgalley for an early ebook copy of this book! I don’t often think a good book necessarily needs a sequel and while I did enjoy this book overall, I think we could’ve just left well enough alone. While I was entertained and engaged throughout, there comes this type of predictably with a sequel when you have a story end the way the first book did. While I did find this book to lead exactly where I thought it would from the get go, there were little twists and details thrown in throughout that I wasn’t expecting and enjoyed. Overall, I think it was a solid and enjoyable but ultimately unnecessary sequel. I’d say read it if you enjoyed the first one. Video review: https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZT2f2y7gb/

We didn’t really need this sequel and I didn’t find it as good as the first, but it wasn’t bad either. It was still bingeable even though I saw most of it coming.

Once I realized Adam Lazarre-White was narrating Sheriff Hudson’s character, I switched fully to audiobook because WHEW! He’s the best narrator in all of the land (he narrates all of SA Cosby’s books). Anyway, back to the book. I loved The Perfect Marriage so when this sequel was becoming a thing I knew I had to read it asap. Typically, I don’t like series because nothing beats the first book, and that was the case here. I just think the ending of TPM was jaw-dropping and this one was ok and predictable. However, since having read TPM (which was 5 years ago), I’ve been hundreds of thrillers since then, so not much surprises me in books anymore and I usually pick up on the whodunnit and twists. So, take that with a grain of salt. This story follows Sarah Morgan and her husband Bob. We get more cheating in this one, which I was hoping it would be something different. It felt similar to TPM and the twists weren’t nearly as surprising to me as they had been in the first book. Perhaps I’d feel differently had I not read TPM first…? Idk. Entertaining, a popcorn thriller, something you can quickly read, good for your next vacation read.

Was it good? It was okay.

Generous 3 stars - I think having one of the narrators from book 1 nonexistent in this one really helped bump my rating up a bit. That said - still was a very predictable thriller. I think it's a good intro to the genre as it was very fast-paced!

There was a time when I regarded Halan Coben as one of my favourite authors but unfortunately I have found his writing a little hit and miss. This for me was a miss and although it was an ok read I found it instantly forgettable. I can see by other reviews I am in the minority but it is my honest opinion. Windsor Horne Lockwood III is known as Win to his friends and probably just as well given the mouthful. A few years back his family had some expensive paintings taken as well as his monogrammed suitcase. The items have now been located in the penthouse of an exclusive NYC building, which is the home of a recently killed man and apparent hoarder. Win wants to know what the connection is that this man had to his family and his cousins' abduction years earlier. I just couldn't connect to this story and although the usual Harlan Coben humour was evident I lost interest in the plot. I am sure many others opinions will differ but sorry not for me. I would like to thank Netgalley & Random House, Cornerstone for supplying a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review.

Win Lockwood has always been a fun, highly enjoyable, quirky character in the Myron Bolitar books. As for holding his own in his own book, I’m underwhelmed. There’s far too much time spent in Win’s head; he’s moody, selfish, pretentious, thoughtless, arrogant, and obnoxious. On top of that, the book was kind of boring. Not much really happens besides Win pontificating at length about how great it is to be rich and what a wonderful life he leads. I find I really like Win in small doses, but as for a full book of his various unpleasant eccentricities not so much. I enjoy Harlan Coben’s work; but if he plans to make a series out of the “vigilante anti-hero” Win, he seriously needs to work on some of his more unpalatable character traits. Yes, Win is a rich bad boy; but he doesn’t have to be such a thoroughly unlikable ass all the time. The premise of the book was interesting, the execution left a little to be desired. Towards the end there were the twists and turns Coben is known for, but nothing anywhere near the quality of some of his other books. And the quirky, fun Win from the Bolitar series was nowhere to be found. Here he was morally repugnant and made me feel dirty from his vigilante ‘adventure’. Color me disappointed.

If you are a regular fan of Coben and his Myron Bolitar series, then you might be interested in this one, in which his side kick, billionaire Windsor Horne Lockwood III known as Win, gets his own story. The complicated plot involves past crimes that may be connected. So, I am not even going to begin to go into the plot line, at all. I will leave it to the reader to weave through. There are many twists, confessions, and revelations before we (the reader) find out the truth. Will Win go into vigilante mode to punish the guilty, or will his loyalty (to whom?) lead him to a coverup of what he learns? I believe many readers of complex, twisty crime novels will enjoy this book…or maybe not. It depends on how patient you can be with the narrator being a billionaire.

I wanted to love this book as I’m a huge fan of Harley Corban!! However “Win” lacked tension and excitement and I wasn’t on the edge of my seat this time. I haven’t read any of the Myron Bolitar series and maybe I would’ve appreciated this more as there were so many references to him that I thought he would make an appearance! Plot and Progression The plot is complex and the twist well thought out which I didn’t see coming at all! But sadly, I just wasn’t engaged. It was slow paced, I found the actual investigation boring at times as it was mostly interview after interview and I struggled to keep up with all the names and characters. Everything mostly goes smoothly for Win, perhaps a little too smooth. For example, if people refused to answer or he suspected a lie then he would blackmail using wealth or inflict injuries and without any consequences. There was one incident where Win got his a$$ kicked for once, however this felt more like a filler/distraction to the main case. A few days later he was 100% fine and able to operate as per normal which was unrealistic given the injuries he sustained. Character - Win Win is a very extra character. He has it all, he is rich, handsome, charismatic and an expert in martial arts. He seemed too invincible such that when he faced the little obstacles that came his way he was able to overcome them easily and I had no doubt that he could get out of it very easily. Outside of his investigation we follow Win’s obnoxiously luxurious lifestyle in detail where he’d travel via helicopter or use an app exclusively for the elite class. There was such an emphasis at times I thought “ok you’re filthy rich I get it!”. The Dialogue in his head was entertaining and interesting as it gave more insight into his personality. He also has some quirks as he answers calls with “articulate” and says “methinks” to himself. Overall, the twist was very good and I enjoyed reading from Win’s point of view but I just couldn’t engage with the plot and I wish Win faced more obstacles that he actually found challenging. I would still recommend this book as it is well written but the plot was just not for me.

Win Lockwood was a great sidekick, but not a great main character. I don't care how rich he is nor what brands he wears nor what champagne he drinks nor what private aircraft or automobiles he owns. Could not care less. He has a penchant to help underdogs, like his best friend Myron Bolitar. Go read that series, it's way better. Win beats up a college basketball coach after he loses in the men's NCAA basketball championship because the guy is a serial abuser of women. Most of this book is about the Jane Street Six, who were involved in a bombing gone wrong, but one of them, a recluse, is murdered in his own home with a Vermeer belonging to the Lockwood family. Win is determined to find the culprit, who may have kidnapped and repeatedly raped his first cousin. Weird story, which I did not really like. 2.5 stars, rounded up (barely.)

Over twenty years ago, the heiress Patricia Lockwood was abducted during a robbery of her family's estate, then locked inside an isolated cabin for months. Patricia escaped, but so did her captors — and the items stolen from her family were never recovered. Until now ..... A man is found murdered in his penthouse apartment alongside items that were stolen from the Lockwood family all those years ago. The FBI wants to know how his family's stolen property ended up with a dead man. But Windsor Horne Lockwood III — or Win, as his few friends call him ... aims to find out. Win has three things the FBI doesn't: a personal connection to the case; an ungodly fortune; and his own unique brand of justice. The plot is cleverly written and contains twists and turns that rival a roller coaster. The characters are solidly drawn ... but some of the conversations between them seem a little disjointed ... I have read this author's works for several years and always found them full of action, suspenseful .. but this one just didn't make the cut for me. That being said, I'm hoping this is an anomaly and I look forward to see what comes next. Many thanks to the author / Grand Central Publishing / Netgalley for the digital copy of this crime fiction. Read and reviewed voluntarily, opinions expressed here are unbiased and entirely my own.

Turns out I prefer my Windsor Horne Lockwood the Thirds in small doses as he can be tough to root for as a main character. Live and learn!! Three So-So Stars

This was my first Coben book. I have seen some of the TV adaptations, and I enjoyed them. I have to say his books (at least this one) is so much better! I would absolutely consider reading more his books in the future. Everything you can expect from his genre.

Win by Harlan Coben. Not a "win" for me. The character set my teeth on edge with his pompous self importance. Couldn't into the story. Thank you to the publisher, author, and NetGalley for the opportunity to preview the book.

Thank You to NetGalley and Random House UK, Cornerstone for this free ebook!! When three murders in three different cities happen at the same time Sergeant Lindsay Boxer of SFPD takes the lead in trying to identify the shooters. As the casualty list expands, fear and fascination with this shocking spree provoke debate across the country. James Patterson is one of my favourite authors and The Women's Murder Club is a series that I enjoy reading. In this installment of the series, the plot is good and the leading ladies are amazing as always but I felt something was missing. Overall 20th Victim is a good read but the earlier books are slightly better so it didn't excite me much.

I was sadly underwhelmed by this book. At about 20% in I nearly gave up but I did finish it because the storyline was very good. I just didn't like the execution. It felt a bit disjointed at times. Some lines were repeated and it jumped around too much. I think the story had a lot of potential it just needed better execution. Thank you to NetGalley and Random House UK for the ARC in exchange for my honest opinion.

The main story involves systematic killings of seemingly unconnected people in different professions, in different cities; however, Lindsay Boxer and the SFPD are quickly able to determine that all of the victims are drug dealers, and much like Death Wish, the public starts rooting for the killer or killers. Meanwhile, Yuki is prosecuting a drug dealer's wheelman as an accomplice in a cop killing because he is too scared to identify the drug dealer who pulled the trigger. Crime reporter Cindy, of course, is working on the drug dealer killings, while battling a new male colleague, who wants her position at the SF Chronicle. Chief Medical Examiner Claire continues to be almost absent from the WMC series, except for her own troubles, and Joe Molinari has his own subplot in this book, involving a close friend, who thinks his father was murdered by his doctor while in the hospital. The main story was better than average, but there were too many stories in process, leading to a disjointed novel.

Cindy listens to a police scanner on her way to her work when she hears about a reported shooting in progress. She drives to the scene to investigate. The victim is a professional baseball player, Roger Jennings. On the back of the car is a message that reads ‘rehearsal’. The story is that the almost retired baseball player was dealing drugs. Lindsay and Joe take off for a long romantic weekend. They go to French Laundry restaurant in Napa Valley and Lindsay meet Joe’s good friend, Dave, who had a terrible car accident in college and is now in wheelchair. He tells Lindsay and Joe about his dad, who has suddenly fell very ill. Week later Dave calls Joe and tells him his dad has been murdered. Joe investigates. Yuki is prosecuting an 18 year old college dropout, who is in jail for being a driver to a drug dealer, who shot and killed a police officer after a routine stop. The amount of recapping of every major character’s life story in a book #20 is pretty insane. A rich record producer and his wife are gunned down in their house. They were killed in a locked, soundproof music studio inside their home. The house had security alarm on until the nanny came back with the kids and found them dead. Lindsay and Rich investigate. They find out that the producer was dealing drugs. Another two similar homicides, execution style, happen in LA and Chicago at the exact same time as the one in SF. Cindy thinks they are all related. Claire drops a huge bombshell of a news on Lindsay. Poor Cindy has to deal with a sleazy reporter that is out for her job. Then a competing newspaper scoops her story before she is able to publish it. ********* It took me a while to get into the story. The plot was over the place and rather convoluted. The major crime story was done really poorly....there was no real connection to the victims or to the shooter and by the time we get who is behind the killings, it’s already so confusing and mired by irrelevant information that I didn’t much care if he was apprehended or not. Overall a very weak chapter in the WMC series.

Patterson & Paetro are back with another installment of the Women’s Murder Club, and like television soap operas, we are enlightened with developments in their lives through multiple plots, that sometimes crowd an otherwise entertaining mystery...In this episode, San Francisco is facing a series of sniper murders targeting criminals, which involves Boxer & Cindy...Boxer's husband Joe is pulled into investigating a series of medical deaths in Wine Country, while another member faces a huge health issue & another struggles with a prosecutions of a patsy in the death of a SFPD office...A basic Summer read!!!

3.5⭐ this series has been going on for so long but damn do i love sergeant boxer and the rest of the girlies

2.75* 20th book of the Women's Murder Club series. There are books in this series that I really like and some I did not. This one is just okay. This time, there are sniper shootings that turned out to be a vigilante group killing those with ties to the drug world. Reading the blurb, I thought Lindsey will be going to different cities where these murders take place. But, that did not really happen. There's also a side story of Yuki prosecuting a teenager who was caught driving a car involved in a chase where a cop was killed. And, Cindy dealing with a new arrogant reporter colleague. Also, Joe is helping his best friend from college investigate this friend's father's death. There are a lot of threads that does not really make a very cohesive book. I listened to the audiobook and it's enjoyable enough. I admit I'm only reading these because I've already read the rest of the series, if that makes any sense.

Someone is taking out drug dealers, and the count is mounting. Can it be connected to a website called Moving Targets? This is the case that Boxer and Conklin are concentrating on in this book. While they are busy with that, Joe is on a case of his own, trying to help an old friend discover who killed his father while he was in the hospital. Claire is missing in action from this book, since she has a medical problem of her own which may or may not affect her future career. I also found it disturbing that not once but a number of times, both Joe and Lindsay left their very young daughter sleeping in the apartment by herself while they went out together and walked the dog. These are cops, for goodness sake!

I've given up on a lot of Patterson's work, to be honest. Between the speed he churns them out at and what feels to me like a general decline in quality, or some other choices I don't care for, I've stopped following many of his series. For now, I'm sticking with the Women's Murder Club, in part because I think they're a bit better, and in part out of fondness for the sadly only season tv show staring the great Angie Harmon. A pro baseball player gets killed in the parking lot of a fast food restaurant. Which is tragic, but a bit odd, and Cindy the Reporter finds a clue that makes it sound like the start of something. Soon, Lindsay the Cop of course gets involved, and the case spirals into something remarkably complicated involving many jurisdictions and a strange website. Soon, it becomes clear that someone has taken their online games out into the real world, and a vigilante movement gets a public reaction that doesn't help anyone in law enforcement. Claire the ME has her own plot, as we suddenly find out she has a serious illness, and she has to deal with that. Meanwhile, Yuki the lawyer once again has what should be a simple case that she discovers problems with and she risks her job to try and stand up for someone who is refusing to help themselves. As the main case spins in odd directions, Cindy and Lindsay are at odds as their jobs of reporter and cop clash. And Lindsay doesn't have all the support she usually does, because not only is Claire sidelined, but Lindsay's husband Joe gets dragged into his own case as a friend is convinced that his father's death wasn't the accident it appears to be, and he begs Joe for help. It's a decent continuation of the series, but felt a bit busy. I could have happily lived without the Joe or Claire plots. Cindy and Lindsay clashing made sense. Negatives include allegedly veteran cops talking about simultaneous killings in different cities and talking about a serial killer (not unless he can teleport, guys), and a female SEAL being part of the story, which, as far as I can determine, hasn't happened. Note- I'm not saying it shouldn't or can't, it just hasn't, and implying it did several years ago felt off to me. A decent read, worth it if you enjoy the series.

I have read all this series in order and I have to say of late they have been a bit hit or miss. This one was definitely more miss than hit. All four members of the Women's Murder Club had their story in this offering, as well as an extra story involving Lindsay's husband Joe. That however was part of the problem for me - it felt like four/five disjointed stories that jumped about one to the other making it difficult to keep up. The main story about shooter/s targeting drug dealers was just not gripping at all and the ending seemed predictable and rushed with little explanation. I really feel that what was once an edgy, fast past series is running out of steam. As an aside on two occasions Lindsay takes her dog out for a walk leaving her sleeping infant alone in their apartment - I mean really!!? There is a number 21 in the offing so ever the optimist I will give it a go and hope it is more hit than miss.

Confession time...I’ve not read any of the books in this series and have no idea of the background to the characters or their women’s murder club. Having just finished 20th Victim, I get the impression that it doesn’t really matter. Initially, and surprisingly for a James Patterson book, things felt slow at the start. There’s three crimes that take place at different places, but at the same time. Suggestions are that the crimes are linked, so it’s up to the investigators to work out how. What follows is high in drama, but it didn’t really engage me. Jumping from crime scene to crime scene meant I felt rushed through events. Of course things get resolved and there’s some scenarios that may have more resonance if you’re already familiar with these characters. Thanks to the publishers and NetGalley for giving me the opportunity to read this prior to publication.

What can i say... I stopped reading James Patterson a few years ago but have stayed mostly loyal to the womens murder club. I missed 17 and 18 but picked up 19 and 20 in great condition hardbacks at the local charity shop and thought "what the hell," The plot has more holes than a packet of Polo mints and at times its so sickly sweet " my wonderful husband" " my amazing loving husband" " my beautiful best friend" "my worlds best doggie" "my amazing do gooding partner ".. you get the drift? Will i read the next one?... Yes

Another good installment of the girls murder club. With multiple victims and each "girl" dealing with her own life, things get tense. Can the team put their differences aside for the good of the case?

"Random in Death" is the 58th book in author J. D. Robb's "In Death" series. (Really!) The book is also a standalone read. The book's premise was intriguing: A young girl is stabbed with a dirty needle at a concert and dies minutes later. More similar deaths follow. When Lieutenant Eve Dallas investigates these suspicious deaths, law enforcement races the clock to keep an aggrieved incel from targeting and killing more teenage girls at crowded events. Even though this book was a standalone read, I felt that I would have enjoyed the book more had I read the earlier books in the series. Also, I was a bit put off by the author's "nonbinary" reference to suspects. (Huh?) Overall, the book was fast-paced and well-written. I listened to the audiobook read by Susan Ericksen, who did an outstanding job with the narration. Special thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review. 3.5 stars

I can't give the novel one or two stars simply because the plot is no longer intriguing for me. Three stars however seem apt. I will first mention what worked for me. I have no problem with the futuristic slang used because it's far few and in between. I associate it more with the cute quirks of the story's landscape. When the landscape is futuristic, there are times when it may feel that there's actually not much change visible, but for me, there are many relevant points such as transportation, electronics, body morphing and foodstuff that's consistently futuristic. So I am not bothered by it as I find it consistent. Change in Eve's personality. That is to be expected with the increase in her friend group or gang and a stable relationship with the partner. Unfortunately that's where my list stops because after this I can understand that Eve has changed but I cannot digest how her moral compass has also completely changed. There are hardly any problems that she overcomes on her own. She is constantly taking short cuts through Roarke. There's apparently nothing be it technology, money, bureaucracy that cannot be overcome by Roarke. Roarke is the solution to all the loopholes that any setback can be dealt with. She just expects it at every turn. Need to override any set up Roarke. There's any problem with transportation, Roarke is ready with his chopper. That's just getting formulatic and repetitive. Peabody is getting problematic in the way I see, her characters arch has shifted from being a detective to being a secretary to Eve. There is never a time that she disagrees with Eve. It's like she's only there to keep Eve company, no contribution to the progress of the story. Same take for Mira and Whitney. As far as I see, there's no crime that takes Eve time to really put on her thinking cap. I am also done with references to the video. It's just a dead weight now. Everyone just falls in line and there's no more setbacks. The only setbacks are logistics, not because the problem is hard to crack. I want Eve to forget the endless support of tech that Roarke supplies and actually face a smart criminal without it falling into trauma set-up. No, nothing related to her past trauma but something that actually makes her sweat out in trying to find the solution.

Another clever, fast-paced murder mystery, this time featuring an underage chemical genius who targets young girls randomly. Eve and the team crack the case, this time with a focus on Nadine and her rockstar boyfriend. Good on audio narrated by Susan Ericksen. Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an early audio copy in exchange for my honest review!

As with all books in this series this was a fast paced, fun read The killer in this one genuinely frightened me with his way of thinking. I was cheering at the ending. As always this book has such a great cast of characters I love so much. Its like getting to hang out with an old bunch of friends when I pick up these books. I'm finally caught up with this series so hopefully it isn't too long until the next one

A good entry in the series, although it’s always hard to read about the death of kids and the fallout with their families. While the “you’ll catch him” and “make sure to hurt the bastard” and “we stand for the dead” are all well and good, we’re still talking about the loss of a child. It’s noted, but hard to read. I also needed whomever wrote this to chill on the hip terminology…”dooser” is not plausible in any universe, and I wanted it to stop being used. That all having been said, I enjoyed it…next one though, I want that co-owned house done 😀

Stale Series I rated the first Jane Smith thriller a 5-star, the second a 3-star, and this latest installment a 3-star. The only thing keeping my rating from being a 2-star is that it's an easy read. The same scumbag client for all 3 books and over 1000 pages became very monotonous. It is just not believable that someone who has been targeted for assassination as many times as our protagonist would enter a murder house without protection or escorts - a real person just wouldn't do that but a novel looking for cheap thrills can. Found myself not really caring about Jane's plight or whether she gets the total scumbag off to continue her perfect streak of murder cases.

Just a so-so story.

Could have been a 4 had Lupica not made such a constant effort to offend people of faith.

3.5 / 5.0 I like the gritty sheer determination of Jane Smith, I love the character how she shines through in the pages but what I don’t like is when loose leads solve themselves so convincingly it’s too good and they tie up too soon then expected. It’s giving cliche with this book. I was annoyed that I’ve read the third book in this series with the same guy on trial again after the first two. But what I am happy about is reading and following the journey of Jane Effing smith. This time we truly see Jane fight through everything in this book quite literally, it’s heart wrenching at time. I do like how each character in this book has their own personality shine through. No one is boring and everyone has a story to share. But what I don’t like is reading the same guy on trial 3 times and its the same unlikeable corny misogynistic dude. It’s getting a tad boring, but I am hoping that we don’t see this dude again because this time round it was borderline unbearable. Again we see Jane smith in court defending this same dude, and pulling out all the stops to prove his innocence. It has you questioning your morals at points and respect the role of barristers even more. I’m only in this series for Jane smith, her cute dog Rip and her relationship with Dr Ben Kalinsky!

Rated 2.97 This series keeps getting more boring. I like #1 and it kept moving along with new characters and twists and turns. This book is #2 revisited. Same characters.....very predictable. Cancer continues for Jane and Bridget. Attempted killings, again. Too much the same. Not worth it until the last 100 pages. Probably will not read #4. The Hamptons on Long Island is known for its beautiful beaches, its luxury lifestyle—and its exclusive legal advice. When Jane Smith takes on a famous celebrity client, she’s armed and with brilliant arguments, hard evidence—and two Glocks. Yet she’s chased down, shot at, and risks contempt of court. That’s when mounting a legal defense turns into self-defense. Knowing every day in court could be her last, she’s a survivor. For now.

This author team drives me to listen to the newest novel. I like the Jane Smith Series and this book is a good but not a great read. It misses the satirical conversations I love in Lupica’s capable hands.

I enjoyed the characters.

It’s nots good sign when I can’t remember all of the plots 3 weeks after reading it.

Jane Smith, known as The Hampton’s Lawyer, is as tough as they come. She’s never lost a case, even though this time it seems like she might. Besides the law, she is battling the family curse—the cancer which killed her mother and afflicted her sister and now her. Weak and sick, she goes into court every day to do battle for a man she despises.

Ok, so this 3rd book in the Jane Smith series wasn’t as good I expected. And, it got confusing for me as you had to have read the first two books in order to understand the characters. I just wish new characters and circumstance would’ve been introduced. Maybe they are planning on that for the next book. I absolutely love Jane Smith, a strong female who is the best criminal defense attorney (and she has a cancerous tumor and she deals with that saga throughout). She doesn’t take crap from anybody, and she even has a great support system around her.

Jane Smith is one of my favorite characters and I've enjoyed this series. But some of the other characters in this book, not so much. I don't really care for the ruthless and violent mob characters. And overall, this one had a depressive mood about it...not quite sure why so many characters have or had cancer? It was still enjoyable and worth a read but fell a bit short of expectations. My thanks to Little, Brown and Company for providing a review copy via NetGalley. All opinions are my own.

This is the second book in the Bellinger Sisters series by Tessa Bailey. While the first book focused on the romance between Piper and Brendon, this second book focuses on the romance between her sister Hannah Bellinger and Fox Thornton. What will happen when two platonic friends decide to live together? The author tries to explore this scenario through this book. What I learned from this book 1) How can you have a main-character moment in your life? Main-character moments are those moments in which you are in charge of whatever is happening around you. The author tells a simple yet powerful way to create such a moment in your life. “The main-character moment?” "Yeah. You know, when you've got the perfect mood going, soundtrack to match. And you're on a rainy road, feeling dramatic. You're the star of your own movie. You're Rocky training for the fight. Or Baby learning how to merengue in Dirty Dancing. Or you're just crying over a lost love." 2) Why should you never laugh at other people? Laughing at other people is a method used to humiliate others. It publicly shows your empathy level and consideration for others if you sardonically laugh at and slander someone publicly for their failures. “Laugh with them, instead of being laughed at. Make the joke, instead of being the joke." 3) How to stop worrying about what other people think of you? The anxiousness about being liked is one of the biggest problems youngsters face in the current era. It is difficult to escape from falling into the bandwagon effect of likes, shares, and followers trap if you are a social media addict. Never try to become a perfect person (perfection is an illusion). Try to find out your best qualities, focus on them, and live according to them. This might be a romance novel, but the author somehow managed to convey this inspiring message brilliantly. "You can't live life worrying about what people will think. You'll wake up one day, look at a calendar, and count the days you could have spent being happy." My favourite three lines from this book “You make me feel like I’m in the exact right place.” "I could tell by the way you looked at her, she was something really special." "How did I look at her?" He was afraid to find out. "Ah, son. Like a summer day showing up after a hundred years of winter." “There was never going to be a life away from you, because, Jesus, that's no life at all.” What could have been better? Tessa Bailey has the ability to gather our attention to anything she writes due to her amazing writing skills. Her books are generally entertaining to read. I liked how she decided to use the smut at a moderate level in this book compared to her first book in this series. In my opinion, this book had everything to call it better than the first one. But in this novel's middle portion, the author lost track of her writing, and the writing felt dragged without much content. Either she should have appropriately edited the central portion of this book and decreased the number of pages, or she should have taken some more time and effort to write those portions. Rating 3/5 Even though there are some inconsistencies in writing it is still a fitting sequel to the first book in this series.

3.25ish stars? This was one of my most anticipated releases of the year, and while I did still enjoy it, it didn’t quite live up to my expectations. In It Happened One Summer, the snippets we got of Fox and Hannah’s friendship were EVERYTHING to me, but I was pretty let down by the way their relationship ended up playing out in their own book. I understand why Fox was hesitant to open himself up fully to Hannah, but that doesn’t mean that I liked it, lol. Also, the super unnecessary third act conflict in this one drove me bonkers. With all that being said, this was still a Tessa Bailey book so of course I did enjoy it (and the smut was of course, A+), but this as a whole just did not quite do everything that I was hoping it would and I am pretty bummed about it. Here's hoping her next release works a little better for me! CW: death of a parent, slut shaming

“Even familiar, you’re a constant surprise.” This was cute!! Hannah and Fox weren’t the kind of couple I would die for, but they got me in my feelings once or twice. Hannah and Fox both got personal challenges that affected their relationship. I didn’t expect Fox’s struggles since it’s not something I see often, but it was definitely interesting, especially with the parts that explored the origins of his struggles and how people over the years have fueled these struggles. Hannah also has some career challenges and also had problems connecting with some of her family members both of which a lot of people could relate to. I still liked the first book better, so it was extremely satisfying anytime Piper and Brendan appeared. I loved that the sisterly bond between Piper and Hannah still exists!! I definitely did not expect that epilogue though.

I know most of you will disagree with me, and it's totally fine, but I have to take this weight off my chest: I am disappointed. Maybe it's my mood, maybe it's the fact that I have only read one book by Tessa Bailey so far so I didn't really know her range, or maybe my expectations for Fox and Hannah’s story were too high. The only thing I know with certainty is that this is not Tessa Bailey at her best. I fell in love with Fox the moment I realized he was the womanizer of It Happened One Summer, the classic bad boy who is everything but bad. Captain Frown was hot, but Fox was the one for me. And while Piper is the main lady of her life - Hannah’s words -, I’m definitely more like Hannah: the side character who helps others; everybody knows her but she isn't anybody’s first choice. It was so obvious they were meant to be a thing, and this is why I waited patiently. But one thing is character development, another is a 300 hundred pages long therapy session of everyone talking shit about one of the main character’s “problem” - including him. We get it, Fox likes sex. Shame on him for being a 30-year-old good-looking guy with a dick. He was over-sexualised for his entire life, and his father was an asshole and a cheater, and he jokes about all of that because it’s easier. But how about minding your fucking business? This is it, the whole plot: Fox getting all the ladies, Fox being horny, Fox being not horny enough, Fox not believing in himself. At first, I didn't minded; at half of the story, I was sick of it. Perhaps I should apologize for not having enjoyed it the way most of you did, but it's difficult to empathise with such a long boring piece of work. There were glimpses of the Tessa Bailey I know - the sex scenes were amazing as always and the first hundreds of pages really hooked me -, but I feel like she had all the right elements to write a love story maybe even better than the first one and she just didn't. I'm grateful for one thing tho: the epilogue. I love a good epilogue because it feels as a circle closing, and here it's definitely what it is. The right amount of information, the perfect happily ever after, the knowledge that somewhere out there love exists. And with some effort, everyone can succeed. Everyone is worthy to be loved. ↠ 3 stars

Hannah you are def the leading lady in your life.

Meh I didn’t really vibe with Hannah or Fox tbh. I LOVEDDD it happened one summer & gave it 5 stars. I just feel like I couldn’t get into this story. Also I definitely feel like Piper and Brendan had so much more Romantic chemistry. 3 stars ⭐️

2.5 ⭐ Hook, Line, and . . . Stinker? Okay, that was just me trying (and failing) to be funny. The book wasn't BAD, it just didn't do it for me, which is really disappointing because I am OBSESSED with It Happened One Summer. So here are my thoughts . . . Fox and Hannah felt like secondary characters in their own story, which is kind of ironic because Hannah's big issue is how she struggles to be the leading lady of her own life. On paper, they should be interesting MCs - the self proclaimed man-whore with commitment issues and the shy, but loyal music geek - but they felt flat. Hannah is just sort of there and almost too perfect. Like what is her flaw? She feels like a side character in her life? Her character felt two-dimensional and just needed more . . . I don't know . . . personality? I'm really not sure what she needed but something was missing. Fox . . . Good lord does this man have some serious issues to work through. And boy do we work through it. This book felt like a massive therapy session with Hannah at the helm. I will say though, I really did love Hannah's unfailing support and encouragement of Fox, and the message about the harmful societal pressures men face in regards to maintaining an image based on their looks and sexual capabilities. This isn't a topic I've seen or read much of, but it's important and definitely needs more attention. HOWEVER, I didn't really sympathize with Fox as much as I think you're supposed to. Even though he was encouraged to act a certain way because of his looks, he continued to perpetrate this image as an adult in order to. . . prove everyone right at the expense of his own happiness? I didn't understand the logic and after a while, I just got annoyed. #hotpeopleproblems The plot was . . . Well, there were a few different things going on: Hannah's leading lady issue, Hannah's struggle to connect with her father, Hannah's crush on her boss, Hannah's relationship with Fox, Fox's commitment issues, Fox's relationship with Hannah, Fox's rejection of captaining a ship. There was a lot going on with these characters and after a while, it all muddled together. And unfortunately, I lost interest pretty early on - especially because the romance was so fucking slow. BUT things started to pick up about 70% of the way through, and the epilogue was pretty cute. The romance was frustrating. It's friends-to-lovers where Fox is completely clueless about his feelings, Hannah is just . . . there, being incredibly patient trying to get to the bottom of Fox's aversion to relationships. And every time they take a step forward in the right direction, they go two steps backwards because Fox is always in his own head. The conflict got redundant and boring. The spice was basically non-existent, and what was there was not sexy (imo). Fox literally calls her 'wet girl' at one point and tells her to 'fuck me up'. Idk, it just wasn't my thing. Overall, this story was a bit of a letdown, and I feel terrible saying this because I really loved Tessa Bailey's first book. The characters were not captivating, the romance storyline was okay, and the spice was hardly anything to get excited about. Thank you to Avon Books for sending me an ARC copy in exchange for an honest review. I'm sorry this one didn't hit the mark for me. As always, all opinions are my own.

Hmm, this was just okay for me. I think I had too high hopes for it. There were moments that were super sweet between Fox and Hannah but overall I wasn't as invested as I was in Piper and Brandon's story. Something about the pacing felt really off to me and it's also not as steamy as I've come to expect of Tessa Bailey's books - when the steam is there, it felt so forced. Overall, it was a cute friends-to-lovers, but not as memorable as It Happened One Summer. Content notes: on-page sex, cis-gendered language, mention of the death of a parent

3.75 STARS 🙃 ever read a book where the chemistry is too much to bear? where the tension is so thick that you find yourself holding your breath everytime they are together, afraid that if you release the breath it's gonna disturb their raw vulnerable moment?

I really wanted to like Hook, Line, and Sinker... does that count for something? I usually enjoy Tessa Bailey's book (they are SO freaking hot), and I was looking forward to this sequel story in the Bellinger Sisters series, but I have to say, I found this book to be a bit... boring. I wanted more, that's for sure. I'm a sucker for a nerdy girl/reformed rake story, but I think the issues started for me when a lot of the background work for their relationship started off page in text conversations. I'm not a huge fan of friends-to-lovers stories, mostly because there is already intimacy there and I think the readers miss out on a lot of relationship development. Everything in this book felt a bit forced, a bit contrived. I really felt like nothing happened for this whole story. There was some contrived conflict, and though I'm a fan of a slow burn, these two took FOREVER to get together. I mean, the relationship was cute and the plot was fine, but nothing made me excited. A bit underwhelming, but a pleasant read nevertheless. *Copy provided in exchange for an honest review* goodreads|instagram|twitter|tiktok

ARC provided by the publisher via Netgalley “When the sun shines at night, he who will bring an end to war on this land shall be victorious. He shall be an heir, twice over, and a rightful sovereign over the continent.” this is a story about a 25 year old princess who has grown up in a world that feels like her twin brother is the prophesized hero. yet, our princess, briony, has had to help him with his magic all throughout their lives. in this world there is mind magic and heart magic, and depending where you pull your source from, you can form a bond to help give magic. and this is something that the magic users on the other side would like to weaponize for themselves, but there are laws in place to make that illegal. there are also magical animals that you can bond with to help your magic powers, too! and this book truly starts out with the world learning about a new leader, who has bonded with a dragon who hasn’t bonded with anyone in 600 years, and she brings war to the land, and allows her followers to lay claim to power that was never intended for them. through slavery, captivity, and immense abuse. and briony is very sought after for being the daughter of the king and for having a great well of magic inside her. her family is killed inside the walls of her castle, she is captured, and auctioned off to wealthy magical men, alongside her friends whom she has grown up with. and toven, who she has had a bit of a rival infatuation throughout school with, is one of those men in the audience bidding on her, her body, and her magic. i do think this start of this story does stand on its own, and has taken a lot of care to attempt to divest itself from the cursed nostalgia ip. i truly think there will be people who will pick this up and have no idea that it started as a fanfic, especially the last half of this first book. But it does follow, almost story beat for beat, scene for scene, the original material (especially that first 50%) - which i think can be a positive or negative for readers who have previously read the fic. For me, it didn’t feel as much fun to read as i wish it did, and i think that obviously impacted my reading, but i for sure left this story how i felt leaving the fic at this point, which was just meh. so, for better or for worse, i think you should go into this book expecting that. the only thing i will say that felt lesser to the fanfic was that i cared a lot less about the side characters. even though julie soto has really made strides at rewriting this world, the big bad, and the conflicts within this story, there just isn’t enough time or pages to write about every relationship with the main characters and their time with the side characters. which, with the fic, you extra didn’t need because most of us have grown up alongside these original characters. overall, this really feels like a true 2.5 read for me, just right in the middle where i didn’t really dislike anything, but i also didn’t really love anything. and i won’t be continuing on with this series. i didn’t love the fic, so i really should have known better, but i was curious, and received an arc in my email, and here we are with a lackluster review. but the epilogue was for sure the best part of this story, and felt very new and fresh, so hopefully for the last book you all won’t have to read 100+ pages of courtroom discussions. trigger + content warnings from the author: explicit sexual content, mentions of non-consensual sex, sexual assault, sexual assault of a POV character, buying and selling of humans into captivity, forced sterilization, forced termination of a pregnancy, minor character deaths, suspense and violence, torture and gore additional trigger + content warnings i found while reading: loss of family / loved ones in past, talk of loss of mother during childbirth in past, insinuation of magical animals being experimented on and death, blood, forced medical examinations, murder, misogyny + sexism, talk of weight / body image very briefly, grief, depression, slavery, captivity, self starvation, drugging, execution (which is still as insane as it was in the fic), self harm to get blood, injured animal companion (fox) blog | instagram | youtube | wishlist | spotify | amazon ♡ The Auction

Nothing pains me more than sitting down to write this review. This was one of my most anticipated releases of the year and I was SO SURE I was going to be obsessed with this. I have not yet read the fan fiction this is based off of, but going in I know this was taken from a Dramione fan fic story. From the beginning, there were SO MANY characters thrown at us, and honestly not enough world building for me to fully grasp what was going one. What was this war? When did the king die? Who all were the bad guys? Why did they even take over? Why do people not like Mind Magic? A few of these things were answered throughout the book, but I felt pretty detached from this world and these characters. I think we were supposed to feel attached to certain characters that bad things happened to, but I barely knew them, so I was never super emotionally impacted in any of those moments. The heroine is super close to her brother, but we're entirely told they're close, and I never felt that bond between them. I needed more development there. I did enjoy the romance, while super super slow burn, but I almost wish the hero was...MORE morally gray? It was clear to me he was actually really nice, and some of the flashback scenes a bit earlier would have been great to see a bit more into him as a character and what he's done in the past. I'll definitely still pick up this next book, this just ended up falling flat for me.

This one hurts my soul 🥲 2.5 rounded up My expectations chained me up and threw away the key 🔑 The first 1/4 was fast paced & pulled me in, but sadly the momentum quickly faded. I’m all for a slow burn but I didn’t feel any burn, or even the slightest sizzle 🔥 It felt like I was being told there was tension between Briony and Toven rather than actually feeling it. No pining, no kicking my feet and giggling. I found the flashbacks disrupted the pacing, and the side characters all blurred together. Things picked up near the end, but overall, it didn’t deliver the emotional depth I was hoping for. The audiobook narrator was expressive, though some character voice choices didn’t quite land for me. Thank you NetGalley for an audio ARC in exchange for my honest review.

I have so many thoughts and feelings about this book. It's honestly hard for me to break it down and translate it into words. It's also very difficult for me to divorce my feelings from the story in its original form. Which is funny, in a way, given that this started as a fan fiction. Which means it wasn't completely original in the first place. I was/AM torn in a lot of directions about having fics I loved re-jiggered to be released for profit. I have talked about this in great length in other forums, but what it comes down to for me is this: the main reason I LOVE fics and find comfort in them, is that they put characters I'm intimately familiar with into different situations that never happened originally. Yet, I'm still able to feel at home and quickly dive into whatever world they have ended up in. BECAUSE of that connection I have to whatever original work the fic is derived from. When that comes to a story like Rose in Chains, I start to see where this may be an issue for me with this trend of books. Because now we have both a new world AND new characters. The author can't just rely on me loving Dramione to drag me through the story. And any bit of familiarity I DO have with the new narrative is derived from my love of the fic, which is derived from my love of the original IP. So... are you seeing the doom loop I'm finding myself in? I don't even know what my feelings for just THIS story are. If I remove any previous feelings I have for The Auction... what remains for me to love about Rose in Chains? I don't know that I really even understood who Briony or Toven WERE. I don't feel like I saw enough of their characters in this first entry to differentiate them from The Auction. I don't think Julie Soto did enough work in that regard at all. They have all the same characteristics, and if you haven't read The Auction, will you even know what those are? I do, but will the average reader fresh to the story know that? I also don't think the world was explained enough for me. I kept filling in the gaps with knowledge I have from the original IP and that's a world that Julie Soto did not build... Which, in a fic, is perfectly acceptable, even expected to happen. But not here. It just feels kinda flat. Scary and deranged maybe, but flat. I think part of it is that we jump right into the loss of this war, yes, there are flashbacks to how we got here. However, the suspense and dread didn't have any time to build. I also didn't care about Rory and Briony enough yet to feel the weight of what is being lost. What are the stakes? We're just... in it. It's a delicate balance to take on the topics in this Romantasy. Though it felt relatively tame compared to a lot of fics out there. There's a reason some of those topics stay in fics. Because fic writers can A) be anonymous if they so choose, and B) readers often feel safer letting fics take them places that they wouldn't read in any other context. I think this story may be a lot for some people to swallow. Also, if a fic flops, there was no financial investment that a publisher is losing out on. Also, I didn't really feel any of the romance happening.... I know why this needs to be slow. Absolutely, we need to take our time with this type of situation. But... I read 464 pages and besides some allusion to pining between the two of them, there wasn't much meat on that bone. So, with all of that said... I don't really know what I think, which makes this review hard to write. I didn't feel that connected to the characters. They felt like stand-ins or echoes of someone else. Maybe that will get better in the next entry, but this book have almost 500 pages to show me more and I don't think it did enough. However, I do think we are set up for much more action and scheming in the next one. I think this book is going to be quite divisive, and it won't be the last one that is. Publishers are going all in on this concept of pulling fics up for trad pub... we'll see if that's wise. I must admit, though I was excited to see it happen, I am starting to rethink that. I just don't see how it won't end up a tangled mess. 3 Stars 1.5 on the spice scale CW: See book for full list but the biggest ones for me were: Death, gore, forced sterilization (on page), mention of a forced abortion (not to MC), rape, slavery, drugging, and more. *Thank you to Hachett Audio & Forever for an ARC & and an ALC of this title.

Julie Soto is quickly becoming an auto read author for me, after reading my first book of hers “The thrashers” and really enjoying the mystery and paranormal aspects of the book, I wanted to give “Rose in Chains” a try, and I’m glad I did. Julie’s writing in this book is so stunning, it has a poetic and almost gothic sense to the writing although the main character i would describe as bold, bright and colourful and the imagery descriptions are very vivid. Just don’t go into this expecting an epic fantasy please or you’ll likely end up disappointed, this book is for the vibes only I’d recommend giving this a try. I’m excited to dig deeper into the authors profile and see what other books she’s released! Thank you for the gifted copy, Publish date is July 8th

this was a much shittier version of manacled

2.5 rounded up to 3, a.k.a pretty average! While the residents of North Falls, Georgia, are all occupied enjoying the 4th of July fireworks, two local teenage girls – Madison Dalrymple and Cheyenne Baker – are being abducted from the carpark. Deputy Emmy Clifton-Lang (the official Amazon blurb lists Emmy’s surname as ‘Clifford’, so it’s either a typo, was altered for the published version, or differs depending on edition), along with her Sheriff father Gerald Clifton, are first on the scene where all that remains are two mangled bicycles, a smashed cellphone, and blood. Emmy feels guilty, because when Madison tried to reach out to her earlier in the night, Emmy was too preoccupied with her crumbling marriage to listen. The hunt is on to find Madison and Cheyenne alive. But as the hours pass – hope fades. Unfortunately, We Are All Guilty Here suffered from the same issues I had with another crime novel I read earlier in the month in that the characters were the standout. I really enjoyed Emmy, and all the supporting and peripheral characters. Her family drama and revealed secrets were another highlight. Also, the crime was emotionally affecting, and the character of Emmy did a superb job of conveying this. There were some clever, surprising twists throughout the novel, but the resolution to the crime was pretty anticlimactic, didn’t bring anything new to the table, and contained a lot of telling rather than showing. There were disturbing moments but We Are All Guilty Here was pretty tame for a Karin Slaughter novel, which I have to admit, I was kind of disappointed by. The first 30% was a five-star read for me – however, I struggled with the twist that occurred soon after that point, and from then onwards I thought the excitement and urgency of the investigation tapered off. Speaking of the investigation, there was far too much time spent on interviewing suspects and the discussions of evidence grew repetitive. If you’re not a fan of police procedures, then I doubt you would enjoy this one. Finally, it was overly long, and there just wasn’t enough happening to sustain its length. In conclusion, We Are All Guilty Here was underwhelming overall, and as much as I liked the characters, I’m not sure I’m curious enough to continue this series. Hopefully I’m in the minority, and other reviewers/readers will enjoy it more. I’d like to thank Netgalley UK, Harper Collins UK, and Karin Slaughter for the e-ARC. Publication Date: 19th June 2025.

Unpopular Opinion and I might piss some people off. Lol Let’s just say that it’s common for me to be on outlier island when it comes to hyped up books. Plus, I am very picky when it comes to police procedurals. Period. The story, teenage girls went missing years ago. Now, more are missing. Here’s the deal….. when it comes to police procedurals, it needs to be gripping. I want to be fascinated by all the evidence and facts coming to light. I love to be shocked! If it is slow, forget it. I also need to feel a connection to some character that is trying to save the day. It could even be the bad guy, hell. Just as long as I am rooting for someone. This story was just too slow for my liking. There was evidence that kept getting put on repeat and I honestly felt it could have been shortened by at least 100 pages. I didn’t care for any of the characters, even the ones missing. Most of you will disagree with me and that’s totally fine. Slaughter has some LOYAL fans who have been reading her for years and they will continue to do so. Read if you like — Slow burn police procedurals — Missing girls trope — Karin Slaughter

3⭐ Genre ~ police procedural, crime fiction Series ~ North Falls, #1 Setting ~ Georgia Publication date ~ August 12, 2025 Est Page Count ~ 448 (20 chapters) Audio length ~ 16 hours 33 minutes Narrator ~ Kathleen Early POV ~ 3rd Featuring ~ small town, missing girls, death, domestic abuse Trigger warnings ~ child molestation, rape, pedophilia, child porn Emmy is our cop on the hunt for 2 missing girls, one being her BFF's daughter, so that makes her investigate a little bit harder to find them. Working alongside her police chief father to uncover town secrets that could make you sick to your stomach. Then we time jump 12 years and a new girl is missing. Are these connected somehow? BTW ~ were we given word it was 12 years later? I feel like I had no clue for a bit and was so lost, but it could just be my ears were wandering since the book is so long. Overall, this was fine, and in typical Slaughter fashion with all the dark and disturbing content, but y'all! 20 chapters + 448 pages/16 hours and 33 minutes = looooooonnnnnngggggg chapters!! Since it is a new series we get a lot of character development. Culprit wasn't too big of a surprise. Narration notes: I've listened to her many times and she does a great job. No complaints. *Just a quick review to get this off my list, so I don't get too far behind. Lots of love for this one, so be sure to read other reviews.

3.5 stars I usually steer away from Karin Slaughter novels since they’re very procedural and I don’t want to start another series. I did love The Good Daughter, so I figured why not try WE ARE ALL GUILTY HERE—especially since it’s the first in a new series so I don’t need to commit any further if I don’t want to! Karin Slaughter’s latest introduces Officer Emmy Clifton and a new town, North Falls. On the night of the fireworks, two teenage girls vanish, shaking the quiet town to its core. Officer Emmy Clifton takes the case personally—one of the missing is her best friend’s daughter, and Emmy regrets not stepping in sooner. As she digs deeper, she discovers just how many secrets the girls were keeping—and how far someone in town might go to protect them. If there’s one thing you take from my review, it is to DO NOT LOOK UP MORE ABOUT THE SYNOPSIS. Despite the intriguing premise—a pair of missing girls and a seemingly perfect community hiding dark secrets—I found the story still too procedural for me. While the timeline’s POV and twists aim to build suspense, the pacing often dragged and the emotional stakes didn’t always land for me. Slaughter still delivers her usual blend of police procedural and psychological drama, and there are a few genuinely tense moments. It’s not a bad read—fans of her work will likely enjoy revisiting her signature style—but for me, this one just didn’t leave a lasting impression. Overall, I liked it more than not, and would recommend it if you enjoy procedurals.

A bit tame by Slaughter standards (even though it's pedophile heavy), but it was nice to be introduced to a whole new cast of characters and locations in this first book of her brand new series. Though it dragged a bit at times and my pulse never jacked up, there were twists I didn't see coming and a solid, unflinching ending that made this an enjoyable read overall. I'm looking forward to seeing where she's finna take this thing! 3 1/2 Emerging Stars

3.5 stars. For some reason, I thought I’d read lots of Karin Slaughter books, but it turns out I’ve only read six – my two favourites being The Good Daughter and Last Breath. Even though I’ve read plenty of mysteries about abducted girls, which can sometimes start to feel a bit repetitive, I really enjoyed the pace and all the insights about abductions – who usually takes these girls, where they’re taken, and how long they’re held before they're killed. I also liked that this feels like two books in one – I was wondering why it was 446 pages, but around the halfway mark the story basically morphs into what could almost be book two in the series. A quick, twisty, tense read with enough backstory and character to make me look forward to the next instalment.

Audiobook (17 hours) narrated by Kathleen Early. Publisher: Harper Collins (William Morrow) The narration is excellent and the audio, flawless. This is about a 3.5 stars for me. Some of the characters are decently fleshed out, while others are very surface. To be fair, there are a lot of characters, and those that are surface do have personality and have enough there to latch onto and identify as to who they are. I feel like the author intentionally leaves some of the characteristics open to allow readers to impart their own feelings, reactions and backstories to them. This likely works out well due to the genre. Think reading a news article or social media when people are blaming someone that no one really knows and public opinion is mixed based on fairy tales, photos and a few stories from classmates in 5th grade. The world building is led by the characters, the story, and is set in real life so there doesn't have to be a ton of detail. The time and place is well set in the novel, however, and well written. The overall story is a winding, detailed, heartbreaking, realistic real life crime story. This is a fictional novel that could be based on horrific real life crime drama that has happened in small towns and small cities across the world. The actions and reactions are realistic. I didn't bring it up to 4 stars as it's a bit drawn out and gets a bit muddy at points. Despite that, it's a good read that I feel most who enjoy police type procedural stories would likely enjoy.

The Stormlight Archive is probably the most important fantasy series in the past 15 years. It is therefore frustrating how conflicted I am about it, conflicted enough to write my first ever review. This is however, more a review of the series as a whole, rather than Wind and Truth in particular. SPOILERS below, on all 5 books of the series Don't get me wrong, there are a lot of things to love about this series. The ambition and the creativity poured into it are nothing less than inspiring. The decision to couple character's psychological growth with their progression in the magic system through the oaths was a stroke of genius and makes for some seriously amazing moments throughout the books. But I will not focus on the positives as too many people here have repeated them, and have in fact been glazing these books blindly. Instead, I would focus on other things that are, to me at least, either a mixed bag, or thoroughly frustrating. THE SCOPE I'm sorry, but there are simply too many things happening in these books. If done extremely well, that can be a good thing. But it isn't done well. Whole story arcs, like the murder of Sadeas, or Dalinar wanting to become High King, or whatever the hell Sja-Anat is doing, are brushed aside quickly, with minimal or forgettable consequences. Other things that happen don't exactly need to happen, like half the things Shallan has been up to these 5 books that I can't help but feel were utterly irrelevant to anything. In this last book, a whole heap of pages is devoted to the freeing of Ba Ado Mishram, which was set up as something that would be very hard to do, which turned out to be super easy. She led them to her, and all they needed to do was to shatter a jewel. You could have done it in a single chapter, instead we get a hundred pages of it. The whole Ghostbloods plotline felt utterly irrelevant every step of the way. Most of the many interludes felt vastly irrelevant every step of the way. The plotlines around the listeners and Venli were irrelevant every step of the way. And that isn't to say that these storylines aren't fun, that they aren't entertaining or worth reading, sometimes they are. And a book, a fantasy book especially, should indulge itself from time to time. But these books do it far too much, they buckle under their own weight of everything going on, half of which is irrelevant or only slightly relevant to the grand storyline. For example, the Yanagawn interlude that took up dozens of pages. Would it not have been better to piece together how he got the throne through dialogue with characters like Adolin? Imagine a series that focused solely on Odium and Honor, and perhaps the Heralds as a secondary storyline, much like how the first two books felt. Would have been much tighter knit and better, as these plotlines were the most interesting any way. THE LENGTH The smallest of these books is 1,100 pages. Now I have no problems with this, and have even read bigger books and series. The problem is the plot very often moves at a glacial pace, and all the books could be trimmed by about half with nothing lost in the reduction. Some would argue all this is necessary to lay the groundworks for better worldbuilding and character growth, but that isn't really true. A single Stormlight book is larger than the entirety of the Lord of the Rings, or, for example, Best Served Cold by Joe Abercrombie. Can anyone honestly claim that a single volume of Stormlight has more worldbuilding than the entirety of LOTR, or better character work than Best Served Cold? Not in good faith they can't. It is even more frustrating when, in all that length, big character moments like the reveal that Shallan is the daughter of a Herald are brushed off in a couple of paragraphs. On the other hand we get hundreds of pages exploring the gay romance of Renarin and Rlain, because Brandon wants to prove to his fans that he's not a regular Mormon, but a progressive, open-minded Mormon, and one of the good guys TM. We get hundreds of pages explaining the science behind how fabrials work, how each metal casing affects them, and other things literally no one cares about. THE CHARACTERS Stormlight is universally praised for its character work, and indeed there is a lot to like here. Dalinar and Kaladin are obvious standouts, and their character moments will resonate and be remembered for years to come. Even Jasnah got a good crashing down to earth moment in the last book which she sorely needed. However, to me the character work is spoiled by looking at characters' psychology as a pampered kid from a wealthy area of California in the 21st century would. Every single character has a mental disability, be it depression, multiple personality disorder, autism, sociopathy, etc. And they're all hyper focused on it! The world is literally burning down beneath their feet, but instead we have to read about Shallan switching personalities every 5 minutes and obsessing about it. I promise you Brandon, as someone that has struggled with some of these issues, we do not hyperfixate on them, especially not if important things are happening in our lives that otherwise need our attention. The paths they take are also frustrating to me. The great warrior Kaladin become a therapist? Is this a joke? And we explore his therapy not through the person he's treating (who's also a POV character, but only for the action scenes), so we can get a look inside how he's receiving this therapy, but through the therapist himself obsessing about how he isn't doing a good enough job? And then all it takes for the therapy to be successful is soup, a song and the wind whispering encouragement, because no amount of discussion and debate would help, since his patients, both Szeth and Nale are literally immune to common sense? The character path Kaladin took is truly tragic. He was literally supposed to be the bridge between listener and human, because he walked among them and saw their point of view and their honor in character like Leshwi. Kaladin embodied the three principles of Protect, Lead and Heal. In the last book the first two were brushed aside completely. He had a whole falling out with his father over whether or not one could fight and kill to protect. Instead we get him accepting his father's wish to become a healer. Adolin and Dalinar are the only consistently good characters throughout the 5 books. THE PROSE I know, I know, everyone and their mother has already criticized Brandon for his prose. But it really is deserved. One moment you're reading a nice sentence, the next you're reading a TikTok comment. It is jarring, and I know Brandon can do better. It seems he isn't even trying most of the time and just churns out each sentence as it first comes to him, which is astonishing considering he has a whole company and scores of beta readers helping him, as well as (allegedly) preparing several drafts of every book and them being extensively edited. For his world, any world, to have an inner consistency of reality, there has to be a unified tone both in the prose and in the dialogue. Here we have it in neither. I get Brandon wants to complete 874 books before he dies, but maybe writing 20 books and making them the best they can be instead is preferable. And for the love of God someone stop him from attempting to write humor, or at least force him to make it a tad more sophisticated than poop and fart jokes. The POV shifts every 2 sentences in Wind and Truth were also very jarring and ruined any tension. THE WORLDBUILDING AND MAGIC This is more of a personal gripe. Lately it seems every fantasy book has strayed into the realm of medieval sci-fi. The world is another planet entirely populated by novel creatures. The magic system is actually science, here's a list of strict rules and a DnD chart showing the different types of magic, their weaknesses and strengths vs other types. Gone is the folk feeling, gone is the mystique of these worlds, gone is the sense of the forgotten past of mankind, of a young earth with many wonders and unexplainable things happening, of deep magic tapping into the very essence of the world and the human spirit. Instead, here's superheroes flying around blasting each other with lasers and devices for which we have to explain the exact process of creation, lest we be accused of actually including magic in a fantasy book. Because it's far more "realistic" if we have a device that emits heat because it has a fire spren locked in a copper casing and in a rhomboid shape, rather than if we just say it emits heat because it's magic. And listen, I get it, it's very fun to worldbuild, but what have we built exactly? Brandon is good at cosmology and magic systems, but doesn't seem to try much in other aspects. The human nations are caricatures, you have one nation of warriors, one of bureaucrats, one of Buddhist monks, one of merchants, etc. There are no differences in the way of life, architecture, culture, views, it's just one characteristic blown way out of proportion, and the different names they use to call the Heralds and Honor. Like can anyone tell me any difference between Jah Keved and Alethkar, two great and powerful nations, after reading 6,000 pages about this world? Even the spren in Shadesmar, a completely different form of life altogether, live exactly as humans, they take on human-like forms, they have buildings, markets, courts, currency, etc. The world feels utterly foreign, but not in an evocative way that can make you care about the world, or make you nostalgic about a forgotten place you half-dreamed of once, but in a way a slum in India would feel foreign. There's no cows, or dogs, or even trees, but there are 76 varieties of crabs in different sizes for your enjoyment. Meanwhile, it really is a question how anything survives in a world that's being destroyed by a storm every week, and even more a question now since at the end of Book 5 the Sun itself got blotted out. Thankfully, every human nation joined the guy that blotted out the sun and is literally named Hatred and openly discusses waging an endless interstellar war, because they'd be safer this way. Things have also gotten progressively more modern and 21-century-USA, as we have not only trans and non-binary characters, but also things like we see in Szeth's flashbacks, sibling rivarly, sibling resentment, love affairs and divorce. I get these things happened in the past as well, and I also get Roshar isn't Earth's past but a different planet, but the implementation still feels like I'm reading a Wattpad fanfic. It is probably the combination of the character's mentalities with the prose being what it is, that have progressively given each book a stronger YA feeling THE PLOT Journey before destination, Brandon says, then proceeds to trample on that principle. Everything that happens in these books feels like a plot contrivance. Brandon wanted to get to point X, so he made up a million excuses to get there. Why can't the God you're fighting simply destroy you all with a snap of his fingers? Well he made a promise, and he's a god so he can't break it. Why did he make that promise? He didn't want to get destroyed in a fight with another God. Would that God have fought him? Not really, if he did the planet would have been destroyed. So why does the promise exist? Mumbles. The flashbacks are utterly frustrating as well. Show, don't tell, is the basic principle of storytelling, so Brandon shows nothing and spends 1/4 of each book in flashbacks where every plot point and character trait is revealed. It was especially egregious in the last book, where literally the entire history of the world and the whole plot were revealed through a flashback from God. Talk about Deus ex Machina eh Brandon? And if that wasn't enough Deus in this Machina, we get another mysterious being that's wiser and knows more than he should that told Dalinar how to resolve the final conflict. On top of another mysterious ancient being that's been guiding them the past 5 books whilst trying (and failing) to be funny. Meanwhile they have yet another God that's Dalinar's spren, but he refuses to tell them anything actually important or relevant because he's concerned how they'd take it, so he lets the world burn down instead. Oh, and there's yet another god in this book, whispering guidance in the wind, just in case the others weren't enough. Other plot contrivances abound. Like when the spren are all about to be destroyed, but the God they came out of can't destroy them because some random 10 people formed a pact? Why? And if he can't destroy the spren from Honor, why can't he destroy the spren from Odium at least? Or the unmade which are the greatest shards of his power and some of which are actually challenging him? No one knows. It is also frustrating how anticlimactic everything is. The Everstorm that's supposed to be a cataclysmic event? Barely an inconvenience. Shadesmar, a completely different realm of existence? It's actually just like our world, except the sea is land and vice versa. The Spitirual Realm, something even Wit was scared to enter and no one knew how to get back, especially when their tether was lost? Barely an inconvenience, just ask your spren to bring you back at any time. And I could go on and on. There is also something other reviewers mentioned, that no one faces consequenes for their actions. Not only that, they get excused for their failings, and everyone is 100% understanding of them. If on the off chance they aren't, like Adolin being angry at his father over his mother's death, that conflict soon resolves itself in the character's head. No one is angry at Shallan for not telling them about the Ghostbloods, no one is angry at Kaladin for moping around instead of fighting, no one is angry at Dalinar for his leadership mistakes, no one is angry at Jasnah for losing Thaylenah, etc. I will also mention that book 1 and 2 feel like a completely different universe to the rest. Everything set up in the first 2 books basically goes out the window, apart from the characters themselves. The setting is not there, the plot becomes something else entirely, the storylines are all novel, the lore gets either retconned or vastly expanded. It's no wonder most people prefer the tight knit story of the first 2 books, because it's barely the same story after that. I get there are hints are foreshadowings of what is to come, but the the two "parts" are vastly different. Take for example the oaths, vastly important to both the story and the character journeys in previous books. In book 5 they were easy, came to the characters in a second and without any struggle to accept them, only to be tossed away as unimportant a second later. It is especially egregious in the case of Kaladin, knowing how much he struggled with the first oaths, and the fourth one in particular. He now has the fifth oath come to him without any struggle, effort or growth. It was so inconsequential, when it was supposed to be the most meaningful and difficult, that I don't even remember what it was, despite just finishing the book, and despite remembering the other four all these years later. Also minor gripe, I don't think Wind and Truth had any Sanderlanche, nothing grand and epic in scope that stops you from putting the book down. Not that every book needs that, but it would have helped here, when it had so little going for it. Oathbringer for example, to me was saved by the climax, otherwise it would have been a much worse book THE PHILOSOPHY Every work has an underlying philosophy that shines through in the plot and the characters. Brandon takes it a step further as well, with characters often discussing the morals of their actions. Except it very often doesn't work in the context of the plot. Oh no, they enslaved the Parshendi, aren't they monsters! Shouldn't the Parshendi get revenge on them now?! Well no actually, because you told us they were actually so dull they could barely remember to fetch themselves water to survive, and therefore wouldn't have even survived on their own. Jasnah planned assassinations on evil people or potential liabilities in the war against the God of hatred, so naturally this means you should join the God of hatred instead, who has done far worse things, because Jasnah is a hypocrite. We spent years and countless lives liberating your nation from occupation, so naturally you would turn against us the second you've been liberated. I refuse to kill my grandson, whom I haven't seen for 20 years at this point and is raging for my murder because he's been brainwashed, so I'll let the God of hatred take over the world instead and make it hell, and even double his power in the process. Surely the other Gods, who are all selfish cowards, will all intervene at this point, and surely their intervention will not destroy my whole planet in the process. As a bonus I'll be killed in the process and won't even get a noble sacrifice because he made an evil copy out of me before I died, which will taint the memory of me forever. Great, we even went into grimdark here while attempting to prove how doing the moral thing is always preferable, even if it means sacrificing the greater good. There's a good way to make that point, it's just not this, not in this instance and in this story. Dalinar has effectively gambled his entire planet's existence and future for a 1 in 1000 chance, and while I'm sure Brandon will find a way to make it all work out well in the end, the character within the story has no way of knowing that, making it a huge, and not well calculated risk. Overall, the Stormlight Archive is a good fantasy series, but it has glaring problems that most fans ignore, which I cannot. Blindly applauding anything any author does is inconceivable to me, and looking at how the books went down in quality from Words of Radiance onwards, it's obviously to the detriment of the work itself. There's a top 3 fantasy series in here somewhere, it's just buried in quite a bit of crem, and it could have been accomplished with a good editor, critical beta readers, and Brandon reigning in his desire to throw in a kajillion cool ideas inside, over seeing what is actually best for the characters and the story, and giving at least some thought to his prose. I would probably give it a 3.5 stars rating overall for the whole series, but giving it 3 stars to counteract the insane glazing its receiving. Overall, I would sort the books as: 1. Words of Radiance 4.5 ⭐ 2. Way of Kings 4⭐ 3. Oathbringer 3.75⭐ 4. Rhythm of War 3.5⭐ 5. Wind and Truth 3⭐ Which gives the average series rating of 3.75 ⭐, carried by the first half of the series, let down by the second

3.5 Stars While this novel is arguably on par with the prior few volumes, I find myself finishing this one with mixed feelings. As the final book in the first five book arc, I found this one excessively long and verbose. Certainly I have read and enjoyed longer books, but they had a level of depth and engagement that I felt were lacking here. My biggest challenge is how much of the story and the underlying feelings & motivations of each character must be spoken out loud and painfully spelled out. The story lacked the subtlety of writing that makes me want to mull and puzzle over paragraphs. I appreciate that the author loves to explore themes of the human experience, especially involving mental illness, but I would prefer to read these topics from another writer with more finesse. Certainly this book still has good qualities to it. Brandon Sanderson continues to write digestible fiction that is easy to recommend to new fantasy. As a reviewer, I am still interested to see how this series plays out but I will admit that this novel fell below my expectations for this mid series climax Disclaimer I received a copy of this book from the publisher.

This book isn't terrible but parts of it are terrible. This book isn't amazing but parts of it are amazing. If I had to call this book something, I'd call it disappointing. It's a bloated mess with non-existent pacing and bad dialogue, a poor imitation of its predecessors, a book that's long simply for the sake of being long. It succeeds, sometimes, but those successes are in spite of itself. On every page it tries to throw away the goodwill that's been built up over the previous four books. So I don't hate this book. I'm not mad, I'm just disappointed.

the very end makes for an interesting set up for the future arc of the series but this book is entirely too long, full of filler, the most important characters are either shadows of their past selves or barely glossed over while the book tries to emotionally manipulate u into caring about up-until-now irrelevant povs or storylines. cartoonish at times too. just overall not a good time and proof that even well-established authors with editors and beta readers need to be slapped back into reality every once in a while. mutual enabling just lulls us all into mediocrity.

This is the most divided I have ever felt about a Stormlight Archive book. As I read through the beginning, I grew increasingly worried. For some reason, it just wasn't hitting. Why? Was something off? Why was I, despite my best efforts, just NOT able to immerse myself in the story? Was it me, or the book? Luckily, by around the 70% mark the plot started to build, and I was safely hooked. Everything after that crashed toward the finish line with all the momentum and intensity expected from this massive "Avengers: Endgame" level fantasy event. Overall, I think this book does stick the landing, resolving most of the countless threads of plot and character in a satisfying way, and setting up the future of the Cosmere. Some standout details in no particular order: • My boy Szeth-son-son-Vallano, Truthless of Shinovar. I have always loved him <3 and continue to love him <3 and I loved finally getting his backstory! It was a fascinating backstory, and explained a lot about both him and the worldbuilding. The way his family determined to go with him when he was first taken away by the military as a boy TRULY got me in the heart. • Adolin continues to carry at least half this series on his back in my opinion. Every time I got to one of his chapters, it felt like a relief. His Azish siege was some of the best action and one of the most compelling storylines in the book, especially during the first half when it felt like almost nobody was doing anything elsewhere. I love his relationship with the Azish Prime, and the way the deadeye spren plot thread was resolved. Wholesome. Heartwarming. Inspiring. • Gavinor :( :( :( :( :( No amount of sad face emojis will adequately express how I feel about this. • Taln................................................. His is such a horrible, horrible story. When he stood up during the Azish siege, I was shook. That scene had serious resonance. • I don't really like visions. I never really like them, in any medium and in any story. Dalinar and Navani's field trip through the Spiritual Realm was made bearable by the tension behind the worldbuilding mysteries they were unraveling. It was better than the extended time in Shadesmar in some of the other books, but not by much. • TANAVAST IS ABSOLUTELY INTOLERABLE. I HATE HIM AND HIS STUPID ALL CAPS CHAPTERS. • The ending... I was okay with. Dalinar's ending. Kaladin's ending. Despite not resolving everything, enough was resolved that I'm walking away from this book not feeling jilted. • I understand The Sunlit Man a lot better now. Might need to reread. • I still don't care that much about the singers, but I kind of like how the battle at the Shattered Plains was resolved. Feels good, feels right. • "Honor is dead... but I'll see what I can do." ALRIGHT, KALADIN. WHY DID THIS HIT SO HARD AGAIN? For some reason this worked super well, even though I almost don't understand why. This whole time Kaladin was kind of just a hype man and helper on Szeth's journey, but for everything to end the way it did still somehow made perfect sense. • Shallan, in this book, was possibly the least annoying she has ever been. I'll admit, I thought we had no more buried secrets to unearth from her incredibly avoidant psyche, but I was proven wrong. • I don't care about any of the Heralds except Taln. I wish I did. It would have made the visions and Szeth storylines much more impactful. • Did I mention how much I enjoyed the Azish siege? Adolin being a brilliant tactician AND social engineer... Adolin mentoring Yanagawan... Some very cool action scenes... An absolutely rip-roaring finale sequence... All right. Now, let's talk about the concerning part: The Cringe I have always been a delighted cosmerenaut. I have cringed in the past at Sanderson things, but only the deliberately cringe and annoying things like Wayne, The Reckoners and Frugal Wizard's Guide. I have never been a huge fan of the quintessential Sanderson corny humor but, again except for in the aforementioned works, it has never really gotten in the way of my enjoyment. Certainly it has never been a real issue for me in the Stormlight Archive, with the possible exception of how annoying early Shallan was. I read almost SEVENTY PERCENT of this book before I really got into it. That is CRAZY and extremely alarming, given that this is book five of the Stormlight Archive. You have to ask yourself, what on earth is going on?!? 1. The first issue was the corny humor. It seemed really overwhelming and in-your-face at the beginning of the book, and kind of tonally dissonant. This book starts up RIGHT after the end of RoW, which was a massive, high-stakes battle and it takes place over the course of only ten days. In those ten days, everyone is staring down the potential end of the world as they know it. That is an absolutely breathless pace, and I'm therefore pretty surprised at how slow the beginning of the book felt. Why did everyone seem to have infinite time to crack awkward puns and genital/potty humor jokes at each other? Thankfully, this slowed WAY down as the plot actually picked up in the second half. 2. Second issue was the odd fakeness/shallowness of the characters. I have traveled with these people for five (LONG) books now, and I know and love all of them. I'm deeply invested in them and their inward journeys. So why, at the beginning of this book, could I NOT seem to connect with anyone? Shallan's relief over finally coming to a place of stability with her multiple personality issues. Kaladin's relief at his own stability, and beginning journey to focus on himself as well as helping everyone else. Adolin's continuing sense of inferiority and anger at Dalinar. Szeth grappling with his longstanding moral injury. For some reason, all of this seemed very very shallow and extremely repetitive. These introspective passages came up so frequently and seemed so exactly the same that I was repeatedly thrown out of my immersion in the story during the first half of the book. I'm sitting there wondering why the heck I'm almost bored by hearing about these characters I have LOVED in the past? With how slow all of this felt in a book that takes place over only ten days, it seems like perhaps some tighter editing could have helped us out here. 3. Third issue was The Cringe. Some things just seemed... off. Some things just didn't hit the way I would have expected them to. Kaladin's therapy shtick with Szeth, for one. I liked the beginning of this in RoW! But the way it was implemented over the course of their Life Changing Road Trip just seemed unrealistic and very cringe. If someone had tried that on Kaladin when he was at his worst, it would NOT have worked. So why are these hamfisted attempts at "Talk about it! You'll feel better! You deserve to be happy! This stuff wasn't your fault!" working on Szeth, who is probably worse off than Kaladin was? Again, he had TEN DAYS to make a total breakthrough and heal Szeth's broken psyche. This is magnified with Nale, whom they had what, only two days with? It just doesn't seem real, and the way this was written was almost as maladroit and awkward as Kaladin's actual therapeutic attempts. The rapidly increasing usage of the word "therapy" just didn't work for me, either. You can handwave your way out of that by using Wit's offworld vocabulary as an explanation, but that doesn't make Kaladin's "No, I'm his therapist" quip any less embarrassing. Kaladin's speech to the librarian after she was mean to Syl was cringe. Definitely something Cliopher Mdang would have said, and then everybody nearby would have clapped. Jasnah's debate with Odium was cringe. Not going to lie, I did skip most of the last chapter of that because I was just going "eugh, eegh, agh," all the way through it. Shallan's tension with Mraize was cringe. I cannot convey how much I do not care about Mraize or his relationship with Shallan, and frankly I'm surprised that SHE cares this much. I don't know how many near-miss encounters they had in the Spiritual Realm, but it felt like way too many. Even some of the actual formatting made me raise an eyebrow, particularly, "It was all he could do to stand there. But stand. Kaladin. DID." It's hard to miss what this ostentatious punctuation and italics is trying to convey: the rousing crescendo of a Hans Zimmer orchestral theme in the background as the wind whips Kaladin's hair and the light dramatically streams down upon him. This kind of scene happens semi-frequently in the Stormlight Archive, and most of the time I love it! But this particular prose was done so awkwardly and in-your-face that it punched me straight out of my immersion in the story at one of the most climactic moments. What about just writing words normally? I promise the reader can supply the suitable amount of drama for themselves based on the actual tone and content of the scene. Lastly, some of the portrayal of the characters' issues seemed oddly wooden. This was present in Kaladin and Syl's development as they traveled with Szeth. I understand what they were talking about in establishing their identities separate from their need to help others/each other, but why did it just feel empty and repetitive when they were talking about it? I've never before had an issue caring and empathizing with Kaladin, of all people. Renarin was another victim of this. His autism just seemed so very "here let me read a checklist of symptoms straight from the DSM-5." It didn't seem real to him, and I for some reason wasn't able to inhabit his perspective. This series has always gone out of its way to highlight things the characters were struggling with (most notably Kaladin's depression and Shallan's DID) but this time instead of feeling like a genuine expansion on a person's complex experience, it felt like ostentatious, unnecessary window dressing. This is my first time writing anything seriously negative in a Cosmere review. I enjoyed the book! After I got 60-70% through it felt like old times, like I was back on the solid ground of what I expect from this series. As I said, I thought it overall worked well as a colossal finale for a colossal story. I definitely want to know what happens next. But for some reason the writing quality, especially in the first half, was just kicking me in the teeth. This is genuinely upsetting and unsettling to me. I hope that this is just a wobbly step caused by Sanderson's extremely fast writing pace and his change in editors, and not my worst fear coming true. PLEASE don't tell me that I'm outgrowing his writing. The experience of reading an awesome book is so rare and precious that I would hate to lose that. There's only one way to know for sure. I need to do a Cosmere reread.

And so the end is here. The first thing to say is that I admire a lot of the choices Sanderson made in this book, choices that I don't think he could be sure fans would like. They were the choices of a brave author with a vision. This is also the best paced Stormlight book outside of Words of Radiance. This book also has some of the worst writing Sanderson has put out for a longgg time. Sanderson and his editors need to do better moving forward because I personally will not be able to endure with writing that stunts his storytelling like in Wind and Truth. The concept that you can read Cosmere series by themselves is now proven to be but a myth. Handled much more deftly than The Lost Metal, Wind and Truth deals with the grand concept of the Cosmere directly throughout. Despite being so well-paced, the book failed to produce many emotions from me. As opposed to other entries in the series, this book felt almost systematically assembled, like a brick house built without mortar, it was a construction missing the emotional veins that make me *feel* a story. I will be taking a long break from Sanderson following this book. We both need it.

Brandon Sanderson needs a strong editor, as there is no reason this book should have been 1300+ pages long. The very strong ending was spoiled by the almost 900 pages of self-indulgent word vomit that preceded it. And the ending was superb! Even for this reader, who is not a fan of all the COSMERE CONNECTIONS (all caps intentional), I thought he handled them very well, and I was slightly less annoyed at this than in some other works like The Lost Metal. And Sanderson did a great job of just about every character arc in these 5 books having fine and often poignant conclusions. I know Sanderson mega-fans think this book the best thing ever, but I would hope that even the fans of this book see its bloat and hope for better on the back half of the series. I almost stopped reading this thing in the middle of it as I felt incredibly bored and that the author was wasting my time. I'm glad I didn't, because from around page 900 to the end, Sanderson stuck the landing of the book and this 5-book arc. I still feel the author is taking his works a direction that I don't want to follow, but this book won't be my jumping off point. Yet.

my heart is broken. i feel like i'm dying. the world holds nothing for me anymore. i'm three starring this book. i adore emily henry, and i have since her magical realism days. i'd happily read her to-do lists if she released them once a year, and i'm sure even those would have more banter and loveliness and whimsy than your average full-length release just by virtue of being written by her. i'd say the same about her grocery lists, but i already do read those. (the woman writes a mean substack.) there were a few things i didn't love about this book. it tries to fit so much into a few hundred pages: our protagonist, daphne, is left by her fiance weeks before her wedding, causing her to: move in with miles, her fiance's new girlfriend's ex-boyfriend; realize she has no friends; begin a quest to find herself; get over the fiancé and fall in love with miles; join a variety of community groups and neighborhood activities; make her current job her dream job; repress some CLEAR mommy issues i thought we were going to address, and fully get over her daddy issues. all of this is happening so much. it comes at a cost, which is that typical emily henry magic (and i don't just mean the bygone magical realism i mourn every day and never shut up about). this book is not quite as funny — jokes feel forced, sometimes to the point that you can only identify something as reaching for funny because the character "joked" or "played along" instead of "said." it is not quite as polished, with writing feeling a bit unconfident, full of words italicized for emphasis and, you know, the whole verbs that aren't said thing. (there are a LOT of dialogue attribution words that aren't "said.") and the characters have none of their usual better-version-of-reality charm. miles' nick miller archetype would never work for me personally, but my real issue with him is that his character traits fade once we're supposed to see him as a romantic prospect. our side characters, ashleigh and julia, feel like interchangeable joke-bots to the point of being vaguely threatening. (when they pop up on page in tandem i feel a sense of unease.) and to be honest, daphne has no self awareness. because there's so much happening in this book, everything has to be incredibly simple: daphne's issue with her dad, AND daphne's issue with miles, AND daphne's friends' issue with daphne all has to be the same. it makes for some moments of ridiculousness — like how can daphne be melting down about being wronged on the same city block where she realized several hours earlier she had wronged someone in that exact same way? how could she be so unwilling to give the grace she expects for herself? and how could emily henry set scenes of this book on a cherry farm in michigan when she knew what it would do to me, specifically?! sorry. that's the last time i'll bring up magical realism. i think. ol' daph just has too much to figure out about herself. i think this abandonment would be so completely traumatic even if she HADN'T built her entire life around her fiancé only to be left entirely alone, and even if it WASN'T eerily similar to her daddy issues, and even if she DIDN'T have a bunch of unresolved things going on up in ye olde memory palace, that the last thing she'd be doing is sticking around someone else's hometown flirting with her new roomie. especially since what she ends up doing is repeating the exact same cycle with no awareness at all. bottom line: like anything emily henry has ever written, this is better than a lot of books. it just isn't better than most emily henry ones. ---------------------- currently-reading update me arriving to the world's biggest emily henry fan contest but my competition is all of goodreads (GUYS IT'S FINALLY HAPPENING) thanks to the publisher for the e-arc ---------------------- tbr review i would like to request that no one talk to me about anything that isn't this for the next 3 to 5 business years.

to preface this review, i love and adore emily henry's books. book lovers is in my top 5 books of all time (and i am not a romance reader), and happy place is the only book that made me cry last year. time is truly measured in emily henry releases for me. my current emily henry rom com ranking is: book lovers (5 stars), happy place (5 stars), beach read (4.5 stars), funny story (3 stars), and people we meet on vacation (2.5 stars). if we have completely different rankings, you'll probably feel differently about this book! if you are a big romance reader (reading books for the romance), you will most likely enjoy this a lot. but if you are a lit fic reader who loves emily henry books for the protagonists and their introspection and the fact that her romance feels grounded and realistic (me), this might be a slight miss. it's been a while since i've described an emily henry book as just "good", but this one feels like that for me. funny story still has emily henry's signature witty dialogue and chemistry between miles and daphne. it is arguably her most commercial romance to date, filled with more romantic scenes between the two characters. daphne, after being dumped by her fiancé for his best friend, decides to room with miles, who was dumped by said best friend. in classic emily henry rom com style, funny story is set in a beautiful town in the midwest (michigan), charged with quick banter and heart to hearts between the characters. in this vein, the book felt like a mix of beach read and book lovers, in a sense. but not really. while it's impossible for me to dislike a emily henry book because of her writing, much of my enjoyment as a reader comes from being able to see myself and parts of my personality reflected through either protagonist. for book lovers, it was overwhelmingly nora, for happy place, it was harriet, for beach read, it was gus, and for people we meet on vacation, it was alex. and so on. the main qualm i had with funny story is that neither miles nor daphne felt relatable to me, which made it a less enjoyable read than her other books. this is why i say that my neutral stance on this book is most likely a personal one. daphne and miles both felt very confusing to me as characters, almost as if they were hybrids of emily henry's previous characters. i couldn't quite get either of their characterizations or defining traits. there is not a single emily henry book i didn't read in one sitting...until this one. like i mentioned above, a big reason for my love for emily henry books is her protagonists and how their introspection does not read like other commercial romance books, but more like literary fiction. her characters are well thought through, reflective, and very three dimensional. nora was literally just me from start to finish (so i don't have to really put forth a defense about three dimensionality). harriet's introspection on loneliness and living for other people genuinely changed my life. but daphne didn't really have any. the chemistry and get-together also felt a bit rushed and forced at times, and the dialogue and heart to hearts felt less genuine and blander than her other books. for a book called funny story, it was...not. i think my big issue was just with miles as well. he just didn't enough charisma and charm for this book to be memorable for me. wyn and alex didn't really either, but i related a lot to alex and wyn was redeemed through harriet. funny story is a great read and definitely still a cut above other romance books. but this one just didn't do it for me. i really hope her next release works for me! thank you berkley for the arc! ⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻ i didn't love this i'm sorry guys review to come ⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻ I GOT THE ARC WHOOOOOOO ⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻ emily henry ! do you want my firstborn? my college diploma? my kidney? you name it, it’s yours !!!

Can a book survive on nothing but banter? Well, Funny Story sure tries. Okay, all you rabid Emily Henry fans. Before you chuck your rotten eggs at me, please let me explain. If ever there was an Emily Henry book that I should connect with, it's this one. Daphne is a librarian (my dream job) and she's in a pretend relationship with her roommate, Miles, in order to get back at her ex-fiancé (an intriguing premise). And yet, something was missing. I kept waiting for the story to grab me, and it never really did. I hate to say it, but the crux of the problem is that the whole thing was rather forgettable. I only just finished the book, and already I hardly remember anything about it. The characters, the interactions, even the conflicts, while all feelgood on the surface, were in fact fairly bland underneath. I enjoy a low stakes beach read as much as the next gal, but there is a difference between low stakes and no stakes, and this was too much in the latter. At no point was there anything really on the line. The story just shambled along, with lots of banter and some minor conflicts here and there, until the requisite 300-some pages were met, and then it was called a book. Speaking of the conflicts, I totally didn't understand Daphne and Miles' issues, or even Daphne and Ashleigh's. Do people really get so upset and potentially break up relationships and friendships over such small issues? And each one, blown up to be so important, can only be resolved after much back and forth, with pages upon pages of dialogue of each person's feelings and the associated parental trauma that was at the root of all their misgivings. It was a bit much. Don't get me wrong, I did have fun. There were entertaining moments, and the banter was truly top notch. And it wasn't just for the main couple during romantic moments. No, the banter was interspersed everywhere and among everyone, so we got plenty of chuckle-worthy moments. But you can't just sustain a story on banter alone, no matter how delightful it is. When the characters feel as lackluster as Daphne and Miles and their conflicts equally bland and forced, it was hard to care either way if they ended up together, which is always a bad sign in a romance. I feel like I'm the only person out there who doesn't get heart-eyes at the merest mention of an Emily Henry book. My experiences so far have been largely underwhelming, or maybe I just haven't read the right books by her. Either way, I'll add this to the pile of Emily Henry books I've pretty much forgotten the moment I finished. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: Beach Read People We Meet on Vacation ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

2.75stars what’s the point of a contemporary romance if by the end of it i am not even convinced that the male protagonist loves the main female character more than his —beautiful, accomplished, heartbreaker, full of life— ex ? to say that i’m disappointed is an euphemism so i wont even put an effort to coordinate two sentences to pull a well structured review. this book deserved more romance. some dialogues could’ve used some chopping. it was frustrating how some side characters had a soupçon more spotlight than the male main character. the female main character deserved better. least favorite EH hero. ready for mother to break my ✨HEART ✨ —— the title ? the way we all see the irony behind it.. this story is not going to be funny

*＊✿❀🌼 3.5 stars 🌼❀✿＊* once i was able to move past him being a stoner, having a messy bedroom, owning multiple pairs of crocs, and having a thing for her moaning when she eats food (often)… i had a pretty decent time. trust the process, i suppose 🤝🏻 (p.s. dear emily henry, i love your banter so much but please, PLEASE, find a substitute for the word “chortle” — i beg you.) my EH tier list: 1. beach read - 5 stars 2. book lovers - 4.5 stars 3. funny story - 3.5 stars 4. happy place- 3 stars

”Are you hungry?” “Since I met you, constantly.” Okay…. I did enjoy this, but I didn’t love it. I found it underwhelming compared to her other books. I didn’t care about the side characters, skimmed through pages that didn’t have romance in them because I was bored, and even the romance didn’t live up to my expectations. I kept waiting for it to get better, to find it more relatable and emotional. Because that’s what her books do: make me emotional, sob like a baby, question everything about my own life. This one didn’t do that for me, and that was obviously disappointing (because who doesn’t want to cry so hard the words on paper become unreadable?!?!), but this one just wasn’t for me, and that’s okay. Many others loved this one, found their new favorite Emily Henry book, and it reminds me of myself when I first read my favorite books by her. So yes, I’m sitting this one out, but others are experiencing their first love for Emily Henry and the magic she creates, which makes me so so so happy. And hey; if anyone deserves the love and attention, it’s Emily fucking Henry. ”But you—you make love so easy, Daphne. You make me think I already deserve it, exactly how I am.” 🥹

3 ⭐️ A rom-com with depth but it didn't sparkle like other Emily Henry novels In the best of times, it's inadvisable to start lusting after your roommate, and we are nowhere near the best of times. WHAT TO EXPECT: ✨ Michigan setting ✨ small town romance ✨ Daphne is a librarian who's been dumped by her fiance for Mile's ex ✨ Miles is a bartender who's girlfriend dumps him for Daphne's ex ✨ living with your ex fiance's new fiance's ex ✨ roommates to best friends to lovers ✨ opposites attract ✨ forced proximity ✨ fake dating (sort of) ✨ 2/5 🌶️ ✨ open door romance but not graphic ✨ found family ✨ female friendships ✨ character growth ✨ slight OW and OM drama ✨ third act breakup ✨ HEA ✨ single pov ✨ tw: breakups, trauma from absent father, trauma from emotionally abusive parents, mental health My Thoughts: Okay, objectively it is a good story. The writing is classic Emily Henry - descriptive, witty, and charming. The story is a perfect combo of romance and character growth. I loved the female friendship. And I enjoyed the small town vibes and general atmosphere. However . . . (let's get down to business) I’ve never not read an Emily Henry book straight through, but I found myself putting this down and I didn't pick it back up again for two weeks. That was only because I got an ARC and wanted to finish it so I could write a review before the publication date. The fact I was able to put it down in the first place isn’t a great sign. Again, it wasn't because it was a bad story, but it didn't captivate me in a way other Emily Henry books have done in the past so I wasn't that eager to finish. Was Funny Story really all that funny? No. And that, my friends, was a bummer. But, then again, Beach Reads is a bit misleading in the fact it takes place on a lake beach. People We Meet on Vacation is actually about two friends who vacation together and less about the people they meet. Happy Place was actually about people being incredibly unhappy. And Book Lovers . . . okay that was the only one that made sense since the MCs worked in the publishing industry. I would say I actually chuckled once and grinned maybe six other times while reading. That's it. So yeah, I'm a little disappointed it wasn’t that funny. But also, I'm not taking any points off my rating for it. I do like the MCs: Daphne and Miles. They’re lovable and sweet. However, I really just don’t feel connected to them. Usually with Emily Henry MCs I find a lot to relate to, but I didn't find that here. Sure, their trauma and growth throughout the story made sense. Parts of it even had my heart breaking and hurting for them. At the same time, if you put a gun to my head and told me to give you definitive characteristics or special/unique character traits about them, I couldn't do it. In all honesty, they felt like a mashup of a lot of EH's other MCs, who I loved, so that’s probably why these MCs are lovable as well. But Daphne and Miles blurred with the others too much and made me sort of just feel meh 🤷‍♀️. I will say, I was invested in them by the end, but now that I’ll never think about them again. The romance and character growth drive the story completely. There is no real plot. And I felt like Emily Henry gave the characters an array of emotional issues ranging from childhood trauma to relationship problems in order to add plot, which overly complicated things in a seemingly simple story. I knew this story wasn't going to be a top read when the other woman (OW) and other man (OM) drama became apparent. I should have seen it coming considering their exes are together and they end up dating. While this drama didn't play a HUGE part in the story, it was enough to irritate me. They ran into their exes more than a few times and would discuss their exes with one another a lot - and once they started catching feelings there was jealousy. I just really do not enjoy reading this type of drama because of the unnecessary tension it creates. Daphne's father is a POS and does not deserve a second chance (considering he's had a million). Emily Henry loves complicated relationships. Specifically with parents. I definitely think it's an interesting dynamic to explore. However, I will never agree with the fact that Daphne lets her deadbeat dad continue to have a place in her life. Using the chortle to describe Daphne's real laugh. When I hear the word chortle, I think like a snorting laugh, but apparently it's a breathy, gleeful laugh. I don't care what kind of laugh it is, but it's an ugly word and is used as a descriptor too many times. The third act conflict/breakup felt contrived. I'm not someone who minds the miscommunication trope if there was nothing that could be done to prevent it. But that wasn't the case here. Miles and Daphne have phones and could easily have called or texted one another with updates. But Miles doesn't and his reason isn't good enough. Yes, it is explained (and it even makes sense), but it was a weak excuse. ***SPOILER AHEAD*** PS: The fact that Miles went and helped Petra move makes me sick to my stomach. In no universe did he do the right thing by going to help his ex girlfriend move out of her ex fiance's home who she dumped him more. FUCK THAT! When someone treats you the way Petra treated Miles, you block them and never speak to them again. But no. Mile says multiple times that he still cares about her *barf* 🤢 which truly made me lose respect for him. Lastly, this story has more than a few similarities to Beach Reads. Obviously the entire premise was different but everything from the small town to the FMC having daddy issues to the MMC leaving at the end bc of their ex was similar. And since it’s from the same author with characters that gave off the same energy as previous ones, it was noticeable. I hate to say it but it sort of felt like a watered down version of Beach Reads. Overall, this book was well crafted but certain things about it prevented me from truly loving it. However, I know there will be people who love this story and that is totally valid! Like I said, it is a well written, classic Emily Henry novel. I think if you deeply relate to the character and their *issues* this story will hit you HARD. I do recommend reading it, especially if you’re an Emily Henry fan. It was a decent read, just not going to be my personal favorite. Ngl I'm a little nervous about Emily Henry's next book. I loved her first three but these last two have not been for me. Fingers crossed I can get back on board the EH train. I guess we'll see. Thank you NetGalley and Berkley Publishing Group for providing an e-ARC copy in exchange for an honest review! As always, all opinions are my own. My ranking of Emily Henry books: 1. Beach Reads x Great Big Beautiful Life 2. Book Lovers 3. People We Meet on Vacation 4. Funny Story 5. Happy Place Favorite Quotes: "Let me guess: I'm a clueless fool." "No, just a sweet, naive, beautiful little innocent, raised in captivity by a man who loves wheatgrass." _______ "You are either the friendliest man on the planet or a world-class serial killer." "Why not both?" _______ "Sometimes complaining about stuff, just having someone to empathize with you, takes the sting out of it." _______ You can't force a person to show up, but you can learn a lesson when they don't. Trust people's actions, not their words. Don't love anyone who isn't ready to love you back. Let go of the people who don't hold on to you. Don't wait on anyone who's in no rush to get to you. _______ "He was willing to be good to me, but he wasn't willing to be any better." _______ "Feelings are like weather. They just happen, and then they pass." _______ "If I had to be marooned, I'm glad it was with you." _______ "Thanks again for lubing my zipper." "Anytime." _______ I see him laugh but can't hear it, and I feel robbed of the sound. _______ "I'm used to keeping all of this separate. And nothing is, with you. You're my roommate and my best friend and the woman I just slept with." _______ "I don't want you to stop wanting me around. I think it might break my heart to be someone you don't like." _______ "A cynic is a romantic who's too scared to hope." _______ "Life's short enough without us talking ourselves out of hope and trying to dodge every bad feeling . Sometimes you have to push through the discomfort, instead of running." _______ "I know I'm not who you pictured yourself with, but I think I could be, eventually. If you'll let me. So don't go. Because I don't want you to. Because you're my best friend, and I'm in love with you." _______

** spoiler alert ** There is no doubt that Emily Henry is a fantastic writer. The story and setting are so easy to fall into that despite giving this a 3 star read, I spent 1 whole night (like evening up until 2AM) reading this and could not put it down. But the characters themselves and the plot just did not sit right with me. Daphne’s schtick is that she made her ex-fiance her entire life, like she did not have a life outside of her fiancé and what he wanted. And I don’t fault her for that because life slips away from us if we're not being intentional and I’m happy she could reflect on her past relationship and see where she’d like to make changes for the future - go her! BUT the plot of Funny Story follows Daphne falling head first into her next relationship with Miles. The entire book is building up to something that happens very, very late into the book, to the point where it’s almost TOO late. (****SPOILER AHEAD STOP READING !!!**** Daphne FINALLY comes to her senses about how her actions are literally going against everything she stands for in her journey to self discovery like 85% into the book or something ridiculous.) But then once you get to the turning point, it’s almost SO cheesy and there’s almost no real resolution that the “big breakthrough” moment feels like a moot point because of how the story ended and the epilogue. I loved all the great attributes of Miles but there’s a lot to be said about these two characters supposedly being over 30 years old. Are we sure? Are we SURE. The side characters are of course a great, hilarious addition (Julia is a breath of fresh air in this book) but they’re very one dimensional. Ashleigh was a good friend for Daphne, but for all the hoopla Daphne made about wanting to go after her own desires and build her own life, she literally makes ONE friend at work and then befriends her kind-of-boyfriend’s sister as her ONE other friend and then that’s her life?? She feels like she doesn’t need to do any more work to build a separation between her and Miles after everything that went down with Peter? The way the last 20% were constructed made me feel like I wasn’t allowed to make any of my own conclusions, like Daphne was driving the car at full speed and all of a sudden we were at the epilogue and things were seemingly very sunshine-happy-ending even though I felt like there was still SO much more to unpack. This is all to say. Emily Henry, your writing is good and Happy Place forever changed me as a person. But Funny Story was a miss for me and I’m giving this a 3 rather than a 2 because it was at least entertaining. But for basically the entirety of the book I felt myself asking, “Daphne, literally what are you doing.” --- 2/19/24: is it 1am and did I binge read the majority of this in 1 sitting? yeah. is it a 3 star read that im feeling very so so about?? also yeah. it can be both, somehow unfortunately 👍🏼 —- NETGALLEY I LOVE YOU 😭😭😭😭😭😭 ARC APPROVED TODAY BEST FEELING EVER WTFFF

If I had a nickel every time one of Emily Henry’s books made me root for the two main characters separately but not as a couple, I’d have two nickels, which isn’t a lot, but I’ve only read three Emily Henry books. This book solidified my half-baked theory that Emily Henry is not aware that men and women are capable of being platonic friends because… man I don't think Emily Henry has written a book where a male/female close friendship didn't end in them being together (this is mainly pointed at Peter and Petra here, but also as soon as Daphne/Miles got semi-close it immediately got sexual, so I'm also talking about them). I did really love the friendship and growth between Miles and Daphne, I just wish it was done in a less sexual way (at least for the majority of the book)! I think I’m being harsh on this one because it really had the potential to be my favorite Emily Henry book and just fell so flat for me. “Every time he looks over, it’s like the sun peeking out from behind a cloud, and I do my best to feel content, to be just another person at the edge of his glow.” If this book wasn’t so focused on a romance that neither Daphne nor Miles were ready for, it could have been my new favorite Emily Henry book. There are some really good discussions on how to live after a relationship, especially one where you have lost your sense of self and only view yourself as part of a couple. Unfortunately, those self-reflections felt a little weak when Daphne started some form of romantic relationship incredibly quickly. I think there could have been some really great discussions on how neither of them were in a place for a relationship (which was, again, stated multiple times in this book), but I guess that wouldn’t make it a romance? I still think they had great chemistry and would’ve been more on board if they maybe started thinking about each other romantically at around chapter 30, but this felt way too soon for the circumstances. Maybe I’m just a romance hater; more likely I’m a much bigger fan of romances that start emotionally rather than physically. And are between two idiots who don’t realize their feelings. And there’s a lot of yearning. Anyways… I actually did end up liking them together in the end, it just took me a while to get there. And I still wish there was a bit more time between their breakups. Seriously, this all happens starts right after they both get out of very serious, long-term relationships so obviously they’re going to be a bit selfish and maybe not quite over their exes, because who would be? That’s such a terrible event to go through. There were so many times when it was so clear that neither of them were ready for a relationship and both were benefitting from just having someone in their corner that I really just couldn’t back up this relationship in it’s current stage. “ ‘But after a while, someone either finally sees you or they don’t, and either way it fucking sucks. Because if they see you, and it’s not what they signed up for, then they’re out of there. And if they never see you. . . it’s worse. Because you’re just alone.’ ” The bulk of this book felt like that one Arrested Development scene where they’re like “I have feelings for you.” “I have feeling for you.” And then the narrator goes “That feeling was friendship, but neither had ever experienced it.” Because wow did both Daphne and Miles get treated like decent human beings by the opposite sex for the first time in their lives and immediately decide that they were romantically interested in each other. That being said, I did actually really like their friendship and only got the ick when things would get weirdly sexual (in public too??? I’m sorry, ew. Maybe I am just a hater now that I think about it…) I don’t want to call it chemistry, but they were really good for each other and got on incredibly well. They also were probably the only two people in Waning Bay who had their long-term partners cheat on them with their best friend and then get together, so there was some major solidarity that they wouldn’t have been able to find from anyone else. They both brought out the best in each other, held each other accountable, and were all around just decent people to each other. I really liked them together (platonically) and could see the vision for the romance, just not at the time it occurred. “I wouldn’t have become a librarian if I didn’t love stories, but I’ve never been great at telling my own.” Daphne is an incredibly relatable character that has one major flaw: the Daphne Moan. I’m getting this out of the way first because, wow, it had the potential to ruin everything for me. Every single time this (grown) woman ate food there was at least the mention of her moaning in pleasure about it. It was gross. Anyways, aside from the moan Daphne is a very cool librarian who loves her jobs and has various classic parental issues. Her unsurety and winding stories were incredibly relatable and it was really nice to see her grow and learn once she exited a “we” relationship (again, should someone who becomes a “we” and not a “me” as soon as they enter a relationship immediately jump into a new relationship? Debatable. Moving on…). With Miles as her tour guide, Daphne really blossoms into her own and gains confidence and connections. Daphne has the works: daddy issues, lowkey mommy dependency, severe trust issues, doesn’t know who she is and Emily Henry really does a great job at showing her evolution. I especially love how Henry showed how her trauma shaped the way she viewed the world. Part of it may be because I used to have similar unhealthy habits (Therapy! Helps! Maybe she should go to it instead of getting in another relationship so quickly!), but I found myself agreeing with her a lot and was thrown for a (good) loop when Emily Henry was like “no, this is bad thinking.” I also really appreciated the coffee-hater-who-still-goes-to-coffeeshops-everyday representation, even if I am more of a (good) matcha than a chai sentient being. “ ‘ I’ve never been good under pressure. I would’ve fucked it up eventually.’ ‘Based on what?’ I demand. His smile is rueful. ‘History.’ ” I was very happy to see some stoner-in-severe-depressive-episode-who-immediately-becomes-productive-when-he-is-needed representation in Miles! I’ve seen people be 50/50 on Miles, but he really is just Nick Miller from New Girl in a different font and I can rock with that. He does kind of lose a bit of his personality once he becomes Daphne’s tour guide, but I’m attributing that to the fact that the tour guide situation also served as a great distraction for him so he was able to stuff all his feelings down and just do that. Everything negative about Miles can be whittled down to him being in a very severe depressive episode and having just been broken up with in the most insane way and having all of his fears about himself seemingly be validated. Have I mentioned how bad of a time it is for them to be in a relationship enough yet? He’s also just got a lot of unresolved childhood trauma that I thought was really interesting to explore, especially his mommy issues. Overall, a great friend and also love interest if the timing was not the worst ever. “ ‘I’ve seen your place,’ Ashleigh says. ‘I didn’t see a cohesive theme. Unless it was major depressive episode’ ” Am I going to be lumping Ashleigh and Julia together for most of this? Yes. Ashleigh is the way-too-cool coworker of Daphne (with a conversation pit??? That’s literally the most exciting thing about this book. I’m a very big conversation pit person.) who helps Daphne realize some things about herself and just is there for Daphne, and Julia is the way-too-cool little sister of Miles who helps Miles realize some things about himself and is just there for Miles. See any similarities? No? Okay. While I love both of them, and could probably write pages about how we deserve to see a (sapphic) romance with Ashleigh as the main character, they kind of boil down to the same importance. They’re wonderful friends (or sister) and a great duo with some pretty good comic relief. I wanted to be in on their conversations 24/7 and I, as a person with a bunch of water (and gemini and leo, if you care) placements in their birth chart, am still wondering what the hell they were whispering about water signs. Probably that we’re super cool and also really compatible with single mom librarians who have conversation pits in their house and are also the coolest people ever, idk (marry me, Ashleigh). “To him, he’s the brother who ran away. To her, he’s the one who stays, even when he shouldn’t” Marriage proposals aside, Ashleigh and Julia were great characters because we got to see Daphne and Miles’s growth through them. They were outside parties that really loved the two of them and were a really nice addition. There was also a decent amount of focus on Ashleigh and Daphne and Julia and Daphne’s friendship that showed how important friendships are, instead of completely focusing on the romantic relationship. Likewise, the brother-sister bond between Miles and Julia was so sweet and nice to be able to see, even if we only saw it from Daphne’s pov. “ ‘Life’s short enough without us talking ourselves out of hope and trying to dodge every bad feeling. Sometimes you have to push through the discomfort, instead of running.’ ” If you’re looking for a new romantic pairing to love (Lake Michigan x Sunlight), I would consider this a cute story. It feels more like Happy Place than her older stuff, but it was still definitely a book that I read and also wrote “cute!!!” on the end sentence, so if that doesn’t sell you… I don’t really have much else to say. This one is for the pessimists, the ones whose childhoods make them feel a bit fucked up especially when it comes to pretty much any type of interpersonal relationship. It could've really been one I resonated with.

What in the Limonene!!??... huh!??... EXACTLY! Freida never sleeps McFadden is back again with her newest release The Tenant. In this book we are following Blake who has been fired from his job and is struggling to make ends meet with his fiancé Krista. They both decide that they need to welcome in a roommate to help with paying the rent in their Brownstone home. Here comes Whitney. She is bright, spunky and beautiful. The perfect fit right!? Well, when the neighbours start acting funny towards Blake, there are bump bump noises in the night and Blake feels like his secrets are about to be exposed. Has he just allowed the wrong one into his home? 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂 It’s got to the point now where I have learned not to expect too much from Freida. I mean she is releasing more books than there are Bank holidays and with the thriller genre there is only so many plots and tropes that can be used to entertain your audience… I guess. PART ONE Part one of the book started of interesting and it was nice reading about a couple who were not completely idiotic and were trying to find means to help their dire situation. With that said that doesn’t mean I found them likeable or entertaining either. Blake’s constant whining was giving me the major ICK and I really wanted to put him on mute. I found Krista to also be an irritant and she just felt like an inconvenience character being there for there sakes. The switch up with the roommate Whitney gave me whiplash and felt all too sudden but hey o it kept the story moving…I guess. YOU KNOW WHAT DIDN’T KEEP THE STORY MOVING?.... A whole two chapters dedicated to a damn Goldfish! Now listen I know Goldy was mentioned here and there and was the unit keeping that little family afloat (get it😏) but TWO freaking whole chapter’s solely speaking about a fish is WILD! Limonene. One thing Freida will always do is introduce you to a word you might not be familiar with and never let you hear the end of it. My goodness the constant mention of it has me now thinking I have an allergy against it too. The back and forth with Blake and Whitney had its entertaining moments but also felt like a drag. I have read this scenario SO MANY TIMES… I get it… Lets move on. THE TWIST And so, we reach part two and we get our twist. Ok Freida, touché you are remaining in your traditional formulaic ways … Fine, I’ll remain interested… now tell me more. ACTUALLY DON’T. Because when I was giving the Why, Where, How and Now of it all I was absolutely flabbergasted. The convenience of it all is absolutely laughable. I FEAR FREIDA HAS RUN OUT OF TRICKS AND TWISTS IN HER THRILLER BAG It just didn’t make no sense. No scrap that. It just wasn’t warranted. I rolled my eyes at the absurdity and silliness of it all. This plot has been done before, and I wanted something new and exciting. The whole book after part two was just pure ridiculousness and had bouts of unnecessary fillers when ultimately it was evident how it was all going to end. So with everything said, I will say that I did enjoy it more than her two previous releases and it was more digestible. No, it wasn’t an absolute phenomenon, but it was a quick read and gave me some chuckling moments. THE EPILOGUE Should’ve just stayed in the drafts. 2.5 ⭐ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ⋆｡°✩pre read⋆｡°✩ FREIDA JUST STOP ALREADYY!!!! *proceeds to add to ‘currently reading’* 😭😭😭

I’ll start by saying I personally think this is one of her better recent books—definitely an improvement over the last couple. Not a top favorite, but still enjoyable enough to finish. Part 1… Blake and Krista were, surprisingly, one of the more "normal" couples to emerge from Freida’s world—not necessarily the best or most likable, but yeah. Blake had his fair share of whining, which wore thin quickly, and Krista didn’t bring much to the table beyond her intense love for her goldfish and an almost compulsive cookie-baking habit. Whitney, on the other hand, was… intriguing, to say the least. The back-and-forth between her and Blake was entertaining at times, though it occasionally dragged. Still, things can only get more interesting from here—hopefully. Part 2… The twist is revealed. Interesting… I guess. Not exactly earth-shattering. I wanted to love the whole when-where-why-how unraveling—but let’s be honest, I didn’t. That’s the thing with the thriller genre: there are only so many plot twists and tropes you can cycle through before it starts feeling like déjà vu with slightly different characters and a fresh coat of paint. But hey, I’m still here for the pure, ridiculous entertainment of it all. Maybe one day I’ll actually be caught off guard again — a person can dream. Still, I had a good laugh. That said, we definitely could’ve cut a few chapters without losing anything crucial. They didn’t really add much to the story. And now Part 3… just a chaotic mess, honestly. Finally, we’re at the epilogue. They’re usually hit or miss anyway—this one was fine, just didn’t feel all that necessary. p.s. further exposure to limonene, fruit flies, or goldy the goldfish may result in emotional distress. ⇉ 𝘐𝘧 𝘺𝘰𝘶’𝘳𝘦 𝘯𝘦𝘸 𝘵𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘢𝘶𝘵𝘩𝘰𝘳, 𝘮𝘢𝘺𝘣𝘦 𝘪𝘵’𝘭𝘭 𝘩𝘪𝘵 𝘥𝘪𝘧𝘧𝘦𝘳𝘦𝘯𝘵. 𝘉𝘶𝘵 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘮𝘦, 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘴 𝘰𝘯𝘦 𝘫𝘶𝘴𝘵 𝘥𝘪𝘥𝘯’𝘵 𝘣𝘳𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘢𝘯𝘺𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘯𝘦𝘸 𝘵𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘵𝘢𝘣𝘭𝘦. ⇇ ↯ the cover? i like it. the sypnosis? intriguing. will it disappoint me? probably will i still read it anyways? she seems to have me in a chokehold so yes, yes i will.

3.5 ⭐️ this was interesting but I guessed the plot about half way through

Standard Freida thriller imo. The FMC was wild in this one lol. Fun in a dark way. Full review maybe soon Major slumping going on still. But this is usually when I enjoy Freida’s books the most so here I go! 🤞🏻❤️

Read this for free and I Want my money back 🤨

2.5 ⭐️- I fear I may be slowly fading out of my Freida McFadden era (if I ever was in an era) *queue the Homer Simpson fading into the bushes meme*

I am always nosey about what is coming up next with Freida McFadden and her newest book, THE TENANT, seemed so interesting that I knew that I needed to prioritize it. This book is a binge/read-in-one-sitting type of read, that's for sure! Blake Porter had it all—until a sudden firing and mounting debt left him scrambling. When Whitney, a seemingly perfect tenant, moves into his brownstone, she offers a financial lifeline—but also an unsettling presence he can’t ignore. As the walls close in and eerie disturbances mount, Blake realizes too late that inviting her in may have been the biggest mistake of his life. Honestly, I knew immediately what was going to happen and I was right. It's about as obvious as The Boyfriend was (the characterization, the weird dialogue between the antagonist/s and the twist reveal, etc.) but as bingeable as it was as well. I liked this one more than The Crash, but ugh I am all over the place with McFadden books. I read this book in one sitting, so you know it'll be a fun journey, just don't expect anything unique or thought provoking.

𓏲 ๋࣭ ࣪ ˖2.5 🌟 She always manages to make the first chapters sound normal but then all the characters are all weird asf and twisted .. Blake , is so annoying and whinny I don't know why but I never could remeber his name and always called him Jake . And I got spoiled so I knew the whole plot twist so yh . Poor fish , the only decent character that I felt sorry for lol .. And to finish the epilogue , they are mostly bad or good , but this one was fine but kinda useless ? -- I say I will stop adding her books to my tbr but always end doing it 💁‍♀️. Gave up on trying to understand how her mind works , does she even gets sleep ?

I can't believe I wasted a whole month on this. There were times I felt like DNF, but I was already in too deep to turn back. If you've read any of Fredia's other books, then you will start to notice some commonalities. Characters that aren't well developed, a plot that leaves you with as many questions as answers, and twists you could see coming from a mile away. Just all in all a disappointment.

3⭐ freida mcfadden some how manages to write the most insufferable characters. i was actually reluctant to read this because the main character, blake, just seemed so... awful. and boy, he really was 😃✋ i was actually kind of hoping karma would catch up to him and his luck really was hanging on by a single thread. (i'm just not a fan of the player type mmc) i didn't exactly hate this but it also wasn't the most riveting piece of literature either. this was just in the middle. i found this one to be too predictable, so unfortunately the twist wasn't really so twisty.

This was ok. The writing itself was surprisingly colorless and simplistic, and the plot only kept me marginally engaged. It did surprise me though! I’ve only been surprised by plot twists twice in probably the last ten years (I predicted the twist in The Sixth Sense when I first saw it as a teenager, if that tells you anything). I realize this is fiction, and that we’re all supposed to go into things with our willing suspicion of disbelief firmly engaged, but stories set in the “real world” should still be credible, right? Otherwise, our little bubbles burst and we’re ejected from the story (to varying degrees). Hmmm… how to say this without spoiling anyone else’s lovely surprises? Several characters in this book don’t say (or do) the things that 99.9% of people would say (or do) under specific circumstances. I acknowledge that people are unpredictable and that anything can happen, but when these behavioral anomalies are used to conceal important information in support of a plot twist, it just feels like cheating. At worst, lying. This book is mildly guilty of that. Please leave me a comment if you have conflicting thoughts/opinions about this because I’m genuinely interested.

This is quite fun. I must admit, Freida’s books have been a hit for me in the past, but this new offering really changed the game. Oh, boy. You think you know someone? You think living with them takes away that nagging doubt and hesitation? Think again. People are not quite who you think they are. And this book is truly a cautionary tale—to be wary of strangers, to always watch your own back. Twisted, tense, and disturbing. The multiple perspectives really delve into the crazy minds of these characters—their deepest secrets, their anxiety, their annoyance. I liked it. Freida created these flawed individuals—well, one of them was cunning, manipulative, and a textbook psychopath—but you’ll figure it out in the end, or probably right in the middle like I did. And just like in any other Freida book, the twists will keep coming at you. Fun time!

I wasn’t expecting that lol My Ratings for Freida McFadden books: Want To Know A Secret- 4 Stars The Ex-4 Stars One By One- 4 Stars The Tenant-3.75 Stars The Housemaid- 3 Stars Ward D- 3 Stars The Co-Worker- 3 Stars Never Lie- 2.75 Stars The Inmate- 2.5 Stars

“The Tenant”, by Freida McFadden 3 stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️ Another highly entertaining popcorn thriller by this highly addictive author. I enjoyed the concept and the silly development of the story, but the writing was quite repetitive, especially when switching POV. Although I found the main character (Blake) quite annoying, he was also kind of funny (a 30 years old man who acted like a brainless and horny teenager). The first 70% of the book was all about him. As it’s written is first person you are constantly in his head. A stupid character, but I didn’t hate him. As for his fiancé, well, I won’t say anything about her to avoid spoiling the story. Hats off for the last twist. That one I did not see coming and it was brilliant. Don’t spect any depth here. Take it as an entertaining work of fiction, because that is what this is: fiction. Paperback: 368 pages (69 chapters) - this book includes, author’s notes, acknowledgment, list of books by this author and excerpts from “The Boyfriend”

My thanks to Atria books, Janet Evanovich and Netgalley. I gave up on these wonderful books back at 12 Sharp. I had just had enough! But, if you've ever read this series then you know that it's a difficult thing to let go of! My frustration wasn't with the humor or really much of anything important. I was frustrated with Stephanie's inability to pick a mate/man. I'm team Ranger.... So, it's a wee bit funny that when I decided to pick the series back up, to see what was going on and what had changed.........what had changed? Not a single damned thing. It's been at least 15 years since I read book 12. Not a single thing is different. Nothing. I did still laugh, chuckle and get slightly hot and bothered by Ranger! Oh, looky there. Just the thought of Ranger made me lose my train of thought! Anyhow, the way this book ended? I'm thinking that I'll have to read the next. Will Stephanie actually choose? I'll wait for the review's! I loved, loved, loved how this ended! Also, much love to Lula! My second favorite ex-ho! She'd have been first, but I have a friend who was once a ho! She'd get onery if she thought someone else was a better ex-ho! I'm glad I read this and will be carrying on to the next books, for a while at least.

3.5 stars In this 30th book in the comical 'Stephanie Plum' cozy mystery series, the bail enforcement agent is hired to find a diamond thief. The book works as a standalone, but familiarity with the characters is a big bonus. **** Stephanie Plum works as a bounty hunter for her cousin Vinnie's bail bond business in Trenton, New Jersey. Stephanie and her sidekick Lula - a voluptuous former ho - are comically inept at picking up bail jumpers, but usually get the job done in the end. As the cozy mystery opens, Stephanie needs extra cash, so she takes a freelance job from jewelry store owner Martin Rabner. According to Rabner, he was robbed twice in the same day. First a bail skip named Duncan Dugan robbed the jewelry store's display cases. Then the store's security guard, Andy Manley (aka Nutsy) absconded with the diamonds in the safe. Rabner offers Stephanie $1,000 to track down Nutsy, and Stephanie agrees. Stephanie and Lula set out to round up bail jumper Duncan and security guard Nutsy, but things are more complicated than usual. Stephanie's boyfriend, Joe Morelli - a handsome Italian cop she's known since childhood - is out of town, and Stephanie is babysitting Joe's BIG orange dog Bob. Bob eats furniture and car seats if he's left alone, so Stephanie takes the dog everywhere with her.....even when she's chasing down criminals. There are suspicions that security guard Nutsy's diamond heist was connected to the mob, so - as usual when Stephanie needs extra help - she calls Ranger. Ranger is a gorgeous Cuban-American hottie who runs a security service called Rangeman. Stephanie thinks of Morelli as her REAL boyfriend, but she's also very attracted to Ranger, and she's always waffling between the two men. While Stephanie is looking for Duncan she comes across his friend Sissy, who has a soft spot for the inept bail jumper; and Stephanie's pursuit of Nutsy leads to his mother Celia, a nice woman who has a house full of foster cats. As the story unfolds, there are hospital escapades; veterinarian visits; trips out of town; cozy times with Ranger; attempts to catch bail skips; canine Bob's hijinks; and more. And as always, Stephanie gets her car wrecked; gets her house bombed; and gets a gun pointed at her. As all this is going on, Lula becomes convinced she's being stalked by Grendel - a demon and man-eater who sneaks into her bedroom and steals her clothes. Stephanie's hilarious family makes an appearance as well. Grandma Mazur and Stephanie's mother - who drives a car like a Nascar champion - help Stephanie chase Nutsy on a motorcycle. It's also fun when grave robber Simon Diggory tries to help Stephanie find the body of a murdered man.....in an 'unconventional grave' of course. To add to the revelry, there's plenty of tasty food in the book, such as chicken salad on croissants; egg potato salad; chocolate cake; donuts; smoked salmon; deviled eggs; bagels; pastrami sandwiches; organic beef-flavored kibble; and more. This a good addition to the series, a must read for Stephanie Plum fans. Thanks to Netgalley, Janet Evanovich, and Atria Books for a copy of the manuscript. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

Every book in the series is essentially the same. But they make for some fun, escapist reads. You can always count on an off the wall mystery and unique characters.

Entertaining one time read, but the comic lines from Lula, Stephanie's sidekick, gets old pretty soon and after a while ceases being funny (at least for me). Reads like a hastily assembled story line, without much depth.

Another fun entry to the series. Wow, 26 years and more than 30 books! I had a few laugh out loud moments but most of the plot felt predictably Stephanie Plum. There is a cliffhanger and I do hope it helps the characters move out of a rut and into a new arc.

I was a bit disappointed during the first 3/4th of this book. Hardly any Grandma Mazur. A pretty predictable and boring plot. Lots of same old, same old. But...something that we've all been waiting for finally shows up at the end! And, it's probably not what you're expecting :) So, I will absolutely be reading the next book as soon as it comes out!

Madcap mayhem - Nancy Drew meers the Three Stooges! What a whacko bunch of characters, but a fun read. I actually found myself laughing out loud more than once. Bob was my favorite - hard not to love him. And of course all those cats gave me a chuckle. This is my first adventure with Stephanie and Lula - so I’m going to go back to the beginning and read the 29 others. How come the jeweler in my book is Martin Plover, not Rabner?

Rounding up to 3 stars purely for the ending. I have a friend who reads the last page of a book first - personally I’d rather throw away a winning lotto ticket. But, for this book she was bang on the money! Read the last couple of chapters and be you’ll be fine :) So, the writing is better than the last book, but there were still discrepancies like Connie’s hair... Lula and Stephanie are up to their usual antics, nothing new there. The requisite number of bombings and tastings occurred, Rex and Bob are both still alive as is Grandma. Unless you’ve paid for the book, maybe skip to the last third and go from there - you’ll know the story. Three-stars all go to the ending, and despite the review I will continue to read the series I was close to leaving, I will be continuing when Book 31 comes out.

This is the third book in the Aloysius Archer series by author David Baldacci. Archer is a war veteran and now private investigator. Set in 1952 Los Angeles, screenwriter Eleanor Lamb is convinced someone is trying to kill her and wants to hire Archer to protect her. Archer is soon in the thick of the action when on a visit to Eleanor Lamb’s house stumbles on a dead body and knocked unconscious. To make matters worse there is no sign of Lamb and he is now hired by one of Eleanor’s friends to investigate her disappearance. This is well written and full of action and has Archer mixing with the rich and famous as well as the criminals. A good read but I didn’t enjoy it as much as the previous books in the series. I would like to thank both Netgalley and Pan Macmillan for supplying a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review.

For the last couple of years, Baldacci has been producing two and sometimes three books a year, focusing his attention on his popular characters of Amos Decker (Memory Man), Atlee Pine, Will Robie, and John Puller. However, back in 2019, Baldacci introduced a new character – World War II veteran Aloysius Archer – in “One Good Deed” and opened readers up to a different historical era, that of post-war, 1949. I greatly enjoyed reading that change of pace set in the past, as well as Archer’s chivalrous character. Last year, Baldacci brought Archer back for his second outing – “A Gambling Man” – which continued his journey into California during 1950 and solving another mystery. This year, Archer returns for his third adventure – “Dream Town” – that focuses on murder and mystery set against the backdrop of developing Hollywood. The book starts off with Archer heading up from Bay Town to Hollywood to spend New Years eve 1953 with Liberty Callahan, actress trying to make her mark as an actress and his best friend. Their potential romance is still simmering as they spend the evening out on town with some of Hollywood’s most famous stars and sites. That is until they run into one of Liberty’s acquaintances, Eleanor Lamb, a successful screenwriter who comes across as very nervous and scared. When Eleanor discovers Archer is a private eye, she hires him on the spot to help her. She describes getting mysterious calls during the night, an unknown blue car parked across the street from her house, and someone breaking into house and leaving a bloody knife in her kitchen sink. Eleanor is afraid, thinking her life is in danger, hoping that Archer can discover the cause of what’s happening to her. Although Archer senses that she’s not telling him the whole truth, her takes her case. Wanting to know what she’s holding back is just the beginning of Archer’s ringing in the new year. Before the next 24 hours are over, Archer finds a dead body in Eleanor’s home, gets attacked, stumbles into a probable smuggling ring, and finds his client has disappeared. Archer’s takes him behind the scenes of the Hollywood power elite, the dark sides of Los Angeles, and the glitzy world of Las Vegas, as he tries to piece together the connection between the dead body and Elanor’s disappearance. He finds himself going up against a dangerous mobster killer in Chinatown, power wielding movie producers and directors, untrusting and hard-edged county police investigators, and numerous suspects hiding secrets and relationships that hinder Archer from finding a killer and solving his case, as well as its impact on his personal relationship with Liberty. Archer is definitely out of his element, and if a murderer or the mob doesn’t kill him first, Hollywood certainly will… As for Aloysius Archer’s third outing, there is both good and bad to report on, but the good stuff generally outweighs the bad. First, the good things. Let’s be honest. Writing an historical novel is not easy. Let alone a mystery that is focused on noir crime fiction, in which the protagonist is often tragically flawed, the themes and subject matter involve darkness, there is usually a mixture of violence and sex, and right and wrong are not clearly defined. It’s a sub-genre that Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett created and established classics with. So, let’s admit, jumping into their world and successfully delivering an interesting read is a very tough challenge, to say the least. But somehow, Baldacci has done his homework and research, delivering some good things in this Archer mystery. Baldacci really focuses on Hollywood and Los Angeles, making the physical world a major character in this novel. He describes the setting and history constantly throughout, using interesting anecdotes that strongly sarcastic and satirical. But he gets it right most of the time, understanding that early 1950’s is far from today’s world, which is full of technology, tools, and devices. He describes that era’s scenery, dress styles, transportation vehicles, weapons, restaurants, food, prices, movies, actors, actresses – you name it. He certainly enables you to feel like are there and experiencing it with all of your senses. Baldacci adds in the proper political and social norms, and enough details from post-World War II to provide the depth and quality needed to portray the true historical context. For example, Baldacci uses the social and legal inequality between men and women in that time period to propel and strengthen his story. My only criticism on that is the same one that I had with the last book. Every flipping character smokes constantly. I understand that smoking was a widespread social custom, but seriously, not every single person was a chain driven smoker. It’s overkill. As for Baldacci’s other key elements - characters and plotline – the multiple mystery storylines were up to his usual high standards of delivery. He has an almost effortless, rhythmic writing style that involves the James Patterson short chapter approach to move the plot forward. He connects his plot, characters, and style together like the lyrics of a good Eagles hit song that you just sing along with and get lost in the music. His books are a smooth and fluid read. There are no disruptions or hiccups in the flow of words. His language is descriptive, but focused on moving the story forward with mystery driven elements, action sequences, and moments of discovery along the way. Now the for not so good stuff. First, there is a fairly large cast of characters in this one, so a mental scorecard is needed to keep track of everyone. In addition, there’s a lot going on. Every character has a secret or more, connecting them to other characters and connecting all of the dots got, quite frankly, almost a bit overwhelming. Talk about six degrees of Baldacci… There was gambling problems, secret marriages, blackmail, mob associations, communist affiliations, drug dealing, and human trafficking to name a few. It felt like he threw in everything including the kitchen sink. Sometimes that works and other times a little less is better. For me, it felt like less would have been more. That’s my two cents. My other complaint relates to a specific writing style habit, which was something that really annoyed the heck out of me, and it got worse throughout the book. That was his use of colorful metaphors. I know this was the noir detective fiction, but some of the metaphors were way over the top, even for him. Let’s share a few examples to show how annoying they were. A man had the neck of a water buffalo. His brow furrows were so deep they could hide paperclips. A woman’s face that compared to an axe blade. Women working like dutiful bees. A young man listening to words as serious as Moses did with God. A woman looking at a man like he was an item to purchase at a Farmers market. Hopefully, you did not find that to be as irritating and distracting as I did. And yes, I will probably find myself in the minority on this one, but that’s okay. I really enjoy reading Baldacci, even with the criticism. Overall, “Dream Town” is an enjoyable journey back in time when things were different and America was recovering and rebuilding following the devastation of World War II, and unfortunately men and power ran the world. I considered this an enjoyable and interesting read. For me, the good stuff outweighed the bad things, and I give it 3.5 out of 5 stars rating. I am also interested in more Archer PI adventures to come, especially with how this one ended. Watching Baldacci talk about Archer in his interviews, something tells me he feels the same way…

(3). There's an old saying, "you can't tell the players without a scorecard." That is certainly the case in this story. This is the third Aloysius Archer book, and it is probably the second best of the bunch (I still like the first one more). Baldacci has about 10 franchises going, and he does really well by all of them. Archer is easy to like, not only for the reader, but seemingly for all the characters around him as well. As I alluded to in my opening, there is a lot going on here. Sort of tricky to follow, but all is mostly resolved in the end. Plenty of action, certainly a great look at Los Angeles in recent times, and a fun glance at Las Vegas as well. Baldacci does not disappoint. Good stuff.

Thank you Pan Macmillan for sending us a copy to read and review. The year is 1952 and the setting is Los Angeles. A new years eve dinner is interrupted by a lady claiming someone is going to kill her. Private Investigator Archer becomes embroiled into the disappearance and finds a trail of illegal activity. Eleanor Lamb is a well known screen writer in the town famous for its movies. She is fearful for her life and wants to hire PI Archer to track down the suspects. When he drops into her home she is no where to be seen but he does stumble over a dead body. Drama ensues as he is knocked unconscious and later chased by drug smugglers. The mystery takes the reader on a journey where clues are dropped once you have navigated the twists and turns. We are taken on a tour of the seedy dark side of the city and glitzy West Hollywood region. This was the third in the Archer series but was my first encounter, so can definitely be read as a standalone. Although I didn’t really resonate that well with Archer, so perhaps the earlier reads establish a better rapport with him. The portrayal of LA in this period was excellent and for me the highlight of the book. Perhaps Archer has had his day.

A lot of reposition , but in typical Baldacci fashion wrapped it up in a nice bow and I liked it.

This is not at all what I was expecting.

Road-trip audiobook. Pulpy crime drama set in Hollywood/LA in the 50s. PI drawn into a missing persons case that turns into a lot more. A bit over the top.

In what is currently the last book in David Baldacci's Archer series, our protagonist heads to the City of Angels to solve a tough case. It was a classic Baldacci thriller, but I didn't love the ending (hit a bit too close to home for me). That's not the author's fault, of course, but I am giving this one 3.5 stars.

I took a while to get into and a push to keep going BUT ended up being a good read

I did read this book during a flight from Toronto to Tokyo. It’s a fast read. Good premise but I thought it was written in a rush and the writing was very repetitive, and I was also totally detached from the characters, so I’m giving it 3 stars. I will come back later to add a proper review (or not). I was expecting a lot more.

In June 2017, John Grisham published an offbeat novel – “Camino Island” - that wasn’t a legal thriller focusing on lawyers. Instead, he took aim at the world of bookstores, publishing, and writers. It began with a skillful heist of five John F. Fitzgerald manuscripts from a secure vault below Princeton’s Firestone Library. The manuscripts end up in a secondary black market and a young female writer, Mercer Mann, is hired to go undercover an investigate Bruce Cable, the popular independent bookstore owner of Bay Books on Camino Island and prominent dealer in rare books that is thought to have or know who is in possession of the manuscripts. I thought the book was interesting and well worth the read. However, there were many other readers who just didn’t get into it the way I did. In April 2020, Grisham published a follow-up novel – “Camino Winds” - that was focused on a murder mystery occurring during a destructive storm. This time Hurricane Leo tears through the island, leaving devastation, ruin, and flooding in its wake. Following the hurricane, Bruce and his buddies discover that their fellow thriller writing friend, Nelson Kerr, appears to be an apparent victim of murder after suffering several suspicious strikes to the head from a blunt instrument. I thought the second book was a leisurely read but thin, slow and drawn out in almost casual manner. There was no real drama or tension in solving Kerr’s murder, which mostly takes place away from the island, a bit poorly developed, and several key plot points occur offscreen (which was fairly frustrating at times). Now, in May 2024, Grisham returns to the island for a third novel – “Camino Ghosts” – focusing on a legal battle for ownership of a nearby deserted island called Dark Isle. The first combatant is a giant resort developer, Tidal Breeze, trying to build a resort and casino complex by flexing its political connections, deep pockets, and a relentless willingness to play dirty. The second combatant is eighty-year-old Lovely Jackson, the last living survivor that lived on the island, and carrying the entire history and legacy of previously escaped slaves. Even though Lovely has written a book about the history of her people and openly laid claim to Dark Isle, she is just an obstacle to be removed by Tidal breeze one way or another. Even the belief that the locals have in the island being cursed is not enough to turn back the powerful corporation, its team of lawyer, lobbyists, and state politicians. This time, Mercer, Thomas, Bruce, and the rest of their team are facing impossible odds, ultimate power, and insatiable greed… Let me start off by saying that I have rarely read a bad Grisham novel. He is such an excellent writer that he makes everything sound good, and this is a decent book. However, as much as I like the Camino Island characters, this book is more interesting than compelling. Rather than being a thriller, it’s more like a cross between Grisham-lite and a Grisham cozy mystery. I don’t mean to sound critical, but this is a quick 292-page Spring/Summer read that comes across more casual and formula-Matic than is intended. It is an easy two or three-evening read that feels causal and lacks much of the intensity that comes with most of Grisham’s legal thrillers. As you can tell by those comments, the good news is that this one is much better than the last one – “Camino Winds” by far. The story is tighter, more focused, and key moments take place onstage rather than offstage. For me, Grisham’s flashback stories of the runaway slaves living and surviving on the island were some of my favorite parts of the book, even more so than the legal fighting and maneuvering between the good guys and the bad guys. On the other hand, there is also some real constructive criticism too. I found that the strength and heart of this book. Without that history intertwined with the current day legal battle, the first two-thirds of the book felt more like a leisurely small-town cozy mystery than a legal drama. More style than substance at times. There’s no doubt that Grisham knows how to tell a story that readers enjoy. He is a master storyteller that has written more winners than I can name off the top of my head. However, with this one the outcome never really felt like it was in doubt, nor were the twists and turns as tension filled as his earlier legal thrillers. I also think that he could have done more with this, including more depth and removing some of the mechanical plotting. That is until the last 30 – 40 pages, when Grisham finds a way to kick into a higher gear and up the emotional ante. He finds a way to bring everything home in the end with a bittersweet and melancholy ending that is the right one. For me, this improved my overall thoughts on the book in a material way. My heart strings were tugged in a sentimental and reflective way that few writers can pull off, and Grisham is one of those who can. Overall, Grisham’s better than average is equivalent to most everyone else’s good. That was the case for me with “Camino Ghosts”. The first two thirds were 3 stars, and the last third improved to four stars, giving it an overall rating of a little more than 3 out of 5 stars. That’s my story and I am sticking to it…

Mix feeling about this Grisham novel. The story & the subplots were not very engaging. I think out of the three books in the Camino Island series this might be the least interesting book to read. I mean a story revolving around slaves & their burial grounds is pretty unique. However, the plots could have definitely been more complex & thrilling. I thought the story concluded poorly & the ending was pretty disappointing. I think this novel would appeal most to only diehard Grisham fans.

Meh. I would not have finished this book if it wasn't written by John Grisham. I love his other books so I hoped it would get better. It didn't.

I'm giving this one 3 stars because it was a slow read for me, I've thought the Camino series is just so so.

I want to start by saying that I have been a John Grisham fan for years! I have thoroughly loved and enjoyed so many of his books! I was disappointed by this book - maybe because I haven't read the first two in the series? It was more like bubble gum compared to the intricate, amazing, engaging books I have read by John Grisham. I will read the first two books and see if my opinion changes. Thank you Goodreads giveaway for sending me this book!

John Grisham books are usually pretty reliable when you need an Audible book to listen to on a lengthy road trip. Usually. "Camino Ghosts" only lasted about 45 minutes on a round trip to Kentucky. "Ghosts" is Grisham's third installment of his Camino works. Camino book store owner and author patron, Bruce Cable, has a great story for a writer friend. It involves a nearby abandoned island that has caught the eye of developers who want to transform it into a glitzy resort complete with casinos, hotels, upscale restaurants, and expensive retail shops. The only snag is a local 80 year old African American woman who claims she owns the island as the last descendant of slaves who settled the island in the 1700s. She even wrote a small book about the settlers which Bruce gives to his friend to see if she can develop into a lengthier best seller. So far so good. Narrated by Whoopi Goldberg we began listening to the book in Allentown, PA. And it was captivating until Whoopi related the story of how the African American women and men were rounded up by other African Americans in cahoots with white slavers. I glanced nervously at my wife riding shotgun who gets squeamish at hockey games. By the time we reached Harrisburg we were listening to Sinatra after a naked slave woman gets bullwhipped to death. So I didn't really get back to "Ghosts" for about three weeks. I had forgotten many of the characters and the book was getting bogged down in sub stories about devious execs trying to ram the island's development through appropriate agencies; the author's creative choices in writing the story; and tedious publishing negotiations for a potential book deal. The book was slowly sinking into two star status But then Grisham put on his Frank Capra hat and devoted the remainder of the story to Lovely, the 80-year old woman, and her legal team, who goes to court to preserve the island for her ancestors buried on the island who asked for nothing during their lives and received even less. In court to determine who owns the island Lovely is asked why she wrote the history of the island in the first place. She said it was to show how her people suffered and survived. That saved "Camino Ghosts" from a humiliating two star score. Can I get an Amen?

Readers atypical to Carr’s world have come to depend upon the preface to sync frames of mind. He boils down the essence of the book into something carnal and tough, then drops the title in some form of punchy quote. Except this time. Here he plugs the Amazon Prime series. Complaining about the criticisms it received, we’re told that James Reece isn’t for everyone - in the 5th book, mind you. Like, we know what we’re getting into, dude, we made it this far amirite? Anyway: Carr explains if you can’t identify with Reece then you’re not a real man and lack the ability to protect the ones you love. In lashing out, Carr strives to alienate any demographic outside his current frame of mind. The best irony in this is the series opens with all Reece’s loved ones being murdered, despite his extreme attempts at protecting them. An aside to Carr, himself: art has absolute value, and it is implied that each piece speaks differently to everyone. Critics are actively observing your work, and while not all are negative, all are participants. To what degree is up to you. Altering your art in response to perceived negative criticisms is no different than peddling fan-service or “selling-out.” Don’t let the casual observer dictate you and cheapen your product. That being said… Hands down the worst installment. Each novel crowds in more backstory to introduce new characters and details as a means of plot development. Effectively, by book 5, all pre established characters (suited to carry a plot) have vanished from the narrative while the remainder can engage only in extremely weak dialogue. Lucky for us, there is no plot! Carr seems to very much want to jump the shark by ushering Reece into the realm of science fiction, but it’s unclear if that was by intent or if he’s flirting with Q (casual kisses blown to Joe Rogan should have served an early warning). Newbie Alice is obviously and supremely fantasy based, not to mention the cesarean-sized plot-holes she rips in the body of works. The balance In The Blood strikes, then, is Carr’s ill-timed jump broadsides the shark at full speed. Both parties nearly died on impact, but more than enough action is delivered to uphold the 3-star flatline I’ve come to crave from this series like no other… The missing 2 stars, for me, forever classifying them as a sort of pulpy guilty pleasure, like a homemaker salivating over trashy romance novels in secret. PS By some wild coincidence, I read the passage where Reece pauses to pay respect to the Arlington memorial for Pan Am 103 on the day a third suspect was taken into custody, 34 years later. #blowrogan #lawnmowermaam

I have been anxiously awaiting this book for months. I was really excited when it got here and for much of the book it was going really well. But then he did one of the things I hate the absolute most in all of books. To give you an example since I wont do spoilers of specifics of anything in the book that I am currently reviewing, I am about to spoil a different book but one thats been out for a while and frankly one you should skip. I kind of wish someone had spoiled that book for me so I would have known to skip it. ***However*** While I am not giving a specific here from this book, once you get to that point in the book you will know what I was talking about, its not like I did not see that Reece was going to get out somehow because duh, but it was bad. So you may not want to go beyond this point. It was a James Bond book written by Jeffrey Deaver. He had Bond go up a hill and someone shoot him, but then ta-da he secretly went up the hill stuck his hat up there and then skirted back down and was there behind the guy who you just thought had shot him and he was fine. I hate it when they write in a section where the hero is dead to rights, maybe not dead but truly in the cross hairs and no way out but some secret information that was left out suddenly saves the day. You should have all of the information that the protagonist has, if the protagonist has a plan you should be in on it. Do not try and fake us out with cheap tricks. This book does it more than once. He actually has the bad guy pull a no way that was there a moment ago ace in the hole only to have Reece pull a oh yeah well I did that too Come on Jack Carr you are better than that. I felt like I was watching a yugio cartoon with my son when he was five. Other than that horrible horrible annoyance it was a pretty good book. Maybe a little too much of the all operators do this or that sort of thing that is in all of these and Vince Flynn and Brad Thor etc... You just have to live with that part of these type of books. If you are wondering why I gave it three stars with my complaints, the end, thats why. #terminallist #thriller

meh. this was fine. LSs writing is super easy to read, but the story felt like it was taking foreverrr. the length is just wayyy too long. no romance novel needs to be nearly 600 pages. lina and nash are decent characters and i liked them enough, but i couldnt help but feel like they are better suited to the roles of side characters rather than main ones. the side plots help bring a little suspense into the story, but it often made the romance seem like it was taking a back seat. none of these things are deal breakers by any means, but they also made me feel like this book was nothing more than just fine. ↠ 3.5 stars

the only thing this book did for me was make my unhealthy obsession with lucian and sloane even worse. Lucian deposited Sloane next to Naomi. “Move from this spot and we’ll have problems,” he warned, looming over her with a finger in her face. “Bite me, Lucifer.” i’m not ok. “Thanks, mega mouth,” Sloane muttered. “Yes. I have a date.” “A date or a hookup?” I asked at normal volume. Lucian’s hand closed into a fist, crushing his to-go cup and exploding coffee everywhere. jealous lucian 😖😓😵‍💫 “Still up for being my date to the wedding Saturday?” she called to Nolan, who was lounging against the kitchen island. “Wouldn’t miss it for the world, cupcake.” “Pick me up at—” Lucian slammed the door, cutting Sloane off midsentence. he doesn’t even try to hide it 😭😭😭 WHERE IS LUCIAN AND SLOANE’S BOOK.

.ੈ✩‧₊˚ 3.25 stars “This is my life. You are the only thing in my entire existence that makes me feel like I’ve got a shot at finding my way back. I don’t understand it. And frankly I don’t need to.” okay i didn’t absolutely hate this. it was definitely boring for like the first 50% but once it got going i was invested. i absolutely loved lina’s character throughout this book. as for nash, i found him insufferable. i also ate up the knox and naomi crumbs in this! they were so much better in this book. though this wasn’t my favorite im very invested in their world and can’t wait to read the third one.

3⭐ Genre ~ contemporary romance Series ~ Knockemout Others in the series ~ Things We Never Got Over #1 Publication date ~ February 21, 2023 Page Count ~ 594 Audio length ~ 17 hours 36 minutes Narrators ~ Lila Winters, Sebastian York POV ~ dual 1st Featuring ~ police chief, investigator, panic attacks, neighbors to lovers, small town, slow burn, minimal steamage Just some quick thoughts for now, I might add some more at some point. Nash & Lina Nash is not feeling like himself after getting shot. He's having a tough time letting people in, but there's just something about the woman that moved in next door, Lina. He seems to just feel better when she's near. I liked Nash much more before he got shot ~ he just seemed like a fun loving fella, but now he's a big old grump. Grump looked better on Knox. Lina is pretty bad ass and doesn't take any crap. Overall, I liked it fine enough, but it was just soooooo long and it took me ages to get through. It really could have been cut down quite a bit. Side note ~ I did not listen to it, but it might not have felt so long if Sebastian York was whispering in my ear 😏 While yes, it's a standalone, all of the characters from book #1 are heavily involved, so it's a good idea to read that one first. Connect with me ➡ Blog ~ Facebook

This was way too long and seemed to drag until about 60% but even by then I wasn’t very invested or connected to Nash or Lina. Many times I felt their relationship was kinda corny and worthy of eye roll moments. Basically I dragged myself through for Waylay, Naomi, Sloan, Knox and Lucian oh and Stef! If it wasn’t for the fact that I really enjoy LS’s writing and this little world she’s build that I love this would have been a DNF for me. I shouldn’t have to push myself so hard to get through a book.

maybe i’m an outlier here but i was hoping for more mature characters in this follow up.. what I disliked: -it feels like i go from reading a conversation between 12 year olds and then jumping to extreme smut with the same characters? -how unreasonably fast relationships are developed -amanda. enough said -why does the entire town need to know when the staff is on their period? the play on words could be funny if it wasn’t so public -the nicknames could also be cute if they weren't so overused. it feels awkward reading it so much what I liked: -the plot (for a romance novel)

3.5 ⭐️ I didn’t love this quite as much as I loved the first book, but I despised Knox in the first book & LOVED Nash in this book. This book was missing something, also I don’t know how this book is so damn long but I felt like at parts there was nothing being said if that makes sense 🫠 I pushed through and gave this an extra .5 rating only because I’m HYPED to read Lucian’s book. That man is already giving and this wasn’t even his book LOL

I was so excited for this one. I love Things We Never Got Over to pieces. But this book didn’t do it for me. It was uneventful. Uninteresting. A snooze fest 💤😴🥱 There was no build up for the relationship. No chemistry. Nash depression makes no sense. He got shot, so what? He is a cop. Cops get shot. Get over! If Lucy wanted to write Nash grumpy like Knox she should at least have thought of a better reason. I also didn’t like the fact that Knox was telling his brother to stay away from his ex all the time. He sounded to me more like a jealous lover than a protected old brother. Other than the mystery, which I could give a damn btw, there is nothing else going on. After 50%, which is a lot for the 600 pages, I was so bored that I couldn’t continue. The book is too long and life is too short. Next! Read this if you like: ✓ Small Town Romance ✓ Grumpy vs Sunshine ✓ Brother’s Ex-Girlfriend ✓ Mystery ✓ Instalove vibes ☞ ebook on Kindle Unlimited

⭐️⭐️⭐️ (3/5 Romance, Knockemout Series Book 2) This is book 2 in the Knockemout Series. You could read this as a standalone, but I personally would not recommend that because Book 1 (Things We Never Got Over) was much better. This series is set in the small town of Knockemout, and each book follows a different couple. Overall, the stories are truly bat shit crazy. You can expect to find a steamy love story mixed with some good old-fashioned organized crime (unlike my beloved Mafia B.R.A.D.s in this series, we’re on the right side of the law). I have a soft spot for this town and loooove the friend group that we get to follow throughout these books. This story follows Nash, the chief of police, who used to be the town's resident good guy, ready for the white-picket-fence life. That is, until he narrowly survived a shooting and kidnapping (see, I told you these books are nuts!) and is now a shell of himself. Nash isn’t ready to let anyone in until he meets his new neighbor Lina, who might just be the answer to his prayers, that is, until Nash figures out why Lina is really in town... To me, this book was ok. I found it dragged at times and didn’t suck me in quite like Book 1. I just didn’t think it had to be as long as it was. I wanted this story to be about Lucien and Sloane so badly that I couldn’t get into the Nash and Lina of it all. I still enjoyed my time reading this book and found it was riddled with Lucy Score’s signature spice, which was a treat. I know this book is beloved by many of you, and that makes me so happy! Tell me if I am being unfair because of my blind excitement about Lucien’s book! I would pair this with an old-fashioned because my mouth was watering as soon as Mrs. Tweedy mixed up a picture of them. Book 3 (Things We Left Behind) is Lucien and Sloane’s book, and you know I already have that bad boy preordered. It releases on September 5th!!

Finally finished it! I'm so sad because I was looking forward in reading Nash's story. I devoured the first book of this series and I was really excited starting the second. Though I loved Nash, I couldn't find myself committing to his story. I couldn't connect with it that's why I dragged it so many days.

I hate to say it, but Tom Lake feels like a lot of nostalgic vibes and not much else. When I first dove in, I thought for sure this story would grab me. We're introduced to Lara right as she comes upon that prescient moment when she realizes she'd make a better Emily than all of the girls auditioning, and so begins her brief foray into the world of acting. It's a captivating vignette and a scintillating way to kick off the story. But alas, it's not meant to be. For slowly but surely, as we intercut between scenes, it dawns on me that this is the dreaded dual timeline. And while not all such stories are duds, chances are good that if a book employs it, one timeline always ends up being way more interesting than the other. And that's what happened here. You see, Lara and her husband are on their orchard, and their three grown daughters have come home to help them on the farm while hunkering down for the pandemic. The daughters want to know more about their mother's earlier life, and so she's telling them the story of her past. The crux of the problem is that anything remotely interesting is happening in the past. Lara's stint as an actress, the people and the situations that surround her, her romance with Duke, while all compelling, attribute to only one of the two timelines. Regrettably, this compelling narrative is constantly interrupted by what's happening in the present, with so many scenes of the daughters picking cherries while arguing about their own interpretations of their mother's history. And that just didn't interest me at all. It's almost as if the book is mirroring Our Town, the play mentioned within, by having the present timeline serve as its Stage Manager character, providing commentary and meaning for the past timeline. But that isn't necessary, and instead of adding to the story, the present only detracts from it. The writing doesn't help. It has this unedited, rambling, somewhat roundabout style that a lot of literary critics would fall all over themselves to describe as subtle and reflective, but I would just call much ado. It works fine when the subject is interesting, but when it's not, you've essentially combined fairly dull prose with a humdrum plot. I understand what this book is trying to do. It's taking a collection of prosaic, everyday happenings in the present, reaching back through the strands of time to tie it to the glorious possibilities of youth, and hence elevating the whole thing to be insightful and profound. But it didn't really achieve that. All it did was make me nostalgic for a bygone time. And while there's nothing wrong with that, I need a little bit more to really enjoy a story. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: The Dutch House ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

So, here I am... Today, is May 29, 2024. It is about 6 months later since I originally posted this review. This book has been haunting me. Has that ever happened to you? Where you read a book, and you thought you loved it, and it comes back (well, it was donated to my Little Free Library Shed), and I looked at it again, and I said to myself, you weren't honest about this book originally were you? And I said, "what do you mean?" And, I said, "You didn't like it as much as you said you did, did you?" Well, at the time, I let it go. But now 6 months later, looking at it again, I realized, I couldn't. My guilty self really didn't like it as much as I thought I did. I will still keep my original review here, but I thought I would mention it in this intro paragraph, for anyone who happens to visit... I will also be readjusting my bookshelves to reflect the change. Review... We are experiencing the spring of 2020, the start of the Covid-19 lockdown with Lara, now 57. She is sheltering in place with her husband, Joe Nelson, and their 3 20-something daughters, Emily, Maisie and Nell. With harvesters scarce, this opens the time up for Lara to tell her story about her brief career as an actor. The highlight of her life as Emily Gibbs, the tragic heroine in “Our Town.” The story is told in flashbacks. And…It showcases Lara playing Emily in both high school and college in New Hampshire, with a brief detour to Hollywood, and then… Summer stock at a theater company, the titular Tom Lake (hence: the title of the book), that happened to be near-ish the orchard. At Tom Lake, Lara, who plays the character Emily, has eyes only for 28-year-old Peter Duke, another actor who played the father in the play. He actually goes on to become a huge celebrity, a serious actor who eventually wins an Oscar, but also descends into addiction. But… While at Tom Lake, Duke and Lara spend all their time together, rehearsing, having sex, or swimming in the lake. Still…When the summer ends, so does everything else. As mentioned, Duke is off to his successful Hollywood career. Lara on the other hand quits acting, marries her cherry farmer, Joe, and becomes a mother. Lara’s Emily grows convinced that Duke, was her actual father – so much so, that even readers are left in genuine suspense about whether it is possibly true, as well. But…The larger theme is that it may not matter… Children inherit the full range of our experience, as much as genetic traits. This novel is folksy, cozy, domestic contentment. When Nell laments the celebrity Lara could perhaps have been, she exclaims… “Look at this! Look at the three of you! You think my life would have been better spent making commercials for lobster rolls?” Each daughter is given their own personality. Emily – fiery; Maisie - sensible; and Nell - intuitive. Against the backdrop of the pandemic, and their mother’s backstory, this book becomes a wistful meditation – a story of mothers and daughters. An opportunity for closure for Lara. Maybe… Even an awakening of what is important to Lara – of what she is lucky to have – what any of us are lucky to have, in these circumstances. Is this a peaceful existence? Is Lara really happy? Or…Did she find a contentment, because that is what one settles for in life? I understand that the audio version has Meryl Streep as the voice narrating. That must have been a real treat for readers of this book. Added note... (5-29-24) And perhaps that is what was missing for me...something was off. Would I have felt differently if I listened to Meryl Streep tell the story? I don't know. I don't care. But, for anyone who liked my original 5 stars, I am sorry if I am disappointing you now. 3.5 stars rounded down. I know. Sometimes re-visits aren't always nice.

Well this book took me way longer to read than expected… This was another book that I had high hopes for as I loved Patchett’s “The Dutch House”. This book is also set in northern Michigan, and I am a true Michigander- I’ve lived in Michigan all my life, so I really thought that I would love this book even more. One of the characters even attended college at Michigan State, where my son is currently a freshman- so I thought I would really resonate with this book. Unfortunately, this book fell very flat for me. I almost gave up on “Tom Lake” several times. However, the last 100 pages or so redeemed themselves and I stuck with it. This story takes place in the Spring of 2020 during the pandemic. Lara’s three daughters have come back home to the family farm/cherry orchard. During this time Lara begins to tell her daughters about the time she spent a summer with a famous actor named Peter Duke, at a theater called Tom Lake. During this summer Lara was only 24 years old, never married and her daughters had not yet been born. During this summer between Lara and Peter Duke, they were in a play called Our Town and Lara played Emily. Lara and Duke were a hot item, and then a sudden turn of events happened and they went their separate ways. Lara decided not to continue with acting, but Duke rose to stardom. Lara’s three daughters are infatuated with Peter Duke, especially her oldest daughter Emily. So yeah… this was a decent enough story, but I think that I was expecting so much more. I mean I think we could all write a book about some of our crazy, wild love affairs that we had when we were younger (and some would be way more entertaining than this story). If I’m being honest, this book was a bit of a snooze fest 😴- not my favorite by Patchett. Although, I will be watching for her next book! This was a Reese Witherspoon book club pick for August, 2023. With that being said, I can see why there are so many high ratings… (2.5 stars, rounded up)

3.5 Pleasant is the perfect way to describe this book. Just a gentle, slow read. Very relaxing. Not sure if it’s just me, but all three daughters felt very childish for grown adults. But this was a read for the vibes.

I firmly believe that your mood really affects how you experience a book. Or maybe not, maybe it’s just about perspective, opinions, all of that. Sorry if I over-explain or try to justify myself too much when it comes to sharing my thoughts on a book… I don’t even know why I do it on an app that literally exists for that. Anyway, getting to the point: this is the story of Lara, a woman in her 50s. She has three daughters, a husband, and lives on the outskirts of the city. Her family mainly dedicates their life to growing cherries and living a quiet, rural routine. But her daughters want different things for their futures, not necessarily continuing the family legacy. Throughout the book, it’s actually the daughters who keep questioning their mother about her past: what she really wanted, whether she would have done anything differently, if she has any regrets. And all of this comes from the fact that, in her youth, Lara had her own story, a summer that involved a man who left a lasting mark for a good amount on her life. That’s the story we follow, alongside her daughters. ——— I think the pacing is actually pretty solid. Surprisingly, this is the kind of story where you need to be patient, both with the characters and with what unfolds in each chapter. It’s detailed without dragging, it gets to the point, and even if it’s not the kind of “shocking” story many people look for, it still keeps you engaged simply because it feels like a story that needs to be told. And of course… there’s that guilty curiosity of wanting to know what happened with that romance. The plot is really beautiful. I’m usually not a fan of non-linear storytelling, going back and forth between past and present, but this is a great exception. It’s hard to get confused, and easy to stay invested. Because I don’t think the story is really about romance, or about Lara’s past being some grand, life-defining epic. It’s about how those moments shaped who she is now. And that’s something that can happen to anyone. It really speaks to how the things we least expect can sometimes become the things we end up valuing the most. :) The protagonist is very likable. Her patience is honestly a blessing, because the amount of frustration I would’ve felt in her place is… a lot 😭 (and the worst part is, it’s not even about her daughters). She felt very genuine, honest, and deeply appreciative. That said, I think the rest of the characters are even stronger. Not because she’s a bad protagonist! Not at all. But because they add so much to the story, often without even realizing it (which I think is kind of the point). And at some point, you start feeling the same emotions Lara feels toward them. And the romance… oof. What can I say? You think you know where the story is going. You expect that classic summer love that leaves you wanting more… I won’t say anything else, but it turns into something unexpectedly beautiful, the kind of outcome you wouldn’t want to change (at least, I wouldn’t. You did the right thing, Lara). This book probably didn’t hit me as deeply as it might hit other readers. While it touches on many aspects of life, at its core it’s very much about motherhood (the mother-daughter relationship more likely) and I’ve never really had that in my life (not a complaint). So maybe I couldn’t fully relate or connect with it on that level. But even so, I still think it’s a thoughtful, beautiful, and moving story. Oh, and I hated Duke. Couldn’t feel sorry for his ass… my bad lmao

4 ⭐ to Maryl Streep 3 ⭐to the story and 1⭐ to Peter Duke The book was slow-paced and mostly uneventful. But it was quite fresh compering to usual heavy edgy dramas. It was nice to read about simple characters living simple lives and struggling with simple issues like pandemic, finance and sick dog. Yes, the narrator had some fun when she was young, but the most reckless thing she'd done was smoking, drinking tequila and falling for an asshole. It may seem boring but the author fins a way to fill the story with sweet nostalgia, family love and appreciation of little things in life.

Tom Lake was kind of a snooze to me…I’m in the minority obviously; the reviews for this title are fascinating and it is beloved, but I think the story and writing style just didn’t work for me. Patchett uses the story within a story framing device of a woman in 2020 telling the story to her 3 adult daughters back home living with her during the pandemic about a relationship she had in her far past while she was an actress doing productions of the play Our Town. I’ve never read or seen the play Our Town and know no context and I felt like that messed with my reading experience here because it’s such a big plot point. And honestly, I did the audiobook and while MERYL STREEP was the best audiobook narrator of all time and I loved every moment of the listening experience, it was at times difficult to know when it was drifting to the story of the past and when we were in the present; which I think would have been translated better reading the physical book. I’m totally in the minority; so if you like Patchett, give it a shot. 2.5 ⭐️

Patchett is an excellent storyteller and it’s an absolute joy to experience the skilful crafting and slow burn of ‘Tom Lake’ There’s even a touch of L. M. Montgomery in its slight folksiness and descriptions of farming practices and seasonal rhythms. A fine choice for this month’s book club read.

I really enjoyed Commonwealth. Bel Canto, too. And The Dutch House was incredible. But this? This was all just a bit dull.

this is not up to Silva's standard ... in large part because Silva apparently re-wrote the book (hurriedly) to incorporate Trump and Jan 6 ... big mistake, poorly done ... much better to save those issues for a separate book

My personal feeling as a series fan is that Daniel has to inject the series with some unpredictable events to rejuvenate it. He has a way with blending espionage, art, personal intrigue and his storytelling remains taut and engaging, maintaining his trademark style of weaving historical elements into contemporary narratives. The story starts well with the assassination of a Russian asset in London, an asset who had been nurtured by Allon in an earlier story. The murder draws Allon into a web of international conspiracy and betrayal. Silva excels in creating tension, expertly balancing action with character development. Gabriel Allon continues to be a complex protagonist, grappling with personal demons while remaining committed to his mission. For series fans the story would seem predictable and similar to several recent books. This is a problem with most long running series. Additionally Daniel also uses this story to air his political views especially those against Trump very vocally which actually do not seem to help the story progress. For me not associated with either of the countries in the focus of this adventure it hardly made any sense since most of the information have been available in the public domain and bombarded by news channels. In hindsight some of the political comments may have put off Daniels series fans. Overall this story was an average adventure for me.

I agree with the reviewer re Silva's original lambasting of Trump et al. I love the Allon series but this one has cured me of my love affair. There was no need to head down this road so that the author could get on his soapbox. I'm not a Trump fan but this Alllon adventure turned into a CNN story. No viewers and no one cares. Entertain me. Don't lecture me!

The author has brought into this read a story of dirty banks, money laundering, espionage and Russian dusted poisoned documents to sit alongside today's world of Covid19. While the plague of today doesn't play a key role, it's there as a backdrop. Well this is quite an involved story starting in the UK to France, Switzerland, Germany, Israel and USA, I may have missed one or two countries. The read rivals any James Bond adventure with everyone a billionaire, famous musical talent, art talent, top spy connections and towards the end the 2021 American President, Oval office and all! Viktor Orlov, ex Soviet Union billionaire and mathematical genius who was involved with their nuclear weapons programme is a marked man and seems to be very Howard Hughes with his obsession of hygiene and minimal contact with people. He turned his back on the Soviet Union and to appease the Kremlin he relinquished many of his ill gotten assets but it still has made him a marked man, escaping many attempts on his life. Sarah Bancroft ex CIA operative now art gallery director and art historian is on an appointment regarding the sale of a forgotten canvas of the gallery she represents with the sale in mind to Victor Orlov, she discovers Orlov's body that she observes a poisonous chemical has been used to kill him and with this in mind she immediately exits the building where she saturated in rain water (probably saved her life) and taken to hospital emergency. Nina Antonova, journalist, becomes a person of interest for MI6. The journalist who delivered the parcel. Sarah is picked up by boyfriend Christopher Keller (nee Peter Marlow) on arrival at his home where he becomes aware that things are not quite right and with gun in hand proceeds to the room with the beckoning light to discover Gabriel Allon, operative extraordinaire lazingly consuming Chris's wine. Nina Antonova is brought back to the UK where she explains how she came into contact with "Mr Nobody" who had delivered at various drop points information of dirty dealings and illegally gained funds by Rhinebank AG. From here on the story explodes with Gabriel Allon conducting an extensive plot to retrieve the ill gotten gains by arch nemeses Arkady Akimov, billionaire living on Lake Geneva, to bring down Rhinebank AG and the Haydn Group.

Viktor Orlov was one of the wealthiest men in the world. He made his fortune the usual way in Russia: unscrupulously. Using his mathematical genius and understanding of how the Russian system worked after the collapse of the Soviet Union, he began buying profitable state-owned oil and steel companies. His fortune, however, also brought on assassination attempts. When Russia got a new president after Boris Yeltsin, Orlov did not want to cooperate with Vladimir Vladimirovich who wanted possession of those companies. Orlov refused until three Israeli intelligence agents being held captive in Russia were released. One of them was Gabriel Allon. Orlov moved to England and began to rebuild his fortune. His first purchases were newspapers including an anti-government one in Russia. Not surprisingly, that made him an enemy of the president and lead to his fatal poisoning.. A woman, well-connected in the art field, was the last person seen leaving his apartment and became the prime suspect. Allon knew her and believed she had been set up. Allon traveled to England and, working with members of the intelligence departments there and in other countries, was determined to find the real killer(s) and get revenge for Orlov’s death. Most important was his realization that Russia was working very hard to destroy the American democracy by undermining and controlling our Presidential election. Rather than going in with guns blazing, he realized that since accumulating money to get power was a major weapon, he would have to follow the money to see where it lead. The most promising entry point was RhineBank, a fictional adaptation of Deutsche Bank, a giant organization that specialized in money laundering. Allon decided bringing down the bank would create enough chaos to destroy its backers who were heavily involved in financial affairs particularly of political figures, throughout the world, including in the US. While THE CELLIST mentions previous jobs done by or for Allon, many new characters are introduced and play major roles. The book takes place in the present time. The Covid-19 virus is spreading throughout the world and forcing people to change their plans and schedules to accomplish their goals. Having the use of private jets, more isolated locations, and limited numbers of people present at any one time helps. The original end of the book was dropped after the insurrection at the US Capitol on January 6, 2021. It works but doesn’t quite seem plausible. THE CELLIST is somewhat more technical than Silva’s previous books but it basically plausible. Daniel Silva uses not only historical events but also warns of the dangers being faced by people and government trying to destroy democracies. It is well-written and kept my interest while explaining financial maneuvers. Because of one part of the climax, I would give this 4.5 stars if possible.

This one started as the best Allon in some time. To be honest, the last one, “The Order” read more like Dan Brown anti-religious tripe and I was unimpressed. But “The Cellist” is Daniel Silva back in form. Gabriel is doing what he does and the book moves. All th way til the end. And then there is a last movement that is awful. It contrived to put Gabriel somewhere he doesn’t need to be and spends dozens of pages on political commentary that takes away from the book. Roughly 50% of readers will be angered or saddened as Silva panders to the othe 50%. In his acknowledgments at the very end, Silva comments that he got rid of his original ending and re-wrote things in less than six weeks to insert political and social commentary. And that shows. The end of this book (not the end of the main story) is just plain bad. The book turns right around page 354. About there one will realize that a few edits earlier were set to make a particular political point. Still, the story moves you along. The only fault I ever find in Silva’s amazing stories is that the end resolutions are sometimes too fast - and “The Cellist” is no different. Still, if the book ended at page 402, the personal political angle would have remained subtle enough that it would engender interesting and potentially important discussions among readers. However, from the beginning of Chapter 60 until the end of the book, what we get is not novel any longer, it is personal statement made at the expense of characters we know and love. We loose the escapism and entertainment and go once again into political commentary- and it is sad. Until these last two books, Daniel Silva has been my favorite author in years. He is one of the few I refuse to read on an eReader and must buy in print. Gabriel has been the most engaging characters in the genre. But these last two seem to be more about Daniel Silva than Gabriel Allon. If you stop at the end of Chapter 59, you’ll likely want to give this 4.5 stars as I did. But if you read until the end, you’ll be disappointed. Next time I’ll probably just get the new one on my eReader at some point. Maybe. But I may not get it at all. (Written on my phone so I apologize for typos).

Okay, it's quiz time. What do water crackers, iocaine powder, and Verity have in common? ...Give up? They are all completely tasteless. Unfortunately, that's potentially the kindest word I can think of to describe this book. Lowen is a writer with an interesting task...becoming ghostwriter to hit writer Verity, now incapacitated after a tragic accident. She must pick up where the author left off and husband Jeremy is all too happy to help make this happen. As Lowen dives in, she uncovers a manuscript of Verity's with some disturbing information in it...deadly information, in fact. As she continues to read and unravel Verity's mysterious past and her own feelings for Jeremy begin to deepen and take root, Lowen begins to find out things she wishes she hadn't about the death and tragedy in this couple's life...and is Verity REALLY stuck in that bed? This is potentially the internet's most hyped book...and days later, I am still not sure why. There was not a single moment throughout reading that really grabbed me and got me frantically page flipping. The gratuitous and somewhat graphic sex scenes? Sure, they were there. But they were fairly repetitive and not as important as I'd thought they would be. Verity's manuscript? Seemed to go on forever. I kept waiting and waiting for all of the salacious twists I'd heard about...but everything I came up with in my mind was more exciting than the actual reveal. For instance...(view spoiler) And then the part that disturbed me most personally, as a new mom...completely disgusting and gut-wrenching sections of child abuse that were over the top and unecessarily graphic. I mean, kudos to Hoover to be able to be that far removed from her care for her own children to even write those words...but as a mom to a 6 month old, I almost got physically ill and was in tears reading these sections. I normally can handle TW type content...but this is one instance where I would love to forget ever reading those passages. So fair warning to all parents out there! I don't feel disgusted after finishing this book, but it has left me with very mixed emotions about trying another read from this author. I got this book on a Kindle daily deal for free a while back...and in this case, I feel I certainly got what I paid for...but not what I bargained for. 2.5 stars, rounded up **Please check out the glowing 5 star reviews for this one from many other incredible readers and reviewers! This was clearly not a fit for me.**

I read most of this last night over the course of a few hours, it's very readable, but I'm not sure why the writing kind of reminded me of fanficton or something on wattpad. I think it's mainly because of things like the transitions between chapters where Lowen would say something along the lines of I need to read more of the autobiography and then it would cut back to the autobiography. I'm not sure if what I'm trying to articulate even makes sense. I could also definitely have done without all the sex scenes. The romantic plot lines also gave it that wattpad/fanfiction vibe. It did hold my attention and I really didn't want to stop reading until finding out how it ended. I'm not sure how I feel about the ending either. I didn't find it surprising but I have been catching myself questioning it all day today so it definitely made an impression.

Team Manuscript or Team Letter? No, I’m Team “They all deserve to be in prison right now.” After reading the bonus scene, I can finally admit that each and every character in this book is messed up and creepy—even Verity’s kid. And why are they roaming freely after all the things they did?! I’ve never hated book characters this much in my life.

I needed some time to figure out how to review this book. And I had to re-read the ending multiple times to see if I could figure it out. The author states in an interview that she was very clear on who Elle chooses. After reading that ending over and over, I’m still not sure. I can guess… but it is not crystal clear like the author says. That is my biggest issue with this book. I don’t like open ended finales if you aren’t leading to a sequel. The other is the multiple timelines. When written correctly it can be great, even enhance a story. This one is jumbled and confusing. Within each chapter she jumps back and forth between present and past and often times you have no idea she has changed the timeline on you. Having said all of that, I gave this 3 stars. The writing isn’t bad, in face it’s good. I just didn’t care for the structure and that’s a personal preference. I also liked the premise behind the book. While I didn’t necessarily like or agree with all of Elle’s choices, it makes for good debate and discussions.

This writing is lovely but everyone in this book is such a terrible person.

I was so looking forward to this one, after seeing such high review ratings. Firstly, the writing is breathtaking. It is so well written, I feel harsh giving it 3 stars. But for me, the plot didn't hold up to much scrutiny. It was too much of a slow burn for me and I have a strong need for an eventful story, that consumes me and keeps me engaged. I didn't care for the characters and the decisions they made. There were so many sex scenes, I felt like I was reading Fifty Shades at times. They just felt like scene fillers to me and I eventually got pretty fed up of them. The arrangement of the timelines was sometimes difficult to follow on the audiobook, but that just might be something I have difficulty with.

It started well, very strong. I was expecting a heartbreaking family drama. There was plenty of sexual abuse, including rape. It’s a dark and sad story. It shows what a lack of communication can do to someone’s life and those around. I did enjoy the writing and it’s structure, but unfortunately I was left emotionally untouched. I couldn’t connect or feel any sympathy for any of the characters. Plenty of readers found the timeline structure very confusing and complained about the ending, which they also thought was not clear: did she leave her husband or not? I think that the answer was a couple of pages back. Anyways, I guess you can choose on what to believe. Overall, this one fell short for me.

Maybe 3.5 stars?? I picked this up as part of my quest to become a lit-fic girlie and I just.... straight up do not know how I feel about it. It was extremely well-written and well-plotted but just *so* bleak and sad. Also I am very dumb and do not understand why Elle was peeing for like 85% of this book lmao. I'm sure it's some sort of metaphor for vulnerability (???? maybe?? lol) but she was seriously peeing or having to pee constantly and it kept distracting me and making ME have to pee. Anyway while I don't know whether or not I liked this book all that much, there is no doubt that it will absolutely be sticking with me for years to come. I definitely want to revisit this one someday after I've read more in the genre to see if my thoughts on it have changed with time. For now, I do not know how I feel and I am going to try to be okay with that lol Also more of a note of my own feelings about the genre and not a huge spoiler about this book in particular but just in case: (view spoiler) CW: sexual assault (on page), pedophilia, incest, cheating, instances of animal cruelty, use of r-slur, fatphobia, pregnancy complications, miscarriage, dementia/alzheimers, terminal illness (ovarian cancer), death of a loved one

I read this book due to its longlisting for the 2022 Women’s Prize. It is a debut novel and clearly has some impressive technical aspects – even if a book largely not my taste: being something of for me a “worst of both worlds” combination of rather unpleasant material and rather low literary content (with a to me impressive and strikingly offkey and image filled first few paragraphs then largely out of keeping with much of the book other than an occasional lapse into overly purple prose). The book starts at 6:30 in a July around 2018 – and one timeline traces in detail the events of that day. Eleanor/Elle is staying with her husband Peter (who is an Englishman written at times from the Dick van Dyke school of authenticity), her three children and her domineering mother (probably the consistently best character in the novel). They are at a summer camp: (one large house and a number of cabins, set among woods and ponds in a remote part of Cape Cod) – the eponymous camp is largely run-down but has passed through the family decades and has been an annual feature for almost Elle’s entire life. The night before Elle had sex (for the first time) with Jonas – her closest friend for around 40 years and one with who she has shared a terrible secret and guilt for around 35 years. Now she faces a stark choice – between fidelity to her marriage and family, or a new life with Jonas. And the present day sections (dated by time and progressing during the day) trace her interactions with both Jonas and Peter as well as her internal thoughts on her dilemma. The second series of timelines (dated by year and sometimes month and proceeding chronologically) largely traces back Elle’s life, her relationship with Jonas and the shared action that both links them and pushes them apart, how she met Peter alongside the story of her wider family (her mother and father but also with further flashbacks in their lives). This stories are it has to be said miserable, depressing and dark. Elle’s family history appears to largely be one of multiple divorces and infidelities and her own one that is largely at best downbeat at worst fairly horrific. And much of this is told in prurient, scatological or otherwise unpleasant detail. Even what should be more upbeat parts of the story are often laced with something unpleasant – so a first ballet class ends up with the ballerina wetting herself, a marriage with the bride throwing up on her satin shoes. And the book has a lot more horrors besides – as I wrote this review I could recall (and I have I think only sampled) a childhood tumour, infertility, a still birth, sexual abuse of young children, underage sexual assault and rape, extreme voyeurism, incest, cancer, violent muggings burglaries and assaults, no less than three drownings (one possibly suicide), two incidents of attempted and potentially fatal violence on criminals, a child being suffocated by sand dunes. If there is a real strength to these sections it is that sometimes there are neat links between the present day sections and the flashbacks – in a way which implies some of the flashbacks are Proustian in nature – objects in particular (a ring, a teenagers journal) unlock crucial elements of the story. Similarly (and I think naturally) Elle’s very presence in the camp as well as the presence of others uncovers memories of deeply formative past Summers there. As the past sections catch up to the present day, Elle faces her choice. The book on one level leads this choice ambiguous although an author’s note afterwards makes it clear that the author is invested in foreshadowing (and in interviews the author has implied that she thinks the end relatively unambiguous for a careful reader) - and I did think one interpretation was more likely while appreciating the way that other views were left open to possibility. What I was less keen on was the way in which Elle’s choice seemed to rather clumsily (in the author’s hands) shift between the two in the last few pages in a way which reminded me of a whodunnit author with too heavy a touch on the twists. I do think that the author is quite clever in how she links Elle’s history to incidents and thoughts that occur on the day: swims and regrets (and I think a link to the drownings which punctuate the story); a hummingbird’s flight; a memorial poem (which both gives the book its epitaph and whose reading serves as a crucial test of empathy); two rings (one expensive and one cheap – the cheaper of which makes up for in resonance what it loses in precious metal); seasons and location (with Peter associated with City and winter, Jonas with water, woods and Summer - almost like ballet characters and their associated "themes"). But overall this was not really the novel for me – albeit far from my least favourite on the shortlist. 2.5*.

3 Stars ✨ I enjoyed the author’s writing style but overall I don’t think I cared for the story.

Nope! That bloody disappointment choo choo train sound started playing in my head! After being introduced to Ms. Hawkins with her psychological, twisty thriller “Girl on the train”, I was so drawn into her story about complex, broken, unreliable characters. I found her second work: “Into the water”a little disappointed me. Maybe I was expecting to read something similar to her debut : something riveting, more mysterious, exciting, character driven with smart twists and you didn’t see it coming revelations but it was full of crowded unlikable characters and suffering from lack of mystery. And her brand new work “A slow fire burning” has exactly the same problems! The author decided to create a slow burn mystery which could be helpful to build high tension and increase the expectations of the readers as the pace gets faster at the second half. But unfortunately this book couldn’t be defined as a mystery. It looks like a contemporary fiction about crowded and very unlikable characters’ connections with each other! It is slow and it is a little compelling to read because when you start one of the narrators’ chapter, you ask yourself who was this character and you get to turn back for reading his/ her story one more time to refresh your memory! You keep asking yourself why you’re doing it because you reread about a character you already disliked and you didn’t pay enough attention to remember why you really disliked him or her. After getting the full picture and understanding the characters’ back stories and connections, your reading journey gets less bumpy but it’s still struggling and requiring your extra efforts. Overall: maybe this book may have been promoted as contemporary fiction, I could have a chance to like it more. From the beginning of the novel, I expected something big, earth shattering, surprising will happen or something so smart will come out to fool me but none of them happened. That’s why I still hear the choo choo sound of disappointment train. Sorry but I have to admit this is not one of my favorite works of the author and not one of my favorite reads of this year!

A fairly entertaining thriller, but the web Hawkins weaves becomes a little convoluted by the end. Maybe I'll write a longer review soon.

I’d enjoyed the author’s hugely successful mystery thriller The Girl on the Train and so despite my normal aversion to fiction set in the UK (too close to home, not escapist enough, yadda yadda yadda) I was excited to get hold of this one. It kicks off with the discovery of a body on a houseboat in London. It’s clearly a case of murder, so for the police it’s now simply a case of identifying who had both the opportunity and the motive. We are soon to meet a small cast of characters who seem to have both – or do they? We have the nosy neighbour who had found the body, a young woman who’d had a recent one night stand on the victim's boat and an aunt who seems to be nursing a whole bag of resentment, for reasons we are to discover later. And there are other linked characters too who are perhaps worthy of consideration. Could one of these be the killer, or are we being sold a shoal of red herrings? Well, it’s a complicated tale, and readers will need to pay close attention if they’re to have a chance of successfully resolving this one. There are a number of separate storylines running in parallel as we step back and forth in time. I found it a little confusing, in truth, though I confess I am easily lost if too much information is put on the table. Each person the spotlight falls on seems to be hiding something and as additional information is progressively fed in I found that my perception of what was going on in the background was subtly (or sometime not so subtly) challenged. The characters – all of them – are a pretty dislikeable bunch, and I didn’t find myself becoming sympathetic to the cause of any of them. So this, added to the complicated way in which the story is told, had the effect of distracting me to the point I’d put the book down and not pick it up again for some time. There wasn’t a moment that I felt like giving up, but neither was I in a hurry to burn the midnight oil working through the outstanding text. I was expecting a big surprise, a major twist, and I suppose it is here. But the reason I framed it in this way is that it came and went before I’d realised that that's what it was. I can’t say it was an explosive moment for me, and that’s perhaps because there are many minor twists here, and this one sort of melded in with the crowd. In retrospect, it did explain things. It was the moment all should have become clear in my mind (as I’m sure it will be in the minds of more switched-on readers). One highlight is that the audio version I listened to was impeccably narrated by the brilliant actress Rosumund Pike. But in summary, I enjoyed this tale, but I didn’t love it. It didn’t do for me what The Girl on the Trian did. I’ll be interested to see what others think of it: I expect some will absolutely love it though others might feel as I do, that it rather passed them by. My thanks to Penguin Random House UK Audio, Transworld Digital, and NetGalley for providing a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

3.5 Stars Told in multiple POV, 3rd person, it’s a standalone novel. This story has all the elements I like in my thrillers but I don’t know why I didn’t enjoy it as much as I expected to. It’s suspenseful; a young man is murdered and everyone here has their own reasons to be the killer. It is unpredictable with a satisfying ending, contains short chapters, and has too many flashbacks (albeit a bit annoying). Apart from “The Girl On The Train” (read it years ago and loved it), I haven’t read anything by this author so I wasn’t familiar with her writing. So maybe my problem was with the pacing; it was a bit too slow for my liking. Overall, I still enjoyed it and hope you like it as well!

3.5 stars Being that Into the Water is one of my most hated books I’ve ever read, I would say a three star rating for another book by the same author isn’t so bad. I never read Girl on the Train, but maybe I’ll give it a chance now. A Slow Fire Burning introduces a cast of characters in a somewhat confusing way. I listened to the audio, so I’m not sure if the switching perspectives was easier to tell in the written version, but for me I was a bit lost at the beginning of this book. I will say for sure, the second half of this book was so much better than the first half. We had more of a cohesive plot coming together and understanding of why we got all these different points of view. I definitely guessed the killer, but the way everything came together by the end of the book was interesting and I enjoyed myself a lot. But I wouldn’t reread this book or see myself recommending it, so three stars.

I'm a latecomer to the Paula Hawkins' party. I waited a few years after the author's popularity rose before I read her two earlier books, and now, I'm over a year delayed in reading her latest release, A Slow Fire Burning. Since her next book will release in April 2022, I wanted to get current this month... and I borrowed this one from the library as I am running out of space on my shelves (plus moving this month, so I can't buy anything for a while). Unfortunately, while much of this book was good, overall, the mystery had huge letdowns and failed to tie things together properly. I tend to like every red herring and side story pulled into a pretty package with a nice bow, but even I reduced my expectations here, and they still weren't met. Laura had an accident as a teenager, and it left her slightly disabled physically, but more importantly, with the lack of knowing when to keep her mouth shut. Instead, she's verbally abusive (because she doesn't quite know any better) and struggles to find the balance in trust with others. The cause of the accident is really much bigger than we know until mid-book. As a result, she's often taken advantage of by others, and in this case, she's the last one to see a man before he's found knifed to death. The victim's mother died recently too, and his aunt and uncle are in the middle of a divorce. There's an interesting backstory there too... plus a strange hermit of a woman who seems to be pulling strings behind the scenes in all these people's lives. What is really going on? So... sounds like a great tale, right? It could've been... except the ties binding them together were weak, amped up to seem bigger, and then when the ending comes, it's all so loose and not fully explained that readers are left thinking... wait... why did we need to know about that? It wasn't that the side story was a mere distraction, it was that the author actually purposefully tied them together with such intangible connections that served only to confuse us. All that said, the writing was good, and I kept turning the pages to get into the details. I liked the darkness of the characters, and the potential for how it all could've come together. I think this suffered from a case of "if you add too many coincidences, readers won't believe it." But at the same time, if you fake add things and don't give us some sort of wow factor in the end with it all, we also don't believe it. So... I'll still read the next book, but I'm not rushing out to get it in April when it releases. I'll add it to my TBR and when I find myself in need of a thriller and not having any in my immediate queue, I'll give Hawkins a chance. It wasn't bad, just not good enough for all the hype.

A Slow Fire Burning by Paula Hawkins, another thriller by the best-selling author of The Girl On The Train. Going on the same themes that author writes, we get another thrilling story of troubled main female characters. The pace of this book was quite slow as compared to her other novels I felt. The cast of characters are definitely unforgiving, unrelated and unreliable at the same time. I also did not like some of them at various points in the story. Daniel is brutally murder, who was a one night stand of Laura. Laura was the last suspect and person seen on site of murder. The book is very straightforward till three forth of the story, but the ending had me hooked. Theo, Miriam, Carla, Angela all the characters are to be liked and disliked at some point in time as well as given benefit of doubt for their actions. I would highly recommend you to not judge the book in the first 50%, because everything picks up at the end and it's worth it.

Full disclaimer, I alternated between the audiobook and the physical book while reading A Slow Fire Burning . I really enjoyed Paula Hawkins' debut The Girl on the Train, but the alcoholc female protagonist troupe is sooooo 2018, so I am not sure that Paula Hawkins came grip readers on her books. She doesn’t use this troupe this time, but I feel that is probably a main selling point to why her debut did so well. I skipped Into The Water because I heard it wasn't a mystery. I was really excited to pick up A Slow Fire Burning because I heard that it is Paula Hawkins back at her mystery and suspense roots. I'm here to tell you that I think this author will be a one-hit wonder for me. I am toggling between 2 and 3 stars, but I bumped it to 3 as I didn't dislike the book, it was just a slow fire boring for me. It took almost two weeks to get through this one and that is probably the longest a book has ever taken me since I created my Goodreads / Bookstagram accounts. The story focuses on Laura (who we hear her name literally in almost every paragraph -_-) and two other women, Miriam and Carla, respectively. After a man is found dead, each of these women have motive to be the culprit. Throughout the book, we get a very deep and twisty whodunnit, which is probably why I bumped it to 3 stars. I did enjoy how Hawkins was able to humanize the characters in this story by diving deep into their psyche, but this will also provide somewhat of a lull period for readers as this book is very slow. During this time, we see how the three main protagonists relate to each other in some way (no spoilers). I think the issue that I had with the pacing was that it started off fast paced and wild, and then the fuse dimmed until the end. I've been reading a lot of books providing this storyline build up lately and it's really hit or miss so go into that preparing for a slowly drawn out story. Overall, it sounds like I'm a big complainer, but I did think the book had some great moments. It's definitely a darker type of story than I expected. We get some explicit mentions of the crimes at hand which I always appreciate. Overall this book is a character driven suspense novel and you need to go in with realistic expectations.

3.5 stars. Definitely different from GIRL ON THE TRAIN in style and pacing, this is a much slower burn and not so twisty. But quite similar in looking from multiple viewpoints and embracing unlikable protagonists. I found myself going back and forth on this one. I really liked the way Hawkins leans into the idea unlikable protagonist here, it makes you realize just how easily we throw that label around, since Hawkins is willing to go much farther with it than most. We jump between multiple characters, so you get to see them from each other's point of view to really nail it home how much one will not like another and how they come off. Most notable is Laura, who suffered a traumatic brain injury as a child and now has a lack of inhibition that ends up getting her constantly in trouble. Laura is, in a lot of ways, the best part of the book. Hawkins really digs into her, just like how she dug into a struggling alcoholic in her first novel, and even as you watch her make the same mistakes over and over again, you get to really understand her as an earnest chaos monster. On the other hand, this book does what I've experienced with a few crime novels recently. It starts off pretty much right away with the big crime and then about 25% of the way in the action mostly stops and we hold for a good long while. Hawkins has a lot of sleight of hand to make it feel like maybe there's more twists and questions but there aren't, really. I knew who had done it quite early and I knew why because, well, there was one very obvious motive. But really this isn't a whodunnit, it's more of getting to know these characters and how they're connected. That said, the first several chapters are disorienting. I couldn't remember who was who, a character would get a whole chapter and I wouldn't be able to remember if we'd met this person already or not. The ways they're interconnected eventually become clear and by halfway through the book I was comfortable. But I won't lie, it took a while to get there. I could have absolutely done without the book within a book, it did that thing that often happens in these situations where you can't figure out how this would be a whole book, not to mention one that people would want to read. If you are up for the slow burn then I think this is mostly pretty good, even if I didn't like the journey much more than the destination. I, for one, would have liked a lot more of some characters and a lot less of others (Theo and Carla, supposedly the most normal of the bunch, were to me the least likable, when it all comes down to it, so maybe that's more subjective than we'd think) and the end was overly fussy given how straightforward the book is at heart.

Twisty. Secrets. Hidden Agendas. Predictable. Murder. Revenge. Take it or leave it.

An anticipated release, Hawkins has been a name on thriller readers lips ever since Girl On A Train. Now, I really enjoyed that book but didn't love it as much as some readers. But I was super excited to read Into The Water, which was just an ok read for me. And her latest, A SLOW FIRE BURNING, reminds me of Into the Water in terms of a very large cast and the apropos title as this is definitely a slow burn of a suspense read. One man found dead. Three women who have every reason to kill him. LET'S GO! It took me a bit to get into this story as it has a very slow start. The many characters are unreliable and very unlikeable, both of which I do not mind in the least, and which makes for a very character driven book. These types of books are usually very hit or miss for me and for this particular read, it ran a bit down the middle. I really did love the premise of this and Hawkins keeps you guessing through every chapter. I think the trouble I have is the pacing, which inevitably had me checking out a bit towards the middle. So, in a weird turn of events, there's no pin pointing of why I did or didn't enjoy this book. Hawkins, as usual, does an oustanding job of throwing a lot at you and bringing it all together at the end. I am once again impressed with how she keeps this all organized as she's writing. Maybe it's my mood that didn't allow for me to enjoy this as much as I could have. Maybe I have to come to terms with the fact that she may not be the author for me. 🤷

I liked Paula Hawkins previous novels in different ways. I quite liked this one too, having bought it off the back of several recommendations and some social media hype. It is a twisty psychological thriller for sure, will please fans of that genre and it is a good read that holds interest despite being pretty predictable due to the character depth and the fact that it is a clever character drama. The writing is beautiful and probably what I liked most about it, the plot itself is a bit popcorn, addictive in the moment but immediately forgettable. Which sounds like a negative but isn't really, I mean who doesn't love some moreish popcorn. A solid read which the quality of the writing elevates.

Hmm, this is a tough one to review. In the end, I liked what Jodi Picoult did with Wish You Were Here. I like that she took it in, let's say, unexpected directions, and explored a subject I knew very little about. I did not predict the way this story would unfold. Which is good. That being said, I found the first half of this book very slow. Diana finds herself alone in the Galápagos islands, her boyfriend thousands of miles away fighting to save people from COVID in the emergency room, when the island is put on lockdown. With no way to get home, Diana wanders around being a bit of an ignorant tourist, meeting the locals, and trying to find a way to feed herself. Diana becomes involved in the lives of local businessman, Gabriel, and his daughter, Beatriz. Through these new friendships and interactions, she begins to question what she had thought she wanted from her life, to question the path she is on and whether it is the right one. This goes on for more than half of the book (192 pages in the e-arc). I was not enamoured by it. As I said earlier, though, the book does go on to take some interesting turns. It's unfortunate that what I liked about the book would reveal too much, so I can only really talk about my complaints here. It's rewarding for the patient reader.

No doubt about it. Jodi Picoult is a polished writer, and her research is always meticulous. This author can write. So, this rating is not a reflection of her talent…but rather one reflecting my enjoyment level of reading this story. Or lack of enjoyment, as the case may be. This book is HEAVY. Diane O’Toole is climbing the professional ladder in the cutthroat art auction world, and is about to depart for the Galápagos, with her boyfriend, Finn, a surgical resident in Manhattan, when the first cases of Covid-19 appear in the city. The hospital needs all hands on deck. Their vacation is non-refundable and he encourages her to take it, not realizing how bad things would get. Diana finds herself stranded there, the borders closed, the Island under quarantine. During her time there, we will learn A LOT about Art History, the Art Auction world and the beautiful Galápagos Islands-and if you are interested in these topics, you may find the book fascinating…… Because Finn is back home, we also learn everything about what the ICU Doctors, Nurses and other medical staff endured….and are still enduring, as they learned to fight Covid, by trial and error, and it’s detailed. This is a prevalent theme in the entire book, and Ms. Picoult does not hold back. If you read this-be prepared! If you have lost someone to Covid-19-it may be too soon to pick this up. I do LOVE what a wonderful tribute it is to the medical community…the men and women who continue to be the heroes of this Pandemic. BUT-if you read to escape and be entertained-it’s not going to happen here. I found Diana to be a selfish woman, who easily justified the decisions she makes-so that didn’t help either. But the point was to have us, as a reader, reflect upon how an EXPERIENCE, can change our perceptions of what is and is not important, and perhaps change our lives forever. Be sure to read the author’s notes AFTER the epilogue. NOW AVAILABLE! Thank You to Ballantine Books for my gifted copy provided through NetGalley. It was my pleasure to offer a candid review

Somewhere between 3 - 3.5 stars The day before Diana and Finn are scheduled to leave on their romantic getaway to the Galápagos Islands, Finn finds out he has to stay behind to continue working. Covid-19 is a new virus that is taking over NYC and it’s ‘all hands on deck’ at the hospital where he is a surgical resident. Finn tells Diana to go on the trip without him and she does. This was my first dive into a Covid themed novel. I was really hesitant in knowing if I was “ready” to tackle this subject matter since it’s still so fresh and prevalent in the real world. I thought the author did a fantastic job with how she incorporated all of her Covid research. I am happy to report that the Covid piece worked well for me. Jodi Picoult is a favourite author of mine. Her storylines and characters are usually a ‘for sure’ fit for me. Unfortunately this wasn’t the case with this novel (which was extra disappointing). A few major things didn’t work for me — the main character and the storyline itself. I wasn’t a fan of the main character, Diana. She wasn’t likeable, didn’t feel genuine and came across as selfish. My lack of connection with her kept me at a distance from the entire storyline. I was interested but never invested. My emotions were never touched. My issue with the storyline itself is that it could have been done so many other ways and been more impactful (for me). I simply wasn’t a fan of the way Covid was incorporated into the book. I also felt that the book was too heavy on the romance aspect. Overall, it was an “okay” read but not nearly as fantastic as I had hoped and expected. I know I’m the outlier with my thoughts, so please read the many raving reviews before deciding on this one. Thank you to my lovely local library for the loan!!

3.5 stars In the Author's Note at the end of this book Jodi Picoult, who has asthma, describes her reaction to the Covid lockdown. She says, "I was at home, paralyzed with fear. I couldn't breathe well on a good day; I couldn't even imagine what Covid would do to my lungs.....I couldn't distract myself with my work. I couldn't write. I couldn't even read." When Picoult eventually broke her slump she decided to write a book to chronicle the pandemic: "To tell the tale of how the world shut down, and why, and what we learned." This is the book Jodi penned. Author Jodi Picoult ***** The story opens in March 2020, just before the coronavirus shuts down the world. Diana O'Toole - an art specialist at Sotheby's..... .....and her boyfriend Finn Colson - a surgical resident at New York Presbyterian Hospital, are about to embark on a trip to the Galápagos Islands, where Diana expects Finn to propose. Diana and Finn, who seem to be perfectly matched, have a long-term life plan that includes travel, marriage, children, excelling in their careers, having a beautiful home, etc. On the eve of Diana and Finn's departure for the Galápagos, Covid patients start flooding the hospitals. Finn tells Diana he has to stay and tend to the sick, but suggests that Diana go on the trip anyway, since it's non-refundable. Diana agrees and travels to the Galápagos by herself - a journey that involves several planes, a ferry, and a water taxi. Diana arrives at her destination, Isabela Island, just as it's shutting down for two weeks because of the pandemic. Diana is dismayed to learn she can't leave the island and her hotel is closed. To top it off, Diana's luggage is lost and she can't communicate with the local people, who speak Spanish. A kindly older woman, who calls herself Abuela, offers Diana a tiny apartment and Diana settles in as best she can. After some missteps - including a bad experience with toxic apples - Diana becomes friendly with a former tour guide named Gabriel..... .....and Gabriel's troubled teenage daughter Beatriz, both of whom speak English. Diana is desperate to communicate with Finn, but it's very difficult. There's minimal Wi-Fi and phone calls don't go through. When Finn's emails do arrive they're filled with descriptions of people dying; his exhaustion; his fear of getting sick; the horrible situation in New York; etc. Diana feels terrible for Finn, but she's in one of the most beautiful environments in the world, and she does some touristy things. Diana goes swimming in lagoons; walks around to look at the tortoises, iguanas, flamingos, penguins, sea lions, and other animals; enjoys the beautiful plants; and so on. Abuela provides some delicious home-cooked meals; former tour guide Gabriel shows Diana his favorite spots on the island; and even teenage Beatrix warms up to Diana a bit. It turns out both Diana and Beatriz have absentee mothers: Diana's mother was a world-famous photographer who traveled constantly and Beatriz's mother deserted the family. As the two-week mark approaches, when the shutdown of Isabela Island is scheduled to end, Diana prepares to return to New York and Finn. However, the island closes indefinitely, and Diana is trapped for the foreseeable future. The book explores the loneliness and isolation experienced by people in the midst of the pandemic - what they learn about themselves, and how it changes them. For me, the situation of Finn and the other hospital workers is especially affecting since it highlights the plight of healthcare workers (including cleaners) who - before the vaccine was available - were in constant peril. In current times, the predicament of healthcare personnel REALLY highlights the selfishness of people who refuse to get vaccinated. Refuseniks get sick and expect hospital staff to care for them. It's inexcusable. Even if healthcare workers are vaccinated, they can get breakthrough infections. As I'm writing this review the Omicron variant is running rampant, largely because unvaccinated people serve as incubators for the virus. The book provides a close look at people affected by the Covid pandemic, and it's not a pretty picture. Thus I wouldn't recommend the novel to people sensitive about the subject. Thanks to Netgalley, Jodi Picoult, and Ballantine Books for a copy of the book. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

Visit to the Galapagos Islands, anyone? Yes, please. The island scenes were what I most appreciated about this new release from Jodi Picoult. Her vivid portrayals of the island remind me why so many have a visit there on their bucket list. With Diana on the island as the pandemic breaks out, reports of what is going on inside NYC hospitals comes via email from her boyfriend Finn. Those are difficult to read and perhaps it was too soon for me to be reading fiction about the pandemic. I also found the overall conclusion to be less than satisfying. It was interesting to explore an interesting side effect that some have experienced after being on a ventilator. I do think that this will be my last Jodi Picoult book. She once again demonstrates a disconnect in her prose from her Author's Notes. If the pandemic should not be viewed as political, then why are all the references to "the president" negative? Newsflash, Jodi, the virus did originate in Wuhan. Thank you to Ballantine Books and Edelwiess+ for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.

This is my 30th book by Jodi Picoult, I think it's save to say she is definitely my most read author. One of the reasons I read every book she writes is that I know what I will be getting - a well-written story about the emotional impact of a moral issue, normally looked at from different perspectives. I also love the fact that she always includes interesting details in her novels. In Wish You Were Here, I enjoyed learning more about Sotheby's, art appraisals and auctions, the beautifully described Galapagos Islands, the horrific details of medical staff having to deal with Covid deaths on a daily basis and being introduced to Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec's art. This was a very quick, interesting read and as always with Jodi there were elements that really spoke to me - I think we have all realized that all of us were more deeply affected by isolation than we ever expected, in good and bad ways. "I also know that when you're in the thick of living your life, you don't often get to push pause and reflect on it." But for me, this did not pack the punch of some of her other books like Small Great Things, My Sister's Keeper and Keeping Faith. The big twist was intriguing but I wasn't convinced and there were also some other details in the story that felt forced. But even though I didn't love it, I still liked it. Looking at the early reviews I am very much in the minority and I can see why this story will deeply resonate with many readers.

Motivated people have a plan for their day, their career and their life. There are even jobs now that teach one how to plan and stay on track for all aspects of life. Diana O’Toole is someone who has a life plan and so far she is hitting all the marks. She wants, no expects, to be married by age thirty to her boyfriend, Finn, a surgical resident at a NYC hospital. Diana, an associate at Sothebys, is sure that Finn will propose on their planned very expensive vacation to the Galápagos Islands. At the last minute, Finn couldn’t go. The hospital was starting to see a rise in cases of people infected with a virus. It’s a virus that has affected all of us in one form or another. It is Covid! Finn couldn’t go but tells Diana that she should go anyway. Not sure whether she should go at first, she ultimately decides to make the trek alone. Hoping that things will be back to normal when she returns, Diana Is not prepared for what happens when her trip of a lifetime turns into a vacation that is a test of her strength and resolve. Starting with lost luggage, spotty WiFi, language barriers and hotel shutdowns, Diana finds herself now trapped on the island because the world is suddenly under a lockdown due to the Covid pandemic. Diana’s journey of feeling trapped and stuck are very real to all of us who have gone through the pandemic. For some readers, this book will hit all too close to home with Finn’s story of patients affected with Covid . It is a painful recollection of lives lost to the virus and the toll that it took on healthcare workers. Jodi Picoult’s , “Wish You Were Here” reminds us of what a great storyteller she is. There are a myriad of issues that Picoult presents in this book that make it multi-dimensional with many complex issues. This is a great book to discuss and highly recommended for book clubs. I received an advance copy of this book from NetGalley. #NetGalley #WishYouWereHere

I’m attempting to try to read more books out of my comfort zone. While this was an interesting read I don’t think it was for me.

I love this series; it's one of my top three favourite series ever and an auto-read every time Nora Roberts releases a new book. I can't say this was one of my favourites in the series, but I liked it and am still hooked on these characters. I think the subject matter around the murder was the hard thing for me. It was sad and a little depressing, but that is often how murder hits I suppose. There also wasn't a lot of the side stuff around the lives of the characters surrounding Eve in this installment, and that often helps offset the murder stuff, so I missed that. But there were those moments of humour Roberts always includes with Eve and her inability to understand "normal" things and references that always makes me smile. I will keep reading this series as long as Roberts writes it. I love these characters like crazy.

I found the opening chapter of the book quite depressing and unfortunately it seemed to set the tone for most of the book, it wasn’t bad it just didn’t grab me. Fortunately I always find Eve’s interactions with her circle of friends and colleagues interesting and the last quarter of the book was certainly more entertaining Overall this was a decent story, but after the excellent ’Forgotten in Death’ it was a little disappointing, but it was still well worth three stars.

I have given this three stars because I did like it but I will say that I didn't find this outing as good as Shadows in Death or Forgotten in Death, which I loved. It isn't a surprise to me, not every novel in this series is as good as the last. Even writers can weaken in the story telling. Overall this was still a good mystery novel, I enjoyed the basement scenes with Mary Covino and how she stayed strong throughout, always searching for a way to save herself. I'm not sure that I would be so strong. I wish there had been more character interaction between all the major characters as in other books, this was a bit weak on that this time around. The continuing angst over Eve's past and the comparison with cases is becoming tiring, seems to me that Eve has pretty much dealt with all this in earlier books and Robb could move on a bit with it! If there was some reunion of Eve and prodigal relatives or something, now that would be interesting and more movement in Eve/Roarke's marriage. These would make these novels so much more but Robb/Roberts continues to decline to give Eve and Roarke a complete healthy story, just continues to dither around the same issues without forward momentum! I'd really like to read more developing lives of the permanent characters, I mean we see Peabody, MacNab, Mavis and Leonardo moving forward but Eve And Roarke? NO! The mysteries are still good but I want more from these novels than Robb is delivering which continues to disappoint me!! Abandoned in Death is not Robb's worst novel in the series nor her best but it is still part of the series and a worthy read.

It’s okayish Gabriel Allon, et al, will always be among my favorite characters, but this wasn’t their finest outing. I suppose events in Israel have put the kibosh on those storylines, but I miss the saltiness and ingenuity of Gabriel’s ragtag band of Israelis and the sense that the world could be ending NOW. Saving another Old Master, pope and the RCC doesn’t scratch the same itch. Maybe the antics of the corrupt, senile old men at the helm of the Israeli and the U.S. nuclear arsenals will inspire a more lively Allon book next year.

** spoiler alert ** Disappointing. I have liked previous books in this series but not until page 175 did I develop any interest in the story line and even then I wasn’t that intrigued. I feel there was so much filler… writing Italian names of the streets, the restaurants, the food - it got tiresome to read. Still like the main character and hope to read about his adventures again.

Silva has done a good job rebooting his Allon novels from NatSec thrillers to art world skulduggery. Here the theft of a possible Leonardo from the Vatican storerooms leads to its recovery by Allon and his cohort before morphing into that old chestnut, a Vatican financial scandal. A bit pro forma not least because it’s apparently surprisingly easy to steal a painting from the Vatican! And Allon has no real problems getting it back albeit not without sparking a war in the Curia over the direction of the Church. (btw: why does super thief Ingrid have to be inserted on the bad guys’ plane? And there’s no way the thieves would show the painting to a flight attendant. I suspect Silva was setting up a plot line and then dropped it without editing out the set up.) As always, there’s a lot of luxe tourism (plus potted art history) and brand name dropping (Bellinis at Harry’s, the Hassler, Faber Castelli pencils) and no one ever misses a connecting flight. Also: in the art books Silva has been inserting little Easter egg references to the Great Gatsby (irony, I guess). Here he has a nice one to Myrtle Wilson which he then spoils by over egging the FS Fitzgerald pudding with subsequent mentions of Daisy Buchanan and the Divers. Subtlety is not a feature of genre fiction.

I miss the old Allon.

Pedestrian add on partisan politics do nothing to enhance a boring formulaic story that in pieces Silva has told multiple times - the kicker being that none of these pieces are why I enjoyed so many of the past entries in the series. I was looking forward to an exciting thriller but I got a languid story with lazy writing laced with glancing simplified politics that seem to serve the author’s social circle more than the canon of the series. Seriously underwhelmed.

Having absolutely cherished the era when Gabriel Allon headed the Mossad, it’s difficult for me to get absorbed into the age where he’s retired and lives his life as an art restorer. An Inside Job lacked the action, the pace and the overall storyline that Daniel Silva was a master at when Allon headed the Israeli secret service. A Leonardo Da Vinci painting is discovered in a storeroom of the Vatican and an organized Italian crime syndicate gets its hands on it. Allon attempts to recover it. The story is filled with too many Italian-isms, Vatican-isms and painting-isms. The reader is burdened — way too often — with moving through them. “The restaurant was located on the Corso Vittorio, directly opposite the Chiesa Nuova, the original home of Caravaggio’s Disposition of Christ.” I know sometimes sentences like this can immerse you in the story but Silva goes way beyond what is needed. Everytime someone is in a restaurant, we read what they’re having, including, “thick slices of vitella alla fornara.” It’s just too much. The painting had “Sfumato brushwork.” Huh? I miss the old days of good old-fashioned espionage. I think Gabriel Allon needs to come out of retirement.

I think is time Daniel Silva stop writing this Gabriel Alon series, is more of the same.

I’ve never taken so long to finish a Daniel Silva book. I just had a hard time caring about the story.

His plots are so boring and anticlimactic. I miss his early books.

This was an interesting, though not original, story, with no need to pull-in the office. I like that. I imagine the office was likely too busy trying to keep Israel from being killed by Hamas. What I didn't like was the authors ongoing Conservative Derangement Syndrome (TDS) here and there throughout the story. We all get it, Daniel Silva and his wife are flaming socialists. Good for them! But unless he is willing to take all of his money and fund his liberal insanity, I wish he would keep this constant dribble out of an otherwise good story. Plus, since his liberal philosophy did not want to help Israel survive last year, my hope is that Gabriel would not really be nearly as liberal as his daughter might wish him to be. ;) It might be time for a different series based upon the cast of terrific characters. Maybe someone else should write it?

Great, good have been better. Too much of the usual leftist tilt for “compassion” to the masses fleeing failed regimes in Africa and elsewhere, which, in many ways are the result of the same leftist policies pursuing liberation from “oppression “ of “colonialism”. It’s a vicious circle and, given human nature, will never end. Otherwise a good read.

Yikes. I came late to Silva and really loved his last five books (that’s where I started). I looked forward to this one and bought the hardcover the day it came out. Those five earlier books were spy thrillers where the conflict was set very quickly with an inciting event that had international repercussions/implications. Great stuff. The conflict in The Order isn’t set for a hundred pages and even then, it’s a soft one. This book reads more like a locked-room murder mystery which had I been expecting one I might’ve enjoyed it more. The Pope dies in his room that has a guard outside the door. The first hundred pages is deciding if he’d been murdered. That’s a locked-room mystery if you ask me and not the spy thriller I’d been expecting. Even in a locked-room murder, the body hits the floor pretty early to set the stage. I have found books work best for me are the ones where the conflict is set right up front, a contract with the reader that says, “this is what I’m going to show you, come take this ride with me.” I will definitely buy his next book and hopefully Mr. Silva will go back to form. David Putnam author of the Bruno Johnson series.

3.5 stars In this 20th book in the 'Gabriel Allon' series, the Israeli intelligence chief investigates the death of a pope. The book can be read as a standalone. ***** SPOILER ALERT / SPOILER ALERT / SPOILER ALERT Gabriel Allon is an art restorer, assassin, and espionage agent who's now head of Israel's intelligence agency, called 'The Office.' Thinking her husband needs a break from his taxing job, Gabriel's beautiful wife Chiara..... .....arranges for a vacation in Venice, where the couple and their young twins can absorb the culture, eat delicious food, and spend time together as a family. The Allons have just begun their getaway when a tragedy upsets their plans. Gabriel's friend Pope Paul VII - who's been working to forge a reconciliation between the Catholic Church and the Jewish people - dies suddenly. The pontiff was an elderly man with heart problems, and his death is attributed to natural causes. However the Pope's private secretary. Archbishop Luigi Donati, thinks his master was murdered. Donati asks Gabriel to investigate the Pope's death, which Allon does with the assistance of his team at The Office, who can hack anything. It turns out Pope Paul VII was murdered by members of a right-wing group called 'The Order of Saint Helena' - a xenophobic, anti-Semitic, neofascist organization that wants to undo Church reforms and expel immigrants from Europe. To do this, The Order - which has its tentacles in the Vatican as well as the police, judiciary, banking industry, business world, etc. - plans to install a puppet pope. The illegitimate pontiff will take the Church in a sharply conservative direction, in collaboration with fascistic leaders across Europe. The Order was going to wait for frail Pope Paul VII to die of old age, but their agenda was escalated when the Pope acquired a previously unknown gospel called 'The Gospel According to Pontius Pilate.' This gospel puts the blame for Christ's death on the Romans rather than the Jews, whom the Church has been condemning for thousands of years. Numerous scholars believe the Church's execration of the Jews caused widespread anti-Semitism, and was an underlying cause of the Holocaust. Thus The Order doesn't want the Pontius Pilate book - which contradicts their teachings - to become known to the general public. The Order learned Pope Paul VII was going to give the Pontius Pilate gospel to Allon, so its leaders had him killed. There may have been a witess to this crime, a Swiss Guard stationed outside the pontiff's apartment who's now missing. Gabriel has to work fast to expose the Pope's murderers and stop their scheme for a puppet Pope, because the College of Cardinals - many of whom have been paid off by The Order - is about to elect a new pontiff. Thus Allon has to hurry to Rome, infiltrate the secret archives of the Vatican, search for the missing Swiss Guard, visit Switzerland, make a hop to Germany, get assistance from honest members of the clergy, etc. The novel, which is full of corrupt and venomous clergy, and refers to Church scandals over the ages, may offend some Catholic readers. In his author's note at the end of the book, Silva emphasizes that this is a work of fiction and there's no Gospel According to Pontius Pilate. Nevertheless, Silva expands on the view that the Church is responsible for most Christian anti-Semitism, which the Church promoted on purpose and with ignominious intentions (in his view). Silva's books are always exciting, and this is no exception. There's plenty of action, shooting, scheming, surveilling, conniving.....and even a touch of magical realism. Recommended to readers who enjoy thrillers, especially fans of Gabriel Allon. You can follow my reviews at http://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com/

** spoiler alert ** I plowed through this in less than 24 hours (as I typically do with all of Silva's new releases), and I have to say...I'm somewhat disappointed. All of the ingredients for success are here - Gabriel Allon, religious intrigue, a shadowy cabal. But the elements really just don't mesh well together. The shadowy cabal is essentially dealt with at the end of the second act, though a character that has been spoken of somewhat often (but hasn't been fleshed out) pops up in act three. The election of the new pope seems very Angels and Demons-esque to me, and he isn't much of a factor in the book's brief fourth act. As for the book's religious intrigue, it peters out somewhat quickly, given that the gospel in question wasn't actually retrieved until the very end of the story. We also never really got a good (or any?) explanation of the mysterious priest who provides information about the gospel to various characters (and given that this series has never really taken a dive into mysticism or anything along those lines, that sure would be a cop out). Perhaps most disappointing at all, Gabriel's Israeli intelligence dream team is barely featured! They show up in the second act, and once that's taken care of, they don't return. Given how central a role they've played in many of the other books in the series, I was quite dismayed at their usage in this one. However, none of this is to say this is a *bad* book, it's merely disappointing by the quite high standards Silva has set. If this was written by a different author, in a different series, my overall score would probably be higher and my criticisms wouldn't be as sharp. I wasn't shocked to see a step back after the ridiculous standards set by The Other Woman and The New Girl, and am hoping that the next book in the series is able to come close to matching that level of tension and storytelling.

This is another great story by Daniel featuring the green eyed protagonist Allon. But the lower rating is based on the fact that I have read several books on the topics or on similar lines and some from authors who have written pathbreaking books which have trod this path well before like Dan Brown's Da Vinci Code to Paul L. Maier's Skeleton books and the Constantine Codex. Corruption permeates high places and in this story it has reached and hit the highest religious leader of all, the Pope. Suspicion of the Pope's murder forces the late Pope's assistant to bring in their old friend, Israel's highest ranked spy mastermind on a personal request to investigate the situation. The story progresses in a different way from the average Allon novel as prospective quarries are tracked across Europe. At the center of the story is a book supposedly the gospel of Pontius Pilate, the most infamous Roman in history, a book that was never known to exist. It's chance re-discovery from the Vatican library by the Pope starts a chain of events that lead to his death and sets up the game for putting a biased candidate on the papal seat. The scale of the book is huge and tempered with doses of Allon's life, his family, his trysts with art, his earlier friendships and liaisons across the counter-intelligence expanse of Europe. The yarn is good although at some points the story especially the investigation becomes threadbare considering the experience of Allon and what he allows to fall beneath his gaze or knowledge. These gaps slowed down my interests on occasion but the fast pace of the story makes up for it.

And, just like that, after a slow but methodical effort, I've read the entire series (at least those have been published to date) ... in order. On a positive note, I thought this one had nice momentum throughout, and, despite its heft, it felt like a comfortable page turner. From a more cynical perspective, like its predecessor, I'm starting to feel that this series has seriously, unapologetically, jumped the shark, as the Happy Days idiom goes.... If nothing else, it's time for Allon to learn to delegate more (and I mean in the field, LoL ... since it's pretty clear Uzi can handle the day-to-day stuff, hence the possibility of multi-week office/job absences.)... I don't mean to be a killjoy, but ... if Gabriel Allon (now the Memuneh) was the aleph after the 1972 Munich Olympic massacre (at which point, since he'd already served in the Army, so he'd have had to be .. what? at least 20? then), ... well, then ... he's, um at least 68 years old (with two broken vertebrae, but I digress). It is what it is.... After 20 books, will I read another one? Almost certainly. I just hope that, by the time the next one is in print, I'm traveling/flying again, because experience suggests that I tend to enjoy these more when I'm exhausted/jet-lagged.

Gabriel Allon is ensnared (again) in Vatican politics, after being pulled from his vacation to assist his old friend Luigi Donati after the Pope is found dead. Doesn't Silva have more ideas in him? Not very much conflict but a lot of blah-blah-blah about the history of the Catholic Church and anti-Semitism, plus anti-immigrant groundswell with the rise of the right-wing political leaders across Europe. Gabriel's team makes a token appearance but barely makes a ripple - this one is all Allon and Donati. Disappointing.

3.5 stars! This book was a fun mystery but my least fav Frieda McFadden book I've read so far. I liked that it had two timelines & the concept was really fun. Also the twist got me!!! I did not see it coming. Would've never guessed the ending in a million years. BUT for a good chunk of the book I felt like I was waiting for more things to happen. I wanted more clues, suspicious people, and creepy moments. Overall great if you're looking for a light easy read.

3.5 ⭐️ I mean to say that I saw the plot twist coming would be a lie, but like… I’m also not the happiest with how it all planned out

I didn’t think the day would come where a Freida McFadden book disappointed me, but here we are. 😔 I’ve been on a Freida McFadden kick recently, so I was so excited to read this one as I’ve been immensely enjoying all of her books. Unfortunately, this one let me down. I was back and forth between giving this a 2 or 3 star rating, but ended up rounding it up to a 3. A good majority of the story felt unnecessary, the fmc was oblivious to the major red flags that were literally in front of her face, and the ending was so incredibly disappointing. I kinda wanted to toss my kindle across the room because all the signs were RIGHT there! It felt like a major reach for an interesting story because there is just no way one does not notice these signs. It was so impractical. This one wasn’t for me, but I will forgive Miss Freida and continue reading through the rest of her books, and still looking forward to her future ones!

➳ 3.25 ☆ this book has better narrative structure than some of her newer releases. i enjoyed this to a certain extent, and the book kept me guessing until the very end. in typical freida style, the women are jejune, banal, and unfledged characters who are all somehow obsessed with doormat pieces of shit with zero functioning braincells. there is really only one major twist i can think of, and maybe that's why this worked better, as it seemed more logical than her other outlandish reveals. however, i always have a fun time with these, as i am here for the lunacy, not scholarly work. this story essentially follows our main character : sydney shaw, who has a horrible dating/relationship history with men. this so real to be honest. syndey, living in the big apple state, meets her new boyfriend who seems perfect for her. is it too good to be true? there are some brutal murders that start to take place close in proximity to her, and she now wonders if this perfect man—isn't so perfect? this is easily one of her more 'thriller' esque books, as opposed to something like the teacher. thankfully this book isn't over the top and theatrical like some of her other novels. however, surprise, the main character is useless and childish, but i already had that expectation going in, it didn’t ruin the plot/book for me. however, given the pacing of the book—coupled with the reveals—i would argue this is one of her better works. i also found out has TWO?? more book lined up... dr. mcfadden works overtime.

It's true that if Freida McFadden writes a book, I'll read it because I love her books, but this book didn't had that classic Freida McFadden twist to it. The Boyfriend is a annoying-mind-fucked thriller novel with stupid characters who refuse to use their two brain cells. I couldn't tolerate a single character in this book. Sydney was too childish and desperate to have a husband and baby. She was blinded by all of it. She sees a perfect man and the next second she is planning to have babies with him. She's just a classic pick me up girl. Tom was a psychopath with a weird obsession of seeing his girlfriend die? Daisy was annoying with her crazy girl obsessed antics. Slug the bug eater disgusted me. The only normal one was Jake, the detective and Sydney's ex-boyfriend. Randy was creepy and Gretchen gave me suspicious vibes from the start. Kevin is a man-child. The rest are dead. This is also the synopsis of this book but add a murder mystery about some girls killed by a man who dates them and then torture and kills them. That's how The Boyfriend was born. Anyway, I had a good time with this book. I needed a fast paced thriller and the past and present timelines kept me hooked and entertained so I guess it was not a total waste. As usual I did not see the big plot-twist coming but it wasn't jaw-dropping or mind-blowing. Unexpected but not shocking. The epilogue frustrated me. Freida always writes good epilogues in her books with a little plot-twist and open ending at the end but this one is my least favourite by Freida. To Shanaaya, I couldn't have finished this book without you keeping me company and listening to my rants. We should do more thriller and mystery buddy reads and I had so much fun reading this book with you. I am sure we can give Freida better ideas for plot-twists in her next books. ————— she writes. i read. its as simple as that.

Blog | Instagram Rating: 3.5 stars 'The Boyfriend' is my first McFadden read, and while the final reveals lived up to the hype, the journey there was a bit of a mixed bag. Similar read: The Midnight Feast by Lucy Foley Cover: 🌟🌟🌟 Writing: 🌟🌟🌟 Storyline: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Main character(s): 🌟🌟🌟 Secondary characters: 🌟🌟🌟 Romance: 🌟🌟 Narration & Audio: 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 The storyline unfolds through dual timelines and perspectives, with two mysteries that collide in an impressive climax. The narrators, Victoria Connolly and Robb Moreira, did a great job with dynamic deliveries that brought the characters to life and heightened the story's atmosphere. However, before the surprising final reveals, I struggled with the writing style, which seemed too casual and unsubtle - this constantly made me cringe and pulled me out of the story. "Ninety percent of my social life these days consists of drinking coffee with friends. But oh well. There are worse things." I also had a hard time settling into the present timeline, as it is centred around Sydney Shaw, a character who is bitter about being single and desperate for a relationship. After a terrible date leads to a handsome doctor coming to the rescue, Sydney is quickly swept off her feet, and I have to admit their initial connection and banter seemed cute. However, as glaring red flags emerged, it was hard not to roll my eyes as Sydney brushed them away because of her mystery man's attractiveness and skills in bed. These traits made her character frustrating and hard to connect with. Her bleeding disorder and relationship with her baby-focused mother also had the potential to add depth to her character, but they were not explored and added little to the story. Even more unsatisfying was the fact that the mystery aspect in this timeline was overshadowed by Sydney's romantic troubles and poor choices. Sydney's friends were equally hard to care about and connect with, as their interactions felt shallow and mean. There was also another character who clearly cared for Sydney, but their second-chance romance did little for me as it had little depth. "All I want is a decent man who doesn’t have a drinking or a gambling problem, who is fun to talk to, who has a nice smile, and who likes me as much as I like him. Is that really such an impossible dream?" In contrast, I found the 'before' timeline much more engaging. The tense, creepy atmosphere gradually drew me in and made me invested in uncovering the killer's identity. Tom, with his internal conflicts and rough family dynamic, was an interesting main character. Secondary characters like Slug and Alison also stood out to me due to their personalities and roles in the story. I only wish they could have shown up in the present timeline.

"The Boyfriend" is for lovers. Lovers of Freida McFadden. But this Freida lover was disappointed. One must always be careful with Boyfriends and this book was no exception. Boyfriend Warnings: * Slow start * Many, many eye-rolling moments Boyfriend Love: * Enjoyed the author's strategically placed red herrings * Many LOL moments from the female protagonist's "There's no hope for my daughter unless she gets married NOW!" mother. Although this was not my favorite Freida title, the book was engaging(no pun intended!) and the book's multiple twists kept me guessing. I listened to the audiobook read by Victoria Connolly and Adam Blanford. I always enjoy multi-cast audiobooks and both narrators did an outstanding job with the narration. 2.5 stars, bumped up to 3 stars since I am a biased boy-mom who always has a fondness for "Boyfriends".

3.5⭐ This isn't the best book ever but I actually enjoyed it a lot. I liked the audiobook couldn't stop listening it feels so good to finish a book in one day after being in a slump for months. If you need a quick fast paced thriller, definitely read this. I don't know if this is a spoiler but don't read what's below if you are going to read the book: By the way I know what you are doing Freida. In every book she gives us so many people that you we suspect and we are sure they did it , then the most innocent, unexpected character turns out to be the one. This is the second time I catch you doing this I'm afraid im going to start predicting the plot twists in her books. 😭

3.5 stars, rounded down. girl this had me changing my theory every 20 pages!!! I had a great time with this book. Why am I in love with Tom? LOL. It’s giving dark romance xx Anyway, this was a bit more, dare I say, ~advanced~ for Freida?! Her usual writing style is definitely there but I felt like the language and the storytelling was a bit more intelligent than usual, which was nice. With that said, I’m just too used to Freida’s writing style and I can tell when she’s trying to gaslight us into thinking a certain way. I was still gagged in certain parts! my theory kept changing so often so that was kind of exciting, and as with almost all Freida, it kept me engaged and guessing right up until the end. I kinda picked the plot twist early on, but enough of my other theories were continuously thrown out the window so it was still an enjoyable read. Not a must read but if you enjoy Freida, I definitely recommend this one, it’s one of her better ones!

★★★.5 Now playing: We're not Alike by Tate McRae 01:23 ━━━━●───── 03:43 ㅤ ㅤ◁ㅤ ❚❚ ㅤ▷ ㅤㅤ ౨ৎ Sydney She was an independant woman who was just trying to find a man to date. But she kept getting whacked down again and again by everything that happened. Honestly, I just feel super bad for her. She was really nice and independant and deserved good things. <3 ౨ৎ General Thoughts My first thoughts after reading this book were WHAT. JUST. HAPPENED?? I was full on blank staring at the wall after this book because I couldn't believe any of the twists. Loved it, and really want to read more crime fiction now! Looking forward to more Freida McFadden books.

3.75 🌟 I really liked the storyline, it was fast paced and entertaining and I did not guess the plot twist at all!

The end was a decent enough twist - but I just cannot believe the FMC is a stupid as portrayed.

Almost all the characters are murderers or people who were murdered.

A bit of a mixed bag. Oh, how I wanted to love this, and yet, Dreamland by Nicholas Sparks didn't quite work for me. Believe it or not, Dreamland is the first book by Nicholas Sparks that I've ever read. I've seen all of his movies but had never read one of his books till now. I decided to read this one, simply because they've stopped making his books into movies. This novel has two POVs/timelines. The first is Colby, the second is Beverly. Colby is a farmer who used to be a musician when he was young. When he gets the chance to take a little time off, he heads to the Florida coast and plays a few gigs at a local bar. There, he meets Morgan, who is visiting from out of town for a week. The two instantly fall in love. I wish I could say that I bought into their romance, but I didn’t, nor did I care for either character. Beverly’s story on the other hand, I found to be gripping, and very realistic. Beverly is an abused wife and mother. After getting up the courage, she escapes with her six-year-old son. Every moment of every day, Beverly is scared for her life and that of her son, and yet she works to try and build a life and move on. Unfortunately, she is always looking around every corner, deathly afraid. If the book had been all about Beverly, I would have loved every minute of it. Throughout most of the novel, we have no idea how the characters of Colby and Beverly are connected, and then boom! Worlds collide. While I didn't love this novel, I enjoyed the writing and plan to read other Nicholas Sparks novels in the future. Thanks to Random House Publishing Group via NetGalley for the arc.

I really don’t have much to say about this book. The writing and storyline was decent enough, but it wasn’t anything to write home about. Maybe I’m just getting old and bitter, and I don’t believe in true love anymore… Regardless, this story was pretty predictable from the first page all the way through to the last page. We have a young man named Colby, who is playing a few gigs at a local bar in Florida. Colby is a full time farmer in North Carolina, and traveling to Florida is his first ever vacation. There in Florida, he meets the love of his life (yep, didn’t see that coming). Will this relationship work with him having to go back home to care for his family and farm? We also have the story of Beverly, a woman on the run from her abusive husband. How does Beverly and Colby’s stories connect? With that, I can’t reveal too much or I would give too much away. However, I will say that Beverly’s story was pretty interesting. I’ve only read a couple of Nicholas Sparks novels with ‘Every Breath’ being my favorite so far. I will give in and continue to read more from this author, although I already know what to expect. Lol!

** spoiler alert ** I'm really torn on this one. I enjoyed the love story, and I don't always enjoy love stories. It was written really well, as all of Sparks' books are. However, it employs a plot device that I absolutely hate and which I personally feel is a copout. Thus I cannot give it more than three stars. The plot device that was used was the "this never really happened" device. The reader goes through so much turmoil or action with a certain character only to find out later that things are not as they seemed and it was all in the character's head. This book has great characters and a great story, but I ultimately felt cheated by that particular tactic. Others may not have a problem with it at all. I received a copy of this book from Random House via Netgalley. My review is voluntary and my opinions are my own.

2.5 stars rounded up for a very pedestrian read. 1) it took me nearly six months to get through it 2) besides the twist at the end there is very little about this book that would make you believe you’re reading Sparks. 3) it’s so predictable 4) save yourself the time and watch the movie (if there is one, if not, you’re still saving hours of reading time). 5) Told in alternating POVs with only one worth reading - Beverly. Colby’s felt like a YA romance. 6) Author’s Note - provided some insight to future movie projects and reasons for this plot. I really enjoy Sparks and will read whatever he writes, but this one did not meet my notions and expectations of his writing and storytelling prowess.

DNF This makes me sad to say because I love Nicholas Sparks... his romance stories have always been my guilty pleasure. But he's always had a tendency to over-tell back story and this time I got half way through chapter 4 and the protagonist was still narrating back story. The actual story had still not even begun. All tell no show unfortunately... it was boring and frustrating, this time I couldn't trudge through it even though it may have been kisses and rainbows in the end.

I listened to this as an audiobook and I liked both narrators. You’ll recognize the voice of Colby if you were a fan of One Tree Hill. This was not my favorite Nicholas Sparks book. I liked the music angle, but I absolutely hated how mental health was portrayed in this novel. I like how it alternated two storylines, but I didn’t enjoy how the two stories were such polar opposites that they felt like two different books. So much so that they evoked completely opposite emotions.

Actually 3 1/2*

Many thanks to NetGalley, and Nicholas Sparks for an ARC in exchange for an honest review. My thoughts and opinions are 100% my own and independent of receiving an advance copy. Colby, a farmer by day, is taking some time off to go play a gig in Florida at a local bar. He had a troubled childhood and never gave music a real shot but he is happy to work on the farm. His aunt needs the help and his sister Paige, who helped raise Colby, has returned home as well. This will give him a much needed break. One night in walks Morgan, with her group of friends, also celebrating finishing school and sparks fly. Beverly is on the run. She has narrowly escaped her abusive husband and taken her young son Tommy with her. They have one knapsack each and only a tiny bit of money. She knows she needs to get a job, something that pays cash since she could’t take her ID with her. Her husband works for Homeland, so he will be on the hunt for them and has every resource at his disposal. She can only pray that she was careful enough. And so the story begins. Told with these dual perspectives Sparks leads us through a tale of highs and lows. The juxtaposition of young love and the abused on the run mother and child. You know that at some point the stories are going to converge but to be honest even when I thought I had figured it out, I hadn’t. I’m not sure how to feel about this one. I think I went into this wanting a “Notebook” and got something different. It wasn’t bad different, it was just different. I found myself liking the parts about Colby and Morgan, but eventually I got caught up in Beverly’s struggles as well. The writing is solid, the characters a little cookie cutter. My only issue really was the ending. I don’t want to give away too much, but I felt like Sparks had created a solid epilogue and then boom took a serious left turn. Overall I enjoyed the book. It was an easy read, perfect for summertime beach reading or a lazy afternoon any time. I am recommending you pick it up and give it a try. Rating 3.5 stars.

no. noo. NO SHE FUCJING DIDN'T BC THAT ENDING!!!!????!! she did not. BUT SHE DID. actually, im-.....s c r e a m s the way this book did NOT need to be 800 fucking pages.....literally half of this book is all detective work and finding out that the people you think you know and love *gasp* are not who you think they are?!?! consider me shocked. anyways... this was an enjoyable mess but i would say the stakes in the first book sounded better and played out wayyy more extreme and intriguing than here in this book....aside from the last 30 pages because uh....if you know, you knowwwwwww!!!! but...the smirking, hissing, giggling, and purring that amounts in this sequel? "GEEJUS CHRYSLER. NO. MORE. IM BEGGING, PURRING," SMIRKING AS IM TYPING THIS OUT...... too many slow-too much talking and banter-and nothing happens-parts but when the good parts hit, THEY HIT . i skipped all sexy scenes bc no ty. Full review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpd99... book rating overall: 3 STARS. those last 30 pages overall: 4 STARS Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube (view spoiler) ____ The way this aged LMAO. cringe ____ *crosses fingers* PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, FOR THE LOVE OF ALL SMUT AND FARIES EVERYWHERE, PLEASE PUBLISH IN 2021. GOOD VIBES ONLY FOR 2021. PRETTY PLEASEEEE

sarah janet writes it all. dirty drawer sniffin', toe admirin'... you name it, she's written it. i definitely enjoyed this more on reread and i think this one was better than the first one. but i have a feeling the plot line is going to crash and burn in book 3. guess we'll see!

Final reread before CC3: January 16 2024 New rating 3.5/5 In my previous review I mentioned that I would most likely never pick up CC 2 again...and boy am I happy that I did. Reading this novel knowing what happens at the end, the spoilers, who everyone really is...is a completely different experience. My mistake when I first read CC2 was that I had completely forgotten what happened in the first instalment. Now, in 2024, I read CC2 right after CC 1 and wow...I understand everything so much better. All together, I had a much better reading experience the second time around and I am so happy that I gave this book a proper shot. Yes, some things in my previous review are still correct. The plot was not solidified well, there was alot of filler information and people, the POVs were confusing, and it felt very male centered....however, I cannot deny that craft and thought behind the entirety of the novel. SJM is just too damn good. Even though the middle still dragged on like crazy, reading it while knowing the ending had me reading between the lines. I did not expect to enjoy it so much. maybe it was the excitement of CC3 coming out in two weeks, but I truly appreciate the work and time this must have taken to write. I feel bad that i despised my first read so much, I despise that I began to skim throughout and missed out on the full experience of the novel. At the end of the day, SJM is just so intentional. I love how she brings everything full circle. She is one of the best fantasy writers in this generation. she can make me cry so easily. I really loved this, there were slow and confusing parts if we want to be detailed, but after reading the ending again...wow I have chills. I am so excited to see what she has planned after a decade! If you did not enjoy your first time reading, I HIGHLY recommend giving it a reread right after the first instalment. ------------------------------- 3/5- February 2022 Honestly, I waited for this book for so long and am slightly conflicted with how I feel about this story as a whole. I have never rated a SJM novel this low before. I was sometimes forcing myself to read it - like it was some university homework . But I also liked how she took this series to an entire new level- I can tell there was a lot of research done. Pros: 1. Ruhn and his love story. That storyline between day and night was the most surprising and delightful thing out of this book. The way these two have a hold on me right now. That ending elevator scene was one of the best in the book!! I was here for it!!! 2. The secondary characters and the otters awwwww 3. THE ENDING- what else can I say about that!! Cons: 1. The plot was just not there for me. I could not feel any major stakes for the characters throughout. They were all fighting a fight that they all barely seemed to even want to be apart of. The majority of the novel was just everyone talking all the time and info dumping loads and loads of things. I genuinely got a headache reading it- like my head still hurts. And also not to mention, the amount of new characters being added. Everyone is so powerful, everyone has this power and blah blah blah- like no one felt special at all because there was every kind of type of being. It’s like SJM took every mythical creature to exist and dump them in 800 pages. 2. The POVS were too much. Honestly I love a good multiple POV novel but this was just over doing it. Tell me why there was POV switches mid chapter- and sometimes even three switches. It was honestly too much and the characters really all started to blend into each-other sadly. No one stood out to me, even Bryce. I also was noticing the lack of female POVS. At some points it was all just Bryce in the room of men. Once I caught on, I couldn’t stop pointing it out. This novel felt very male centred and I was so over it by the end. 3. The main romance was unnatural and boring . I’m sorry but this book made Bryce and Hunt so boring. For a novel that promises lots of heat and tension…. It was barely there honestly. It was at no point a ACOMAF type of romance for me (but nothing will ever be). I also got annoyed with how many times Bryce said alphahole and ashole like girl… we’re all over it. Almost everyone of her remarks back had to have some vulgar swearing in it. It was fun first but it gets tired very quickly. My final thoughts for this is that I truly think this novel by itself, was a complete filler for the next one. SJM honestly did not need to write 800 pages of this boring confusing stuff. She could have just given us 200 pages and that last chapter TBH. I see what she did and it was in a way very smart because THE LAST CHAPTER HAD ME SHAKING OKAY! I have hope in the next one because there is an amazing foundation to work with. But for me, I will likely not pick up House of Sky and Breath again.

this only made me miss Rhys, Cass and Az. when are we getting the next book in ACOTAR? does anyone have any news?? 🥺 *** I'm back to fantasy 😭 ngl, I missed it smmm 😩💗💗

What the fuck what the FUCK WHAT. THE. FUCK Miss Mass that ending was not okay. That last sentence was not okay. I STARTED TO CRY. THIS IS NOT OKAY. You know what I'm fine. IT'S FINE I could spend the entire review talking about the last chapter but I have so many thoughts and i hope i don't hit the character limit. this review will be filled with spoilers, you have been warned ❥ Ruhn This man was my favourite character in this book. He is the only non-toxic male character that Mass has ever written. And he was 100% the hottest character with all his piercings and tats and when he ate pu$$y like a champ ❥ Tharion This man has the best banter with Bryce and he was so flirty ahhh he's like the f-boy character that you all love. ❥ Bryce No just no please Mass. I cannot with this whole copy and paste thing. In every. single. book she sprinkles her magic fair dust and BOOM You're a princess, yOuR A prINcESs, YOUR. A. PRINCESS you have magic powers, You HaVe MAgIC PoWErs YOU. HAVE. MAGIC. POWERS you have a mate, YoU HAvE a MATe YOU. HAVE A MATE. it gets tiring I tell you. ❥ Hunt I still don't like him at all he annoys me so much. I prefer Rhys so much over this fucker. ❥ Danika I'm so DONE with this girl she died at the start of the first book and we are STILL talking about her. If she is not coming back to life then what is the point of basing the plot of the book around her. Ans she was such a snake too. Bryce was supposedly her BEST FRIEND but she kept all of this information from her. My best friend knows EVERYTHING about me. ❥ Ithan I feel so so bad for this kid. He was in love with Bryce for the entire book and then when Bryce and Hunt did the devil's tango and he could hear it all. Talk about awkward!! I honestly didn't even know why he was in the book for the first half of the book but then when he moved in with Ruhn, Dec and Flynn. Then I think he got a personality and I love them all together their friendship was fantastic. ❥ Cormac This character was so useless that I didn't even know why he was there for half the book. Good on you SJM for killing him off. ❥ Found family Found family is one of my favourite tropes and this book did disappoint? I felt like it was just all guys and then Bryce. And everyone has a crush on her. Tharion kissed her once WHEN SHE WAS MATED AND NO ONE BATTED AN EYE. And Ithan has a crush on her (but I think he's gonna get with that wolf girl) I just thought that maybe there could have been another girl in the group because that would b so much better you know? ❥ Bryce and Hunt These twos romance was as dry as the desert. I hated it so much, and their smut was horrible like listen to this: "You state like gods-damn paradise" he growled, pulled back enough for her to note her wetness in his mouth, his chin. No, it was so bad all i could see was: and on a different smut scene, I nearly fell asleep. Mass really lacked on her smut this time. I am extremely disappointed. And then when he was all alphahole with his lightning I felt nothing, I was bored, I think Mass has broken me. I usually love shit like that but i was BORED. ❥ Ruhn and 'Day' This couple, unlike Hunt and Bryce, had so much chemistry. I loved them so much and was convinced that I knew who it was doing to be. First I thought that it was going to be Hypaxia and then I thought it was going to be Celestine because she said she was with her best friend and it was weird with and because Day always got pulled out to go with her partner. And then when it got revealed who it was and that plot twist hit me in the face like a brick. And then he blocked her outtt. That hurt me mentally I need them to be together!!! Also, their smut was so good! They are giving me RhysXFeyre energy too. I feel like they are more like the main couple then HuntXBryce ❥ Ithan and the wolf There is defiantly something that is going to happen here I can feel it. ❥ Flynn and Ariande I am so excited about their romance. There is 100% going to be enemies to lovers where the playboy falls in love with the girl, and i am here for it!! SJM cannot write good plots but she can write good romance ENDING okay, what!?!?!?! That last chapter was NOT OKAy Okay so here are my theories etc etc... Ruhn is 100% related to Rhys because Bryce thought that he was him. Okay from what i gathered, Azriel is the one that found her because he was alone. Cassian was the one who came into the room with Nesta. And Rhys came in and we knew it was him because of his eyes. Also we know that Gwen and Azriel have not had their book yet so i think that that book and CC3 will be combined. SO i am very very excited for that Also angles have sensitive wings like Rhys, Cassian and Azriel.....could this mean the species are related? Also, I was on Reddit and people are saying that they want Azriel and Bryce to be mates!! AND NO!! I refuse to believe this. I need Azriel and Gwen I have been waiting forever. SJM istg don't do that!! 2022 is really the year for multiverses, isn't it? Also, I think that Ithan and the wolf are mates and so are Flynn and the dragon. ALSO WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED TO HUNT AT THE END. I think that Hunt and Ruhn will be made slaves and tortured and the Hind AKA Day will have to torture them (i also think that day and ruhn are mates. Also, I think that they will all go to Cresent City together and take down the government BUT IDK how because the weapons in those two different universes are very different and ISTG ID SJM KILLS OFF ANY OF THE BAT BOYS I WILL RIOT right that's all my theories for now, if i have any more i will update you all!!

⬆️Opening: This book was rough. I normally love Sarah J. Mass’s works but I haven’t been this disappointed by anything she’s written since A Court of Frost and Starlight. A lot of characters motives were weak, nothing of note happened in the first half, the MMC and FMC barely developed at all, the romance and spice lacked any semblance of chemistry, the pacing was way too slow, the plot wasn’t epic enough up until the very end, the two main characters were too strong with no justifiable cause and plot lines and characters that were hinted at being more prominent in this book never came to fruition. I loved Bryce in House of Earth and Blood, but in House of Sky and Breath her extreme “specialness” and ability to come out on top of every single situation just made her really annoying and bland to me. The only real improvement this book made was highlighting Ruhn, Ithan and the Hind more as a characters. 🔀Plot & Pacing: In terms of stakes, somehow the author managed to funnel out any and all tension and excitement this book should have had, in lue of meandering meaningless content. When I say absolutely nothing of importance happened in the first half of this book, I mean it. 300-400 pages of squat shit that did fuck all to advance the plot or develop a single character in any way. The book may be 800 pages long, but I feel like I only got 350 pages worth of content. This is supposed to be epic fantasy, but really nothing about this story was epic anyhow, besides the ending. I let the first book get away with 600+ pages of preamble before the finale because it was the first book in the series. It takes time to build towards epic stakes, especially in fantasy. However, the end of book one had a lot of momentum to help the plot of book two propel forward at a much better pace. Not that it meant anything though apparently, because this book doesn’t use any of the momentum that started in House of Earth and Blood. Instead, House of Sky and Breath just puts you back at square one to go through all the same boring preamble from HOEAB all over again, but without any character development, world-building or satisfying plot twists to distract from the sluggish pacing. 🐉World-Building: The first book had a slew of info-dump world-building. The second book counteracts this by hardly world-building at all. Seriously, for a series that’s supposedly about this amazing huge intricate magic city, the author really doesn’t show or tell you much about it… at all. The series is called Crescent City and yet that same city could be destroyed in the next book and I would just think “oh well”. Where are the adventures to magic hotels with an obscenely impossible amount of rooms, or a night club run by sirens that entrances its guests? Where are the murder mysteries at masquerade balls thrown by fae nobles? Where are the fascinating and scary and beautiful things this otherworldly magic city has to offer? Because as far as I can tell, besides being inhabited by magical beings, it’s just a normal modern human city for the most part and absolutely nothing about it is particularly interesting or magical. ❤️Romance: The biggest thing holding this book back is the obscene amount of time spent on Hunt and his romance with Bryce, and how it’s all about as interesting and believable as a glowing turd. Which leads me to my next point: Hunt and Bryce have all the chemistry of two crumbled up pieces of paper that just so happened to end up in the same garbage bin. Seriously, there was so little chemistry and tension between them that I actually skimmed their spicy scenes together. I never skim spicy scenes. The romance has to be truly awful to make me that uninterested in literal porn. It was so bad that when they started “confessing their love” for each other, I would just start laughing. Their romance was so implausible that their lovey dovey moments were just cringe. Once they started calling each other mates I had to skip a few sentences here and there, because even Bryce and Hunt themselves canonically aren’t even sure if they are mates. So their entire mating bond was very wishy-washy. And I usually love the romance in SJM novels, but this is arguably her worst romance yet. Am I probably being dramatic? Yes. Does that mean I think it’s not as bad as I’m making it out to be? No. The Brycehunt romance is truly quite horrendous. At this point the best I can hope for is that they aren’t endgame. Seriously, nothing could salvage this ship (for me at least). 💨Male Main Character: Hunt is, well about as complex as you can image. Which is to say not at all. I feel like I’m continually being told Hunt and Bryce are in love, instead of being shown they are in love. Also, I feel like basically all of Hunt’s “feats of bad-assery” (for lack of better words) are based solely in his reputation. I don’t feel like I’ve ever actually seen the Umbra Mortis live up to his name, at all. So when characters gawp and scatter, I don’t care, because he’s not scary or badass to me (the reader). I’m also getting really fucking sick of everyone getting called out on their shitty behaviour towards Bryce, except for Hunt. The book won’t ever let the reader forget that Ithan, Fury, Ruhn, etc cut off Bryce and the story is constantly reminding you of that and insisting they have to be better. Meanwhile, Hunt lied and manipulated Bryce all while living in her home and got to be magically forgiven for that by everyone. Including Ithan, Ruhn, Juniper, and Fury, who have absolutely no reason to forgive him based on who they are as characters. Honestly, Hunt never once getting called out when everyone else does, is starting to look like a major plot hole. I’m sorry, but cutting off a friend for a couple years is nowhere near as bad as lying to your romantic partner about the death of their best friend, knowingly possessing vital information that connects to them personally as you insert yourself into their life and then use them to accomplish a secret personal goal. Of all people, why is Hunt the only one that is instantly forgiven by every single character for seemingly no reason? Including Bryce, who forgave Hunt after only what, three days??? When prior to that she felt so wronged she never wanted to see him again?? The author likes to act like Bryce possessing personal information she didn’t immediately disclose to Hunt is just as bad as all the shit he did to her (which it isn’t). And as it turns out she was right not to reveal all her secrets to this random stranger, since he ultimately did use almost all the information she disclosed to him against her. Yet somehow he’s not the bad guy?? That’s a plot-hole. And if you’re wondering why I’m talking about Hunt’s characterization in book one instead of two, it’s because he didn’t develop or change at all in HOSAB. No, he didn’t apologize or redeem himself on any level. So there’s really nothing to say about him as a character in book two. He’s exactly the same. 🌟Female Main Character: Speaking of plot holes, Bryce is starting to seem too much like a super special chosen one in too many ways. In Throne of Glass the protagonist Aelin was raised as an assassin to infiltrate various organizations. So it made sense that she knew so much about fighting, politics, etc. In A Court of Thorns and Roses the protagonist Feyre had very little knowledge of how to do anything in relation to tactics or traditional education. She couldn’t even read; and thus it made sense that she was not really sure how to go about navigating the courts of Prythian. However, in Crescent City Bryce is a party girl in her mid-twenties, that has knowledge of how to use firearms, and that should be it based on how she’s written and who she’s presented to be as a character. But for whatever reason, she also knows how to wield a sword, is some kind of strategist that has knowledge of things that ancient politicians and royals don’t (for no reason) and is for whatever reason also capable of outsmarting individuals she should have no way of getting a leg up on. She isn’t frightened by things that frighten everyone else (on whatever grounds). Also, it’s never justified, but Ruhn wants Bryce to be queen of the fae despite the fact she’s never displayed any kind of suitable leadership skills and she actually lacks a lot of empathy for the fae people as a whole. So why does he want her to be queen? Because she’s the main character, that’s why. No other rationale is provided. She’s also liked by basically everyone. Yes, she has enemies, but that’s only because they stand on opposite sides of a conflict. As a whole, no one actually dislikes Bryce Quinlan. She’s just too fucking special. On top of that, she possesses the horn (a magical super weapon), received an incredible amount of power when she dropped into her immortality, is not only Starborn but a way more powerful Starborn than her brother, and can also teleport when lore-wise Ruhn should be able to do the exact same (but can’t/won’t for some reason that is never revealed). Bryce is also the rightful heir to her royal family (again, surpassing her brother for incredibly convient reasons that aren’t elaborated on) and is also this gorgeous witty woman that has no real flaws. The book also often goes out of its way (even so far as to create plot-holes) just to make Bryce look good. Bryce is a super-star in almost every regard, and she’s constantly becoming even more powerful and special, but never receives believable flaws or weaknesses to counteract all these strengths. In fact, the books try to convince you that Ruhn is the special chosen one and Bryce is the underdog, while simultaneously feeding the reader information that indicates the exact opposite. In the first book, Bryce was traumatized and grieving, and hadn’t become the perfect chosen one yet. Which made her quite compelling. In this book though, her biggest problem is becoming a princess, and that’s it. Her character became stagnant and too perfect as soon as House of Sky and Breath began. She barely develops as a character in this book at all, and as a result all of her “witty one-liners” and “burns” feel like hollow meaningless responses, instead of any real indication of wit. Bryce Quinlan is basically just a dollar store discount version of Aelin Galathynius at this point. 🚻Other Characters: It feels like Sarah J. Maas goes out of her way to try and make Bryce and Hunt as special as possible, and intentionally hinders other characters to achieve this, but by doing so she makes her secondary characters more compelling. By painting Bryce and Hunt as these super special, powerful, beautiful, perfect chosen ones, she ends up depicting characters like Ithan and Tharion as underdogs, which backfires and makes them more interesting than the actual main characters. There’s a reason why 80% of everything I’ve heard about HOSAB since it came out is about Ruhn and the Hind instead of Bryce and Hunt. And it’s because in the author’s quest to make Bryce and Hunt the chosen ones, she forgot to make them people. Their behaviour is never criticized or analyzed objectively. Everything they do is seen as acceptable at worst and god-like at best; painting them out to be too perfect to be real because they just magically know what to do (especially Bryce) even when they shouldn’t. Which is a big part of why them falling in love feels so hollow and lacklustre. As a whole, the best characters in the book were almost everyone except for the two that got the most page time. 📝Writing: The writing was pretty disappointing all things considered. For the majority of the book nothing really happens. Bryce and Co. meet up at her apartment, discuss a missing child, go off with the intention to do something, do nothing, come back to her apartment to discuss shit, rinse and repeat like six times for the next 500+ pages. Usually with high/epic fantasy you feel like the plot is building towards something important in a big way, but this book did not make me feel that. In fact, the first half of this book could be cut completely and the plot would have barely changed. In fact “the main plot” is actually revealed to be nothing of value once you’re about 500 pages deep into the book. After that, the characters decide to undertake a super risky endeavour for no truly viable reason. Almost everyone’s motives for risking their lives are very flimsy and don’t make much sense at all, and the fact that they go about it so carelessly and stupidly takes you out of the story. Again, it feels like the author is forcing characters to comply with what Bryce wants, not because it makes any sense, but because Bryce is the main character and thus everyone and everything should revolve around her. ⬇️Conclusion: As a whole, I do think Sarah J. Mass’s “golden age” of writing has come to pass. Her best works in my mind, are Throne of Glass books #3.0-#5.0 and A Court of Thorns and Roses book #1.0 and #2.0. Since then the quality of entertainment I’ve received from reading her novels has gradually declined. This review probably seems really bitter, but that’s new for me. I normally enjoy her work, but this book really pushed my buttons in terms of how much bullshit I can tolerate. I very much wish I had enjoyed this more. I wholly believe that if Bryce’s and Hunt’s characterization had been better and the pacing was faster, I would have appreciated this book a lot more. There were just far too many moments of weak writing and flimsy characterization for House of Sky and Breath to feel like anything but unsatisfactory to me.

omg that ending though..... 1.) House of Earth and Blood ★★★ Blog | Instagram | Youtube | Ko-fi | Spotify | Twitch

not that ending.

What in the Wattpad fanfic was that ending? The growling got old really fast and all of Hunt’s pRoTeCtiVeNeSs (honestly a lot of red flags there, but we all know SJM loves her “protective” love interests). Probably about half of the book could have been cut and it would have been only beneficial. All of SJM’s books are starting to read as the same— same female leads, same broody love interests, and same dramatic cliffhangers. I don’t mind it, but it’s definitely something I’ve noticed. Also, it’s really, really weird how SJM does “representation”. She has all the LGBTQ/PoC characters as non-POV characters. All of the POV characters are cis, straight, and white-coded. I wanted more Fury and Juniper, but they had the smallest part in this book. Also, Celestina’s sexuality is LITERALLY THE SAME AS MOR’S and it just rubbed me the wrong way. 3.5 stars, but I decided to round down. Honestly, why do I like this book? EDIT: I updated the rating to 3 stars. It just doesn’t match my other 4-star books.

|| 2.5 stars || Okay, I have a LOT to say, so buckle up, because this is going to be a long one. I’ll promise to be completely honest, though: no hate for the sake of hate, and no praise where it doesn’t deserve any. Just pure and total honesty. ➛ Writing First of all, the incessant name-dropping of characters and places I am sure I have never heard of before was genuinely making MY HEAD SPIN. Why was every single page filled with like four names (at least) that nobody knows or cares about and that hold no relevance whatsoever? Was the author purposefully trying to make us rage quit this book? Because honestly, this would have been a great way to make that happen. Especially since the author never even bothered to explain any of her million names or info-dumpings; it’s like she assumed we would all remember every vague detail or name she mentioned a thousand pages earlier, and thus, that we would all be able to pick up her ramblings from where she left off ages ago. Realistically, though, this is just not going to be the case for most readers unless they’re die-hard fans who have memorized every minor, insignificant detail, which I’m assuming most casual readers have not. And really, it’s just not fun to constantly have to try and figure out what the author is even talking about or what she is trying to say. Moreover, was it just me or did some of these sentences literally not make sense? Like, some of the grammatical, structural and vocabulary choices seemed really off, and there were multiple instances (especially at the beginning) where I felt really confused about what I was even reading. I was trying to chalk it up to me maybe being a bit out of the loop when it comes to the lingo of this world (since it’s been a while since I read Iron Flame), but I quickly realised that was not it. I genuinely think some of these sentences just did not make sense. ➛ Plot I think the reason the author got stuck in this confusing and meaningless type of writing, though, is because she genuinely doesn’t have much of a story to tell anymore. Book one thrived because the author still had a romance to develop and because she could show how Voilet earns her place as a dragon rider, but now what does she have? Both these things are established and done at this point: There is no real plot left for her to develop properly, because she isn’t a strong enough writer to go further than those basics. Which I think might be due to the fact that she usually writes contemporary romance books, and so she doesn’t know what to do with a story that doesn’t end after book one or with a world that actually needs explaining or expanding. Instead, it just kind of drags on without a purpose or without real intrigue. And, of course, that doesn’t mean that there’s literally nothing going on here, because obviously it does have some semblance of a plot. I’d even go as far as to say some of the dialogue could be quite entertaining or funny. The problem, however, was that none of the things that happened were actually relevant. I could have simply read the first few and last few chapters of this book and not have missed anything important for the rest of the series: It’s all filler. ➛ Venin storyline Immediately, here’s a little warning to anyone who was planning to read this only because they were curious after the cliffhanger from Iron Flame: Don’t bother. From the very first chapter until the almost-end, Xaden is basically still fine and we’re constantly just waiting for the other shoe to drop. It was really just a whole lot of melodramatics that was dragged out for the entirety of the book instead of the actually impactful plottwist in which Xaden would truly turn dark or evil, which is definitely what the ending of the previous book made us believe would happen. But nope, during the whole book he was honestly just the same dude he’s always been, only now whining about control a whole lot more while also being obsessively protective and possessive. Honestly, though, I should have known from the start not to expect something real, because who would Violet be left to hump if Xaden turned into an ugly, hissing monster? You know what the most ridiculous part about the anticlimactic pay-off from the previous cliffhanger is, though? (warning: spoiler) This book literally ended with the same exact Venin cliffhanger where Xaden drains power to save someone he loves! This means we basically had to sit through this whole entire book where nothing happens, only for us to get to the same exact ending for him once again. I mean, how lazy is that? And honestly, this time I’m not even buying it anymore. I know this cliffhanger will never pay off, because the author is simply incapable of it. ➛ Romance Sadly, I have to admit this romance is still a little bit tiring in general, even though I do think it was far less annoying than it was in Iron Flame. They definitely had less drama and less immaturity, and they also had more faith and confidence in each other. There were even some moments of somewhat healthy and genuine communication between them as well, which is an improvement. Yet, it was still far from great as it seemed they had simply gone from “i love you, but i don’t trust you” to “i love you, but i can’t control myself around you” as the reasons for why these two couldn’t just be together in a normal way. Honestly, though, I don’t think this romance ever really stood a true chance at remaining interesting after the couple already got together so soon in the series, especially since there’s never any real conflict or something that could threaten their relationship for longer than a second. It just becomes boring and bland at that point. I mean, (warning: spoiler) they literally just got married. How much more undeniably permanent can it get? Not to mention, they were still constantly horny around each other, which is never really a sign of a romance filled with depth. I mean, literally, most of the interactions here were about how they DESPERATELY want to have sex, but they can’t because Xaden doesn’t trust himself enough for that anymore. How interesting, right? How meaningful. How romantic. How emotional. *sigh* ”A kiss isn’t enough between us. It never is. You want me the same way I want you. Wholly. Completely. With nothing but skin between us. Heart, mind, and body.” He brushes his mouth against mine, sturrering my breath. “All I want is to lose myself in you, and I can’t. You are the only person in the world with the power to strip me of every ounce of my control, and the only person I can’t fathom losing that control with.” He lift his head. “And yet here I am, unable to keep three fucking feet away from you.” Like, are they even aware that they have more serious problems going on right now than whether or not they can have sex!? There’s a war going on. People are dying. Xaden could supposedly turn Venin. You guys have real issues you should be focusing on! Get a GRIP! And somehow these two are supposed to be the heroes of the story?? With those priorities? Hmm… Really, Xaden, a word of simple advice: If you don’t trust yourself to be around Violet at this stage, then MAYBE just take your goddamn distance for a little bit, find a cure, and have your goddamn sex after that!! ➛ Side characters Unfortunately, I have to say that most (if not all) of the side characters still have minimal personality or depth. They’re all interchangable; I don’t feel like I really know them and so I don’t actually care about them. I feel like some of them do have potential, though, but that potential is never really reached, because the author never bothers to properly develop their character arcs. Which is such a shame, because I remember how much I cared about and loved Liam, which led to me having my heart completely broken in the first book when he died. I just know I would never feel that way about any of these others. And that sucks, because I really do want to care. I mean: (warning spoiler) Who the hell even was Quinn, really? Or Trager? Why on earth should I care about either of them or their deaths? This series has given me absolutely no reason to. That said, Tairn has definitely weaseled his way back into my heart and a lot of his lines managed to put a smile on my face. He’s fully back to his grumpy, sassy, peacock self and I can’t deny loving him for it. He’s definitely giving ‘reluctant dad’ vibes and it really warms my heart while also cracking me up. He’s the only one I actually care about. Although, I also have to say I often enjoyed Ridoc’s banter and Mira’s take-no-shit attitude; they are certainly the ones with the most personality out of all the riders. Not that there is much competition there, but oh well. Out of the two, Ridoc is by far my favourite, though. I kind of like Aaric and Dain or even Cat as well, but they just do not get the attention they need in order for them to have a real personality. I mean, I feel like I could potentionally care about them if only the author gave me the chance to actually get to know them. Now, when it comes to Andarna, I have to say I was warming up to her again after being so annoyed by her being such a brat in Iron Flame, but then she (warning: spoiler) literally just straight-up abandoned Violet, and now I can’t imagine liking her again. Loyalty is supposed to be a dragon’s strongest characteristic, but with that single choice to break their bond for her own gain, she has proven to have none whatsoever, which felt so disappointing coming from a dragon. Therefore, she lost all her redeeming qualities for me: now she’s just an ungrateful brat in my eyes. ➛ Final thoughts All in all, it should be obvious that I have a lot of complaints, but… I can’t say I actually hate it. It’s not necessarily boring, it’s just… not very good either. It’s a repetitive, not-that-well-thought-out read that’s unmistakeably written by someone who doesn’t know how to write a strong, well-developed plot or world. And thus, the result is a rather superficial book that won’t ever be what it wants to be. Still, it could be worse. It’s not entirely without its merrits and there are still moments of entertainment to be found here. I especially feel like the book got better the further along we got. The beginning was truly the most confusing, boring mess I’ve read in quite some time, but it does pick up quite a bit. I’d even say there were a few times I genuinely did enjoy myself later on. In conclusion, I guess it’s just up to each reader to decide for themselves whether those couple of moments of fun are enough to make up for the messy rest… 'The Empyrean' series: 1. Fourth Wing - 4.5 stars 2. Iron Flame - 2.0 stars 3. Onyx Storm - 2.5 stars

2.75 ☆ onyx storm ❌ name storm ✅ i’m about dizzy from the overstuffed, constant bombardment of characters that are practically strangers + territory names that get added into the mix outta nowhere. cause honestly who dafuq. where dafuq. dafuqq. at times u couldn’t even tell if it was a place, person or somebody dragon, gryphon or rat mama pick me up what happend to hello. how are you. my name is. PROPER introductions, explanations, descriptions, context??? there is barely if any characterization in not all but majority of the side characters gun to ur head without research or rereading back tell me who or where exactly half of these NPC’s spawned from rn Baylor, Maren, Zina, Hendrick, Lynx, Avalynn, Kai, Kaveh, Hedley, Erwan, Lindel, Captain Grady(?) and much more ON YUH MUDDA AND MOMMAS the gun would go right off in the clerb even xaden himself is confused. swear first mans says he is talking to a lewellen next he says he’s going to the place???? homie is u coo.🧎🏽‍♀️🏌️‍♀️ (aware that it could be both but confusing all the same) the writing is all around sloppy. there is little to no explanation or follow ups for so much. it makes the story feel disjointed, overwhelming and underwhelmingly underdeveloped at the same time. the pacing is uneven, slow yet crammed with abrupt events and poorly explained political stakes/dynamics that leave you feeling distoriënted and detached. found myself skimming over words and having to look back to fathom what was really goin awn or being said. tweakin if i turned dyslexic i noticed, criticized and felt most of this in iron flame aswell. so no surprise but it’s gotten worse and really off the rails here. moving on… you know i’ll always welcome xaden back with open arms open legs and an open mouth 🤸🏿‍♀️ have bent my big back ova for some of the hot shyt he be doin and spewing but he fell flat with that overly whipped loverboy behavior. don’t get me wronggg, he can still get it, but like much less while i was piped that we got him jealous.. it only lasted for.. 2 seconds. wish halden stirred for more romance also developed into a shallow recycle bin and plain oatmeal sex. still like both of em but they lost that spark and tension that made their connection compelling earlier in the series 🚮 not that i really thought that it ever stood a true chance at remaining interesting or exciting when the couple got together soon for a five book series. ******SPOILERS AHEAD******* i only held out hope there if xaden got into a serious villan venin arc. well that didn’t happen, instead it was boringly dragged out throughout the whole book just for it to be used as a cliffhanger AGAIN… BRUH piss awf however this does have it’s moments of intrigue and did pick up for me again when the rest of adarna’s kind showed up. when adarna broke that bond and left? MY SHAYLAAAAHH i felt that loss, great turning point… up until she boomeranged herself back in zero explanation few pages later. tiktok ban ahh moment 🧍🏾🧍🏾🧍🏾 yk these lazy gutpunches are just starting to feel like melodramatics. atp just let them leave and decease violet’s second signet was also lame just like how a lot seemed to turn out to be. cat being present still is useless?? why she here. what is this ex on the empyrean beach anyways i did appreciate being back into this world even if it’s building collapsed horrendously. while this installment is underwhelming and disappointing, i still vibed and enjoyed it in places. (i might be a bit biased because it helped with my horrid slump) now i LOVED ridoc’s screentime in this, him adarna and tairn, xaden didn’t fail to get a few chuckles out of me. i was really digging aaric and dain in this too. also liked that it delved a little into the relationship of the others with their dragons. didn’t really care for rhiannon’s and imogen’s pov though just gimme ridoc and aetrom i was out here zone-out-reading that last 10% and the fight scenes. the hell was that ending…?? wack. don’t feel like continuing rn since it just seems to go 📉 with every release

OH. MY. GOD. Y’all, I am fuming. Rebecca, girl, WHAT WAS THIS?! 🤦‍♀️ I waited MONTHS, camped out like a feral dragon lover for this release, and THIS is what I get? Three days to read this, people—THREE DAYS! Do you know how fast I read?! A slump was breathing down my neck, and honestly, Onyx Storm almost succeeded in pulling me under. 😤 Okay, okay, let’s get into it: The first half? Boring. Straight-up snoozefest. I was flipping pages, hoping SOMETHING would happen, but nope, it was just filler after filler. The pacing? Tragic. One second, they’re fighting for their lives; the next, it’s like, “Let’s casually take a two-hour dragon flight.” Ma’am, where is the tension? The stakes? The world-building? This felt more like a travel log than a romantasy. 🐉 Speaking of romantasy… Xaden and Violet? My loves? My OTP? WHO ARE THESE PEOPLE? 🫠 The magic they had in Fourth Wing? GONE. Their chemistry felt forced, and honestly, the romance leaned more smutty than emotional. Like, I’m here for spice, but give me some feels, please! Where’s the angst? The swoon-worthy moments? The “touch her and die” energy only happened once, and that’s NOT enough for me. 🫣🔥 The reveals? Meh. Nothing mind-blowing, nothing that made me gasp or scream into my pillow. And THAT ENDING??? Rebecca, why did you think this was okay? It felt like you slapped “To Be Continued” on a draft and called it a day. I was left blinking at my phone like, that’s it? No resolution, no answers, no satisfying payoff. Just vibes and confusion. 🤷‍♀️ Listen, I loved Fourth Wing. I really liked Iron Flame. But Onyx Storm? It felt unnecessary, like a placeholder to stretch the series into five books when it really should’ve been a trilogy. If you’re gonna give me filler, at least make it good filler. I’m giving this 3 stars because, yes, the last half picked up. But otherwise? I’m sad. I’m mad. I’m disappointed. 😭 Tropes: ✧ Enemies to lovers turned lovers ﻿💘 ✧ Found family (kinda?) ﻿﻿💕 ✧ Touch her and die (barely) ✋ ✧ Strong heroine (ehhh, debatable this time) 🗡️ ✧ Magical bond with dragons (always a win) 🐉 Rebecca, FIX THIS. Please. I’m begging you. I need Book 4 to redeem this series because my heart can’t take another letdown. 😩 ─────────────୨ৎ───────────── Currently screaming because I got an early copy of Onyx Storm before release day!!! 😭📖 I have no clue if it’s gonna wreck me in the best way or leave me disappointed, but here I am, nervously turning pages like my life depends on it! 🤯✨ *ੈ✩‧₊˚༺☆༻*ੈ✩‧₊˚

Ok….well…….. How does a series start out strong as hell and slowly take a steady decline until it just plummets????? I was soooooo stoked for this book. I LOVED Fourth Wing. Iron Flame lost a star for me and was hopeful Yarros figured it out and this would be equal to the first in the series. I was wrong. It was worse. Much worse. Somehow the characters went from badass to cringy foul mouthed and immature. Maybe a teenager might dig that noise, but I prefer plot and storyline over “fu*k” like every ten minutes. And the cringe worthy dirty talk? Just annoying. This was tons of filler and sort of disjointed to be honest. For example, on minute they are deep in the throes of a hectic and suspenseful event and in the same breath of the sentence, they are flying for two hours. And then there is no resolution to an event that resulted in a death. Like what?! Ma’am….you’ve missed some scene building and connection here. WTH?? This happened so many times. I thought I was getting another awesome dark romantasy….instead I got smut fantasy. What was once a book a younger pre-teen could even read, quickly became the opposite. Such a let down in general and I can’t believe this is the direction she went. Read Throne of Glass instead. So DISAPPOINTED!

Three stars is very generous. Being kept in the dark about each one of Violet’s “plans” made this book impossible to follow, and I lost interest fast. How am I supposed to care about anything she does when I genuinely have no idea what she’s doing or why she’s doing it. Everything about this book was confusing, especially all of the foreshadowing that never came to fruition. I can’t even imagine how brutal that’ll make the next book (if I even read it.) And Xaden… what happened to you (besides the obvious)? Where’s the revolutionary I fell for? The man who would have done anything to protect his home? Him not giving a shit about anything besides Violet really ruined his character for me. In fact, I found myself pining after Dain more than once. And him calling Violet “love” gave me the ick. And the end… what even. I’m mad.

3 ⭐️ This is basically Iron Flame 2.0. The definition of a filler book. "That's why we'll fail. Because you will choose everyone over yourself, and he will choose you over everyone." WHAT TO EXPECT: ✨ adult romantasy ✨ book 3 of the Empyrean Series ✨ established romance but becomes forbidden (student x teacher) ✨ "if I touch you I might hurt you" ✨ lots of sexual tension ✨ 3/5 🌶️ (4 explicit spicy scenes, shadow play) ✨ war college setting ✨ dragon riders ✨ magic ✨ quest ✨ expanded world-building ✨ complex politics ✨ found family ✨ chronic illness rep ✨ action-packed ✨ high stakes ✨ cliffhanger ✨ TW: grief, slight ex/OM drama, perilous situations, brutal injuries, blood, death ‼️‼️THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS‼️‼️ My Thoughts: Not sure how to rate this, so I'll keep it at 3-stars for now. Things I liked: RIDOC. Actually he’s such a stupid character but I love him and the comedic relief he provides. Honestly, if Rebecca pulls a f*cking Liam with him, I will never forgive her. The fact Violet wasn’t annoyingly insecure like she was in Iron Flame. She actually served cunt more than a few times too 👏 and not just to Xaden. 😉 Xaden and his absolute devotion to Violet. He’s the definition of a simp, and I love me a man obsessed with his woman. And the things he says to her. SWOON! But, with everything that happened at the end, I'm looking forward to how or if this might change in the next book. The isle quest storyline. Even though they were exploring places we’ve never been (hello new names and characters we’ve never met), this quest allowed readers to connect with a specific group of characters, making the story more dynamic and enjoyable. There also was a purpose to this quest, so there was a goal the characters were working towards vs them being put in random situations that didn’t really matter (which happens a lot in the first 50% of the book). The smut was pretty good. Finally Xaden put his shadow to good use! Officially a shadow daddy. I know this is unhinged, but I’m hoping in book 4 we get some hot venin sex. 🙈 BUT most importantly, where is Broccoli??? Is she okay??? You can't just introduce a freaking kitten to this story and never mention it again! I think this book was better than Iron Flame. Probably because it’s shorter. There were a lot of moments that I found entertaining and fun; especially the isle quest which starts around 50%. It’s almost like Rebecca used the first half of the book to manage the messiness created by Iron Flame and then got to hone in on the plot and have fun with the second part of this story. Things I didn’t like: The amount of name dropping was disorienting and annoying. Who the f*ck is Cragh? Taccarus? Lewellen? Drake? Quinn? Trager? If you aren't Xaden or Violet or their close friends and family, I have no clue who you are. Even then, I needed to jog my memory with some of the people in their squad, like Bhodi and Garreck. I swear they were the same person. 😂 But then, Rebecca decided to introduce or reintroduce a bunch of other random places, gods, and people (including giving us last names) . . . it was too much! Seriously felt like my brain was assaulted. I think Rebecca might have bit off more than she can chew. While this world is so interesting, the way it’s being presented doesn’t quite stick which is why so many people have complained about not being able to keep track of people, places, and things. When that many readers are confused, it’s apparent it’s a writing problem vs a reader comprehension problem. To dive into this more, authors like J.R.R. Tolkein, Brandon Sanderson, Sarah J. Maas, and Stephanie Garber all have similar or more complex world-building in their popular fantasy stories, but despite the complexities, the world-building is extremely clear and digestible. These authors weave complexity into the narrative in a way that feels immersive without overwhelming the reader, by layering information naturally through character experiences, dialogue, and context, making sure each detail has a clear purpose. The biggest difference between good writing and bad writing is how authors develop world-building and present new characters, places, or story elements. When authors rely too heavily on info dumps or abruptly introduce important elements without proper buildup or development throughout the story, it leaves readers scrambling to make sense of what's happening. Well-crafted world-building should unfold gradually, with each new detail fitting naturally into the larger picture, keeping the reader engaged and grounded in the world without feeling lost or overwhelmed. I raw dogged this book, and I found it difficult trying to remember who was who and what the f*ck was going on. I’ve honestly never had this much trouble before. And I’m only more nervous for the next book because Rebecca said on tour that the gods will start to play a bigger role. So on top of having a confusing mortal world, we’re about to potentially be introduced to deities who have their own world and political dynamics. Ugh, this is bringing up my PTSD from the From Blood And Ash series. 😣 The plot and specific conflicts were basically variants of everything that happened in Iron flame. While it continued the story, it seemed familiar because we’ve gone through similar plot points before. The OM drama, training sessions, Dain and Sloan's budding romance (hello, Violet and Xaden 2.0), fights with the venin, and Xaden turning is rehashed. The only difference is that now Xaden is fully venin. 🙄 I didn't even get that emotional about it because we already went through the shock in Iron Flame. This just felt inevitable, so no surprise there. I also gave zero f*cks about the classroom, training, and battle scenes. The stakes are high in this book but the classroom scenes were so slow and boring - I just didn’t care about what was happening. The training sessions felt like a rinse-and-repeat of what we’ve already seen in the first two books, so they just didn’t hold my attention. There were so many new names and characters thrown in that I couldn’t bring myself to care about any of them, especially since they weren’t developed enough to make me invested. As for the battles, I zoned out during most of them and only really paid attention when someone actually died. But even though I was momentarily surprised by the deaths, I didn’t feel any real impact because I wasn’t emotionally attached to the characters. The pacing wasn't as frantic as Iron Flame, but the plot still felt a bit chaotic. I said this about Iron Flame too, but once again, the pacing reminded me of a TV show where each episode builds up to a mini dramatic moment, gets somewhat resolved, and then moves on to the next. There were a lot of these small subplots that felt more like filler scenes than meaningful story progression. Honestly, I really wish romantasy authors would stop stretching what should clearly be a trilogy into a 5 book series, because books 2-4 often end up packed with unnecessary bullshit filler material that could easily have been cut down to make the story clearer, more concise, and just better overall. But unfortunately, when something is a hit, it gets milked for all it's worth, and the price paid is the quality of the story. There were quite a few moments where Violet was intentionally obtuse. For example: - When Violet and Xaden go to the isles. These two have been horny for each other since page one, but they can't fully be together because Xaden doesn't trust himself to pull from the earth. But then, they mention that there's no magic on the isles. As soon as I read that, I thought, "Oh, they're finally going to get together!" But it takes Violet forever to even connect the dots. It just didn’t make sense when she’s been practically salivating over Xaden the entire book. - The fact that Violet never talked to Xaden about her nightmares for months is ridiculous. If my husband and I have weird dreams, we’re talking about them the next morning. Violet even knows Xaden has nightmares too, but doesn’t ask about his or share that hers happen the same nights. Wouldn’t you want emotional support from your partner after waking up from a nightmare? It just felt like Violet was purposefully not addressing the nightmare so that it could be brought up later and the 'right' time in the story. - When Violet is on one of the isles and sees white haired attendants, and then a high priestess makes weird comments about Violet not completing her dedication at the temple. Instead of thinking, "Wait, what’s going on here? Why do these people have silver hair like me (when it’s supposedly rare), and this lady is saying some odd things", Violet just brushes it all off with a, "Well, that was weird," and moves on. And of course, it turns out to be really important later. It just felt like she was being unnecessarily dense in a way that pulled me out of the story. While I do like Violet and Xaden, and I'm glad there was minimal miscommunication in this book (unlike Iron Flame), their relationship is so lust heavy that it overshadowed any real connection. I know they LOVE each other and would die for each other, but it's like, every page they're eye fucking each other. I think since their relationship is established, there isn't much else romance wise to be done unless another love interest appears or someone's feelings change (which may happen in the next book since Xaden is venin but he did spend the entire book saying no matter what he will always love her sooooo I sort of doubt it). The actual relationship was stagnant with the focus shifting more toward their sexual chemistry than any meaningful evolution of their bond. The ex drama. 🙄 It didn't irk me the same way the Cat drama did, but it just felt like a weak plot device used to create tension between Violet and Xaden. And honestly, Xaden being jealous is just absurd. The man is the epitome of confidence and would never feel threatened by anyone—not even a crown prince. PS: If Cat died I wouldn't care. She wasn't a problem in this book but her making comments about Xaden still gave me the ick. I may get a lot of shit for this one, but I feel that Violet’s disability, which is supposed to significantly affect her physical capabilities, doesn’t seem to have much of an impact in practice. Homegirl is taking down skilled fighters, jumping off dragons, and other crazy shit. While I understand that she trains diligently and wraps her knees, it still feels unrealistic for someone with physical limitations to be able to perform so many physically demanding tasks without significant consequences. The idea that she can always "fight smarter, not harder" works to an extent, but it feels a bit hard to believe that her opponents, who are often experienced and skilled, always fall for her strategies. Especially when she’s only been training in combat for 1-2 years. Even characters like Brienne of Tarth from Game of Thrones, who was physically capable and highly skilled, struggled against opponents of equal or greater strength. Violet, on the other hand, doesn’t seem to face many of the same physical or magical limitations. And even when she does find herself in difficult situations, there’s often a rescue or intervention (typically from Xaden or Tairn). I get that there are explanations for everything, but it’s frustrating because, even though her disability is presented as a major challenge, it doesn't seem to truly affect her in the way it realistically should. There were a lot of side characters / plots that were pointless. - Dain going on the isle quest. He goes because everyone thinks he’s the only translator, but then Aaric steps up and is fluent in every language they come across. So then Dain just shuts the f*ck upm, sits back, and offers absolutely nothing to the story. I feel like Rebecca only included him in the quest because if she didn’t, he wouldn’t even have been featured in his story besides stealing the journal from his dad’s office in the beginning. - Grady leading Violet and a squad of randos. This was supposedly a big deal but they go on one mission and he, along with others I don't even care about, die. That was it. The end. - The entire storyline of Theophanie. She was supposed to be a venin who had all the answers for Violet. But she dies at the end without ever sharing anything with Violet. Sooo she was just this book's villain, there to create conflict/drama but doesn't serve any real purpose in the long run. Which makes me annoyed. It just once again furthers my belief that this was a filler book. People might say, "Oh, Rebecca is setting the groundwork for the next book", but no. I firmly believe you can do this in a way that still keeps the storyline strong and engages the reader. - The old lady at the bookshop asking Violet, "What made you leave the prince?" What the fuck does it matter? She really wouldn't have given Violet her father's journal if she refused to answer a stupid, personal question. The questions she asked were supposed to test intelligence and understanding so she could properly comprehend the journals. And her answer was basically "he didn't love me in the way I deserved to be loved," so the old woman replies, "You know your value. Your father would be proud."🙄 Sooo glad she has self worth, now can we please have these journals that will possibly save the entire realm from destruction? Kay, bye! Honestly, this moment just felt like a blatant attempt at empowerment that missed the mark. I’m all for strong characters, but this felt so forced and cringey, and honestly, it detracts from the story. This is exactly why this series is not on par with classic fantasy books. Also, what would happen if venin won and took over the world and sucked magic from every single thing? What would they do then? Like, what's their goal? I get this is probably a question we're supposed to have but that feels like a massive plot hole. If they suck the world dry of magic, they'll have nothing. . . And it took Jack almost a week to die because he couldn't replenish his magic so if they took over the world, would they all just die after a week? - The Empyrean Series: 1. Fourth Wing: 5 ⭐️ 2. Iron Flame: 3 ⭐️ 3. Onyx Storm: 3 ⭐️ 4. Book 4 5. Book 5 - Favorite Quotes: Xaden is mine. My heart, my soul, my everything. _______ "Every possible path may require breaking a few laws." "Dragons do not answer to the laws of humans." _______ I will not die today. I will save him. _______ "Why is it always you?" _______ "I could reach the rank of Maven, lead armies of dark wielders against everyone we care for, and watch every vein in my body turn red as I channel all the power in the Continent, and I would still love you. What I did doesn't change that. I'm not sure anything can." _______ "Telling me you're capable of horrible things while still loving me is pretty much your idea of foreplay." _______ I'm afraid our daughter has atrocious taste in men. _______ Everyone wants wisdom but needs luck. _______ You might be angry when you realize I didn't wake you to say goodbye, But it's only because I no longer fully trust my ability to walk away. _______ "Xaden, I need you." "No, I need you." _______ "You want me the same way that I want you. Wholly. Completely. With nothing but skin between us. Heart, mind, and body." _______ "You are the only person in the world with the power to strip me of every ounce of my control, and the only person I can't fathom losing that control with. _______ "I won't lose you, not even to yourself." _______ "We live by the Codex-" "I live by you." _______ "I am yours and you are mine, and there's no law or rule in this world or the next that will change that." _______ "He's not my boyfriend." Rhi snorts and Ridoc offers me a sarcastic thumbs-up. "Agreed," Xaden says. "That's far too casual a term for what we are." _______ "You're the only one capable of killing me." _______ "Oh gods, just stop flirting and f*ck already." (Ridoc) _______ "She really, honestly hasn't thought about you. At least not since the second she set eyes on me." _______ "I'm jealous of the armor that holds you when I can't, the sheets on your bed that caress your skin every night, and the blades that feel your hands." _______ He is the craving I'll never sate, the rush I'll never get enough of. Only him. _______ "Bad things happen when we aren't together." _______ "My the Continent does have some fine-looking men." _______ "Everyone assumes she'll wind up with you, but it's my last name she ends up wearing on her flight jacket in formation." _______ "My loyalty is to Violet first above everything, everyone else. Then Tyrrendor. Then Navarre in the moments it's worthy - usually when Violet is in residence." _______ "You already hold my soul and now you want my pain? Getting greedy, Violence." _______ "There is no cure for me." He presses a kiss to my forehead. "That's why you have to become better than me. There's only you." _______ "Oh, and just so we're clear, that strike up there wasn't" - Ridoc gestures between us - "you know. Us." He flinches. "Well aware," Xaden replies. "First because I trust Violet, and second" - he glances at Ridoc in a dismissive once-over- "it wasn't a big enough strike." _______ "I want a patch for this shit, Violet. A quest squad patch. Understand?" (Ridoc) _______ "My control when it comes to you is an illusion. You are the temple where I worship. I live for the clench of your thighs, your breathy little cries, the feel of you coming around my cock, and above all else, the sound of my favorite three words from this mouth." _______ "Is it toxic? Maybe. Is it us? Absolutely. _______ "You are every fantasy I'll ever have." _______ I was infinite yet moored, and now I'm hollow and adrift in waters too vast to comprehend. _______ I exist for Tairn, but I live for Xaden. _______ "Harder. Rougher. I can do that." I nod. "I'm sure you can, considering who you're sleeping with," Ridoc teases. _______ What even am I? Hers. _______

2.75/3💫 im pissed off because what was onyx storm? what was the point of this book? considering that fourth wing and iron flame are two of my absolute favorite books in the entire world is saying a lot when i tell you that this one the most useless filler book because it actually filled you with nothing! complete nonsense if u ask me. the first half of this book? confusing. messy. who are all these people and why were they all thrown in this book with no explanation as to who they are? i was bored and frustrated with how many plot holes there were. and again, who are all these people? i felt so disconnected from xaden & violet in this one. they didn’t even seem like the same characters i know and adore :( the ending??? so tell me Rebecca, what was the point of this book? if nothing is going to get resolved or figured out or whatever, why write it and publish it? im like actually mad at this book for how useless and unnecessary it was. maybe 3 stars only because i did enjoy the last half of the book, but with the way it ended, it just showed that this book was either 1) absolutely unnecessary or 2) should have been like a 300 page book

2.5 stars I was SO EXCITED for this book and spent all day on release day reading after getting it at the midnight release. The beginning started off well enough, but for over half of this book in the middle, we were just going from one place to the other with no real answers to any questions and the pacing slowed down sooooo much. I just wasn't super interested in the plot and felt like it was taking me forever to read. The romance was SUPER lusty, which I normally don't mind, but I felt like they told us they loved each other so much, but we didn't super see that through their actions beyond them wanting to jump into bed together. I would have loved the more emotional and romantic side to their relationship beyond what they just talked about. There was a really great "touch her and die" moment, but that was really it for me in the book. There were some reveals in this book, but still SO much that we were introduced to in the first two books we have no answers to. And most reveals felt...fine? Nothing really blew my mind, which leaves me a bit disappointed. And the end? No idea what happened 🤣 I had to have a friend explain it to me because I was just confused more than shocked. I had a few theories going into this and thought my own theories were more twisty and exciting than what actually happened. I want to be shocked and obsessed, and I just didn't with this book.

I won't argue that Rebecca isn't an amazing author because she is and her writing is so powerful at times!! But unfortunately in this one, the plot was just not plotting. It wasn't steady- suddenly it got very interesting and then again, it got super boring in the middle, it was putting me to sleep. And that ending what 😭😭 I am genuinely so confused. Also, why is my rating for this series progressively decreasing 😃🔫 the first book was a five star, second one a four star and this one a three star...should I be scared for the next one coming out? *** Starting this and swearing myself off the internet till I finish it 🤞

➼ 3★ “I could reach the rank of Maven, lead armies of dark wielders against everyone we care for, and watch every vein in my body turn red as I channel all the power in the Continent, and I would still love you. What I did doesn’t change that. I’m not sure anything can.” grab a sit because this shit will be LONG. before starting, i feel the need to say that my thoughts don’t have to make sense to you; since i’ve seen people coming after who didn’t like the book. if y’all want to tell me your opinion, i gladly listen but only if it’s in a polite way, otherwise get fucked 💋 first of all, what is this? i didn’t do a reread while running for my life of the first two books to end up reading this???? saying i’m disappointed is an understatement. YOU CAN’T MAKE THE LAST 30% GREAT AND THEN REST SHIT. it doesn’t work like that!!!! if rebecca had written the whole book like she did for the last 30%, this book would’ve been a masterpiece. but she didn’t!!!!!!!!!!! it enrages me that the story has so much potential, but it’s all wasted in a series mid at best. SPOILERS! SPOILERS! SPOILERS! (don’t read the comments) ⤷ this book was such a filler. i get that rebecca wants to make money out of this series, but at least deliver something good😭 you know what? a trilogy would’ve been the perfect choice, and i’ll die on that hill. fourth wing is actually really good, i liked the book the first and second time i’ve read it. my first read of iron flame was disappointing, but the second time i enjoyed it way more. and i can easily say that onyx storm is the worst one so far. ⤷ this is supposed to be a series about dragons, am i right? this is called The Empyrean, which means it’s about the dragons. then why the hell the dragons are side characters? i swear if in the next books violet interrupts tairn while talking about dragons, i’m gonna riot. I WANT TO KNOW TAIRN’S STORY! i feel like i know just what the humans know about dragons, we don’t have their povs, which is such a shame! i hope rebecca will explore further this topic, because it’s what makes this series this series? ⤷ the plot was interesting—the adventure of finding andarna’s family, while looking for a cure, the various isles they visit, the peoples they meet. but dare i say it was badly executed? the most boring writing style to ever exist! there wasn’t a single moment i wasn’t out of my mind bored. the repetitiveness of the events from the first two books, mixed with the new info delivered a salad of confusion, boredom, annoyance… the slowest pace on earth. reading 100 pages felt like reading three books of 700 pages each. the amount of info rebecca throws at you is ridiculous, and the only thing she accomplished with it was confusing the reader. the amount of foreshadowing is insane, taking into account it’s badly executed. so many questions, no answer whatsoever. ⤷ but at least we didn’t have to experience violet’s complains about xaden keeping secrets. FINALLY!🤸🏻‍♀️ i have to say that i’m a bit surprise by violet’s character development. i found her more likable. but basically what happened here was rebecca writing about violet while thinking about xaden, because this violet is xaden 2.0 from book 1-2. of course, this is not enough to make me like violet. in the first two books she was insufferable (sorry not sorry). also, where did she find all this intelligence? because suddenly she knows how to solve any problem that comes her way. this is so unrealistic, it makes me want to rip my hair off. ⤷ xaden riorson the man that you are. the most interesting character in the book with no pov😃 why?😃 is it too much to ask for it? i would’ve loved to read about his thoughts about being venin, trying to fight the urge to channel etc. i usually have 0 complains when it comes to this man, but i have one thing to say… let’s talk about his political choices, because what the hell? i’m not a political expert whatsoever, but even a dumbass could tell he was too invested in violet to make good political choices (or the right choice in general). i love how in awe xaden is for violet (we all love a man like that), but he needs to get his shit together and be the leader he was born to be. as for the rest, this man could walk all over me, tell sgaeyl to torch me to death and i’d say THANK YOU. ⤷ their romance. well, what can i say. i like the jealousy trope, but rebecca could at least choose a good ex-bf for violet. halden is basically a doormat. i can’t believe xaden got jealous over a guy whose value equals the dirt under my shoes after a walk in the woods on a rainy day. i’d say their love story got better, because we don’t have to read about violet stomping her foot like a brat, we don’t have to listen to her complaining all the time that xaden doesn’t tell her shit while she doesn’t ask the right questions. but please, for the love of god, we got it violet—he’s yours, he’s beautiful, the most stunning man who’s eve walked on earth and bla bla bla. SPARE ME VIOLET! omg my thoughts are all over the place ⤷ side characters. there are too many that i don’t even want to waste my time talking about each of them. i’m just gonna say that most of them are fucking useless. but aaric greycastle? what a pleasant surprise. he knows what he’s doing and he doesn’t even need to brag about how smart he is, how clever he is, how many languages he knows (not you dain). he doesn’t need to show off because he knows his value. and that’s so HOT. dain aetos was slightly better, sometimes unintentionally funny, but this is not enough to make me change my mind about him. he has to work harder if he wants to get in my good graces. and what the fuck is going on with him and sloane???????????????????? ⤷ andarna’s departure and return were a dumb move? i would’ve expected her coming back in book 4, with a new set of skills, a cure for xaden, or whatever. but she literally was away for a week?😭 ⤷ ending. i had to come back and reread the last two chapters, because saying i was confused is an understatement. rebecca is such a drama queen, but at least it was fun to read💀 okay, these were my thoughts. i still need to process what happened, because it was A LOT. i’ll probably add a few more in the next days. now i just wait for the slump to hit me like a train😃

** spoiler alert ** 3.5 stars— I have always considered myself a John Grisham fan beginning with “A Time to Kill”. After going back and counting I believe this makes the 28th John Grisham book I have read. I have rated his books everything between 1 and 5 stars and this book ranks somewhere in the middle in my opinion. “The Judge’s List” starts strong with a cloak and dagger type opening where a mysterious, anonymous lady reports very serious allegations about a sitting judge to the Florida Judicial Inquiry Commission. The back and forth between the Investigator, Lacy Stoltz and Jeri Crosby, the complainant, is very entertaining for the first half of the book. The more you learn about the Judge the more you understand why Jeri would be terrified to report this and give her identity to traditional law enforcement. That is why when Lacy finally agrees to open an investigation into the judge’s actions, it seemed absolutely absurd that Jeri would tip the Judge off that he was exposed with taunting letters letting him know he was under investigation and the extent of his crimes. Once the Judge was tipped off, Grisham does an admirable job of keeping the suspense ramped up until the end but uses a few “shortcuts” that make the book a lot less believable. This includes a “super spyware” program that would make Julian Assange salivate and the Judge’s super deduction skills that allow him to easily guess the person who has figured out he is a serial killer. Even with the inconsistencies, I enjoyed the book and would give it a thumbs up.

** spoiler alert ** The latest release by Grisham is the second book with Lacy Stoltz, who was introduced to us in “The Whistler”. As like that book, the storyline is about an investigation. It’s a chase between cat and mouse. There is a serial killer and we know who he is, so there is no mystery. The thrill is the discovery, is how to proof. The development of the story is quite slow. The first 18% was very boring. The protagonist, who is very intelligent, is far from thrilling. We get to know the whistleblower, a woman who lives in fear and whose father was killed over or about 20 years ago, and who had a remarkable resource to investigate the case on her own, during all that time. She sounds crazy, is totally obsessed and is very persistent to the point of being annoying. She knows how to keep her identity unknown. She sounds so remarkable that I found hard to believe in this character. She hires a private detective. They both were able to connect all the dots but the police or even the FBI were totally clueless. Then we have the murderer. I confess that I found his POV the most thrilling part of the book. But for a great part, I was completely bored. But there are some exciting moments (or gruesome moments). I just couldn’t (and I can’t) believe that Grisham wrote this book. It’s so different from his style. The dialogues are very repetitive, very uninteresting. And that ending? Such an easy way out. Will I read another book with Lacy as the protagonist? Yes, as long as it is written by Grisham. Edited for correction on Nov 11, 2021.

This is a second book of a series but it can be read as a stand alone novel. In this one Lacy receives a complaint against a judge. This person is stating that the judge is a serial killer. The person is a family member of one of the victims. She has proof that the judge has committed these murders even though not one agency has put two and two together. I might be a little generous with my rating here but I did love the concept of the story. I also was invested in how it would all play out. That being said there are some major flaws with this book. Like I said I was invested in the story as I can get behind a story about a well respected person of authority being a killer. They would have opportunity and the knowledge to get away with it and who in their right mind would suspect a judge. I also enjoy the idea of following Lacy who works for an agency who keeps an eye on judges. I also liked the motive of the judge too. So where did this novel have flaws? There were some major plot holes in this book. Sometimes characters seemed to act differently to move the plot along so we can get to the thrill of it. I also thought Lacy was relegated to a role of intermediary in this book. She really did not do much to move the investigative plot forward. I would argue if we took her out of this book it would basically happen the same way. Lacy's role was to get the FBI involved. That was it. I believe Grisham is the king of courtroom dramas and really cannot do no wrong. This is a little out of his area of expertise even though it is in the same realm. It is more of a thriller about a serial killer. It shows that this is not Grisham's area. There are plot holes that made me think that does not seem right. One of them is Lacy and her involvement. I liked the book but these plot holes stopped me for loving it. It definitely needed some polishing. There are better Grisham books and better serial killer books out there.

I have read many books from Grisham but not all some I was just not interested in. I still think his second book the Firm is his best book and he is Mitch lol. This book started very strong and was his darkest book and had a good edge to it and for a bit I thought wow this night be his best book and it had that potential. I would say after the first 30 percent it just unraveled. The two main good charatcers never really clicked, amd it semed to bog down at times. The one main good character never really did that much just made excuses for no investigation. It lost steam and the dark side to it and it could have been a very original story ughhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. As the story went on I lost more interest in it. I just think he had a good idea but did not know where to go with it. The last quarter of the book was a struggle and the ending was bad -can't sugar coat that lol and did not make sense-it was blown. The first 30 percent or so was good and the rest was what would could have been . This book barely got by the 2 star barrier land on 3.0 on the dot but could have been a high 4 star book. I guess give it a spin if you are a die hard big fan.

Lacy Stolz has been an investigator for 12 years for Florida’s Board on Judicial Conduct, which is responsible for investigating complaints filed against Florida judges. Jeri Crosby is convinced that a sitting judge murdered her father 22 years earlier. She has devoted her life to discovering the truth. The judge terrifies her, because it appears that he has kept a list of those who have wronged him and can take years to exact his revenge. “Eight murders, at least in her book, in seven states, over twenty-two years.” The evidence is scant but after years of research, Jeri is convinced that the motive and method are strong warranting Lacy’s attention. The judge needed to be stopped and to pay for his crimes. Grisham is a master storyteller, and in this book he weaves a tale of murder, cold cases, and revenge in the legal profession. I remember reading The Firm and loving it. At that time, Grisham had only written one other book, A Time to Kill, which I thought was even better. His books were typically entertaining legal thrillers with the underdog protagonists in extraordinary situations fighting against superior adversaries. I used to avidly read and enjoy all his books and then stopped. Why? Not sure. Maybe formulaic. Maybe I wanted something new and fresh to read. I just lost interest. However, I started reading him again and saw him at the Miami Book Fair. After I finished reading this book, the ending with the suspect bugged me and overall the story felt contrived and implausible. How could a 49-year-old judge with his background have such resources? How could the murders go years unsolved for such a prominent individual? (view spoiler) Also, I knew there was no such inquiring agency. Grisham did acknowledge at the end that the Judicial Qualifications Commission, not the Board on Judicial Conduct, investigates complaints filed against Florida’s judges.

The Whistler's Lacy Stoltz returns, still working for the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct three years after she investigated--and put away--a corrupt judge who was taking millions in bribes. The investigation led to her being injured and nearly killed. Now she's tired of her work on the Board and looking for a change. Then she meets Jeri--a woman so scared of being discovered she'll only meet Lacy anonymously. Jeri's father was murdered over twenty years ago, and the case is long cold. But Jeri's convinced he was murdered by a serial killer. She's stalked this man for years, becoming more obsessed and sure that he's killed other victims. She's pretty sure she's right, but evidence is hard to come by, because he's a sitting judge. One who knows the law, police procedures, and more. This judge is cunning and evil, so how can Lacy investigate him without becoming his next target? "'Okay, you're making me nervous, so let's walk through this real slow. You believe a sitting judge murdered your father twenty-two years ago.'" This is a fairly interesting read and pretty typical Grisham fare, overall. It took me a moment to recall Lacy, but once I did, I liked her again. I even grew to care for Jeri, even though she's a fairly melodramatic character. She's spent most of her adult life tracking the supposed serial killer who killed her father, at the expense of everything else in her life, and let's just say, it shows. The idea of a sitting judge who is also a killer is a compelling one, though I must admit I was often expecting a bit more--one more twist or turn beyond what happened. Still, this was a creepy and dark story, and Jeri was a pretty impressive amateur sleuth. I enjoyed most of the book, but felt like the ending petered out a bit. Usually you can count on Grisham for a better dramatic ending than what was offered here. Overall, still a good mystery and worth a read. 3.5 stars. Blog ~ Twitter ~ Facebook ~ Smashbomb ~ Instagram

Having recently finished While Justice Sleeps this book showed up in the GR recommendation list. While Grisham narratives tend towards being formulaic, others I've enjoyed lacked the predictability of this one. And while the notion of a sitting judge being a serial murderer is unique, it stumbles through repetitive plot points in every chapter. Jeri is a late 40s, highly educated black woman who discovers her father was murdered by Russ Bannick, a Florida judge and seeks justice. In the process of research she finds he'd murdered others using the same technique, aka serial killer. Afraid of being discovered by Bannick, she approaches Lacy Stoltz at a FL Judiciary investigation bureau to tell her story, but meets resistance since the bureaus is not equipped to investigate murders, nor is it the type of cases they handle. Chapters toggle back and forth between Bannick's history and Jeri's research. As he makes his way through law school and joins a law firm, he takes unsavory events personally and over time, draws up a list of those who were the cause whether attorneys, clients or otherwise. When an opportunity arises to 'even the score', he takes pride in 'eliminating' the problem due to the precision and technique he's developed. Classic contradiction in terms which is the ONLY unique element in the story. Jeri and Lacy continue the dialog and eventually come to terms. You don't have to be Sherlock Holmes to figure out where the story is going and this is NOT what I expected from Grisham. While I've enjoyed many books by this author, this is far from what I'd hoped. And that's how the cookie crumbles

Was a big a fan of Grisham's early work as anybody. Although there is some solid plotting and characterization in this one, there is also fair amount of meh and what? An ok novel no regrets reading it, but not standout in any way.

I haven't read a John Grisham novel since I read The Firm in high school. I picked this one up based on the premise, and it mostly felt like an extremely talented writer who has reached the point of phoning it in. This was on the verge of being a really interesting exciting book, and then becomes totally anticlimactic. Also I felt a lack of verisimilitude with how plot elements were handled based on my existing knowledge of the FBI and the ViCAP program in recognizing and apprehending serial killers. It wasn't a bad book, but it could have been so so so much better.

A Crimson Waltz of Power, Pain, and Passion! Mafia romances used to thrill me. It’s been a while since I let a mafia dark romance crawl under my skin —less a love story, more a dissertation on inherited violence and the quiet, terrible cost of wanting to be good in a world that never taught you how. So Caught Up is a dark, erotic, and deeply contemporary romance that interrogates the intersections of trauma, power, and healing. Navessa Allen uses the conventions of the mafia romance and the sex work romcom to subvert expectations, centering consent, agency, and the messy work of forgiveness. The novel is unflinching in its portrayal of violence—both physical and emotional—but refuses to glamorize it, instead showing the cost of generational harm and the courage required to break free. At its heart, the story is about reclaiming narrative: Lauren reclaims her sexuality and her story from shame, while Junior reclaims his future from the grip of his father. Their love is not a panacea but a partnership, built on honesty, mutual respect, and the willingness to do the hard work of healing. The found family at Velvet, the celebration of kink and sex-positivity, and the ultimate triumph over cycles of abuse make Caught Up a powerful meditation on what it means to choose love, again and again, in a world determined to deny it. 🩸 The Premise What happens when the man you loved kills your father—and then becomes your most loyal subscriber? Nico “Junior” Trocci was born with a bullet between his teeth and guilt in his bloodstream. The heir to a mafia empire, Junior has done terrible things, but none worse than what he did to Lauren Marchetti. Years later, he worships her anonymously through a camgirl screen, a ghost in her inbox, craving penance through pixels. Lauren—saint, sinner, survivor—is not the same girl who fell for a boy with a gun. She owns her sexuality now. She sells it. But on her terms. With her girls. With her queerness. With her fire. They’re not just two people with history. They are an open wound with no stitches. And when they see each other again? It’s not a love story. It’s a slow-motion trainwreck dressed like a second chance. 🔖Junior Trocci (aka: Mafia Malfunction in Designer Shoes) Eldest son. Haunted heir. Certified emotional disaster. Has enemies in five countries and eyes only for you. PS:I have a thing for Hot Italian Mafia's!! Was raised to be a killer, fell in love with a girl who charges by the minute. Violent? Yes. Vulnerable? Unfortunately, also yes. Obsessed with Lauren in a way that's half Romeo, half "I’d burn down the city if you asked nicely." Redemption arc incoming, but not before he threatens a few dozen people and breaks your heart. Therapist recommendation: URGENTLY. “He's ruthless; a walking red flag. Good thing red is my favorite color.” 💄Lauren Marchetti(aka: Saint Camgirl of Don’t-Mess-With-Me) Sex work advocate with eyeliner sharper than her trust issues. Has been betrayed by everyone—including her own last name—but refuses to stay down.. A woman who has been slut-shamed, exiled, fetishized, and filmed—but who builds a family out of the ashes. Built an empire in fishnets and fury. Witty, wounded, and 100% done with your judgment. When Junior shows up with mafia daddy issues and sad eyes? She considers forgiving him… then makes him grovel (as she should). Boundaries? Set. Power? Reclaimed. Will stab you with consent and style. This was the problem with us. He could stalk me, interfere with my life, and put up more red flags than an entire circus, and I would still look at him and remember the boy I’d grown up with. "When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time.” It had become my mantra because I had learned the hard way that if you give people second chances, they’ll only use them to hurt you more.” 🏷️Storyline recap: Mafia heir Nico “Junior” Trocci gets a dead body for his birthday. Classic. It's just another night of blood, rain, and guilt—until he realizes the man he helped kill was the father of the girl he’s been obsessing over since high school: Lauren Marchetti. Lauren? She’s not the same girl he left behind. She’s a camgirl now, loud about sex work rights, unashamed, and on fire. She’s got scars, rules, and a one-strike policy. And guess what? Her number-one sub online—the only one who really sees her? Yeah. It’s him. What follows is a head-on collision of past betrayals, mafia mess, kinky club nights, and way too much tracking (both emotional and literal). Junior wants a second chance. Lauren wants answers. But between groveling, stalking, church confrontations, mafia dinners, and literal blood on the floor… nothing’s clean here. This isn’t some soft redemption arc. It’s messy, feral, and laced with hurt. But maybe—just maybe—love can crawl out of all that darkness. In a world of mob violence, sex work stigma, and chosen family, Caught Up Into the Darkness asks: Can love survive when it was born from lies and built in blood? ╰┈➤ Now let’s give love to the side character goldmine: 📌Moira Trocci Italian mob mom with eyeliner sharp enough to kill Junior’s mama. Was probably born in heels and holding a switchblade. Quiet strength, ancient secrets, terrifying maternal energy. Has been through hell but still gets dinner on the table. Will smile sweetly as she slaps the patriarchy out of her husband. Matriarchal rebrand: activated.She’s got secrets. She’s got strategy. She’s got a knife in her purse and a prayer on her lips. Wears Chanel No. 5 while dismantling patriarchy from the inside. She sees everything, says little, and moves like a queen in a game full of pawns. And when she finally does speak? Everyone listens. 📌Taylor (aka: Bad B*tch with a Weapon and a Dildo) She’s Barbie if Barbie had anger issues and a switchblade in her bra. Will defend Lauren to the death (or until someone bleeds—same thing). Loud. Loyal. Lethal in heels. Would absolutely post bail for you, but will also roast you the entire way home. Her motto? “Slut-shaming is cancelled and so are YOU.” The human equivalent of glitter on a crime scene. Will throw hands, wigs, and insults in the same breath. Swears like it’s punctuation. Has a secret soft side for her friends, but only when the cameras are off. Will absolutely bring a flamethrower to a knife fight—and bedazzle it.. She fights with stilettos and dildos and I would trust her with my life (and my passwords). 📌 RYAN (nonbinary brilliance, here to save your life and your Wi-Fi) Emotionally intelligent. Gender-fluid excellence. Codes like a god and cries during Pixar movies. A literal unicorn in a house full of feral chaos gremlins. Brings peace, boundaries, and spreadsheets to the table. May be quiet, but you cross Ryan and your router will mysteriously combust.Could erase your digital footprint in 3 seconds—would only do it if you said please. 📌 Nico Trocci Sr. (aka: Toxic King No One Asked For) Walking manifestation of generational trauma and expensive cologne. Thinks love = control and parenting = trauma bonding. Wants Junior to be a clone of him. Secretly soft inside? Maybe. Probably not. Who cares. We're just waiting for him to catch a poetic and painful downfall. Also: Your daddy issues should NOT look like this. 📌 Aly (aka: Mafia Nurse, Soft But Deadly) Sweet? Yes. Soft? No. She’s kind, but don’t test her. Aly’s the kind of girl who knows how to bandage a bullet wound and deliver a brutal truth in the same breath. Could’ve gone no-contact with the Troccis, but chose to fight instead. Icon behavior. 📌 JOSH (the “hacker with a heart” trope perfected) Gives “I accidentally got caught up in a mafia scandal but I’m having fun now” energy. Madly in love with Aly and will absolutely risk prison to help her cousin’s mafia drama. Snarky. Scruffy. Lowkey brilliant. Has seen too much but still believes in love and snacks. Will blow up your firewall, then offer you soup. 📌 GREG, ALEC, STEFAN (aka: the bloodline of dysfunction) Greg: Will 100% die on the “loyal to the family” hill. Unwell, unhinged, unloved. Alec: Has read Nietzsche once and won’t shut up about it. Stefan: The type to casually stab someone and then ask “you okay?” like it’s small talk. Each one’s more emotionally suppressed than the last. Together, they are a therapy group waiting to happen. 📌 TYLER (finance bro with a felony past) Bookie. Manipulator. Probably knows your credit score. Wears designer suits and moral ambiguity. You’ll never know if he’s helping you or plotting your downfall. Smiles like a villain in a cologne ad. Too charming to trust, too useful to kill. Junior’s necessary evil. We stan (but also fear) the ambition. e ╰┈➤ Plot Devices- -Dual POV: Mafia prince & camgirl—two worlds, one collision. -Secrets: Lies unravel, past haunts, trust shatters. -Intimacy: Power, healing, truths... Found Family: Loyalty is earned, not inherited. -Violence & Redemption: Break the cycle or bleed trying. 🧨TROPES EXPLODING EVERYWHERE: -Mafia x Sex Worker -Childhood lovers turned strangers turned camgirl x stalker sub -Secret identity (yes, he’s that sub) -Stalker -Catholic guilt, but make it kinky -Found family > blood family -Groveling. On. His. Knees. -Photo booth nostalgia -Daddy issues in olive oil form -Enemies at Sunday Mass energy -“I bought your club” but make it ✨low-key threatening✨ -Slut-shaming revenge arc but she's the one winning now -He cuts off a finger for her. That’s love. Right?? -“He killed her father” (and he’s obsessed with her now, obviously) -Voyeur kink. Camera. Red light. He watches. She knows. We combust. -Grovel so good it hurts. Like “I’m kneeling with my hands bleeding, begging you to ruin me back.” -“My body belongs to me but I’d still let you worship it” energy -Good girl gone powerful. (And he’s feral for her dominance) -Catholic guilt + mafia trauma + Camgirl rage = elite spicy angst cuisine -Holy metaphors during unholy acts (IYKYK) -He’s her #1 OnlyFans subscriber. She doesn't know. Until she does. Then we all die. -Trauma bonding done RIGHT. -Found family is Queer & Chaotic. Protect them at all costs. ✍️Highlights -Catholic guilt as foreplay? Check. -Mafia dinners that feel like Greek tragedies? Check. -The velvet club voyeur room scene? Should not be legal. -Found family vibes from the roommates? Give Ryan and Taylor their own book. Junior’s groveling? I wept... ‼️Lowlights -‼️“They say love survives time. I say: not when you ghost each other for years and reunite like horny strangers.” So… this was supposed to be second chance romance, right? A reunion filled with years of buried history, aching regret, slow-burning fury, and tender what-ifs? Instead, I got Second Chance: Who Are You Again? featuring two characters who acted like trauma bonding was foreplay and five minutes of reuniting erased five years of silence. It’s giving: 🩸 “You left me bleeding in the dark.” 💋 “Cool, let’s make out in chapter two.” Excuse me??? But here's the thing: The execution fumbled. Instead of burning, it boiled over. No slow sizzle. Just... insta-rage + insta-sex + insta-love = wait, what just happened? But Ohk! I get it, but it could have been better! ~Trigger warnings include: murder, stalking, Catholic guilt, kink negotiation, exhibitionism, mafia dinners, finger-severing, and the occasional wholesome aftercare. ✨ He sins for her. She heals for him. Together? They rewrite the rules. 💀 Love never looked this illegal. 🎥 And this time, it’s going live. Bonus:☝🏻Mafia Love Language: -Acts of service = taking a bullet for you -Words of affirmation = “You’re mine. Forever.” -Quality time = hiding bodies at midnight together -Gift-giving = a villa in Sicily and your enemy’s severed pinky -Physical touch = walls may be harmed in the making of this romance 🧾 Final Line Vibe Check “She was the girl with the leak. He was the boy with the gun. They met again in a church, not to pray—but to resurrect.” -FINAL RULING FROM THE DON akame: 📚 Book Rating: ★★★☆☆¾ (2.75/5) Sharp premise, but execution stumbles. The drama hits hard, but not always where it should. 🌶️ Spice Rating: 🌶️🌶️🌶️½ (3.5/5) A slow burn packed with heavy tension, possessiveness, and intense scenes that leave a mark—but not always evenly paced. This book? A vendetta wrapped in velvet.It’s dark. It's devotional. It's deadly.It’s one of those books that’s easy to admire but hard to fully enjoy. Solid three stars. I read this in one go.It’s the kind of book that feels profound while you're reading it, but exhausting in some..Expect chaos. Expect ache. Expect obsession dressed in violence and velvet..

3.5 ⭐️ I didn’t love this the way I loved Lights Out, but I still had a good time with it. 🖤 The Premise Nico “Junior” Trocci is a mob heir who wants out—of his father, the life, and most of all the damage he did to Lauren Marchetti, the girl whose heart he shattered ten years ago. Lauren is no longer the shy, bookish girl Junior walked away from. She’s a confident camgirl, sex-work advocate, part-owner of a local play club, and a woman with firm boundaries and zero tolerance for men who can’t handle her. What she doesn’t know? Her most devoted subscriber—the one who’s adored her through a screen for years and spent thousands—is Junior himself. 🐾 My Thoughts “I cared about her so much that I'd broken both our hearts to keep her safe.” This book is much heavier than the first. The dark-comedy chaos is mostly gone, replaced by guilt, fixation, and intensity. Junior’s obsession with Lauren is quiet and slow-burning. His stalking isn’t flashy or feral—it’s controlled and deliberate. “I don't want to clip your wings, Lo. I want to see you fly.” Even though I wanted more chaos, Junior’s emotional security made up for it. He supports Lauren without hesitation and never tries to dim her shine. Kneeling? On his knees? Yes. “Don't boss me around or I'll come.” Lauren is bold and fully in control of her sexuality. I loved the sex-positive rep, her confidence, and the way she takes the lead in introducing Junior to new kinks. That said, their history does a lot of the emotional heavy lifting. They had a brief teenage relationship that ended badly, followed by years of Junior watching from afar. While I enjoyed the devotion and protectiveness, I wasn’t always convinced by their connection in the present. The attraction was strong, but I wanted more grovel—and more payoff—to make their bond feel fully earned. For a mafia romance, the stakes were surprisingly low. The mob element stays mostly in the background, and whenever things could’ve gone darker or messier, the story played it safe. The found family moments were a highlight—Walter included. Nonna was hilarious, and seeing Aly, Josh, and Fred again made my heart happy. I also really liked the Trocci brothers, especially Alec. 🥀 Final Take “She was my match, my queen, and I would spend the rest of my life worshipping her like one if she let me.” A kink-heavy, obsessive second-chance romance with intense vibes and very little humor. It didn’t give me kick-my-feet excitement, but I still enjoyed the ride. The duet narration by Teddy Hamilton and Kasi Hollowell helped a lot, and I’m definitely excited for Tyler’s story. Tropes / What to Expect 💌Second Chance ♠️Mafia Romance 🔒Obsessive / Protective MMC 🩶Morally Gray MMC 🎥Camgirl FMC 🏡Found Family 🌶️ Voyeurism, Exhibitionism, Spanking, Public Sex, Breath Play, Fear Play, Primal Play, Bondage Into Darkness Series 1. Lights Out — 4.5 ⭐️ My review 2. Caught Up — 3.5 ⭐️ 3. Game On — TBR ── ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ──── ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ── ✧･ﾟ Pre-Read ･ﾟ✧ starting book two we’ll see how this goes 🫣

—— 𝟑.𝟓 ☆ 𝐬𝐭𝐚𝐫𝐬. 🏍️ ❝𝑺𝒉𝒆 𝒎𝒂𝒅𝒆 𝒎𝒆 𝒘𝒂𝒏𝒕 𝒕𝒐 𝒇𝒊𝒈𝒉𝒕 𝒕𝒐 𝒌𝒆𝒆𝒑 𝒍𝒊𝒗𝒊𝒏𝒈, 𝒕𝒐 𝒏𝒐𝒕 𝒍𝒆𝒕 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒎𝒐𝒏𝒔𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒔 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒅𝒂𝒓𝒌𝒏𝒆𝒔𝒔 𝒘𝒊𝒏, 𝒃𝒆𝒄𝒂𝒖𝒔𝒆 𝒊𝒕 𝒘𝒂𝒔 𝒔𝒐 𝒎𝒖𝒄𝒉 𝒃𝒆𝒕𝒕𝒆𝒓 𝒃𝒆𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒔𝒖𝒓𝒓𝒐𝒖𝒏𝒅𝒆𝒅 𝒃𝒚 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒍𝒊𝒈𝒉𝒕.❞ 🎧┆𝐂𝐚𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭 𝐔𝐩 𝐛𝐲 𝐍𝐚𝐯𝐞𝐬𝐬𝐚 𝐀𝐥𝐥𝐞𝐧 🏷️┆𝐆𝐞𝐧𝐫𝐞: 𝔻𝕒𝕣𝕜 ℝ𝕠𝕞𝕒𝕟𝕔𝕖 📆┆𝐃𝐚𝐭𝐞𝐬 𝐑𝐞𝐚𝐝: 𝟞/𝟙𝟙/𝟚𝟝 ⤷ buddy read with my girl ashlyn ♡ check out her review! 📋┆𝐒𝐲𝐧𝐨𝐩𝐬𝐢𝐬 「 “Nico 'Junior' Trocci knows Lauren Marchetti is off limits. She is sweetness and laughter, whereas Junior exists in a world of violence and depravity. Men like him don't get to have women like her. But when Junior looks Lauren up online, he discovers the shy, bookish girl he remembers is gone. In her place is a strikingly beautiful woman whose social media is filled with scantily clad pictures of herself and a connection to a nearby play club. Junior's innocent curiosity quickly turns into a dark obsession. But watching Lauren from a distance isn't enough; he needs to make her his.” 」 ❝𝑰 𝒅𝒐𝒏’𝒕 𝒘𝒂𝒏𝒕 𝒕𝒐 𝒄𝒍𝒊𝒑 𝒚𝒐𝒖𝒓 𝒘𝒊𝒏𝒈𝒔, 𝑳𝒐. 𝑰 𝒘𝒂𝒏𝒕 𝒕𝒐 𝒔𝒆𝒆 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒇𝒍𝒚.❞ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ❝𝑷𝒆𝒐𝒑𝒍𝒆 𝒍𝒐𝒗𝒆𝒅 𝒕𝒐 𝒄𝒍𝒂𝒊𝒎 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒘𝒐𝒎𝒆𝒏 𝒘𝒆𝒓𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒘𝒐𝒓𝒔𝒕 𝒈𝒐𝒔𝒔𝒊𝒑𝒔, 𝒃𝒖𝒕 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒚 𝒅𝒊𝒅𝒏’𝒕 𝒉𝒐𝒍𝒅 𝒂 𝒄𝒂𝒏𝒅𝒍𝒆 𝒕𝒐 𝒎𝒊𝒅𝒅𝒍𝒆 𝒂𝒈𝒆𝒅 𝑰𝒕𝒂𝒍𝒊𝒂𝒏 𝒎𝒆𝒏, 𝒘𝒉𝒐 𝒕𝒖𝒓𝒏𝒆𝒅 𝒔𝒉𝒊𝒕 𝒕𝒂𝒍𝒌𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒊𝒏𝒕𝒐 𝒂 𝒇𝒊𝒏𝒆 𝒂𝒓𝒕.❞ ᴍʏ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: ★★★½ ɢᴏᴏᴅʀᴇᴀᴅꜱ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: 𝟺.𝟷𝟸 ☆ ꜱᴛᴀʀꜱ ꜱᴘɪᴄᴇ: 🌶️🌶️🌶️🌶️ ᴘᴀɪʀ ᴡɪᴛʜ: ᴀɴ ɪᴛᴀʟɪᴀɴ ꜱᴜʙ 🥖 ɴᴏᴡ ᴘʟᴀʏɪɴɢ: 📻 ᴜɴʜᴏʟʏ ♪ ꜱᴀᴍ ꜱᴍɪᴛʜ & ᴋɪᴍ ᴘᴇᴛʀᴀꜱ ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ʏᴏᴜ ʀᴇᴄᴏᴍᴍᴇɴᴅ?: ꜱᴋɪᴘ ᴛʜɪꜱ ᴏɴᴇ ʀᴇᴀᴅ ɪꜰ ʏᴏᴜ ʟɪᴋᴇ: 🏍️ ᴛʜᴇ ᴍᴀꜰɪᴀ 📹 ʙɪᴋᴇʀ ʜᴇʟᴍᴇᴛꜱ 🏍️ ᴍᴜʟᴛɪᴘʟᴇ ᴘᴏᴠꜱ 📹 ᴛᴏᴜᴄʜ ʜᴇʀ & ᴅɪᴇ 🏍️ ᴄʜɪʟᴅʜᴏᴏᴅ ʟᴏᴠᴇʀꜱ 📹 ꜱᴇᴄᴏɴᴅ ᴄʜᴀɴᴄᴇ ʀᴏᴍᴀɴᴄᴇ ⚠️TW: sexually explicit discussion/scenes, murder, stalking, violence, gore (brief), light BDSM, public sex, voyeurism, exhibitionism, fear play, primal pray, bondage, sex work. ❝𝑰 𝒈𝒍𝒂𝒏𝒄𝒆𝒅 𝒅𝒐𝒘𝒏 𝒉𝒐𝒓𝒓𝒊𝒇𝒊𝒆𝒅 𝒕𝒐 𝒔𝒆𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝑰 𝒘𝒂𝒔 𝒂𝒓𝒄𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒊𝒏𝒕𝒐 𝒉𝒊𝒎 𝒂𝒈𝒂𝒊𝒏𝒔𝒕 𝒎𝒚 𝒘𝒊𝒍𝒍. 𝑰𝒕 𝒎𝒖𝒔𝒕 𝒉𝒂𝒗𝒆 𝒃𝒆𝒆𝒏 𝒔𝒐𝒎𝒆 𝒉𝒐𝒓𝒏𝒚 𝒄𝒉𝒖𝒓𝒄𝒉 𝒈𝒉𝒐𝒔𝒕 𝒑𝒐𝒔𝒔𝒆𝒔𝒔𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒎𝒆. 𝑺𝒐𝒎𝒆 𝒏𝒖𝒏 𝒘𝒉𝒐 𝒉𝒂𝒅 𝒍𝒊𝒗𝒆𝒅 𝒂𝒏 𝒆𝒏𝒕𝒊𝒓𝒆 𝒍𝒊𝒇𝒆 𝒐𝒇 𝒄𝒆𝒍𝒊𝒃𝒂𝒄𝒚 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒏𝒐𝒘 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒔𝒉𝒆 𝒘𝒂𝒔 𝒅𝒆𝒂𝒅, 𝒂𝒍𝒍 𝒔𝒉𝒆 𝒘𝒂𝒏𝒕𝒆𝒅 𝒃𝒆𝒇𝒐𝒓𝒆 𝒔𝒉𝒆 𝒑𝒂𝒔𝒔𝒆𝒅 𝒊𝒏𝒕𝒐 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒂𝒇𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒍𝒊𝒇𝒆 𝒘𝒂𝒔 𝒐𝒏𝒆 𝒓𝒐𝒖𝒈𝒉 𝒇𝒖𝒄𝒌. “𝑻𝒉𝒆 𝒑𝒐𝒘𝒆𝒓 𝒐𝒇 𝑪𝒉𝒓𝒊𝒔𝒕 𝒄𝒐𝒎𝒑𝒆𝒍𝒔 𝒚𝒐𝒖.” 𝑰 𝒎𝒖𝒕𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒆𝒅. 𝑫𝒆𝒔𝒑𝒆𝒓𝒂𝒕𝒆 𝒕𝒐 𝒆𝒙𝒑𝒆𝒍 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒇𝒓𝒐𝒎 𝒎𝒚 𝒃𝒐𝒅𝒚. 𝑱𝒖𝒏𝒊𝒐𝒓’𝒔 𝒍𝒊𝒑𝒔 𝒕𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒄𝒉𝒆𝒅. “𝒀𝒐𝒖 𝒕𝒓𝒚𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒕𝒐 𝒆𝒙𝒆𝒓𝒄𝒊𝒔𝒆 𝒎𝒆, 𝑳𝒐?” ❞ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ 💬┆𝐓𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐬 • I really thought I was going to love this one more because of how much I loved Lights Out, but the vibes just weren’t there. 😕 It wasn’t a bad book. I still had a good time with it, especially hearing Teddy Hamilton’s sexy voice on the audiobook. But it didn’t give me that giddy, feet kicking feeling that Lights Out did. It was lacking something. • Junior & Lauren were so dull. No personalities other than sex & the mafia. Their relationship had no humor. No laughter. No chemistry. It was too serious & I felt like it all came down to lust. I did appreciate Junior supporting Lauren with her sex work/club. That’s secure king behavior right there. • Growing up Catholic & being part Italian, I understood & related to their lives/backgrounds; going to Sunday Mass, the “Catholic Guilt”, the nosy Italian family. Am I an awful Catholic for loving the confessional booth scene? 🥵 Going straight to hell. • My favorite parts of this book weren’t the scenes with the main couple, but instead all of the scenes where Josh & Aly made an appearance. My Shaylas 🥺 • Yeah so Voyeurism & orgies.. not my journey! But I will never yuck someone’s yum. That last chapter did absolutely nothing for me except make me cringe a little. • Will I read the next book in the series? Yes. ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ❝”𝑫𝒐𝒆𝒔 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕, 𝒎𝒆𝒂𝒏 𝑰 𝒉𝒂𝒗𝒆 𝒚𝒐𝒖𝒓 𝒉𝒆𝒂𝒓𝒕?" "𝑩𝒆 𝒄𝒂𝒓𝒆𝒇𝒖𝒍 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 𝒊𝒕 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒕𝒊𝒎𝒆." "𝑰'𝒍𝒍 𝒈𝒖𝒂𝒓𝒅 𝒊𝒕 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 𝒎𝒚 𝒇𝒖𝒄𝒌𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒍𝒊𝒇𝒆."❞ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ ✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧⋄⋆⋅⋆⋄✧ 𝐈𝐧𝐭𝐨 𝐃𝐚𝐫𝐤𝐧𝐞𝐬𝐬 𝐒𝐞𝐫𝐢𝐞𝐬 🔪 𝙻𝚒𝚐𝚑𝚝𝚜 𝙾𝚞𝚝 (#𝟷) 𝟺.𝟽𝟻★ 🏍️ 𝙲𝚊𝚞𝚐𝚑𝚝 𝚄𝚙 (#𝟸) 𝟹.𝟻★

3.5 stars~ this was an angsty, passion-filled mafia, second chance romance that i flew through. ultimately, it just didn’t deliver the same feelings for me that lights out did. junior’s story is an emotional push-and-pull starting with him getting the girl he’s waited a decade for but it felt like it was missing some high stakes to really amp up their story. this is a solid mafia romance and i was never bored, it just wasn’t what i was necessarily hoping for. i wasn’t expecting or needing lights out 2.0 but this one wasn’t evoking a lot for me. lights out had me laughing from start to finish and outside of lauren’s interactions with her sassy roommates, caught up didn’t really deliver much banter or “comedy” for me. i love a mafia romance so i was okay with that but it also felt like everything was low stakes? it starts with junior removing the obstacle that’s stood between him and lauren for years but i wish there was build up to that. same with his stalking, he had some really great gestures but i just wanted more. i wanted unhinged and some of his actions were but they were mentioned like he just went to the grocery store and then we moved on. same thing with his issues with his dad, for most of the book he’s like “i should really do something, i hate working for him” but i wish the book had started with him having some plan to leave and then seeing it boil over sooner rather than the same interactions happening with his father over and over. their chemistry was spot on and this one had a LOT of spice but it felt like all of their interactions were centered around that so i never got the feeling that lauren was interested in more or longing for a relationship like she was alluded to have been feeling until they were really together. i needed actions and meet-ups and connection that did not involve spice. i did love lauren’s personality a lot of the time (though some of the conflicts felt kind of forced by her) and i loved that she was showing him new things and awakening new kinks for him. i enjoyed it and recommend it, especially if you’re already not expecting aly and josh in a different font, i just wished the stakes had been made higher from the start.

Again the audiobook for this was SO GOOD! Both the narrators did an incredible job at brining these characters to life. I really enjoyed the dynamic of these two despite not typically being a huge fan of second chance romance. Junior has been protecting (lowkey stalking) Lauren from a distance for the past 10 years, this man is OBSESSED!! So fun ⭐️

i liked the plot and pacing of this a lotttt more than lights out! nevessa allen never fails to make me laugh 🤍✨

....So freaking boring! I had high hopes for Caught Up because if Lights Out taught me anything, it's that Navessa Allen knows how to make a ridiculously entertaining dark romance, but this was honestly neither dark nor fun. Sure, Nic and Lauren were a hot couple and they had some great scenes, but the plot and all the family drama was so boring and drawn out. Where was the nitty gritty?!? Where were the high stakes? The unhinged obsession?!? Besides some light stalking and mob activities, the whole book was just so tame and lacking.

This was... fine? After loving the first book, I went into Caught Up with high expectations, especially since I usually love mafia romances. Nico "Junior" Trocci had the setup to be a compelling morally grey character, "a walking red flag", and Lauren’s transformation from sweet and bookish to confident and bold had potential. The beginning definitely grabbed me — I was totally hooked for the first 80 pages or so. But somewhere along the way, the spark dimmed. I found myself missing the gritty tension, danger, and darker action that usually make mafia romances so addictive. The chemistry between Junior and Lauren was definitely there, but it didn’t leave a lasting impact. I kept waiting for something bigger to happen, but it never quite delivered. Overall, the characters were okay, the story was okay, but it just didn’t hit as hard as I’d hoped. I wanted more intensity, more stakes, more emotions. Still, not a bad read — just not one I’ll be obsessing over.

3.5 stars Loved the 1st book, like cray cray loved it, I think it became a favourite of mine from last year, so my anticipation levels were out the roof waiting for this one to land on my iPad. I enjoyed parts of this book, but didn’t full out scream from the rooftops that I loved it! And it all comes back to the previous book, that book had me giggling out loud, I connected with the characters, the feels were all over the show. This book was missing that something special which was sprinkled throughout in the previous book, I loved the hero in this, but didn’t really connect with the heroine. They had the spice which carried this book but it didn't really showcase their connection, I didn't feel it. It didn't wrap me up in the feels like a second chance romance should've. And yet again I wouldn't say this is a dark read.

✩ 2.75 stars ✩ What to Expect: ➼ Second Chance ➼ Found Family ➼ Biker Guy x Cam Girl ➼ Touch Her & Die ➼ Stalker Romance ➼ Morally Grqy MMC ➼ Dark Mafia Romance ➼ Duet Narration ➼ Dual First Person POV I don’t enjoy mafia romances in general and voyuerism really doesn’t appeal to me, so I’m honestly not that surprised that this book wasn’t my fav. I loved Lights Out, so I wanted to give this one a shot, but I think Lights Out was the exception for me rather than the rule. I think it mainly worked for me because the MMC had such strong golden retriever energy once you got past the stalking. 😂 Once the plot started heading into mafia territory, that book somewhat lost my interest as well. I would still say this was a pretty enjoyable read, but there were too many major details that didn’t work for me to rate this any higher. BUT… If you love these tropes, I think you will love this book! ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ Pre-read: I really liked Lights Out, but this premise isn’t as appealing to me. We’ll see if I make it through… ≪ ◦ ❖ ◦ ≫ Connect with me on Instagram

Ten year obsession is crazy, but like… commitment 🎥💕 Caught Up delivers exactly what you’d expect from a dark romance built on obsession, messy power dynamics, and unresolved teenage history — and for the most part, it works. Lauren Marchetti is a camgirl and sex worker rights advocate who feels confident, sharp, and unapologetic in her choices. Nico “Junior” Trocci, meanwhile, is a reluctant mafia enforcer who has been quietly obsessed with her for a decade. When he reconnects with her online after pushing her away in high school, that obsession reignites in a way that’s equal parts swoony and slightly unhinged. The dynamic is intense. There’s tension, possessiveness, and that morally gray edge dark romance fans look for. Allen’s humor is still very much present — there were moments I genuinely laughed out loud, which I’ve come to expect since reading Lights Out. That balance of sharp banter and heavy themes is something she does really well. That said, I didn’t feel quite as emotionally immersed as I did with Lights Out. The chemistry is there, the spice is there, the obsession is definitely there — but I wasn’t as deeply invested in the emotional arc. Some of the power dynamics and redemption beats didn’t hit as hard for me as they could have. Still, it’s entertaining, funny in places you don’t expect, and unapologetically dark. If you like obsession, mafia tension, complicated history, and a heroine who owns her space, this absolutely delivers. Not my favorite of Allen’s, but still a solid, fun read. Final Verdict: Dark, funny, and intense — just not quite as emotionally gripping as I wanted it to be. A strong 3.5 stars.

Cute, spicy read. Kind of a gender swapped lights out if you think about it. In this version, the one on the camera is Lauren, not Josh. And the voyeur is Junior (Nic), not Aly. I had a fun time with this book but didn’t connect with it as much as I did with Lights Out. I love Josh as a character, and the humour he brought was top notch, Nic is a more serious and broody character. Both good romances, just different. Junior wants a way out of his life. After being groomed by his mob boss father most of his life, he realizes that continuing this path is the thing he wants least in the world. What does he want most? Lauren. After having broken her heart as teenagers, Junior has never forgotten his first love. But Lauren is all grown up now, pursuing more adult interests such as being a c@m girl and having shares in some member only clubs. She has never forgiven Junior for his betrayal. But when he pushes his way back into her life, she can’t deny the attraction. But as Lauren pushes away, Junior pulls her back. But with years of lies and secret obsessions between them- can they find a way to be together and not caught up in all the drama?

loved the vibes but there was just something missing. I wouldn’t even consider this too much of a dark romance, it was a bit light and fluffy. book one we got knife handles and body fluid ice cream. this one just missed the mark a little for me and I didn’t find it all that interesting, however the writing style is really engaging. though, the progressive nature of the book was really cool. only fans creator vibes. kink club. they/them pronouns. voyeurism. SO FUN!!! I’ve never read a book like it that’s so open with all that stuff (call me naive and maybe just need to explore a bit more in the dark romance genre lmao) but I thought the concept was really strong. I loved Junior but I didn’t love Lauren and felt a bit of a disconnect towards her and I’m not sure why. maybe internalised misogyny???? who knows. but she didn’t excite me like Aly did in book one. overall a good read but not a must read and no where near as good and funny and exciting as book one.

⋆˚࿔ 𝐑𝐞𝐯𝐢𝐞𝐰 𝜗𝜚˚⋆ 2.5⭐️ Even with my expectations already buried in hell, I still ended up disappointed. Just to be clear I wasn’t hoping for another Josh and Ally situation (in fact, I would’ve hated that), but this book didn’t give anything. Just vibes. Mafia-ish talk. A lot of potential with very little delivery. Everyone kept saying this was mostly smut, but I’m starting to wonder if I’m just unhinged because I didn’t feel like there was that much of it? The only scene that really stood out was the confessional, everything else felt like background noise. Honestly, I don’t even know what this book was aiming for, but whatever it was, it missed. The characters were forgettable, the chemistry was non-existent, and I just didn’t care. That said, I am a little curious about Josh’s friend, so if he gets a book, I might give it a shot. Just out of nosiness. ⋆. 𐙚 ˚ pre read ⋆. 𐙚 ˚ I’ve seen so many bad reviews, my expectations couldn’t be lower if they tried.

I don't think I was vibing with this book. But it was fun seeing Aly and Josh.

Waiting for book 3

3.5 stars This review was first posted on Mystery and Suspense. Check it out for features, interviews, and reviews. www.mysteryandsuspense.com/the-dark-h... In this 23rd book in the Bosch World series, Renee Ballard and Harry Bosch work together to solve two related homicides and Renee tries to track down a tag team of rapists. The book works fine as a standalone but knowledge of the characters is a bonus. ***** LAPD Detective Renee Ballard worked in the elite Robbery Homicide Division until she accused her boss of sexual harassment and got transferred to the night shift. On the graveyard shift Ballard gets to start investigations, but then has to pass them off to the day watch. Renee resents this and often finds a way to continue the investigations, to the chagrin of her superiors. On New Year's Eve 2020 Ballard and her temporary partner, Detective Lisa Moore of the Sex Crimes Unit, are sheltering beneath an underpass while Angelenos follow the tradition of firing guns into the air. Falling bullets often shatter windshields, so the detectives are staying out of the way while they anticipate a call about the Midnight Men, a team of two rapists known to strike on holiday eves. Shortly after midnight, Ballard and Moore are called to the scene of a death. Auto shop owner Javier Raffa, who hosts a neighborhood party every New Year's Eve, was shot in the head. Renee would normally turn the Raffa case over to West Bureau Homicide, but they're overtaxed so Renee gets to keep the case for the time being. As it turns out, a shell casing connects Raffa's homicide to the unsolved murder of rapper Albert Lee ten years ago, a case investigated by Detective Harry Bosch. Bosch worked for the LAPD for over thirty years, but was always a maverick, and was finally pushed out. Bosch now works independently, looking into cold cases. Ballard contacts Bosch - who's her mentor and friend - about the deaths of Raffa and Lee , and the duo decide to investigate the homicides together. Renee and Harry discover that Raffa had been a member of the Las Palmas gang, but borrowed $25,000 to buy himself out. As it happens, victim Albert Lee had also borrowed a large sum of money, and the detectives speculate that the debts connect the murdered men with their killer. Meanwhile, on New Year's Day, a woman named Cindy Carpenter reports that two men raped her the night before, and the modus operandi proves they're the Midnight Men. Ballard has to pursue the rapists on her own because Detective Lisa Moore has sneaked off for a vacation with her boyfriend. This lackadaisical attitude has become common in the LAPD due to the Covid pandemic, public vilification of the cops, violent protests, and the defund the police movement. The malaise hasn't spread to Renee though, who works day and night to capture criminals. Meticulous police work by Ballard and Bosch uncovers clues about the Raffa and Lee shootings, and a man walking his dog gives Renee a lead on the tag team rapists. Ballard's fervent pursuit of the perpetrators puts her life in danger, and flouting the rules gets her in trouble with her lieutenant. As the murder and rape cases head toward resolution Ballard considers leaving the LAPD and working with Bosch full-time. Will a visit from the chief of police change Renee's mind? On the light side, Ballard adopts a chihuahua mix from Wags and Walks. The rescue pooch, named Pinto, goes paddle-boarding with Renee on her days off and stays in 24-hour doggy daycare when Renee's working. Ballard also meets an attractive EMT called Garrett Single, who helps Renee out in a pinch and invites her to a firehouse dinner. Is there romance in Renee's future? This is an excellent thriller, and I look forward to seeing Ballard and Bosch work together again. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

I've been a huge fan of Michael Connelly's Harry Bosh series since the first book, The Black Echo, appeared in 1992, and I've eagerly looked forward to each new installment in the series. Bosh was introduced as a veteran of the Vietnam war and was in his middle thirties when he first appeared, and Connelly made the decision to age the character in real time so that Harry is now in his late sixties. This decision has presented the author with some significant problems, principally in that Harry was forced to retire from the L.A.P.D. and is obviously not the man he used to be, physically at least. Connelly kept the character relevant by allowing him to investigate cold cases, by having him get his license and do some work as a P.I., and by temporarily detailing him to a small police department outside of the city. But several years ago, he introduced a new and younger detective, Renee Ballard, who is as much an outsider in the L.A.P.D. as Bosch was. This is now the fourth novel to feature Ballard and along the way, she has managed to team up with Harry who serves as a mentor to Ballard and who assists her off the books with her investigations. This book begins on New Year's Eve as 2020 turns into 2021. Ballard is soon working two cases and, like Bosch before her, is managing to antagonize her superior officers and a number of her fellow cops as well. One of the cases involves two men, known as the Midnight Men, who have committed a series of rapes. The other involves the murder on New Year's Eve of an auto shop owner. Ballard soon discovers that the gun that was used to kill the man ties back into an old, unsolved case that Bosch once worked. Naturally, she turns to Harry for the details of his case and in short order, the two are working together again with Bosch as Ballard's silent partner. The investigations play out against the backdrop of the Covid Pandemic, the Black Lives Matter movement and the Capitol insurrection. Much of the book moves pretty slowly, and it doesn't really pick up speed until the last quarter of the book. Part of my problem with the book is that I love the character of Harry Bosh but I still have not been able to warm up to Renee Ballard who seems to be a pale imitation of Bosch. And in my humble opinion, the author is having something of the same problem. Bosh has always been a riveting character and the stories Connelly created around him were always charged with tension and pulled the reader along at a breakneck pace. With Ballard, it often seems to me that Connelly is basically going through the motions, giving us a lot of police procedure without much spark. Back in the day, when I opened a typical Harry Bosch novel, I was basically out of circulation until I finished it. But I don't find Ballard or these stories to be nearly as compelling. I read this book over the space of four days and had no problem at all frequently putting it aside and going on to other things. In the end, this may simply come down to the fact that I hate the idea of an iconic character like Harry Bosch being reduced to the role of somebody's sidekick. I realize that Connelly basically painted himself into a corner by letting Bosch age in real time, but I wish he had come up with a better approach to keeping the character relevant. Perhaps at this stage of the game, he might have gone back in time to tell a story from earlier in Bosch's life when Harry was a younger and more vigorous man. Lawrence Block did this once with his series character, Matthew Scudder to very good effect. Ultimately, I don't know if I really care to read any more "Renee Ballard and Harry Bosch" novels, but I'm comforted by the fact that I have a shelf full of real Harry Bosch novels that I can return to whenever I need a great read.

3.5 stars. I struggled to rate this book because it's not a Harry Bosch novel and that's what I wanted it to be. Yeah, I get it. It's now the Harry Bosch Universe. He's retired. He's going to be a secondary character from now on, but I'm just not as intrigued or compelled by Ballard. She's a good cop. A bit of a hothead, but her heart's in the right place. I just don't feel like I can get close to her as a reader, and that disconnect impacts the whole story. It's well-written, as all of Connelly's books are, but it's missing the spark that Bosch or Haller provide.

heres a discussion question for you all: at what point are you allowed to negatively rate a work of fiction because there are certain aspects you morally disagree with? additionally, at what point are you allowed to overlook those personal objections because the overall concept/idea of the story is just so dang interesting? this is the dilemma i am currently facing. i love how dark this is. sometimes it does feel like the story is trying too hard to be edgy, but wow. i could not put this down. the story is so gripping, i had to know what happened next. i practically inhaled this in one sitting. i mostly enjoyed carters character and the role he plays in the story - his purpose and connection to sloan is what really makes this for me. but overall, this is dramatic, its intense, its thrilling, and its very impressively different from CoHos main body of work. but can all that allow me to forget that i cant stand the way mental illness is portrayed in this and hows its harmfully used as a plot device to further develop a certain character as a villain? i am all for hating characters if they are large pieces of trash and have no redeemable qualities. but i dont know if i can promote, even condone, a story which utilises the actions of an untreated mental illness as a way to get the reader to hate a character. if anything, i just felt sad and sympathetic for them towards the end, hating the way the other characters treated him, instead. so there you have it. how am i supposed to positively rate a book that i really quite enjoyed but dont want to be too generous because there is one major flaw that my conscience wont allow me to overlook? its so much better than 3 stars (its at least a 4), but i personally feel way too guilty with giving anything over that. ughhh. ↠ 3.5 stars

3.5 Stars I wanted to really like this book but I can't with Sloan and Asa. Neither of them is very appealing. Not one of my favourites of hers.

"And that's where love finds you... in the tragedies." 3 Stars Whoa, Colleen Hoover just showed us her dark side! Too Late was so different compared to her previous works because this book contains some graphic sex scenes, use of drugs, and domestic abuse. Once again I was awed by Colleen's writing and I'm happy that she was able to come up with something new, but I honestly can't say that I loved everything in this book. Although there were parts that blew me away, there were things that unfortunately didn't hit the mark for me. The book is told from three POVs. It's a story about college girl Sloan who has been enduring an abusive relationship with her boyfriend Asa. Now let me tell you that Asa is a sick fuck. He's a selfish asshole and a drug dealer who treats Sloan like she's a possession and cheats on her and fucks around with other girls behind her back. Sloan is well-aware of Asa's drug involvements but she cannot get away from him because she owes him a lot financially. When she met Carter though, she felt an instant connection with him. But how can she be attracted to him when he is, after all, one of Asa's constituents? First, I love dark books so it was so easy for me to get sucked into this story. Plus, CoHo's beautiful writing is a bonus! I especially loved that she offered intensity in every chapter. There was also an angst which is my weakness in a New Adult book. The romance, by the way, was definitely there, but it wasn't as overwhelming as I expected it to be. The thing that made it kind of off, I guess, was the insta-love. After Carter and Sloan met for the first time, they already decided that they're in love. Right. And it didn't sit well with me. I also didn't see the chemistry between Sloan and Carter. There was certainly none. Aaaand don't even get me started on Sloan! Ughhh... MINOR SPOILER in this paragraph: Given her freedom to freely get in and out of Asa's house, she could easily leave him behind, report him to the cops or whatever but why did she has to need Carter to save her? She can do it herself. I don't understand why for once, she can't stand on her own and just let somebody save her ass. What also irked me most was how she can never say NO to Asa whenever he needs a quick f*ck. I get it that she's helpless and compromised but like I said, she had all the chances to get out of the abusive relationship. Wish she did this to Asa. The action scenes in the last few chapters were badass though and I have to give it to CoHo. It was so intense my level of adrenaline was on top! All in all, it was an enjoyable dark read but I wasn't totally charmed. Still, it's a must if you're an avid CoHo fan. "You're all I see, Sloan. Beyond the job, beyond the right and wrong. You're all I see." NOTE : This book may not be suitable for minor readers.

This book is full of sex, drugs, and rock&roll PSYCHOPATHS! As it has already been said, Too Late is by far Colleen Hoover's darkest book to date. I wouldn't say it officially falls into the "dark" genre, but it is dark compared to the current books that feature her recognizable name. It's graphic in terms of language, sexual content, drug use, and violence, which is not the norm in your typical CoHo book. This fact in no way, shape, or form counts against Ms. Hoover in the slightest. Authors are allowed to explore outside their typical genres. I applaud her for it actually. My 3-star rating reflects only my personal enjoyment. Insta-love and CoHo's infamous "twists" are nothing new in her books but I didn't think they worked or made sense in this one. What I did like though was the villain: Asa. Adding glimpses of his upbringing offered a complexity that I very much enjoyed. I also enjoyed the action and suspense. The violence was graphic but it was incredibly engaging in my opinion. I would support Ms. Hoover if she moved forward with adding darker stories in the future. Note: Too Late was going to be 3.5 stars (rounded up to 4), but instead I reduced it to a flat 3 stars after finishing the book that never quite ends. Yes, most books these days have epilogues but the epilogue was more like a sequel novella (40 pages). Then there was a prologue (35 pages), then an epilogue to the epilogue (60 pages). It was too much. Maybe for readers who absolutely loved this book, it was a true bonus, but for me it started to feel like a chore. In an effort of transparency, I finished the main book and then read the first epilogue. After being surprised by the length of the (first) epilogue, I checked the length of the remaining content and decided to end it there. I had no interest in continuing. My favorite quote: "Sometimes cancer is cured... sometimes it isn’t. Sometimes people hit their heads and die, most of the time they hit their heads and survive. And anytime you hear of a person beating the odds... that’s all they’re doing. Beating the odds. Because people never really think about how, in order to beat the odds, a lot of unfortunate deaths have to occur for that particular survival to be considered 'out of the norm."

Starting 2017 with a CoHo book seems quite perfect to me. 3.5 stars for this one. You can definitely see she wrote it for fun, because it's nothing like her other works. It's the first time I feel the story gained a superficial nuance, only scratching the surface of a basis for a normal novel and I noticed that especially with the secondary characters. You usually fall in love with CoHo secondary characters, but this time I barely felt a connection to them. Oh, and the fact that it's not layered and as profound as I would have expected, nothing beyond the life-or-death situation where sacrifice also plays a part. Probably not a lot of research on police investigations either. However, it's easy to overlook them for the sake of enjoyment. On the other hand, the love triangle pretty much occupies every page space. Its soap opera vibe was a bit cliche, but again - fun. The plotline was predictable most of the time and some moments had me rolling my eyes to the next universe at the stupidity of some characters who like to call themselves cops. Regardless, it was like crack. The obsession and unpredictability of Asa kept things going and the scenes with Carter and Sloan were scorching. Still, not exactly the definition of a light read -- my stress level was up in the clouds, another reason for not being able to stop reading. Give it a try if you're looking for an addictive, telenovela kind of book. Enjoy! <3

WARNING: I would not recommend this book if you don't like (or are triggered by) cheating, abuse, rape, drugs. I also wouldn't recommend this book if you don't like jealous alpha men, slight love triangles or insta-love. Too Late was a book that attempted to tackle some serious issues, but fell short on some accounts. It's no secret I love Colleen Hoover, I've recommended her books to countless people after having Hopeless recommended to me two years ago. I was particular excited for a book tackling an abuse victim while the abuse is going on, having had witnessed something similar in my life time. I felt Sloan displayed some thoughts that abided by what I know an abuse victim would have - feeling they are at fault, like they owe their attacker something and that they'll return to the person that you once fell in love with. There was elements though that made me cringe. Like the insta-love, one of my biggest pet peeves! I cringed when it happened and was almost disappointed in Colleen. Everything also felt super convenient as well. I also want to point out this is different from Colleen's other books. Proving darker and a path of negative circumstances unfolding throughout the story instead of the story taking place after. There is quite a lot of graphic sex scenes, and several rape scenes. It wasn't a shock since I'd already seen reviews stating this fact, but it still left me uncomfortable when I came across them. The book had the typical cheesiness of a CoHo book but was extremely different. Throughout this book we experience three different perspectives; Sloan was pathetic. I'm sorry, that's the only way to put it. I can understand staying in love with the abuser, I can understand returning to the abuser, I can understand staying with the abuser to get financial help towards a family member who needs it. What I don't understand is the nativity of our female lead. She was just straight up stupid considering the circumstances she says she's been through. Maybe she has Stockholm syndrome or something, but I just couldn't justify a lot of her actions -- like how she didn't know Asa was cheating? Asa was a bastard. A cheater, a liar, an abuser, a rapist and an all around awful person. Here's the thing, if you start having sex with your partner while they are asleep that's still rape in my books, especially when that person obviously does not want to participate. I want to point as well I had no problem with Asa being a drug dealer, people have to do things to make ends meat. I'm not going to judge someone for that. However, I will judge him for being an entitled, selfish asshole who just expected the world to be delivered to him on a silver platter. Let's add to this he was a sadist, misogynistic, sexist pig. Just the kind of guy every girl wants. Carter or Luke was weird. He's working undercover on an operation to bust Asa's drug rink. This isn't a spoiler considering its revealed in Carter's first chapter perspective. I wasn't that keen on Carter/Luke, I understand he was basically everything Asa wasn't but I just couldn't like him. Which is saying something because I'm usually in love with books that have police work undergoing through them. His personality was ridiculous, and the relationship he built with Sloan was almost non existent in development or actually emotion. He wanted to save her, but sometimes a girl should save herself. I'm completely down for a book where the girl has a supportive family who find out about her abusive relationship and slowly help her realise the dysfunction of it -- which she then decides to leave on her own terms, not another boys. I also want to say there were a few inconsistencies with the book stories changing, the facts not continuing on through the book after being mentioned. I also hated that ending. It was quite ridiculous. And because of these reasons I've had to unfortunately rate a CoHo book lower than five stars which breaks my heart! EDIT 05/09/16: Colleen added an extra chapter and it's messing with my feelings to the point I want more.

2.5 stars damn, the mind of this woman (CoHo). 🤯 i cant tell if i mean it in a good way or as an insult. i wonder if mental illness gets such a bad rep and negative connotation because of books like this one (and shows like The Idol, which i just watched and hope it gets cancelled 💀). i also wonder if CoHo and Freida McFadden are sisters lol. they write similarly when it comes to edgy, romantic, psychological suspense/thriller stories. this book is sick and twisted but very compelling to read. i didnt like the characters. i couldnt find it in me to feel sympathy for Sloan (h) because i think she couldve tried harder to get out of her situation with her psycho boyfriend. Carters (H) character is the typical sweet, CoHo hero. i found him the least interesting. Asa (villain) is the most complex. i appreciated the authors effort to humanize him through his childhood trauma backstory. however, i couldnt agree with how his alleged/undiagnosed disorder was used as a plot device to make him evil. (read as an audiobook)

3.5 stars Started reading this when I only had access to a computer, and even when I got my kindle back I couldn't stop. Very very compelling and I read it quickly, but honestly it was extremely over the top. Especially near the end. Otherwise I would have loved it.

Trigger warning:Drugs, abuse, sexual harassment, rape. I don't recommend this book for readers under the age of 18 years old. I've been holding back this book for a while now since it's released on Wattpad. I didn't read the blurb and jumped in blind. I guess I'm back reading Colleen Hoover's books after Without Merit? We get to see three point of views in Too Late: Sloan; a girl who's in a relationship with an abusive boyfriend and leader of a drug cartel, Asa; he's an evil guy and nothing about him is redeemable. Then Sloan meets a guy in one of her classes, Carter; he's the polar opposite of her boyfriend and she's comfortable in his company but she's trapped in her relationship. Oblivious to his agenda, he's an undercover agent infiltrating Asa's territory. Without Asa, Sloan will be homeless and she won't be able to pay her brother's medical expenses. But she needs to find a way to escape before it's too late. I like the story but for a dark romantic suspense, it's weak. Yeah it's a page-turner and it has dark elements to the story. There are moments I was uncomfortable reading Asa's POV but Carter/Luke is a dumbass agent and could have been fired from his job. Anyways, his chemistry with Sloan is bland. Overall, it's good but not spectacular.

I don‘t think I‘ve ever read a book this dramatic.

If Colleen Hoover didn't write this book and instead, it was some 14-year-old who was just bored out of their mind so they decided to post this story on wattpad as some fanfiction or whatever, then I'd probably rate this 3.5-4 stars for A+ effort. However, that isn't really the case. CoHo is my absolute favourite new adult author since I've read the majority of her books which are undoubtedly better than this one that I just finished. I also know that she writes characters that are flawed, complex and relatable to some extent. Oh, I also know that she has the ability to tug at my heartstrings and elicit such emotional responses from me that usually ends up with me grabbing a box of tissues. So pardon me if I'm a bit confused, who wrote this story really? If you've read through that paragraph and still hadn't gotten the gist, I wasn't a fan of this book. I had major issues with the characters mostly, but the plot was kinda ok. The ending could have been better, as reading the epilogue probably had given me the world record of the person who can roll their eyes the most in a span of one minute. Instead of feeling satisfied, I was baffled at how pathetic everything became. I completely forgot that despite the crazy action and suspense in the last few chapters, this was a romance book after all. To those who don't know the general plot, we follow this girl named Sloan who lives with her psychotic, drug dealing, cheating, abusive, *insert every horrible adjective* boyfriend who continuously claims to love her still. This knight in shining armor boy named Carter then saves our little damsel in distress from her bf as he also happens to be an undercover cop who btw barely did anything cop-like at all. There are some intense confrontation scenes between the characters and though you'll probably want to hit Sloan with a pan repeatedly for 400 pages, the story's still quite addictive and you'll keep wanting to know what's gonna happen next. "How can I have this many feelings for someone I just met? For someone I haven't even kissed yet?" Yes Sloan, I'm so confused too. I'm also confused as to how you could let a man you hardly know touch you in an intimate way just hours after you've been sexually assaulted and strangled whilst you were on the verge of death? If I were you, I wouldn't even let a fly touch me after that. This book has sort of a similar conflict with her recent book It Ends With Us since it deals with similar issues, however if you liked It Ends With Us and is excited to read this, then hold your horses because this one is a lot darker and can be utterly disturbing at some parts.

Rating: {★ ★ ★} Note: The sexual scenes in this story are MUCH more detailed and graphic compared to her other books and does include domestic abuse. If that's something you're not comfortable with, then I probably wouldn't recommend this one for you. Can we get a story where the girl decides to walk away from an abusive relationship on her own without a guy coming in to "save" her? I love Colleen Hoover. Don't think otherwise because of the rating I had for this book. Sometimes I feel like people put CoHo on a pedestal and think that she could do NO wrong. Or when people "love" her books just for the sake of going with the CoHo hype. I admit, there was a time even when I thought that. Colleen is an exceptional writer. I love her books. Ugly Love was actually one of the books that got me reading New Adult and Contemporary Romance novels. But she is not all great, all the time. The more I read her books, the more I start noticing the same patterns, same tropes all over again. To be honest, after reading November 9, I haven't been feeling the same sparks as I did with CoHo's other books. Not all of her books are for everybody. Just like this story wasn't really for me. I just didn't connect with Carter and Sloan. I didn't feel the chemistry that everyone else seemed to have felt. All I noticed was the instalove that occurred between these two right after or even during their first meeting. Come on Colleen! What's going on? I think that alone already determined majority of my feelings towards Carter and Sloan. Although their circumstances weren't typical, the relationship felt cliche to say the least. The romance was too convenient for me even when their situation proved to be anything but easy. I guess their reasoning behind WHY they should end up together is the convenient part. I see this same trope in books and movies. Make the worst possible boyfriend/girlfriend a person could ever have, pair them with your main character, introduce a new character, make it an excuse/reason for said main character and new character to be in love, have new character rescue main character from bad boyfriend/girlfriend and live happily ever after. Add sex, drugs, and troubled past you have Too Late. I think I was more intrigued with Asa as a character more than anything. He was THE WORST boyfriend you could possibly imagine. He was abusive. He was a liar. He was a cheater. He was a freakin drug dealer for crying out loud. He could've been the worst human being ever to walk the planet but I still believe he had more substance and depth than Carter. Carter is the typical knight in shining armor. Yawn. Too Late would've been better if Carter was never even a part of the story in my opinion. Asa loved Sloan in that messed up little head of his because that was the only way he knew how. It's tragic, really. Everybody on Wattpad was commenting on how much they hated Asa but I honestly felt bad for him. I felt bad for him even from the beginning no matter how messed up he was because I knew he had to have had a troubled childhood. And he did. But that did not excuse his actions. Honestly, I feel like we need more stories where the WOMAN is strong enough to walk away from an abusive relationship without a knight in shining armor to come and rescue her. YOU have to be the hero in your own story. Not every person in an abusive relationship has a knight in shining armor to save them. I know it's not easy to walk away from abuse. I can't even imagine. But don't depend on a guy or anyone to save you. Every time Sloan was thinking, "Carter, SAVE ME", I just kept thinking STOP. Sloan was a strong character but in the end, it all came to "Carter, SAVE ME" anyways. I felt like she had so many opportunities to get herself out of her situation and in the end she actually did if she only thought about it sooner. Sigh... I guess this just wasn't the story I was hoping it would be. The last few chapters were intense and I was definitely on the edge of my seat but it didn't really do much to change how I wished the story would've went. But thank you, Colleen, for taking the time to write this story for us and I'm grateful but this just wasn't for me. I tried my hardest to get into Carter and Sloan's relationship but I just couldn't do it. I appreciate the fact that Colleen moved out of her usual comfort zone to write something more mature and I actually would love to see her take on more stories like this. I know It Ends With Us sort of follows the same one girl and two guys aspect so hopefully her next book will work out much better than this.

3.25⭐️ CoHo, you feeling okay? This was so unhinged 😅 First off, I FLEW through this book, I always do with Colleen Hoovers writing I find it very simplistic and easy (not a dig but just very basic but good story telling) Secondly, if you primarily read dark romance and enjoyed it ends with us as well you will most likely enjoy this, because whilst it’s not a dark romance like haunting Adeline (obv lol) but it heavily focuses on domestic abuse and has a LOT more darker themes running through it as well, like drug abuse and childhood trauma. I feel it’s a ‘cute’ attempt at darker romance but didn’t quite hit the spot as there was too much realism in it so actually it just felt really fucking weird and I just thought certain characters just need therapy. It takes such a turn at the half way point and just because gets so insane. So this follows Sloan who is trapped in a relationship with drug dealer Asa, (I never knew how to say that name lol) and the undercover agent Carter who is infiltrating Asa’s ring develops feelings for her, as she does him, and he wants to help get her out. The themes are HEAVY in this book, but omg the ending just kind of felt like ‘how crazy can I make this’ and threw everything at the plot to make it as wild as possible. Whist it worked I felt it was a bit OTT… Did I care about the characters? Not really But was it an okay read for the last day or so? Sure So much showing not enough telling and no depth or attention given to the characters whatsoever apart from Asa Who’s terrifying btw lol I’ve sort of known I’ve been over CoHo books for a while I accidentally ended up reading this whilst waiting in town for something in Waterstones and got 1/3 into it so thought I may as well finish it. It’s not bad, but I think she should stick to her contemporary stories, I felt the same way about Verity too. P.s. low-key enjoyed the subtle digs at how fucked the justice system is 😂

✰ 3 stars ⤿ december 21 - 22, 2024, 📱 i think emily mcintire has some unresolved daddy issues because i have yet to read a likable father character of hers. but we listen and we relate.

could be better, could be worst, and for everything emily mcintire went through, this is a win

★★★ hooked x wretched with mentions of witchcraft and horoscopes here and there that have absolutely nothing to do with the plot. probably as bad as hooked but with slightly better mcs—he doesn't put a collar on her! such a gentleman 💞—and equally bad sex scenes (her pussy tastes «tangy, like pineapple and woman» and he «drips down like a faucet»!!) i need to re-read hooked just so i can lower the rating and make an accurate ranking of the series oops provisional ratings: 1. wretched (5★) 2. crossed (5★): was it actually that good or was i just ovulating? 3. scarred (3★): i'm still bitter from how fucking awful the last hundred pages were 4. twisted (3★): i don't remember shit other than he had mommy issues and a pet cobra that ate his victims 5. hexed (3★): predictable, insta lust and shitty spice. also liked the side characters more than the mcs but hey!! at least he treated her like an actual human being 6. hooked (3★): he put a fucking collar on her lol should've definitely rated it 2 stars max

I will admit that I don’t care for this story as much as I did the other books in this series however, the ending of this book was really enjoyable!!! I can’t wait to read more books by Emily!!!!

This had potential, but there was less suspense than previous Pendergast novels like Still Life with Crows. The consistently changing scenes and POV detracted from any hope of powerful build-up until the end. I wish I'd read this instead of listening to it on audio because my dislike of Constance Green was amplified by the annoying, nasal voice given to her by the voice actor. Cringe-worthy. Is it wrong to say that I wish Lincoln and Child would kill her already? Agent Coldmoon is a great addition. Constance is cold, arrogant, and unlikeable. I'll read the next novel solely because of Pendergast, but I hope there's more tension, less filler dialogue, and very little Constance.

This is part of a series but can be read as a stand alone. In this one Pendergast, Coldmoon, and Constance are diverted to Savannah as there are mysterious killings happening there. This is a novel that is a tale of two halves. The first half I was enjoying so much. It was classic Pendergast as it reminded me so much of the early books in this series. I marveled at how these authors could weave a book and a mystery that incorporates both D.B. Cooper and vampires. A combination I would never have expected. Pendergast in the first half was once again steps ahead of everyone in the investigation and I was happy. There was a minor flaw with this though. He was making conclusions and I thought the authors did not show how exactly he was making these conclusions. We just had to accept them without seeing the reasoning. And then the second half happened with the reveal...Seriously? We are going down this road with this trope? This series has always been based with a hint of supernatural thriller that could be explained by normal ways or somewhat pseudo science. This was too far for me. I don't want to say what it is because of spoilers. After completing this book which I assume the next book is also dealing with this concept I am wondering if this series has "jumped the shark". This is one of the cases of reading a book and left feeling upset with the ending. It works fine. If this was any other book by these authors it would be right up my alley. Just a big fat no for this being in a Pendergast book. It does not belong here and I see problems with the cliffhanger in future books. Honestly I am going to read the next one but I am not excited to because the road this book went down in the second half.

A really anomalous book: I had already read books starring Aloysius Pendergast in the past, but they were "normal" detective story plots. This book instead starts with a normal beginning but already at a quarter of the book begins to overflow into the paranormal. A really strange detour for a book starring Pendergast, to the point that for a while I didn't want to believe it and I thought it was a trick of the authors, who would then have explained everything with a rational reason. But no: it did not happen and the book kept the deviation towards the paranormal and even, towards the end, it also took a distinctly science fiction turn, worthy of a Hollywood film ending. Really strange: I did not understand why the authors wanted Pendergast as the protagonist of this book: he is a normal FBI agent and therefore finding him immersed in a science fiction story left me a bit perplexed. At the heart of this book is a mysterious device that we will discover only later: the book in fact begins with a series of disturbing murders and then explodes in the last half, when the Hollywood hell I mentioned earlier breaks loose. The story is very different, definitely bizarre, and very anomalous compared to all those of Pendergast that preceded it. As I said before, this is not a normal noir, but a fusion of history, horror and science fiction, which however leaves me in doubt. However, I assign three stars because the book is well written and captivates the reader, even if only for the strangeness of the turn that the investigations take. But the question always remains as to why Pendergast was wanted to be put into a story of this type: for me it would be like putting Lieutenant Colombo to deal with a landing of Martians on Earth…...

Bloodless is Preston and Child’s twentieth installment of the Pendergast series. Although it is possible that the novel can be read as a standalone, this reader would say otherwise due in part to the character builds. Aloyisius X. L. Pendergast is back with his new partner, Armstrong Coldmoon. Together, they must solve the mysterious murders of several townsfolk in Savannah, Georgia. Those murders were vampire-like in that the blood of the victims were peculiarly drained or extracted from their bodies via a trocar-like instrument. Could it be a sinister person acting like a vampire to suck out the life blood of the living for their own personal gain? Or could it be a creature from the past or future that requires the blood of its victims to stay alive? Without giving away too much of the story, Bloodless was a bit too surreal for me. The plot flowed nicely like the authors’ other novels, and the characters maintained their quirkiness and eccentricities. However, the entire premise of the possibility of a parallel universe was a little too bizarre. Bloodless is not Preston and Child’s best novel and unlike their other novels, this one dipped its toes into unknown territory. Three stars. Still a positive review in that I liked it, but I wasn’t head over heels with it. I received a digital ARC from Grand Central Publishing through NetGalley. The review herein is completely my own and contains my honest thoughts and opinions.

A bit over the top for me- which is saying something when I think back over some of the storylines we’ve had over the years. I’m still interested to see what happens in the next book, given the ending of this one.

2.5/5 rounded up. I don't know, I think this series might have finally jumped the shark for me. That said, I'd be lying if I said I wasn't curious where it's going next after that ending.

Bloodless by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child was a good book. When I started reading the book.I was intrigued by the plot but as I got further into the book. It got weirder and weirder dealing with vampires and bloodless corpses. After reading about that. I was turned off. A must read for anyone who likes mystery.

Preston and Child set up an intriguing mystery in this one: something seems to be draining bodies of blood in Savannah, GA. Could it be the Savannah Vampire? Pendergast and new partner Agent Coldmoon are on the scene, along with Pendergast's ward, the ageless Constance. There are feuding true crime authors/film crews, a state senator, and some of Savannah's colorful locals filling out the cast. For much of its running time, this is a very good book, but when we finally get to the solution, well, it's one of the crazier explanations in any Pendergast novel, although it does set up the next book, The Cabinet of Dr. Leng, pretty well and I am very much looking forward to that one.

How this ended up in my library holds, much less on my Goodreads To-Read list, is a mystery to me. Serial spy thrillers are not my usual fare, certainly not starting with #20 in the series. But what the hell. I needed something completely different, an escape that only a counterterrorism operative former Navy SEAL, ex-Secret Service could provide. America is in grave danger from a joint Chinese-Russian operation underway in the Arctic Circle. I'm not even all that sure what the operation is about- something to do with submarines and icebreaker ships and radars and satellite devices in reinforced suitcases buried in tunnels in the Svalbard archipelago north of Norway's mainland. Super special agent Scot Harvath, hero of this long-running series, just happens to be hanging out in Norway for the summer with his girlfriend, Sølvi —a former member of an all-female Special Forces team turned Deputy Director at the Norwegian Intelligence Service. So that's fortunate for everyone. On a random shopping trip in Oslo searching for the perfect brisket, Scot recognizes a Chinese spy he thought he'd killed already and we're off to the races. Lots of hi-tech gear follows as Scot assembles his ace team, which flies over in a special private jet from D.C. (your tax dollars at work). The team takes down the enemy one by one, both through the usual means of guns and hydrofluoric acid, and also by making imaginative use of local resources, including polar bears and wolves. Someone is always in pain, including Scot himself, who gets worked over by luxuriously-tatted Russians. The settings are sumptuous, from southern Norway at the end of summer, to the always-winter northern reaches of the Arctic Circle. On a more serious note, Thor's political intrigue is a potent reminder that nations are in a forever war — covert and not-so-hidden — for precious natural resources and those conflicts heat up with the heating of the planet. This is a great read. Highly entertaining. I'm not sure I'd ever have the stamina or interest to revisit Scot Harvath's earlier exploits, but I might check the next installment to see how he and Sølvi are doing and if he's still enjoying Norway's white nights.

The Scot Harvath series is one I've been reading for almost as long as the books have been published. Black Ice is the 20th entry, and while the series used to be an auto buy for me I found the last entry Near Dark to easily the worst book in the series. That feeling left me less than excited to read this book which is its direct follow up. Instead of buying this time I decided to download the audiobook from the library. First thing I will say is I think audio is a pretty good way to consume these books. They're short and the narration is good so they are good for listening on walks or during exercise. Second I will say that I'm glad I didn't pay for a hardcover copy because along with being short it was pretty mediocre overall. It was absolutely a step up from Near Dark, but that's not saying much. Overall it would be mid to lower tier in the series. Let's talk about why. First I'll say what I liked which is as usual Harvath as the main character. He's very charismatic and I like the way he interacts with the other characters in the series and the action sequences. He's back in form here are spending all of Near Dark as a reminiscing alcoholic. I also like the interesting locales here. There was a lot of cool details about Norway and specifically the area above the arctic circle. I also liked the idea behind the plot of the novel being China and Russia attempting to get a foothold in the arctic. What I didn't like is really the execution of that idea. The plot here for being a thriller is pretty bland. It's like we're supposed to believe that it's a really high stakes international espionage game, but it never feels that way. The action through most of the book until the end is pretty lacking as well, and there are really no action scenes that are that cool or interesting. Everything almost seems too easy. Also, I think part of the problem with stakes is intertwined with the fact that this book has really no "big bad". There is a character that he tries to fit into that roll, but it doesn't really work and there is really no focus on any compelling villain. I think this has become a problem as Thor has tried to write books that are more geo-political based rather than terrorism based. He just can't pull that off as well as say a Clancy or even a Greany. Just making the villain be the Russian or Chinese government doesn't work. Finally, I think it was a strange choice by Thor to put what equates to a separate short story about Reed Carlton in the middle of this book. It's interesting backstory, but the plot essentially pauses so a new character can tell us a story. It seems like it would have worked better as a separate work. If you take out that portion this book would be really thin which seems like a problem in and of itself. With all these caveats this is still a book I liked more than I disliked, and it's a step up from the previous entry. It is disappointing that Thor seems to put out a couple of duds after what I thought might be the best book in the series in Backlash. If he can get the series back on track and more in that vein I could be an all-in fan again. Until this I'll happily borrow these from the library rather than pay for them.

When there’s action in Black Ice, it’s fantastic. For me, there were too many back stories & romance and not enough action.

This was one of the worst Harvath books yet. Filled with cliches in both plot and dialogue. Little action until the second half of the book. Compared to other authors in this genre, it was a 2-star book. As an avid reader of this genre, I found the torture - yes, torture - scenes viscerally gruesome. Perhaps it was the lame writing that failed to offset it. Perhaps it finally dawned on me that Harvath does this because he likes it. By the end, I was mystified as to why Sølvi loves him.

Very slow moving and mundane through the first half of the book. Saved by the explosive ending . Overall a disappointment and not one of Brad Thor's better stories.

** spoiler alert ** I have enjoyed the Harvarth character arc, and exploring the background and a bit of the dark side he has had to struggle with over the past few books. I also enjoyed getting a little bit of background on Reed Carlton too. I also thought the concept of this book was really interesting, I just wish more time was spent exploring it. I did mark down my review for the 20th installment of the Harvath series mainly due to how it felt like Thor did not do a great job of pulling together some storylines. I also am finding the "politician that is advocating for immigrants getting in the way of Scot" subplot very old. It has been used so many times over the course of the series that I really wish Thor would find something else to anchor the main storyline. In this case, it was mentioned early on as this character would be a thorn in Harvath's side, but the character never really did anything so it felt very haphazardly included. I also was underwhelmed with what I felt like were long stretches of "Harvath's travel blog" where he was just going to out to eat and talking with friends and family. I did appreciate the slower pace at first, but wasn't clear to me how all this time given to some of these characters really paid off. However, I do see how they could become bigger players in future books so I am going to remain cautiously optimistic. Ultimately, if you have read all 19 other books so far you are going to read Black Ice too. It was an easy enough read that had some highlights, and offers some potential for future, but I didn't leave this installment riveted as I have with others in the past.

Chinese/Russian relations are improving and they are working on a project titled Black Ice, that impacts Air Defense radar. This book has Scot Harvath in Norway, with help from his team, trying to get to the enemy operatives who are beginning to test it out, and find a way to circumvent this technology. Overall, this was a fair/good Harvath tale. Pros: Location in Norway for the most part, the scenes on Svalbard island. The idea of Russia/China using melting sea ice to forge a path from Asia to the Scandinavian countries to gain an upper hand on the West. Cons: Not as intense, page turning as other Harvath stories, and no big surprises. The Black Ice technology premise was not given that much of an in-depth storyline. Harvath has a love interest, and we know how the last one turned out. We'll see.

(3 1/2). I don’t know if I have read all 20 Scot Harvath books but I suspect I have read most. This one is very solid. It starts a little slow, but then gets in to a better rhythm than Thor has had for the last several installments. Nice layers being peeled back, great action that is almost believable and the continuing development of the softer side of Scot. These are still must read books for fans of this genre. Very nice stuff.

There is a lot of action and a lot of violence in this book, as one might expect. I found the plot interesting, and particularly the need to control the northern sea ports. Other than that interesting premise it was pretty well standard espionage format. It was interesting enough to keep me reading until the rather predictable, and unbelievable end.

I have read a number of Brad Thor books and despite having written so many Scott Harvath books, this is probably as good as any. The focus on Arctic geopolitics in the face of global warming and the subsequent opening of Arctic waterways is original and certainly interesting. That being said, there are a number of problems with the book that keep this from rising above pedestrian. First and foremost, the Scott Harvath character is just not very interesting. He is noble, honorable, loyal, and so on and if I wanted a dog, those would be appealing attributes. But as the hero of an action novel, he is bland to the point of being boring. His personal life, including a blooming relationship with a beautiful Norwegian, do not move the story forward nor are they presented in way that changes our perception of his character. The dialogue is not terribly clever and the attempts at humor rarely rise above gentle teasing. The story involves a lot of chasing down leads across Europe, mostly Norway, and Thor provides some colorful details about history and culture in Oslo and more remote areas north of there. Their is a secondary plot line on Chinese influence in Washington politics that is the same as in hundreds of other books. Last, Thor has a habit of inserting really horrible sentences and paragraphs which praise Horvath or America that cause the narrative to come to clunking halt, like a punctured tire.

My rating is a weak 3 stars. I have to say this book was disappointing when compared to the beginning of this series. I have always enjoyed a Thor novel but the last two in this series have not been his best…IMO. This story began way too slow and with far too much narration and back-stories that I didn’t feel were necessary. As the story advanced I found myself wondering what certain chapters, situations etc. had to do with his story-line and my answer…nothing. As already mentioned, way too many back-stories. Can’t recall any other Thor novel where I did so much skimming. Once I got past the halfway mark it did pick up but think I invested too much time getting there. The last half of the book I did enjoy so 3 stars. However, for all the great reviews and being on many Bestseller lists for so long, I was disappointed.

A typical Brad Thor book. This one does come with a new sensitive Scott who when he does kill, kills in the most insensitive ways with torture and things like hydrochloric acid, shooting people and leaving them for the Arctic polar bears. Even when the author tells you in the beginning that if the operation fails her bosses will make her disappear. In the end Scott has to kill her. Why? He has to face off against two prewarned top Russian operators and still gets the better of them. There are a lot of unbelievable situations in this book. While I was disappointed I will read the next book in this series.

There are a few suspenseful scenes thru-out the novel, but overall not one of Brad Thors' best works. Although keeping a reader's interest for twenty novels is very impressive. The same two adversarial countries as from previous novels, but in a new and well-researched location. The country description and details definitely read like a tourist brochure for visiting Norway., And saying that, is not a bad thing. There are not a lot of authors using Norway as their main country of conflict in a novel. And yes, there is another love interest for the main character to fall in love with and probably lose in the next novel. I would like to see the author start a possible side series on a couple of the main characters in this series. Maybe give the Scott Horvath character an ending. And maybe start a series with Nicholas or Scott's mentor.

Just entering this because I forgot to do so at the time I read it. Not sure when I read this book exactly but you know you’ve read it when elements of the story like a live person turning up who was previously killed by Harvath. So I leafed thru the book and kept seeing names of characters that I recognized and familiarity with the plot. So I’ve entered this book as part of 2021 but I’m not sure if it was 2020. I just know it’s fairly recent. I remember that I did like the story.

3.5 at best. Nice in parts but blah. Everything just falls in place for the main character somehow. Not much sleuthing :( meh

“The Four Winds” begins in northwestern Texas in 1921. Elsa Wolcott is the eldest daughter in a middle-class family that treats her like an ugly heirloom. Her unloving parents keep Elsa cloistered in her room reading, insisting she’s too weak to endure any social interaction. At 25 — a hopeless spinster! — she’s constantly reminded that “no man of note wants an unattractive wife.” But Elsa is about one strip of yellow wallpaper away from a nervous breakdown. Her heart is a thumping muscle of unsatisfied longings and unrealized ambitions. Like Jane Eyre, she fumes with the exasperation of a passionate woman long dismissed and repressed. “If she didn’t do something soon, something drastic, her future would look no different from her present,” Hannah writes. “She would stay in this house for all her life” with novels as her only friends. Inspired by the scandalous story of Fanny Hill, Elsa sews a red dress that shows her knees and storms off for a night of romantic adventure. She gets what she wants — for a few seconds, at least — but it turns out that novels have provided her with a very limited understanding of how sex actually works. This great storm of sighs and shame is mere introduction designed to transform Elsa from Imprisoned Virgin to. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...

3.5 stars. A woman found dead in a dumpster and a remain of pregnant woman found hidden in the wall. I actually love the case in this one. The mystery of trying to piece together the identities of these forgotten women was the most interesting part of all. I do, however, want more interaction with the fixed side characters. You know, more side stuffs alongside the case. So, that's all my complaint.

I have read every one of the 53 books in this series, and I can honestly say that this is the first to disappoint me. The premise is intriguing—the skeletal remains of a pregnant woman and a fetus are found walled within an aging building that is being rehabbed. Add to that the body of a “quirky” homeless woman, a family with myriad secrets and a retired Russian mobster, and the stage is set for what originally promised to be another J.D. Robb blockbuster. Unfortunately, the pacing, character development and overall tone here were lackluster and maddeningly “average”. The fiery passion Roarke and Eve have so often shared is barely smoldering, and even Peabody is missing some of that spark that makes her such an integral part of the entire body of work. Additionally, Summerset seems to have discovered a filter for his witty and biting running commentary(which is a shame really), and Nadine is all but absent. If you’re a fan of the series, I wouldn’t necessarily skip this volume and would read just for the sake of continuity. If, however, you are new to the work of J.D. Robb, aka Nora Roberts, I certainly wouldn’t start here.

3.5-star read There are two things I look forward to each Winter and late Summer/Early Fall, and that's the new releases in the In Death series. (I look forward to a lot of other books as well, but these books are yearly favorites.) Earlier this year, readers got to continue Eve and Roarke's story with Faithless In Death. Now, Eve and Roarke continue their romance and crime-fighting in the latest addition to this series, Forgotten In Death. This book begins, as most do, with a murder. A sweet, homeless woman is found bludgeoned to death on one of Roarke's construction sites. Known as the "concerned citizen" due to her habit of writing up infractions of those in the neighborhood and reporting the same to the police, she was truly harmless. Eve's investigation into this murder has barely begun when she is pulled into another murder, also found on a nearby construction site, and eerily reminiscent of the bodies found in the An Didean shelter a few years ago. This body is found with bullet shells, walled up in a basement, and with a fetus. Adding to the mystery, the body has been on the site for at least forty years. It is quite likely that both murder victims would be considered forgettable, but Eve Dallas isn't your typical police office and no one is ever forgotten on her watch. Will she be able to locate the killers? Will Eve be able to obtain justice for these victims? It's easy to think that too much time has passed on some crimes, such as with the walled-up body found on one construction site. Or that the deceased woman thrown into the dumpster on another construction site isn't worth the time or effort of an in-depth investigation since she was homeless. That might be the prevailing attitude of some today and continue into the future, but for those of us that know and love Eve Dallas, Roarke, and friends, we know that there is no such thing as an unworthy victim. Eve Dallas goes all out to find out the whys and whodunit for both murder victims. It doesn't matter to her that one woman was homeless or that the other crime occurred almost forty years ago. These women are hers now and Eve will not stop until justice prevails. I could give you specifics about how the investigation is performed or how the two murders intersect (if they, in fact, intersect), but you already know I'm not going to do that. Yes, there are decidedly predictable elements to this story, but I found it credible and engaging. If it weren't for this current migraine series, I probably would have read this one in one sitting. Sadly, it took me took two days simply because I kept having to set this aside due to pain and vision issues. One of the many things I enjoy about this continuing series is watching the characters grow in their relationships with one another and on their jobs. We didn't get to see as much of Feeney in this one, but McNab, Delia, Dr. Mira, Nadine, Cher Reo, Harvo (aka Queen of Hair and Fiber), Dr. Garnet DeWinter, Summerset, Dr. Li Morris, Dickie Berenski, and Commander Whitney make reappearances, as do Baxter, Trueheart, Jenkinson, and others from the Homicide squad. I'm eagerly awaiting future developments with Mavis, Leonardo, Bella, and their new additions (both the baby and the house). There are a lot of themes to unpack in this story, including spousal abuse, classism, affluenza, privilege, and more. Forgotten In Death is a story of two women, one from the past and one from the present day (okay, Eve and Roarke's present-day), who might otherwise be considered disposable and forgotten due to the perceived privilege of wealth and class of others. We know better and yes, justice ultimately prevails. I enjoyed Forgotten in Death and look forward to seeing what happens next in the ongoing saga of Eve Dallas, Roarke, and friends. Happy Reading, y'all! This review originally posted at The Book Diva's Reads on 08/09/2021, https://thebookdivasreads.com/2021/08....

We got four murders and how Peabody, Mcnab, Mavis and Leonardo were going to do to their homes. No character development for Eve. She's just the smartest in the room at solving crimes.

I received an ARC of this book. I typically love Eve Dallas novels but I found that this one felt a bit flat...especially after the previous book in the series which was a page turner til the end. The murders felt like deja vu, something already covered in previous cases.

Old bones found in a shoddy mob connected construction site. It was neither riveting nor objectionable.

This book is meh. A not-bad mystery but I really read the series more for the characters. And we barely encountered any of the supporting characters. Everyone is happy and getting along, no conflicts, no growing, no advancing relationships. I absolutely don’t want anything bad to happen to any of the characters (sorry about your minor problem, Trueheart) but we need something more than a death or deaths to occur to keep the series interesting. I think Eve needs to have a relative (unknown cousin or 1/2 brother or sister or the like) who is quirky but not a bad person - like a teenager or young adult - show up!Something needs to shake things up a bit.

Didn't live up I was already incredibly disappointed by the 50% mark of this book. The writer just seems content to allow the plot to ramble on , at times in an incredibly confusing fashion. She doesn't seem sure where the book is meant to go. The main focuses seems to be on constructing prose on the most mundane things imaginable. For a book of over 900 pages, very little happens in this latest installment. By the 80% mark it was disappointingly clear that very little would come of it. For a book years (YEARS!) In the making I truly thought there would have been more storyline to the actual , well story. Rumor has it there will be a tenth book( hopefully while I'm still young enough and in control of my mental facilities to read it). Hopefully, the focus can be on wrapping up the various plots to a reasonable satisfaction.

Well that was disappointing 🤨

The author has meticulously ensured that the vast sprawl of the outlander world is considered and contemplated in this novel, which makes for a slow burn. The last third of the book however is a runaway train of intrigue and drama. The book is at its best when it focuses on Jamie and Claire‘s relationship. Unfortunately, the huge cast of characters reduces the time the reader spends with the lovers, to its detriment.

I am a fan. I have read books # 1-8 EACH three times. I look forward to the five + years of research you put into each of your books. #9 “Go Tell The Bees that I Am Gone” was a big let down. Only a couple of “new” things occurred and those not until more than 25% into the book. What a let down. Oh well, thank you I couldna have written one such a book as 1-8 much less 8. But I could’ve written #9 with only a modicum of Internet research and “re-splaining” and referencing books 1-8.

I wasn't sure if I was going to review this book because, honestly, I feel pretty ambivalent towards it. I liked The Evening and the Morning more than A Column of Fire, but still quite a lot less than the previous two books. I agree with the reviews that say this has a closer feel to the first two books than A Column of Fire. It has that pastoral, everyday life feel that I came to love so much in The Pillars of the Earth and World Without End. I felt like CofF spun off in an entirely new direction, focusing on the wider political and religious struggles of the world and often forgetting Kingsbridge and its citizens. Here we find ourselves transported back to England in the year 997 CE. Viking raids are destroying villages and families, just as battles with the Welsh look imminent. Edgar is a young boatbuilder who is forced to rebuild his whole life after Vikings murder his father and destroy his family home. Ragna is a Norman noblewoman who marries Wilwulf, the ealdorman of Shiring, and soon discovers that the customs of England are a far cry from what she is used to. As is Follett's usual fare, bishops and other men scheme behind the scenes for more power. It was easy to stroll through this book; it never really expected that much of me. The nitty gritty of everyday life juxtaposed with political drama and graphic violence made it somewhat compelling, though I have to say I never really came to love the characters here like I came to love Tom, Philip, Aliena, Jack, Caris and Merthin. It does seem like Follett has managed to tone down some of his own misogyny for this one. While rape and sexual slavery occur in the narrative, I didn't note as many instances of him describing female characters by the shape of their bodies. Still, I think maybe male authors should stop writing virginity-losing scenes from a woman's perspective. Good god, when will I no longer read that ridiculous scene where a female virgin feels a resistance, a sharp pain, then BAM! he's in and it's orgasms galore from then on. Literally... She felt a sudden sharp pain, but it lasted only seconds, then all was pleasure. Also: She had lost her virginity to the man she loved, and it felt wonderful. Furtively, she pushed a finger inside herself and brought it out sticky with this fluid. She smelled its fishy smell, then tasted it and found it salty. That's gross. Some things you do really don't need to be shared. So I have mixed feelings. Would I have started this 900+ page monster if I'd known it was going to be a so-so read? Probably not. Yet there is a sort of comfort, I find, in Follett's novels. The pastoral activities, the marketplace and craftsmen, all add up to something almost... quaint. It didn't make my heart pound, but I sort of enjoyed it anyway.

I loved Pillars of the Earth. Thought books 2 and 3 were meh. I was very hopeful that this book would be in line with the depth and breadth of an epic tale as I felt when I read Pillars. Alas, it is not. The writing is wooden and even stilted at times. Follett's characters are a regurgitation of previous books' characters, just with different names. I could predict exactly what was going to happen for the entire 900+ pages. Again, as with his other books, Follett's treatment of women is inferior. I think he actually imagines that he understands women and can write from a woman's perspective, but that is unfortunately laughable in this book. The ending was a neatly sewn-up chapter of rainbows and unicorns where the good guys win and the bad guys all get what is coming to them...Argh. The story itself is interesting and thus I must reluctantly give it 3 stars.

Entertaining, but characters are basically recycled from Pillars of the Earth. Bright and well-born young lady with a younger brother named Richard - check. Skilled, younger man with unique skills and strong mother - check. An ambitious and evil priest countered by another, kinder religious colleague - check. The setting is interesting and story well-paced. However, this book seems a sadder version of Pillars of the Earth and the ending is predictable. If you are still inclined to read it, this is one you can wait in line for a library copy instead of purchasing it at a bookstore.

Didn’t really like this one. There are 3 different storyline lines going on, one for Yuki, one for Lindsay and one for Joe but they are all a bit underwhelming. It took me 10 days to complete this one. Normally it’s only about 2.

Up front disclosure. I read most of James Patterson’s books and have for several years. Some might ask why and that’s another whole discussion best saved for another day. I have really enjoyed some, liked some, and didn’t really care for others. On a personal level, I must admit that his Women’s Murder Club series – focused on the professional and personal lives of four women in San Francisco - has been very hit and miss over the last couple of years. This year’s outing - “The 24th Hour”- is being advertised as “Is this the end?” (Amazon) and “In twenty-four hours, the Women’s Murder Club could lose a member” (inside book jacket). My initial reaction was that this felt like a bit of promotional overkill. Only once in the last 23 books can I remember one of the club members being killed, and I believe that was in book four or five. However, I realize there needs to be a sense of drama and worry about our heroes – Lindsay, Claire, Yuki, and Cindy – so that we can feel the tension and concern for their safety, that their survival is always in doubt. “The 24th Hour” begins with the women’s celebration of Cindy finally accepting Rich’s proposal to get married and turns into a vicious attack. Like most books in the series, this one has three primary plots – Yuki’s courtroom case involving a brutalized rape victim who suffers from dissociative identity disorder, Lindsay’s police team’s investigation of a rich man who was killed in the exact same manner as his wife was in the previous year, and Joe (Lindsay’s husband) trying to protect a major hospital from a ransomware attack that has put the lives of the patients at risk. Each of the plots feel like twists on previously used storylines, which are starting to feel a bit formulaic. Yuki fighting a courtroom battle, Lindsay searching for a killer, and Claire playing a supporting role in providing the necessary medical information that help breaks the case wide open. Sound familiar? Maybe it’s me, but it feels like Cindy has the most character arc and development of the main characters. Over the last several books, she has grown from a news beat writer to a published author, struggled to get comfortable with marriage, and had to deal with the repercussions of being associated with a serial killer. She has experienced the most growth of the four women while the others have remained the same. However, I will add that I noticed some aging and medical issues popping with Claire over the last two books that might be foreshadowing her own future issues. We’ll see. As I was about a third of the way into this one, I had an aha moment that made realize what I assessment of this series was heading to. As a reader, I have become comfortable with the Women’s Murder Club. That is both and bad. Please don’t get me wrong because I like the series more often than not. But hear me out. It’s good because we have proven characters that have built up history, experience, supporting characters, and important love interests. Most of the time, their storylines are pretty interesting and keep my attention. I know them and each year it’s like a family reunion when I get to visit them again. On the other hand, with comfort comes complacency, and even repetitiveness. For example, how many times is Joe going to be offered a government job, take it, get burned out, and go back to being a house husband and independent contractor? How many times is Lindsay going to be the only one to hunt down a psychotic killer? And how many times is Yuki going to pull a John Grisham lawyer rabbit out of her hat and win a big case? Again, this is not a completely bad book. More of a middle of grading curve kind of read. I give it 2.5 out of five stars and enjoyed most of the escapist, mind candy reading experience. But the current writing approach has lost some steam, including storylines that start off with potentially good mysteries and then suddenly get resolved in the last 30 pages with either lucky (and unrealistic) breaks or the murderer unexpectedly does something stupid to give themselves away. Unfortunately, most of the time this sacrifices professional or personal growth of most of the primary characters. For example, the way that Joe’s ransomware plotline wrapped up so quickly in an unrealistic and convenient manner, was rather ludicrous to me. To add to my frustration, Joe wasn’t even around for the climax of it, but the reader was told how it turned out as he described to Lindsay when he returned home. In addition, the Lindsay killer investigation ended with more of a whimper than a bang and the Yuki court case had quite the what-the heck, flat climax that I am still rubbing my head over. It would be nice to see some character conflict and development built into the storylines. I want to see these characters learn and grow from their challenges. How about some professional development for Yuki or Lindsay? For example, I think it would be good to give Yuki a different kind of storyline. It seems that every plotline she’s involved with is prosecuting the case of her career. It’s time to develop her in other ways that are outside of the courtroom. Show that she’s more well-rounded and has other aspects to be explored. In addition, Yuki’s husband Brady has turned into a mid-level manager who has disappeared, and Rich has faded into the background as Lindey’s partner. There’s more that can be explored with these characters and their relationships. My biggest frustration is that this series could be better if Patterson and Paetro focused more on character development and took some risks rather than settling for proven formulas that are losing some of its strengths and uniqueness. For me, the Epilogue captured the magic of the characters and the heart of what makes this series greatest strength – their relationships. It delivered the emotional payoff that the three storylines lacked. Overall, after all that constructive feedback, I give it a grudgingly passing grade but most of that is due to legacy and the relationships these characters have built with me rather than the comfortable state that their current storylines and weaker endings have been delivering.

These Women’s Murder Club mysteries have become the same type of draw that soap operas, like “All My Children” had during the lunch hours, in Seventies, in college student unions…It’s not the plot, so much, as it is, you’re getting caught up in the lives and lives of the characters…In “The 24th Hour,” we’re getting involved in wedding planning, the prosecution of a brutal rape of a woman suffering from a multiple personality disorder, the murders of a millionaire couple and a ransomware attack on a hospital…I’m caught up in it all!

Just ok. Three storylines that were easy to follow. Usual quick read, but the ending was abrupt and not really wrapped up.

I was really disappointed. I have read all the Women’s Murder Club series. This one I got bored halfway through! I think Patterson is writing too many books, and with co-writers.

predictable I have read all of the Women’s Murder Club books and love following the lives of the characters; however, this one seemed very cookie cutter and predictable. Previously, I have been kept in suspense and couldn’t stop reading to find out what would happen. This one had no suspense and endings were known before reading them!

This was so not my favorite WMC book. I don’t know why - it just wasn’t

Sometimes you need to go back to a known entity. Fairly solid. Not my favorite but felt comfortable.

Rounding up to three stars. It’s a nice, easy holiday thriller, but at the same time, i feel like I’ve read this before and it’s a tad repetitive, forgettable and (dare I say it?) tired. Not up the Patterson’s usual standard (but the last few instalments in this series has been very hit and miss with fans, and I can’t help feeling that the Women’s Murder Club should have ended at either 10th Anniversary or 12th of Never). And I say that even though I have a soft spot with this series (in fact, 3rd Degree was my first ever James Patterson, hence my soft spot) seems to be a theme with Patterson that he doesn’t know when/how to end a series… Maybe I’ve outgrown James Patterson thrillers and need to take a break. Maybe it because I keep picking up weaker instalments and need to pay attention to Patterson fans on their reactions. This is a nice, easy read, perfect for reading by the pool or on an airplane, but it lacks substance. ***eProof gifted by UK publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review/reaction, though I listened to library audiobook***

This book follows the four members of the Women's Murder Club. There were three separate storylines involved, and I certainly loved one more than the other two, but in typical Patterson fashion they were all very easy to follow and fast-paced. The chapters were short, there was only the detail that you needed, with a little bit of insight into each member of the club's personal lives as they move forward. I enjoyed it as much as any Patterson novel. I read it for the quick chapters, it's a great palate cleanser in between other reads, and it was quick moving and entertaining. Certainly what I expected and hoped for in this most recent installment, and I will certainly look forward to the next. 3.25/5⭐

I wanted to switch things up and read a murder mystery book and felt I couldn't go wrong with James Patterson. What I liked about this story is the group of women who are the main characters. They are each unique and interesting, smart and ambitious, and compassionate. And, together, they are a fine tuned machine working so well together both professionally and personally. There are 2 parallel murders in this story. While both were interesting to start with but then kind of fizzled for me because the outcomes came super fast after a long build and where a bit too tidy.

There were 3 storylines and all of them were underwhelming except that Lindsey’s case did have a major wtf moment at the end. I feel like this book was meant to prep the end of this series. Hopefully that’s the case and next book is the last book. The characters were being too nostalgic. Anyways, I’ll only add that Joe’s new partner BETTER NOT BE a set up for infidelity because it made me uncomfortable especially when Joe has already been iffy with other women.

I get more and more frustrated with Patterson. I only read his three reoccurring characters anymore but WMC had really dropped. The women are at lunch when a woman screams NO. And they each play their roles. But it's not really a full story. OH and Lindsay is working on a high profile murder. Joe, Lindsay's husband., is still free lancing and his story is told in between the WMC chapters. Its that that makes up the story. Three different stories. Tied together by characters.

The Women’s Murder Club is back for # 24. Patterson and others are known for quick chapters. There are three main storylines happening simultaneously and this book was not my favorite. I gave it another star higher because it featured a person with dissociative personality disorder and I found that fascinating to try to defend in a court of law.

This was fine. More of the usual. There are three stories and none are all that exciting to begin with before fizzling out anticlimactically. Throw in some fan service in the epilogue and you’ve got a typical WMC book.

Finally got around to rating this one Solid 3.5/5

Absolutely nothing is that serious it needs 1000+ pages ❤️‍🩹 DNF @62% I had high expectations for this one since I’ve heard so many things about Manacled. It started off morbidly dark & infinitely intriguing but as the story progressed it got darker & slower until it completely lost me. I tried hate reading my way through it. I thought the plot was actually interesting but it was WAY TOO LONG! There were just chapters & chapters of (psychological) torture & nothing else happened. I’ve read other super long books before but there’s always events/missions to keep you hooked. Maybe it’s just me but I don’t want to read an encyclopedia-length book on hatred of women. I ended up hating everyone! If there was even a small chance I would enjoy a character they got killed immediately tortured & killed immediately. The new regime sucked but the Eternal Flame stunk of purity culture so everything equalled to WE HATE WOMEN!! p.s I need to mention I read DARK romance mafia book all the time so I'm used to the darkest plot lines. However, this had much more to do with endless darkness without sufficient plot development Neither the plot nor the magical system were interesting enough for me to continue. I’m sad because I did enjoy the potential of Helena & Farron but not for the cost of my sanity.

I didn't realise until I was about half way through that the author of this book has written 3 fanfic's, set in the Harry Potter world, where Harry Potter dies and Draco keeps Hermione as a prisoner. This book is based on those 3 novellas but you don't need to read those to understand this (the author said you can read one or the other). So when I started I thought this was going to be an epic fantasy novel with lots of politics (like asoiaf), or lots of battle scenes (like a John Gwynne book) or maybe huge world building (similar to Malazan). This really has none of those This is a romance fantasy. It focuses mainly on 2 characters and their relationship. Which wasn't what I expected (nor really wanted). There's also a scene in the novel which no matter which way you look at it it's rape (but it's kind of brushed under the carpet). It's my fault for not realising that this was a romance fantasy. I have to say the book is extremely well written. The book is also HUGE (over 1,000 pages) and the fact I finished the book within 5 days shows that I was involved with the characters (if not the story). It just means romance fantasy is not for me and I should really have checked before I started. I can see why the book is adored by so many but as someone who's never read romance fantasy (or has any interest in Draco or Hermione) it never really worked for me. But, again, it was extremely well written

It was good

Watch the review on Youtube https://youtu.be/BvsSmDxCAJk The 'Long Road to Mercy' series comes to an end with 'Mercy'. Minor spoilers ahead. For those who haven't read the series yet, here's a synopsis. Atlee Pine is a FBI agent in Colorado, who is trying to track down her twin sister - 'Mercy', who was abducted when they were six. The four books in the series meander all over the place, with some books placing more emphasis on this storyline than others. There is some sort of movement only in the last couple of books with 'Mercy' bringing a resolution to the series. 'Mercy' is the best book in this series. For the most part, the pacing is quite good and the writing decent. I never felt that the book was a drag, until the end. The new characters introduced in the book are also interesting, and in the initial portions of the book, they left me curious as to what they would do. We finally get to experience 'Mercy' as a character and she doesn't disappoint. It is great to see another strong female character - in this case, both literally and figuratively. Mercy is a professional fighter and can beat almost anyone. I liked her strength of spirit - going from a lost, naive and illiterate girl in the woods to becoming a smart, strong and kind woman. Baldacci makes this character evolution smooth and it is pleasure to read how she overcomes the trauma of her childhood. That said, there is a huge flaw with all the three main woman characters - they are too alike and share similar skills. Baldacci could have spent more time in crafting more unique personas for these three women. It feels like he wanted to create a strong feminine character (Atlee Pine) and then he copy/pasted this template a couple of more times with minor modifications. Coming back to the book. The main protagonist starts off memorably. While he is a criminal, he gets what he wants by using the carrot (i.e. money) rather than the stick. He talks well and has a soft spot for the working class. He is quite different from the archetypical criminal overlord and I really liked the way this character had been written. Alas, this character suddenly changes direction towards the end and becomes a stereotypical cartoonish megalomaniac towards the end. And that brings me to the next problem. The climax is super-weak and rushed. The set-up is quite dumb, the bad guys are a horde and yet, they are all taken care of in a few pages. The protagonist's motivation also changes dramatically around this point. Maybe Baldacci was running out the book length or losing energy, but there is a clear place in the book where this story stops being good and starts becoming ridiculous. Some closing thoughts - the series ends on a happy note, with loose ends tied up. I am in two minds about this - on the one hand, it is too sappy and melodramatic, on the other - I am happy that it is done and dusted with. The reunion between Atlee & Mercy is also dealt with well - it takes a while for them to get to feeling like sisters again. They have to work to get this kind of bond going again. There are a couple of characters in this book who might end up having a spin-off of their own (and be more interesting than Atlee) - Mercy and the other woman character. In conclusion, while Mercy is a decent read (average by Baldacci standards), the series is probably the worst by David Baldacci. I suppose he too, will be glad that it is finally over.

I had no clue how David Baldacci was going to write his way out of the increasingly convoluted overarching storyline in his Atlee Pine novels. Mercy, the fourth and final book in the series is all set to finally give readers the payoff they’ve been waiting for ever since 2018’s Long Road to Mercy. Turns out that Baldacci had very little clue either as he frantically stitches together all the loose threads and barely writes himself out of the corner he’d put himself in. Baldacci is always over the top. At his best, he reads like a Stallone movie or a Fast and Furious. At his worst, he reads like if Days of Our Lives was for sixty-year-old men. Mercy threads the line somewhere between. Don’t look too close or think too hard and you’ll never notice how flimsy the plot is. Movies have the advantage of being visual to cover up a paper-thin plot. Books are inherently cerebral. It’s harder to let things go. No fewer than five times, Baldacci has various characters rehash the plot to the current point. If you have to remind your reader that often of the storyline, that’s not a good sign. He also veers off course in having a large majority of the novel not written in Atlee’s perspective. We get a good deal from Mercy’s viewpoint and a fair amount from the villain, but you know what’s missing in this Atlee Pine novel? Atlee Pine. Baldacci also seems to realize that he’s run out tension for the chase to find Mercy. Now, somewhat randomly and haphazardly, a new villain is introduced. Buckley wants Mercy dead because Mercy killed his brother. This is not connected to the previous story in any way, despite literally everything else in this story being interconnected somehow. It’s an unnecessary plot that drives the third act (possibly introducing Baldacci’s next big protagonist? If so, I called it.) and is as laughably over the top as an old Bond or Batman villain. Despite all this…I read the whole thing and I enjoyed it. But I enjoyed it on the strength of the previous books in the series. Carol Blum finally getting the spotlight and rocking it was the book’s highlight for me and I’m glad I read the series just for that. Mercy’s background puts focus on the types of moral issues that Baldacci likes to raise in his novels and was a good read with a compelling character. The actual storyline of Mercy wasn’t bad, it just had a difficult time fitting into the overarching story thus far. The plot would have made more sense stripped down as a standalone novel. Being an Atlee Pine book makes it less of a good book, which is unfortunate because it’s the culmination of the Atlee/Mercy storyline. In the end, it just left me sort of ambivalent. I’m glad to have resolution, but the resolution wasn’t the most exciting and Baldacci just sort of glosses over the emotional aspects of being reunited after thirty years apart. I wondered if Baldacci lost interest in this series (or if he thought fans had) when he introduced John Puller into Daylight (book three). That seems almost confirmed for me here. It’s a fun book, but falls short of what it could have been.

Quality thriller with lots of girl power.

Great series overall.

I really wasn’t impressed by this book and I’m glad I skipped the other two in this series. Too long, too boring and too predictable. Really should be a firm 2 1/2.

“Life isn’t lived in the black and white, Wilde. People like to think so nowadays. All the online outrage, things are either all good or all bad. But life is lived in the gray. Life is lived in the nuances.” Action-wise, this book was as excellent as I have come to expect from Harlan Coben. Lots was going on at all times. Several subplots overlapped and came together, which made it so that the pacing never lagged. But where this differed from Coben's most recent book Run Away and the now almost-classic Tell No One is that The Boy from the Woods had no strong emotional pull for me. I've said this before, but I am an emotional reader. I love to connect with characters, share their experiences, and become deeply-invested in what will happen to them. In this book, that never really happens. I think this may be because the two characters we follow - Hester and Wilde - had no real emotional attachment to the main mystery-- that of a missing girl and the missing son of local billionaires. And on top of that, the girl's parents do not seem to give much of a damn where she is and the rich boy's parents seem more interested in protecting their own secrets. Because of this, I never felt emotionally drawn into the story. It never got my pulse racing as I wondered if these poor kids would be found. I experienced more of a mild curiosity about them, not that all-consuming need to know what would happen. The book does tie well into current U.S. events and politics. There's a guy called Rusty Eggers running for president and he's a little bit of Trump, a little bit of Weinstein-- essentially, a powerful man with powerful connections and maybe a lot to hide. Political secrets and cover-ups abound! Coben plays around with a number of subplots that feel like distractions because, well, they are. If you ignore them and look underneath to the bare bones of this book, it is very easy to figure out who is behind the kidnapping. Though, credit where it’s due: Coben lays out one twist after another in the final few chapters and I'm sure even the most astute readers will have a hard time spotting everything that is coming (I certainly didn't). Of the two main perspectives the story is told from, Hester was undoubtedly the star for me. She's a badass, seventy-year-old lawyer who takes shit from no one. Wilde, unfortunately, was nowhere near as interesting as I thought he might be. He is the boy from the blurb who was found in the woods as a young child and remembers nothing from before that. His circumstances and mysterious history are intriguing, but he himself felt a little flat. I far preferred Hester's chapters. The Boy from the Woods is definitely not a bad read for those who enjoy action, thrills, and some politics thrown in too. But I will always prefer books that I become emotionally invested in over lots of mindless action. Facebook | Instagram

Rounded down from roughly 3.5 stars ⭐️ The Boy from the Woods follows Wilde and Hester as they work together to find a missing teenage girl. However, to do so, long buried secrets must be uncovered. This was my first Harlan Coben novel and I will definitely be diving into more of this author’s works! I really enjoyed this twisty ride that was definitely able to take me by surprise at times. I did struggle a little to follow all the different subplots but I enjoyed how everything tied up towards the end. I’m not usually one for politics in books, but I actually really liked that aspect of this book. It really got me thinking and relating the scenario to real life. I think the political aspect was written in a way that suited a novice like me! I find feral children incredibly fascinating from a psychological standpoint. However, I had to completely suspend my belief with Wilde’s character. I almost feel like his history was shoehorned in to make him seem more interesting, but it just was not realistic. In fact, there are many parts of this book where you need to completely suspend your belief, which did detract from my enjoyment a little. That being said, I absolutely loved Hester’s character, her tenacity, intelligence and take no prisoners attitude won me over completely! I hope she crops up again in this series! Overall, I enjoyed this and I’m looking forward to seeing what happens to the characters next. I would recommend this to fans of crime/mystery if you don’t mind having to suspend your belief.

The Boy From the Woods is an action-packed thriller about two missing teenagers, a dirty politician, and damaging secrets. The plot seems simple and focuses a teenage girl who disappears without a trace. She is the school pariah. Then the rich popular boy, who is a bit of douche, disappears as well. This is where things get more complicated. There’s a lot of action and suspense in the attempts to find the missing teenagers. Lies unravel and secrets are revealed. Conspiracy theories, a ransom note, and a lot of drama play into the outcome of events. Two main characters solve the case: The boy from the woods, Wilde, and lawyer, Hester Crimstein. Wilde was found as a little boy living in the woods by himself. The mystery of how he came to be living on his own in the woods has never been solved. He has no recollection of his parents, the only thing he remembers are parts of dreams. He is now an adult, former army intelligence, drop-dead gorgeous and to top it off, he happens to be a genius. Haunted by his past, he is damaged and reckless, but of course, he has a huge heart. All of the women want him. He is a bit of a giant cliche. Then there is Hester, a 70-year-old kick-ass lawyer who made an appearance in The Runaway. I loved her character--she is intelligent, feisty and posses the ability to slay people with her words. She made this book for me. I would compare reading this book to watching an action movie: the characters are mysterious and charismatic, and the plot is intriguing until one starts to think and ask questions. It’s all a little too unbelievable, but it makes for good entertainment. I received an ARC of this book from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.

Decades ago, A boy is found living in the woods, with no memory of his past. Even after an exhaustive search, the child's family is never found and he is turned over to a foster family. Years later, the same man, whose past is shrouded in mystery, must find a missing teenage girl before her disappearance brings about disastrous consequences for her community. On the face of it, this is a nice, fast-paced thriller with an exciting plot and some intriguing characters. However, there are too many things going on in the story. Though the title suggests, it’s centered on “The Boy from the Woods”, he is just a small part of the plot. The boy from the woods does play a role in this book but he is not the primary focus of the story-line. First the good parts. The story is well structured, has some great characters and has lots of twists and turns. Wilde was an enjoyable character with an aura of mystery and some crisp dialogues. His past is largely unknown and there are questions about his past that never get fully answered. However, Wilde is a character that has plenty of charisma and I think he will return in the future with more answers. There are a lot of subplots in this book; bullying, kidnappings, ransom notes, blackmailing and conspiracy theories, fake news, politics (for a while it felt like a thriller version of 13 reasons). Then again, there were so many things going on and there is no singular focus on one case. The main mystery and Wilde’s background story were intriguing but it never plays a key role in the story. Except Wilde, none of the supporting characters felt completely convincing. Having enjoyed Coben’s Tell No One, the story felt disjointed and lacking in thrills. There were some unexpected surprises, but some of the parts felt unconvincing. Overall, The Boy From the Woods is a solid and fast-paced thriller with some intriguing characters. It’s an entertaining read which will keep you engaged. Many thanks to the publishers Random House UK and Netgalley for the ARC.

Hester Crimstein - the formidable criminal defense lawyer who easily bests police and prosecutors - is a secondary character in Harlan Coben's 'Myron Bolitar' series. In this book Hester gets a starring role when her grandson comes to her for help. The novel is a standalone and appears to be the start of a new series. ***** Sixteen-year-old Matthew Crimstein, who attends Westville High School in New Jersey, has a problem. Matthew feels guilty for sitting by - day after day - while his classmate Naomi is tormented by a group of bullies. The yobbos, led by entitled Crash Maynard, jeer at Naomi; call her names; throw rubber bands and spitballs; whisper nasty things; and so on. Then one day Naomi vanishes. Matthew seeks out his grandmother, criminal defense attorney Hester Crimstein, while she's taping her television show 'Crimstein on Crime.' Matthew explains about Naomi, and says, "Nana, I want you to help." Hester gets right on the job by enlisting the assistance of a man called Wilde, who has a VERY unusual history. In 1986, when he was around 6 years old, Wilde was discovered living on his own in New Jersey's Ramapo State Forest, near the suburb of Westville. Wilde spoke and understood English, but had no idea who he was or how long he'd been living alone in the woods. At that time Hester and her family lived in Westville, and Wilde became close friends with Hester's son David. When they grew up, Wilde became godfather to David's son Matthew; and when David died in a tragic accident, Wilde became a father figure to the boy. Wilde is just the person to investigate Naomi's disappearance. He's a part-time private investigator; is adept at surveillance and tracking; can expertly navigate the woods; and is a former special forces soldier. While Wilde is looking into Naomi's disappearance, he comes into contact with school bully Crash Maynard and Crash's wealthy parents, Dash and Delia Maynard (I love these names 😊). As it happens, Dash is a reality show producer who's sponsoring the presidential campaign of former reality star Rusty Eggers - a HIGHLY controversial figure. Eggers is a vain narcissist and egotistical sociopath, and many people would do anything to take him down. One anti-Eggers activist is attorney Saul Strauss, who's certain Dash Maynard has tapes that would destroy Eggers.....AND HE MEANS TO GET THEM. Thus, the Maynard family is guarded by security expert Gavin Chambers and his team of thugs. As the story unfolds another high schooler vanishes and Dash Maynard is put under EXTREME pressure to hand over the 'incriminating tapes' about Rusty Eggers. Since the pair of teen disappearances may be linked, Hester and Wilde take an interest in both cases, and Wilde makes it his mission to locate both kids. While all this is going on, widowed Hester - who now lives in New York - becomes reacquainted with Westville police chief Oren Carmichael. Carmichael is nearly 70 years old, but "remained what he'd always been - a grade-A prime slice of top-shelf beefcake." So sparks fly there. 😍 And Matthew's widowed mother Laila, a beautiful black woman, also puts a toe in the dating world. The romances add a flirty element to the story, but I simply can't believe that Hester - the toughest broad in New York - goes googly-eyed over a man. 😏 An underlying motif of the book involves Wilde's origins. Who were his parents and how did he come to grow up in the woods all by himself? Wilde takes initial steps to unravel this puzzle, and his childhood will probably be explored more in future books. This is an engaging story that alludes to familiar American events, so it's kind of a twofer: a mystery and a mildly political novel. The book isn't Coben's best work (IMO), but I enjoyed it and look forward to further escapades involving Hester Crimstein and Wilde. Thanks to Netgalley, the author (Harlan Coben), and the publisher (Grand Central Publishing) for a copy of the book. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot....

2.5, the biggest question in the book wasn't answered stars!! As I attempt to continue to dig myself out of my review hole I'm switching between recent reads and old reads I should've reviewed earlier. I've honestly been thinking about this book since I finished it and still am on the fence as to whether I should round down or up, for now it's up but that may change later. The Boy from the Woods centers itself on a simple premise: a young girl named Naomi goes missing in a town where decades prior, a young boy was found seemingly lost in the woods. This boy had no memory of the life before him, of his family, of where he came from or even his name. The boy grows up to be a man known as Wilde who while the synopsis leads you to believe "is a mystery to everyone, including himself" isn't really a mystery. While his upbringing and the past before he was found in the woods is a mystery, Wilde formed a meaningful life with meaningful relationships over the decades since his discovery. Memory makes demands that you often can’t keep. Memory is faulty because it insists on filling in the blanks. Wilde's godson Matthew reaches out to him when Naomi goes missing, seemingly Matthew knows more than he's letting on. After bringing in not only Wilde but his eccentric, television lawyer of a grandmother, Hester things quickly go from bad to worse for everyone. As is par for the course in mystery novels, everything and everyone is not as they seem. As additional information comes out, another child goes missing and soon it's a race against the clock to save the lives of two missing children and Wilde and Hester are the only ones who can help. That was Matthew’s grandmother. Nana never avoided a controversy if she could create one. Because, you know, I'm so relentlessly *positive* lets start with what I did enjoy. Hester freakin' Crimstein. She was by far not only the best character in this book but the best part of the story entirely. She was a genuine joy to read and every scene with her was an absolute delight. You know I love me a strong female character and Hester brought strength and spunk in spades. When I read Run Away by Coben what really took me by surprise was that the story I had created in my head through the title and synopsis was the bare minimum of the depth and scope of the story I ended up reading. To some extent, that's true for this novel as well. It was difficult creating my own synopsis for this without giving too much away. Coben is like an ice berg, there's so much more beneath the surface. Coben is an excellent writer, story teller and story crafter. However, I'm genuinely shocked by how many good reviews this novel has. I tend to shy away from mystery/thriller series because when I read that genre what I'm looking for is answers. I want questions raised and then answers given. I love a well placed twist (which isn't hard because I'm a dumpster fire of a detective), I love complex characters and complex stories but in the end, I'm looking for the answers to the questions the author raised. Coben didn't deliver this at all here. The biggest question of the novel (in my opinion, obviously) is left completely unanswered. While I can admit I'm not a big fan of open endings, this isn't even an open ending, it just completely ignored the biggest question of the book from page one. Past that, despite being a trash detective I didn't find myself surprised or shocked by the ending in any way. It felt like there was so much build up, so much tension in this story, there were big stakes and then...nothing. Just neat and tidy and everything is as it should be, no surprises here. The end. You move forward in life. You may give the old you a nod every once in a while, but the old you is gone and not coming back. That was often a good thing. I loved the first novel I read by Coben so I'll definitely be reading some more, but this was a colossal disappointed coming of the high of Run Away and I honestly don't see how this is the same author.

2.75 Stars A Harlan Coben novel, where everything is thrown in, except for the kitchen sink. So this is a first for me. Having read every Harlan Coben novel ever written, I would call myself I’m a super fan. I love almost all of his books though there have been a couple over the years that haven’t been favorites. This novel would, unfortunately, fall into that category. “The Boy From the Woods” by Harlan Coben is one of the few novels by him that is a complete miss for me. Admittedly, the writing is fine and I actually enjoyed reading a novel where the main character is Hester Crimstein, who has appeared as a recurring character in almost every novel of Harlan Coben’s for the last 15 years or more. Here, however, she wasn’t her sarcastic, wisecracking self, much to my chagrin. What bothered me about this book, is that the title of it is “The Boy From the Woods” and the novel itself isn’t really about Wilde. It’s about everything but Wilde. It has several storylines, all of which kind of meander and some of which don’t quite fit together or keep you invested. Most readers loved this novel, thus I encourage all of you to read other reviews as I may simply be the wrong reader for this book. A buddy read with Kaceey. Published on Goodreads on 4.10.20.

In 1986 a couple of hikers in the Ramapo Mountain State Forest found a boy who, it seems, had be living wild. He was unschooled and had no memory of life before the the forest. Jump forward thirty-four years and the man that was this boy has grown into an intelligent, educated man who has operated as a private investigator. In fact, Wilde, as he’s now known, set up his own company in partnership with his foster-sister some while back. He now lives in portable accommodation in the forest in which he was found. He has trouble sleeping in large structures so this existence suits him. Hester Crimstein is a lawyer and a television personality and when she learns from her grandson, Matthew, that a girl in his class has gone missing she turns to Wilde for help. Wilde is known to Hester through his friendship with her late son who was tragically killed in a road accident. Naomi Pine, the missing girl, had been a victim of bullying at the school and Matthew, although not an obvious participant in this, may have been peripherally involved. Soon Wilde’s investigations start to turn up a spider’s web of links and possible motives for Naomi’s disappearance. Before long the whole affair has grown legs and has potential implications for a huge range of people up to and including a politician with aspirations of ascending all the way to the White House. I found this to be a really slow burner and I was something like three-quarters of the way through before I became really interested in the outcome. The the only character fully developed here is Wilde: I bought into his personal story and found that my interest picked up whenever he was centre stage. Hester, Matthew, Naomi and the rest failed to convince me, each being either under-developed or what felt like a caricature of someone we’ve all seen on television or in the popular press. And the story itself really doesn’t pick up any pace until the final section. The denouement, when it comes, tidies up all the loose ends a little too neatly, somewhat in the style of a made for television movie. I’ve read better books from this author and though I never felt I wasn’t going to complete reading the whole story I wasn’t champing at the bit to pick it up again at any stage – except when it was edging close to it’s climactic ending. There’s a lot going on here and I wouldn’t be surprised to see this one made into a film at some point, but it won’t be my favourite mystery of the year. My thanks to Random House UK, Cornerstone and NetGalley for providing a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

Went into this one blind as usual and I naturally assumed it was about a boy from the woods. Well it kinda is, but that whole storyline takes a backseat to a missing children investigation. Wilde is not a boy, but in fact a man with super cool powers (sarcasm a bit there). His powers from growing up in the woods are pretty common among other protagonists in similar mystery books. Left me a bit confused why even give him this background story and cliché name when the end result is so lackluster. The first mystery, which acted as an introduction, was somewhat boring. The second investigation was where things finally started to get interesting. I made a fairly quick assumption of the culprit and nailed it, but there were many aspects that I didn't grasp. I'm curious if the nuances can be picked up by a better skilled reader. The final stretch of the book was one reveal after another, which was quite enjoyable. A bit unbelievable, but enough to spark my interest in the sequel.

This is a standalone novel by author Harlan Coben. I have read many books by this author and loved most of them especially the Myron Bolitar series but recently I have found some of his books hit or miss. This unfortunately was not a hit although I can see there are many positive reviews. There were certainly some high points but for me not the normal high standard I expect from one of my favourite authors. Thirty years ago, a child was found in the New Jersey backwoods. Everyone knows him as Wilde as he has no memory of how he got there and no knowledge of who he is. He is now a security expert, left alone by the local community and only contacted when they need him. When a child goes missing nobody appears to be concerned except for criminal attorney Hester Crimstein. She contacts Wilde and asks him to use his skills to find the girl. With no sign of the missing girl the attention escalates when a human finger arrives in the mail. I would like to thank both Net Galley and Random House UK for supplying a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review.

I may be the most novice Harlan Coben fan on Goodreads because I only started reading his books last year, starting with his 2019 release, Run Away. After being given the opportunity to read Coben's upcoming, The Boy from the Woods , I knew I needed to hurry up and read it! Typical with what I hear is the formula for Coben's stories, this book continues a slow-pacing multidimensional mystery where it starts off small and then ventures off into a variety of conflicts. Naomi Pine is missing. A student at her school, Matthew grows concerned and asks his grandmother Hester Crimstein to help find her. Hester is a famous television defense attorney and has resources to find her. Hester enlists the help from friend Wilde. Wilde is known by the town as "the boy from the woods" as he was randomly discovered as a child living in the nearby forest. Wilde's unconventional tactics prove to help, but now there's an even bigger discovery—money, power, politics, and a world of crime is hidden underneath the façade of this sleepy suburb. I think The Boy from the Woods was...nice. It was not my favorite book by any means, but the mystery is solid and the ending is fantastic. I felt at times that the book ventured into unbelievable realms that I had to just ignore and I also struggled with the characters. I really didn't like anyone and it proved to be difficult reading about people that I didn't care about. Overall, I'm happy I read The Boy from the Woods , but I will be more hesitant reading Harlan Coben's future work.

⭐️⭐️💫 When a bullied girl in his class goes missing, Matthew is worried and asks his grandmother, a famous and terrifying lawyer, to track her down. No one else seems concerned that Naomi is missing, even her own father. Wilde, Matthew’s godfather and a man with an unknown and mysterious past, also gets involved to help find Naomi. When she turns up in her own basement a few days later after failing a “challenge” initiated by the popular kids, things go from horrible to hell for Naomi. Shortly thereafter, Naomi goes missing again. Wilde sets his sights on Crash, a popular and spoiled rich boy. He seems involved with Naomi’s disappearance, but it isn’t clear how. But putting Crash on his radar gets Wilde in hot water with Crash’s family and their political allies. Something more sinister is going on and someone will pay the price. Way too many storylines. Some were left completely unresolved or wrapped up in the last few pages with a pretty ribbon. Entertaining but forgettable.

*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.com 3.5 stars POPSUGAR READING CHALLENGE 2020 #18: A book that's published in 2020 The simple experience of completing a hike in the mountains got Harlan Coben’s creative writing juices flowing and The Boy from the Woods began to take shape. For his latest novel Coben considered the scenario of a six year old boy emerging from the woods, claiming that he had been living there his whole life, with no parents or home to return to. This situation formed the very basis of the latest contemporary thriller from the bestselling author of The Stranger. A story of lies, truth, deception and danger, The Boy From the Woods opens with the intriguing story of Wilde, who was discovered in the woods of New Jersey some thirty years ago. When this young boy emerged from the woods he was unable to explain why he was living in the woods and where his family might be located. Decades after surfacing from the woods, Wilde has forged a career a soldier, but he has now retired from service. Wilde continues to seek solace from the woods and he also prefers to lead a solitary existence. When the case of a missing young girl arises, Wilde is asked to help out, using some of his background expertise to help find the girl. But in doing so, Wilde is forced to confront unwelcoming memories from his past. Feelings of disconnection, estrangement, difference and scorn follow Wilde as he casts his mind back to the community that rejected him. Wilde knows there are deep seated secrets at the heart of this judgmental community and he must get to the bottom of these secrets to save a young girl’s life. I came to The Boy From the Woods via my book club. Harlan Coben’s latest offering was selected for our monthly read along. I was quite excited about the prospect of reading The Boy From the Woods as I really enjoyed the Netflix series The Stranger, which is based on one of Coben’s popular titles. I was pleased to hear that there are a couple more adaptations in the works for Coben’s books. The Boy From the Woods is another of Coben’s books that I could easily see up on the big screen, it has a great visual quality to it, along with a hooking mystery that will suck viewers in. Harlan Coben’s latest begins with a cracking premise. I loved the idea of a boy from the woods appearing out of nowhere, with absolutely zero links to his past and family. It made for a very interesting opening and it hooked me right in. I loved Wilde’s back story, so much that I wanted more. I have the feeling that some of Wilde’s personal history was deliberately concealed. I think Coben may have plans to explore this character further in future novels. The main plot involves the disappearance of a local girl. This thread was precisely plotted and it did offer multiple surprises. I didn’t see most of the action coming and it made for a good read. The storyline isn’t complex, but it will keep you guessing. The Boy from the Woods is full of weighty topics such as justice, trauma, power, politics, extortion, status, privilege, class, media relations, bullying, identity and even romance. The mystery side of things is speculative, with the reader able to play an active role in theorising over the various scenarios presented by Coben, with interesting results. Coben’s characterisation is three dimensional. The cast are all well realised. I really liked Wilde and I enjoyed trying to work him out. Likewise, Hester, who I believe is a reoccurring character from Coben’s previous novels, is a commanding force. I did read The Boy From the Woods as a standalone, as it has been a few years ago since I read a Coben novel. It is perfectly fine to read this one as a standalone, independent of Coben’s extensive backlist. The Boy from the Woods represents another scintillating thriller from a well-known personality in the publishing world.

This book was a bit of a disappointment. I have read every Eve Dallas novel, this was one of the weakest. The crime is a repeat of an earlier novel, Portrait in Death. Okay, crime repeats, and the path to solving the crime is different in this book. But somehow the whole thing seems flat. It lacks excitement until the arrest of the killer. Then it takes an interesting turn, similar to the very first novel, Naked in Death, about what happens after the bail hearing. I also like these books for the backstory, the life of Eve, her husband, and their friends. This book spent a lot of time on them, specifically moving into Mavis' the new house. But with a few small exceptions, this book does not move Eve's story forward. I don't feel like I know her better. I want Eve to have another personal crisis, or a serious professional challenge. Have Whitney retire and the department gets reorganized. Have one of Roarke's nieces or nephews move in with them for a season in New York wanting the high life. Bring back some earlier characters like Jamie and Quilla. Give Eve a crime that takes her off planet with a different team. Let's freshen it up!

Framed in Death by J.D. Robb was my first book in the long-running In Death series, and I can definitely see why so many readers love it. The futuristic New York setting and the blend of police procedural with romance made for an interesting read. Eve Dallas is a strong, capable lead, and I enjoyed her sharp edges and determination. The mystery itself kept me engaged, even if I felt like some of the emotional dynamics and established relationships (especially between Eve and Roarke) would have hit harder if I’d started earlier in the series. Overall, it was a solid introduction to the world.

This was an unexpected sequel. Anyway, Ernest Cline is an expert on escapism. He is so good at it, that at the ending of the first book even after his explicit warning against going too far burying your head into the sand, you are still left thinking how awesome the Oasis and the whole quest for the 3 keys was. After reading this book it seems that he wanted to amend his mistake, so he toned down his barrage of references (there is still plenty, but I honestly loved the sheer opulence of them in the first book) and he acknowledged Wades many personal flaws that I personally couldn't see back in high school (I was a dumb nerdy kid) and this time he was going to hammer the point home... After the first book Wade learned nothing, got worse, got better, put everyone into the Sword Art Online Situation (everyone's brains got stuck in the Oasis and no one could log off) then gone on a new quest to learn his lesson this time... And the lesson is that escapism is mighty dangerous, but GOD do we need it. Just look at 2020. WE LEARNED NOTHING. Basically that is the core of it, but because it seems I am one of the first to review the book after reading it I don't want to say more about the plot in order to avoid spoilers. Short version: If you liked the first book you will find something to like in this one too.

3.5 Stars Video Review: https://youtu.be/XM9nfeWctOQ Was this sequel unnecessary? Yes. Did I still enjoy reading it? Yes. In terms of plots, this book follows very similar "narrative beats" to the first book. The humour and entertainment is, once again largely based around name dropping nostalgic nerdy cultures. If you didn't enjoy the first book, then you shouldn't pick up the second book expecting a different experience. Readers' enjoyment of this book will largely depend on their expectations going in. I went in expecting nerdy puzzle solving adventures and so I was largely satisfied with my reading experience. The plot twists were very cliche and the characters were all relatively flat in terms of development. I appreciated that the author attempted to write a more inclusive future in terms of sexuality and gender. However, I also acknowledge that he did so in a very awkward and clunky manner. Overall, I would recommend this one to fans of Ready Player One who are interested in spending more time in the Oasis with some familiar characters. I strongly recommend the audiobook version because Wil Wheaton's performance certainly enhanced the book.

“Two-Face was right. You either die a hero, or you live long enough to see yourself become the villain.” Strap in for a ride through the digital cosmos, because "Ready Player Two" is a wild rollercoaster that occasionally hits the brakes. 🎢🛑 Awarding it three 🌟 out of five, I'm straddling the line between "meh" and "not bad." 🌟🤷‍♂️ Why, you ask? Well, let me spin you a tale. 📖 There are moments when the story sprints ahead with the wind at its back, leaving you gripping the edge of your seat. 😮🌬️ Wade Watts, our protagonist, once again finds himself in the whirlwind of a virtual quest. However, just when the adventure is set to reach warp speed, it stumbles into patches of slowness that threaten to unravel the momentum. 🌀⏸️ Picture a thrilling arcade game that occasionally drops you into a buffering screen—it's a mixed bag of excitement and exasperation. 🕹️😫 As Wade and his crew dive into the OASIS, it's a reunion with old friends and foes. 👥🤖 Art3mis, with her fiery determination and encyclopedic knowledge of the 80s, remains a beacon of courage. 💪🔥 Aech, the lovable giant with a heart as big as their virtual garage, once again provides comic relief and unwavering loyalty. 😄❤️ Shoto's silent but deadly presence adds a layer of intrigue to the motley crew. 🤐🔍 Now, let's address the elephant in the digital room: the 80s. Ah, the era of neon, perms, and synthesizers. 🌆🎤🎹 If you're like me, whose knowledge of the 80s is about as extensive as a one-pixel image, you'll find yourself wandering through a maze of references like a lost avatar. 🎮🌀 While the first book dabbled in 80s pop culture, this sequel goes all-in, assuming you're decked out in 80s gear from head to toe. 💾👾 The author throws references around like confetti at a retro-themed party, assuming everyone's busting a move to the familiar tunes. 🎉🕺 But if you're not tuned into the 80s frequency, it's like watching a movie without subtitles. 🎬🚫 I felt like a time traveler who landed in the wrong era—nostalgia is great, but it's a little harder to feel it when you weren't there the first time around. ⏳🤖 Wade and his crew are back in the OASIS, chasing after new keys and gates. 🔑🚪 The characters high-five each other over references I'm missing, and it's like being stuck in a conversation where you nod and smile without a clue about what's going on. 🙋‍♂️😅 In the end, "Ready Player Two" seems to assume that everyone's got their vintage groove on. 🕺🌈 It's like a fancy cocktail that's delightful if you're into mixology, but if you're more of a soda-and-chips person, you're left with a taste that's not quite your cup of virtual reality tea. 🍹🥤 So, fellow travelers of the digital realm, approach this sequel with a decoder ring in hand if you want to fully appreciate its 80s symphony. 📟🎵 Otherwise, be prepared to ride the wave of nostalgia that might just leave you feeling like an avatar out of sync with its surroundings. 🌊🕹️👾 ************************************ READY PLAYER ONE SERIES READY PLAYER ONE - 4 🌟 READY PLAYER TWO - 3 🌟

Like many I absolutely loved Ready Player One and my initial reaction to a sequel was this is unnecessary, in fact I originally wasn't planning on reading it. My wife brought home a copy knowing how much I'd enjoyed the first, so felt that I should start it with an open mind. The good news is that I didn't hate it. The early chapters continue straight from RPO reintroducing our favourite characters, the book is on familiar ground. I was even been won over with mentions of Gallifrey and the Fifth, Tenth and Thirteenth Doctor's. The only logical way to have a second story was the introduction of new technology called 'Oasis Neural Interface' that allows users to experience the Oasis with all five senses and record their own experiences. With new technology comes a new quest, so similar to the first book Wade must find various objects around the Oasis. I personally found the MacGuffin not as intresting which explains why this novel is seeing mixed to low reviews. It's been a while since I'd read the first novel which probably helped, the references are more deep cut this time too. I particularly enjoyed all the John Hughes movie references, though I'm not sure Wade mentioning how much of a slog The Silmarillion was during the more fantasy elements was the wisest thing to point out - I found that book too much of a slog, others might find this sequel in a similar vain... With this being released at the tail end of 2020 where the use of technology has become vital in communicating with friends and family makes this a more intresting timely release. Overall the more fun adventure elements helped distract from the more ludicrous and often uneven parts in this perfectly average follow up.

This is one of those sequels that probably shouldn't exist.. it fell short of the first book and was actually pretty redundant. With that being said I still enjoyed it.

Hello, fellow reader. You may be wondering, much like I did before picking this up, whether there's a point to this book, or if it'll make you hate the original, the 80's and/or yourself for paying money for it. That, along with the tens of other small worries at the back of our minds whenever a book gets a surprise sequel. I, myself, was strangely rooting to both love it and hate it at the same time. I ended up just letting myself be swept into it. Is this book perfect? Hardly. In many ways it falls short of the first, in some others it exceeds expectations. There are generous helpings of straight-up half-assed nonsense. However, as the story progressed, I let go of my expectations and preconceptions and just basking in the hype, enjoying a great ride back into a world I already love. Even though I disliked some parts, I still feel excited and giddy and epic and wholesome. This book made me feel good, and if you loved Ready Player One, I'd say go for it. You, and me, and all of us, right now especially, deserve to feel good. And epic. [Also, Wil Wheaton narrates the audiobook. Enough said about that.]

Sigh. 3 stars might be a little generous but I can’t bring myself to give it 2 stars. I never wanted Ready Player One to end and eventually, I just wanted Ready Player Two to end. I did not love the story or the execution this time around and is it just me or did everything seem rushed EXCEPT that Prince part. I swear it was half the book.

Same old story with a whilesome end, too much unnessasary 80s and 90s references, that woul put you to sleep, twice

I really wanted to rate this one higher. The first few chapters were hard for me to get into the story. The middle was more of what I expected from Cline. The rest felt like just rinse and repeat from Ready Player One. If you grew up in the 80's, like I did, then you can definitely relate to this book. But, we get the same thing from the first book. I was hoping for some kind of expansion beyond this. We did get a couple of new characters, but not as much as I would have liked. If you enjoyed the first book then I would encourage you to give this one a try. You may like it more than I did. "When you become famous, you've got, like, a year or two where you act like a real asshole. You can't help yourself. It happens to everybody. You've got, like, two years to pull it together--or it's permanent.' Actual Rating: 3.5 stars ***

True nothing could beat the first book and the end was a bit extreme and windy unrealistic to me however I still enjoyed this book when I let it be its own story. I probably wouldn't excitingly reread it but I'd be happy to give an adapation a go

*www.onewomansbbr.wordpress.com *www.facebook.com/onewomansbbr **3.5 stars** Ready Player Two by Ernest Cline. (2020). Days after winning OASIS founder James Halliday's contest, Wade Watts makes a discovery that changes everything. Hidden within Halliday's vaults lies a technological advancement that will change the world and make the OASIS a thousand times more wondrous and addictive. With it comes a new riddle, and a new quest from Halliday. But an unexpected, impossibly powerful, and dangerous new rival awaits, one who'll kill millions to get what he wants. Wade's life and the future of OASIS are again at stake, but this time the fate of humanity also hangs in the balance. Okay, how to put this...I feel like although this book was enjoyable enough to read, this sequel wasn't necessary. I thought 'Ready Player One' ended quite well and as soon as I heard that was a sequel I knew I'd read it but I was also weary (Ready Player One is one of my favourite books). To be fair, I liked this one more than what I thought I would. When the story starts I felt a bit disappointed because it seemed like the things that ended positively in the last book had now completely changed. In particular it felt like Wade himself had changed personality wise and it wasn't for the better. I think the second half of this book was much stronger than the beginning and took it back to the elements that made the first book such a hit: the nostalgia, the cool quest tasks in a virtual world and friends working together. Overall: an enjoyable, albeit unnecessary in my humble opinion, sequel to an excellent book.

More of the same, but without wow effect of the first installment.

3.5 stars! I enjoyed this book wayyy more than I thought! This is a very character-focused book, and typically, I'm more of a high-stakes plot kind of girl. But I loved that the characters felt sooo real, layered, and complex. This would be such a great book to read in a book club because there's so much to unpack and discuss. I would LOVE to hear people's opinions on the different characters and themes in the book, like motherhood, secrets, etc. Also going to start the tv show tonight!! Also also - this book is making me think I should give literary fiction & character-focused books another chance🤔🤔🤔

I'd probably give this 3.5, I guess. I don't know. I didn't like this book, but I feel like I should. Ng is a phenomenal writer but I just couldn't get into this book. The first chapter was amazing and I thought I was in for something special. There was a clear theme of ignorance in the "progressive" town of Shaker Heights that only outsiders and Izzy could see. The reason I couldn't get into this book was that all the supporting characters felt a little thin. Like they weren't actually people, they were just there to show how ignorant and selfish the people of Shaker Heights were. Mia was obviously a fantastic character and had multiple chapters dedicated to her backstory and why she became the artist she was/why she had the feelings about the central conflict that she had. By the end of the story it felt like there really wasn't a choice. Mia's side was clearly in the right and the Richardsons and the McCulloughs were too ignorant to ever really support. I don't know. I know there are people like them in the world. I know why this book is so popular and it deserves the success it's had. I just couldn't get into it.

DNF This is a great book, just not for me. The author is brilliant in her craft. As I have said before I am big on the Fictive Dream, have to have it. This book is a study in character. There is so much “telling” about the characters that the narrative overpowers the forward motion of the story. There isn’t any forward motion of the story that I could see in the first hundred pages (at least not near enough to hold my interest). There are also speed bumps along the way that tends to toss me out of the long telling narratives, and that is shifting points of view. For me this is the kind of book that can’t get out of the way of itself enough to tell the story (show the story). I will definitely take a peek at the author’s next book.

3.5 stars I listened to the audiobook. It was the right choice. I’m pretty sure I wouldn’t have liked it as much if I read the book. The pace was slow and I usually prefer a faster pace in this, but for some reason, I don’t mind a slow pace in audiobooks (to an extent). The book is told from several points of view or rather, the narrator was telling what was happening with several people. They know the future and the past of all of the characters. Kind of omniscient. It worked well for the book. The characters were real, flawed, annoying sometimes, and I did care about some but honestly, I’m not sure what the author wanted us to make of Mia, the good guy? Well, in my opinion, she made some messed up choices and I don’t think her better than the rest. What I appreciated the most about her was how she trusted and treated Pearl. Not that it matters, the realistic quality of the characters is why I liked this book. Like many others, I also wish we got more of a closure. It’s not what I call an open ending but I wanted to know the fate of some characters. I’m also glad I didn’t read it during the hype back in 2017 because I would’ve enjoyed it a lot less. Still, it’s not something I’d remember and not much will stay with me, hence why I rounded it up to 3 stars instead of 4 like I originally did.

In "Little Fires Everywhere" the lives of two very different families - the Richardsons and the Warrens - overlap for a time in the mid-1990s, resulting in dramatic changes in both. The six-member Richardson family is comprised of mother Elena - a journalist; Father Bill - an attorney; And their four teenage children: Trip - the high school athlete and local heartthrob; Lexie - the pretty fashionista aiming for the Ivy League; Moody - the serious thinker who enjoys playing the guitar; And Izzy - the rebel who feels like a fish-out-of-water. The Richardsons have a large, beautiful home in upscale Shaker Heights, Ohio - a planned liberal-thinking community where everything is orderly and 'no one sees race.' In fact Lexie has an African-American boyfriend named Brian, and no one blinks an eye. In Elena's eyes she and her family have the perfect life, one that should be emulated by everyone. The Warrens could hardly be more different than the Richardsons. Their two-member household consists of Mia - a professional photographer/artist, and her 15-year-old daughter Pearl - a bright, quiet girl. The Warrens are almost itinerants, pulling up stakes whenever Mia feels the need for a fresh artistic inspiration. In fact the Warrens have moved over 45 times since Pearl was born.....so the girl never really had a close friend. When the Warrens' ramblings bring them to Shaker Heights, they lease the upstairs apartment in a rental home owned by Mrs. Richardson. The rent is reasonable, but Mia still has to supplement her photography income with a job at the local Chinese restaurant. To make ends meet, Mia and Pearl eat leftovers from the restaurant, shop in thrift stores, and furnish their home with castoffs found in the street. Pearl's one yearning is to know who her father is, but Mia consistently fobs off the question with redirection and humor. As it happens Moody Richardson and Pearl are high school classmates, and - after they become friends - Pearl starts to hang out at the Richardson home. She goes over after school to watch 'Jerry Springer' (the Richardson teens' favorite show). Pearl mingles with the family; helps Lexie with her college application; and develops a crush on Trip. Pearl is thrilled to finally have friends, especially such a bright, stimulating bunch. Mia gets drawn into the Richardsons orbit as well when Mrs. Richardson - in a burst of altruism - offers the photographer a job in her home to help defray the Warrens' rent. Mia's duties are to clean the house in the morning and prepare dinner in the evening, leaving plenty of time for her artistic endeavors. In an ironic exchange, young Izzy becomes enthralled with Mia and her work. The youngest Richardson starts to drop by Mia's apartment after school, to help with the artist's photography and learn the craft. In fact Izzy is rather desperate for a benevolent 'mother figure' in her life. We come to learn that Izzy was a premature baby who nearly died. The incident so upset Mrs. Richardson that she resents Izzy, whom she criticizes and chastises relentlessly. Izzy, in turn, acts out in outrageous ways. (I was somewhat surprised that Mr. Richardson didn't intervene with his wife here; it quite put me off him.) All this interaction results in the Richardsons and Warrens becoming closely - but casually - intertwined. Relations between the two families are unremarkable until Mia happens to overhear that Mrs. Richardson's friends, the McCulloughs, have almost completed their adoption of a one-year-old Chinese baby they call Mirabelle. It so happens that Mia knows something about the child. The girl's mother, Bebe Chow, is an immigrant who works at the Chinese restaurant with Mia - and she had previously confided her story. Ten months ago, when Bebe was homeless and penniless, she left her little daughter, May Ling, at a fire station. When Bebe got a job, she tried to get the baby back.....but couldn't find her. So Mia tells Bebe where the baby is. Shortly afterward, there's a court case for custody of the tot, and a media circus surrounding the event. #post-body-5150256982207802269 > div:nth-child(5) > div:nth-child(5) > span > img:nth-child(26) Mrs. Richardson becomes infuriated by Mia's 'interference' and - already put off by the artist's lifestyle - makes it her business to look into Mia's background. Mrs. Richardson's motives aren't entirely clear, but she seems bent on making trouble. In my opinion Mrs. Richardson is a sneaky, self-righteous bitch, who - in the end - suffers the consequences of her actions. I can't say more than that without spoilers. As for the adoption, I was empathetic to both sides. The McCulloughs had suffered numerous miscarriages and were desperate for a child. Moreover, their wealth would provide many benefits for Mirabelle/May Ling. On the other hand, Bebe was distraught at the thought of losing her biological child. In the end though, is it right to steal someone's child? The McCulloughs cold, calculating efforts to do this offended me. Not to mention, Mirabelle/May Ling would grow up to read all this on the internet....and then what? The citizens of Shaker Heights and the various Richardsons have different opinions about the custody issue, which sows dissension in the ranks. The court case about Mirabelle/May Ling's custody is almost a caricature. When Mrs. McCullough is asked about providing a cultural environment for a Chinese baby, she cites things like: displaying Chinese art in her home; feeding Mirabelle rice; and plans to take Mirabelle to a Chinese restaurant when she's older. After the testimony, I was on tenterhooks to find out how the judge in the Mirabelle/May Ling case would rule. The major characters in the book are well-drawn and - for the most part - believable. However, it struck me as unrealistic that ALL the Richardson kids gathered in the living room every day to watch Jerry Springer - as it's my experience that disparate siblings aren't that chummy. I also thought Lexie's infatuation with infants was exaggerated. My elderly mom adores babies to distraction.....but a college-bound teenager? I don't think so. Lastly, I wouldn't be as nice as Mia in her circumstances. In general, though, the characters act in ways that reflect their personalities. I'm a bit at odds with the book's plethora of stellar reviews. I agree that the story is compelling and well-written, but the 'nicey-nicey' Shaker Heights environment seems too good to be true and I don't buy the novel's ending. The book does address interesting social issues - especially 'motherhood' - and would probably appeal to many fans of literary novels. For me though, it doesn't hit a bullseye. The book has been adapted into a mini-series on Hulu. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot....

3,5* - first of all, the writing is absolutely beautiful. It's a little slow but still intriguing and the choice of words is always very fitting. Most of this book is based on retrospects and backstories of the characters, especially Mia. If that's not your type of thing, this probably isn't for you. I personally enjoyed it. I was very curious about Mia and her past and what led to her actions of today. You could empathize with her very well throughout the story, even though I definitely don't agree with everything she's done. Unfortunately, the rest of the characters fell a little flat for me. Not necessarily because they weren't written well but because I just didn't like any of them. Which is normally not a problem for me, I don't think a character has to be likeable to be a good character but I don't know, it bothered me in this one. I also think the book could've been longer to go more in depth with the characters. The problems the characters had were very real and interesting but I don't think they were present enough to be important to me, I guess? Besides Mia, Mrs. Richardson and the whole adoption thing, nothing was really talked about enough. Especially the end came so suddenly and was kinda rushed. I didn't really seem like any of the characters really cared about what happened (I still cried though lol) Another thing I really liked was how the whole topic of motherhood and the love between a mother and her child was handled. I still can't really decide on how I think about this whole adoption topic and what Mia had done in her past. I think it's a really hard topic. Overall this was an enjoyable read and I'd definitely recommend it!

3 Stars This book is an examination of family and what that concept truly means. Is there a right way or wrong way to make a family? Can we pass judgement on another family dynamic simply because it is different to ours? Is there an unspoken guideline to making the ideal family and if so will that ensure a happy, healthy, successful life for the offspring? I think the theme of the book is best described in this little excerpt: “One had followed the rules, and one had not. But the problem with rules... was that they implied a right way and a wrong way to do things. When, in fact, most of the time they were simply ways, none of them quite wrong or quite right, and nothing to tell you for sure what side of the line you stood on.” Little Fires Everywhere is based around two very different families: The structure, affluent, and seemingly ideal nuclear family comprised of Mr and Mrs Richardson and their offspring (studious Moody, rebellious Izzie, popular Lexie, and handsome Trip). And the nomadic, whimsical, and artistic Warren family made up of two fiercely self-assured women Mia and her daughter Pearl. These families though very different become intertwined by the simple act of Mia renting a home from the lucrative Mrs Richardson. The vast differences of these two families are then highlighted further through the big town scandal as a young poor Chinese woman named Bebe gives her child up in a moment of deep weakness and despair and thus the privileged white suburban McCulloughs who are unable to conceive a child of their own begin the process of adopting the abandoned baby only to have Bebe return in hopes of getting a second chance. This creates division in the community and in the two families further as sides are taken. Although Celeste Ng did such a great job developing characters I only found myself liking one of them and finding the rest borderline annoying. So when chapters focused on one of the many characters I disliked I found myself disengaging with the novel and honestly skimming when it came to chapter that involved Mrs Richardson. Mrs Richardson oh how I loath thee. Honestly her behaviour bordered on sociopathic she was such a dislikable mother and person and although her actions were explained I still found myself going what the fuck you doing Richardson? That is not nosey, that is just pure stalking. Focus on your life nut job. Overall, this was a nice read but not as captivating as I was led to believe by glowing reviewers. I felt passive towards this book most of the reading process, I had no strong emotional responses to any storylines or characters (other then just being freakin irritated by Mrs Richardson). Honestly, I think Beartown by Fredrick Brackman was robbed and should have been the true winner of best Goodreads Fiction of 2017.

06/03/24: Sadly, it does not appear that Patterson "finished" the novel, but rewrote it entirely. The style is completely unlike anything Crichton has ever written--it's flat, dull, nondescript, and plodding. I've been a gargantuan fan of MC for many years, and I've read all of his books, some more than once, and I can say with complete conviction... This is not Crichton. There are references to modern things such as twitter and other social media--things that blossomed years after Crichton took his last breath. And yet, the book was supposedly written in the 80s or 90s? Sure, some references and might need to be updated, but this is quite bad. I knew it would be disastrous, but this is beyond disappointment. 06/27/24: It's been a few weeks since my original review and I'd like to update it. I've read further into the novel and it's gotten better. There are parts which are very clearly written by Patterson, and others (clearly) written by Crichton. There are very distinct stylistic differences (for one, Patterson is very sparse and doesn't use much in the way of scientific terminology, ("I'm the scientist in charge!") and Crichton, quite the opposite--which is what I've always loved about him.) I've upgraded my original rating from one star to two stars. Quite a few people seemed to enjoy my review, so I'll keep updating it as I go to keep it as honest as possible. Thanks for giving me the time of day, folks. Conclusion: As of 8/1 or so, I've finished the book. It's not terrible as a whole. But it's definitely not classic Crichton. If he did write it, it was something more recent. It's much closer to his later work, like Next, than Jurassic Park. The writing is too simplistic. The scientific exposition that we all know, and love isn't present. And the dialogue isn't even close to something he would have written early on in his career. Maybe he would have published it after Micro. Who knows. But it's safe to say that the ending is total trash, and Patterson should be ashamed for writing such an atrocious conclusion to the 400-page buildup. MC would never do us such an injustice.

For many fans of the late Michael Crichton, you might have been just as curious as I was when we heard that his widow, Sherri had released his notes for publication and collaboration with fellow author, James Patterson. Another possible novel from Michael Crichton? Of course, this isn’t the first one after his death. But it is one that apparently remained dormant on his hard drive for 20 years that needed an ending, according to Sherri. So, why not hand it over to prolific author, Patterson? There is quite the gush acknowledgement by the widow at the end of the book, if interested. With a story title like “Eruption,” and a book cover with a spouting volcano, I think it is fairly obvious to readers that we have an idea what we are in for from the beginning. What we don’t know is the underpinnings of what it all means. And, that is the tension of what the story wants to deliver to readers. “The eruption was only days away.” So, what does this mean exactly? For the scientist characters working at the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, how are they going to “vent the volcano,” warn the public, or what? And for those who have not heard the term, venting a volcano, that seems to suggest that they can safely direct millions of tons of lava wherever they (humans) choose. Wow! Didn’t know we had such power over nature! Did you? But there is more. There is something that the Army has been doing that this eruption will unleash on to the residents. (No spoilers from me.) Will Mac and his team be able to save the Island in time? Maybe even the world?! Sometimes I felt like I was reading a movie script. Hmmm… Crichton was always one dappling in science. And, with Patterson’s thriller mystery voice, was he able to bring the two comfortably together? Well, it was a bit of a strain, and when the disaster finally hit, it was almost like a relief – you know, like, we were expecting it, so, it finally came! Now we can get on with life. 3.5 stars rounded down for anti-climatic

3.5 stars This book, about a VERY dangerous volcano, is a collaboration between Michael Crichton and James Patterson. In the backstory, Michael's wife Sherri explains that Michael was interested in volcanoes, and had begun a book, whose working title was 'The Black Zone', before he died. Sherri found the partial manuscript in Michael's archives, and felt the book should be completed. Sherri considered various collaborators, and when she met James Patterson, she knew she'd found the right guy. The result is 'Eruption.' ***** As the story opens, the Mauna Loa volcano - one of the five volcanoes that form the Island of Hawaii - is heating up, causing earth tremors, and getting ready to erupt. Volcanologist Dr. John MacGregor (Mac), head of the Hawaiian Volcano Institute, determines the volcano will explode in about five days. A volcano eruption is dangerous enough, but Mauna Loa is especially treacherous. Mac learns this when he's summoned to a meeting with some military brass, one of whom is Colonel James Briggs. Briggs takes Mac to a huge lava tube (like a cave) in Mauna Loa, which is filled with storage receptacles containing radioactive herbicides. The herbicides are SO souped up they can kill an entire tree in minutes. The bottom line is this: Should the herbicides get into the environment, they'll enter the atmosphere, contaminate the whole world, kill all the plants....and everyone will die. So, if the lava from Mauna Loa's eruption reaches the lava tube, it's all over. One might ask, why did the military leave these SUPER dangerous storage receptacles in Mauna Loa? The answer is the army couldn't get funding from Congress to move the containers, and couldn't make a public fuss because the receptacles were filled with classified hush-hush pesticides. For the rest of the book, Mac - along with his crew and the army - maneuver to divert Mauna Loa's red hot lava so it doesn't reach the receptacles. This involves things like blowing holes in the volcano; building walls; building dykes; and so on. All this must be done in five days, and in secret, so the public doesn't panic. Of course the secret does leak, and a pair of volcano chasers and a narcissistic billionaire businessman descend on Hawaii. This trio thinks THEY should direct the 'rescue operation', and things get complicated and dangerous. There are some striking scenarios, like people taking helicopters into Mauna Loa (before it erupts) so they can get pictures. The heat and ashes compromise the helicopter's rotors.....and you'll have to read the book to find out what happens next. Of course there's plenty of death and destruction in the book....can you imagine falling into a lava flow? The book is formulaic, but it's exciting, with engaging (if somewhat two-dimensional) characters. A movie is in the works already, which will probably be a popular action thriller. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

Why did I spend $15.99 on this? Library. Get it from the library.

I generally like Michael Crichton's books (aside from Rising Sun which I probably read 25 years ago and which I recall felt fairly and surprisingly racist/xenophobic). I admired how he'd chosen to write despite having earned an MD (from Harvard, no less). At the same time, I don't love James Patterson. It's weird. I like the shows made out of his books, but I don't really love his books. I also generally am turned off by collaborations. I can think of a handful of authors who successfully have written as partners as one voice (I like Liv Constantine, Greer Hendricks/Sarah Pekkanen, and Jodi Picoult/Samantha Van Leer come to mind). In this case, it wasn't a partnership. It was one author finishing up the work of another. Like all the writers who tried to continue the Steig Larsson Millenium series, it was a good effort but it wasn't working for me. Like Patterson's other books, it felt like it was written for the screen. I probably would enjoy it on screen. But as a book, I didn't love it. Too much action with very little character development. Also people dying all over the place. Lots of conflict between military and science, and military and journalists - both a bit overdone in book after book and frankly, I find it boring and lazy. I'm glad Crichton's wife felt that Patterson was the right person to complete her husband's passion project. I hope he would've liked it too. Mostly, I'll cheer when/if it ever comes to screen. Rounding up to 3.

This was okay. Michael Crichton will forever be one of my favorite authors, and I actually really enjoy James Patterson as well. This book has touches of them both but neither really excels at what they do best. My favorite part of the book is the science and tech talk involved in volcano history and maintenance. I learned a lot about that and you can tell that was Crichtons voice peaking through, and it definitely has Patterson breakneck speed pacing. Some one mentioned it felt like one of those old 90s disaster movies and I totally agree with that. And that’s something I enjoyed about the book… but to be honest… that’s really all this was…. A race against time when a massive volcano in Hawaii is about to blow and we discover that our government has been hiding a deadly secret (radioactive waste hidden in the underground of the island set to explode with the volcano). There are A LOT of characters that were sometimes hard to follow and I never really felt close to any of them. So… overall… an easy, quick, action packed read without the depth that we usually get from Michael Crichton. Not terrible, but didn’t rock my world…

Take a major volcano eruption, a beautiful setting in Hawaii and mix it with a top government secret that could destroy the world, and what’s not to like? The volcanic and seismic activity is riveting, with quaking earth, gaseous emissions and hot ash releases wreaking havoc, not to mention the fast moving lava flows which seem to be hunting people down as they run for their lives. Then there’s the nearby mysterious encapsulated toxic agent with an insidious creepiness factor of mega-ten thousand that will kill all living things if its hidden area is breached. The science is all really good stuff. The not so good are the people who inhabit the story. They are cartoonish, possessing some serious superhero powers with dialogue that no one really talks like. The book seems to have been scripted for the blockbuster action movie that is sure to happen.

⭐️⭐️⭐️1/2 Michael Crichton died in 2008 but he left behind some unpublished/unfinished works. This included notes and a partial manuscript about a volcano project which were handed over to James Patterson by Crichton's wife, Sherri. She held onto this for years and finally decided on Patterson as a collaborator to finish Crichton's work. The story centers on a catastrophic eruption of Mauna Loa volcano located on the big island of Hawaii. Mauna Loa is actually Earth's largest active volcano and is known for its massive size. The plot of the novel is complicated by a secret military establishment on the island that contains some very hazardous material that could result in the destruction of mankind if the site is breached by the volcano's lava flow. The novel's main protagonist is John MacGregor, the head of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory. As the eruption of the volcano becomes imminent, MacGregor and his team is told of the danger being housed at the military establishment and is pulled into a life or death struggle with the military to try to save the planet. Along the way a billionaire (think Elon Musk) gets involved with his team of TV-ready volcano experts. And of course the press, the local islanders, and other scientists all want to have a say in the decisions to try to avert the volcano's lava flow. Can the biggest city on the island, Hilo, be saved? But the main thing is to save the planet. I'm not sure how much of this novel was actually written by Crichton. It definitely had more of Patterson's trademark style all over it including his short chapters and his action sequences. It was in the end a decent techno-thriller however, some of the novel made me roll my eyes like when MacGregor took time out to go surfing during the crisis. I also thought the ending was somewhat anti-climatic leaving me thinking that volcano experts were not so expert. The writing also seemed to lack some of Crichton's style and his technological/scientific knowledge. I am a fan of Crichton's and have read and enjoyed most of his bestselling novels including The Andromeda Strain, Congo, Spere, Jurassic Park, and Timeline but I wouldn't put Eruption in the same class. Overall, only a mild recommendation.

"Eruptions are just the earth's way of speaking to us."

Natural Disaster with Government Involvement... both good and bad! Crichton's voice shines through with the science & tech set up regarding volcanoes, always grateful to learn. Then there is Patterson's fast paced storytelling. Both create a tense and buildup event in this story about a volcano in Hawaii, think one of those awesome 90s disaster movies! Good story, but I wished there was more of Crichton's horrific death scenes, these felt too mellow in this story.

Whilst reading this I kept thinking I can imagine this being turned into a very successful movie. Liked the characters.

Eruption is a fast paced thriller that brings one problem after another for a hybrid scientist/military/billionaire/entertainment team to deal with. I’ll admit that I was only really interested in this book to see how James Patterson and a lost manuscript from the late Michael Crichton would turn out, but I also didn’t have a ton of expectations because Crichton died over 15 years ago. Through Eruption this team monitors and then must find a way to change the direction of Hawaii’s most powerful volcanic eruption. The stakes are raised even more not only because there is a town near the volcano where readers are introduced to various citizens; but also the survival of the entire world is at stake due to military negligence. Overall, the story progressed quick enough to maintain my attention, but the characters just felt empty and without personality. Like a Hollywood director filled characters based on their occupation stereotypes. Admittedly, I have been hesitant to read James Patterson because I know he profits from a team of ghost writers and I prefer to support individual authors, but I can admit that I have enjoyed previous works by this team as well. He sells well and his books get people to read so I can appreciate that, however this book felt somewhat procedural with the plot and how the story advanced and characters developed. I don’t feel like I wasted my time reading it, however I also don’t think I’ll read it again.

I’m not normally someone to complain about over-long books (Trollope’s 800-odd pager The Way We Live Now, was one of my favourite reads of last year). I did feel at times, though, that The Mirror and the Light dragged, in a way I didn’t find with Mantel’s previous novels in this series—and not because the novel was less meticulously written or richly imagined than its predecessors. In many ways, in fact, I felt that the stylistic quality and consistency was better in The Mirror and the Light than in the second novel of the trilogy, Bring Up the Bodies. I’m not sure history (i.e. the period from 1536-40) did Mantel many favours in this third part of the trilogy. Some of the most vivid characters of the first two parts are dead by the start of TMATL (Wolsey, More, Anne Boleyn), and the narrative arc of the final part is less clear-cut. Much of what could have been the most compelling action, such as the Pilgrimage of Grace, takes place offstage, while Cromwell remains in and around London. Similarly, the promising antagonist figure of Reginald Pole is absent in Italy for the whole of the book. Mantel seemed to me to be suffering quite a bit, as novelist, from the intractability of her subject matter. In the absence of any very compelling action during much of the book, she plunges back, via Cromwell’s inner monologue, to episodes from his past—his rough-edged boyhood in Putney, his formative years in Italy and Antwerp, memories of his wife and daughters, and his time in the service of Wolsey. In some ways this technique works, providing an elegiac texture to a book that the reader knows is recounting Cromwell’s last years (even though the character does not realise it himself). In other ways, however, I felt the book was mining territory already well covered in the previous novels, so it felt rather like a greatest-hits compendium of Mantel’s Cromwell at points. There were no new characters in TMATL who struck me as particularly memorable, although it was certainly fun to revisit some old favourites (especially, for me, the suave, wily Imperial ambassador Chapuys, and the car crash that is Henry VIII by this point). I realise I’m in a minority, to judge from this site, in not seeing this novel as quite simply a masterpiece. I think that has a lot to do with moral, or ideological, factors. Mantel makes no bones about her Protestant sympathies (and corresponding antipathy to Catholicism) in surveying this slice of English history. I found this bias quite alienating when I was reading Bring Up the Bodies, and it bothered me at points in TMATL as well. The dissolution of the monasteries, for example, is presented by and large in TMATL as a ‘progressive’ development, putting an end to a culture of superstition and corruption. The deaths of Catholics like the Charterhouse monks of London, barbarically executed in 1537, or Thomas Marshall, abbot of Colchester, hanged in 1539, are passed over very lightly in the novel. Catholic aristocrats like the Poles and the Courtneys are portrayed in a notably unsympathetic way. This would all be fine if the novel encouraged us to see this bias as a function of Cromwell’s own prejudices and ideological commitments--but that’s not really the case. We are encouraged to identify with Cromwell throughout, and he is given enough attractive and ‘modern’ characteristics to serve as the reader’s obvious proxy within a culturally very alien world. There’s no real ‘non-Cromwell’ space in the novel from which we might take a perspective on Cromwell’s thoughts and values. Mantel’s narrative voice and Cromwell’s focalising inner monologue effectively overlap. Thinking of Cromwell’s ‘modernity’, one thing that struck me half-way through the novel and which I then couldn’t get out of my mind afterwards, is how little inflected by Christianity his voice really is. We hear a reasonable amount about how committed Cromwell is to the Gospel and especially to Tyndale’s initiative of making the Bible available in English. At points, Mantel seems almost to flirt with the notion that this is the principal driver of Cromwell’s actions, although she is too realistic not to portray him also as driven by ambition and gain. Yet, in the entire three-part series, I barely remember a scene in which Cromwell thinks in a sustained way about grace or salvation or any theological issue. We hear more about his recollections of the Florentine game of calcio than about his relationship with God. I intuitively feel that this was not the true inner life of sixteenth-century Christians, of any theological stripe. Religion was woven into the weft of their patterns of thought and feeling in ways we can only begin to suspect.

Can there be too much of a good thing? Maybe. If so, this book was that ... at least for me. I enjoyed and appreciated both Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies, but I didn't love either. And, alas, I enjoyed this one less. It's a big, heavy hardback, the print is relatively small and dense, the margins aren't particularly generous, and, well, the book seemed very long. OK, it was too long for me. This was not a one sitting, or a one weekend, or a one week, or ... well you get the idea ... kind of book. Even with limited forms of entertainment or options for distraction (during the Spring 2020 pandemic quarantine), I read a few other (sci-fi) books cover-to-cover ... and started and finished a few jigsaw puzzles ... while working my way through this. I rarely read more than 30 pages in a day, and many times I sat down with it, I read fewer than 20 pages. Still, as historical fiction goes, the trilogy is a remarkable achievement. C'mon, two (count 'em, 2) Booker Prizes... Creative, lyrical, and informative (in the, gee, I didn't know that ... but ... wait a minute ... lemme put down the book and look into that nuance, to see if that really was true or if Mantel made that one up sense).... I can't imagine anyone reading this without or before reading the first two. And, by the same token, I expect that most folks who enjoyed the first two will eventually work their way through this one, regardless of how daunting the enterprise appears.

I really loved the first two books but I’m struggling with this one. I keep falling asleep, which is rare for me when reading. It’s well written but just too detailed and, dare I say it, slightly dull. I’m about halfway through and I think I might have to give up. Shame.

As Wyatt writes, Lauda finem: praise the end. One of my Old Year resolutions for 2022 was to try and finish this monster of a book, which I began about a year ago. ‘Monster’ is a good word, because the book is like the monstrous, swollen-legged, pain-wracked figure of Henry that bestrides it like a colossus. I actually got halfway before the book utterly exhausted me; Hilary Mantel passed, and I remembered guiltily I had yet to finish it. Its surfeit of sensory and historic detail is sucked into a black hole of zero plot. ‘Wolf Hall’ and ‘Bring up the Bodies’ were utterly ruthless in what they excised from the well-known story as much as what they illuminated, especially about the young Cromwell. ‘The Mirror and the Light’ goes for broke, and I honestly do not think it is the better for it. In my 2012 review of ‘A Clash of Kings’ by George R.R. Martin, I commented: “A lot of the extraneous detail puts the brakes on the main narrative; I found it difficult to keep track of many characters on the periphery.” I feel exactly the same about Mantel; after she expended so much effort on the concluding volume (‘Bring up the Bodies’ was published in 2012), what editor would have the gumption to instruct her to excise at least 200 pages from a deadly dull middle section? Especially with the added pressure of a potential third Booker win for the trilogy. Of course, this is all speculation. Mantel must have had at least the broad strokes of her books well planned out from the outset. What made the first two so exciting was how Mantel experimented with elements of the postmodern novel within the framework of the historic novel, especially her choice of narrative voice and point of view. Added to this was an uncanny ability to breathe life into Tudor England, warts and all. This was no rose-tinted view of a historic legacy; Mantel was almost pathologically unafraid to get down and dirty and muck about with the common folk. ‘Mirror’ is the most conventional and linear novel of the trilogy, and of course by far the longest as a result. I just felt that everything we know about Cromwell’s past and the impact of his father on his own upbringing and state of mind, for example, has by now been well established. These are inevitably the most dynamic and visceral scenes of the entire book, but they seem somehow redundant. Broadening the tight focus of the first two books to include the larger socio-political picture also dilutes the bromance between Cromwell and Henry. The latter, in particular, is far more of a caricature here, and ultimately comes across as a truly awful human being. Cromwell, in enabling much of Henry’s excesses and childish peevishness, is not portrayed in a much better light by the end. Much has been made about how Mantel redeemed (or redacted?) Cromwell’s character. This is largely buried in ‘Mirror’, and I wish we could have got more about this. One passage deep into the final third: He, Lord Cromwell, is planning his own Ascension Day. He has devised a new order of precedence for the realm, to be enacted by Parliament. From now on, it is not your noble and ancient blood that will place you in the hierarchy. It is what job you do for the king. One particularly frustrating aspect of ‘Mirror’ for the reader is how blind Cromwell is to events and currents around him. I am sure it was a deliberate strategy of Mantel to depict how his firm hold on the tiller of influence and machination inevitably began to slip. There were many instances I mentally wanted to shake the man by the shoulders. Does Mantel land the ending? I do not think so. Maybe the tale should have stopped before the actual beheading, leaving Cromwell in a bittersweet historic limbo in the reader’s imagination. Of course, the story does not end with Cromwell. Mantel is obliged to tack on an ‘Author’s Note’ that dispassionately depicts the grubby end of Henry’s reign and influence. Reading this sprawling epic of political back-stabbing and civil unrest, one is (a) surprised at how relevant it remains (there is even a plague that disrupts events) and (b) depressed at modern politicians continue the age-old tradition of behaving appallingly and unscrupulously and bending the law of the land to their own tawdry whim. Which beggars the question: Where are the Cromwells of today?

This is the classic case of a book that gets burdened by the sweeping ambition of its author and the stark absence of the editor's scissors. With a bloated , overwrought middle section that's chock full of incidental details but devoid of any narrative thrust , Mantel's conclusion to the otherwise fabulous Cromwell trilogy leaves one feeling cheated.When so much more could have been detailed towards the climax which depicts Cromwell's eventual fall , the betrayal , backstabbing , treachery of his near ones - Mantel glosses over , as if she is in a hurry to end it all after devoting more than 300 pages to religious uprisings and European politics that essentially happens in the rear-ground. What could have been an epic conclusion to one of the best achievements in historical fiction till date , gets defeated by a lack of focus. The writing is superb all around though. Mantel's way with dialogues and her sweeping stream of consciousness of Cromwell's inner life is dazzling , masterly.

3.5 stars - It was really good. Random tidbit: I finished this trilogy today, on the 480th anniversary of Cromwell's death. How fitting. Hilary Mantel is able to make several characters come to life and jump off the page, especially Cromwell. I also love her witty humor and beautiful prose. But in between these lovely things is several hundred pages of blah blah blah that drag on. I thought Wolf Hall was extremely overrated and disappointing, but absolutely loved Bring Up the Bodies. This conclusion to her trilogy falls somewhere in the middle. ------------------------------------------- First Sentence: Once the queen’s head is severed, he walks away. Favorite Quote: If a man should live as if every day is his last, he should also die as if there is a day to come, and another after that.

I'm super late to this crawdad party, but I wanted to let the hype die down. And it took awhile. But anyway...I picked this up at 8:38pm last night thinking I'd just bang out a few chapters before hitting the sack....and just before 1am I turned the last page. #readerlife Being that I literally downed this thing in one sitting, you're probably surprised I'm not rating this higher. And so am I. I mean, I flew through it and decided to stay up to finish it when it was midnight and I was starting to get tired. But I only had 60 pages left, so...I kind of just wanted to know how it ended and figured 20-30 more minutes of reading was no skin off my nose. But I digress. I expected this book to be a little different than it was, I think. I expected a haunting literary tale about a backwoods town and an abused girl's childhood struggle through the marsh. What I got instead felt not so much haunting, but a little YA-ish (as far as the romance went), a little slapstick comedy (as far as the police and courtroom scenes went), and a little like an ad for a poet I'd never heard of (which, despite making sense in the end), annoyed me. I did enjoy the setting and the ending (convenient and somewhat unbelievable as it was), but those things didn't offset the stuff I just mentioned. Long story short: Like I said, this was missing the haunting quality I wanted...I never connected to the characters (especially Kya) the way I was supposed to...the tone felt uneven...and the poetry and writing was just not my jam per se. So, sadly, I land firmly on the outskirts on this one. Oh well.

3.75 stars! I felt a little bit mixed about this book. Overall the story was really good! I loved getting to follow the main character over her entire life. I also love that it had a good blend of genres from romance to murder mystery to literary fiction. My only complaint is that I thought it moved a bit slow at parts.

So I understand all the hype but can't join it. First it's the very slow beginning: you have to read at least hundred pages before the story gets interesting (vague murder-mystery parts aren't as intriguing as they supposed to be). And after that reader is taken on the cheap emotional roller-coaster where author uses a lot of clichés to create a drama. All just to end it with a sentimental vanilla happy end. The only good thing about the book that kept me going were incredibly beautiful descriptions - which makes total sense if you know the author's background (and explains hidden ecological message). The way she writes about nature is grapping and hypnotizing. Which I can’t say about the dialogs in this book. The narration is more emotional than them. So all in all three stars for introducing me to the undiscovered beauty of the marsh.

THREE STARS I liked it. How come no one has said this is basically the story of The Little Mermaid? "The Marsh Girl" (Kya) is our literary mermaid that seldom ventures into the real world where people walk around on two legs. And when she does, you can bet she will come to know trouble. The audio was really well done, it kept me on track and I enjoyed it. You may not know this about me, but I'm a big nature lover. I absolutely loved the detailed descriptions of the natural world with its different birds and shells. I can sympathize with you if you didn't love those parts. Definitely reminded me of a Barbara Kingsolver novel. The thing that is missing for me is a believability factor. Also, the author relied on a manipulative technique to keep the reader in the dark about so many aspects. I expect that in psyche thrillers, but it felt weird in a book like this. I'm not interested in a "gotcha" moment. A sweet, fairy tale like story with love and kissy stuff and a few minutes of violence. And lots of bird facts 🦅

This story was hardly overwhelming. But it wasn't underwhelming, either. In conclusion, then, this book was very whelming. It gets three stars for that.

Sadly Average Vince Flynn created a great character in Mitch Rapp, and wove him into excellent thrillers. The series in now written by Kyle Mills and is sadly, average. The plot is original, but the reader is taken out of the story by too many convenient developments. Rapp also takes some actions that are inconsistent with his character. The ending is especially unsatisfying.

Not my favorite Mitch Rapp book. This time he was in Syria dealing with drugs that were designed not only for people to be "hooked on them;" but also to do great harm to their brains which was non reversible. I would so much rather see Mitch go to D.C. and clean up the CIA, FBI and DOJ. Now that would be a best seller.

It felt like Kyle Mills was relieved this was his last book in the Rapp series. I think Vince Flynn would have retired Rapp before baking him into this storyline.

Sadly, this was not Kyle's best story. It is still fun, but mostly just because I like Mitch Rapp. It was a good plot idea...not just another terrorist with a bomb. But it just lacked something. Maybe it was rushed as this was his last book in the Mitch Rapp series. Good luck to Kyle in whatever is next!

Might just be my general melancholia reading this but this read like an action movie. Some parts were thought-out but a lot of this was just too convenient and wrapped up with a bow. Honestly felt like Mills phoned it in - a real shame considering the previous installment was 5 stars.

3 Stars - Classic american assassin CIA book. Action packed and easy to read. An entertaining read.

2 1/2 stars. While I did end up enjoying the last quarter or so of Don't Let Him In, it is one of my least favourite Lisa Jewell books so far. I have clicked back and forth between two and three stars several times now, and I'm still not sure whether I should be rounding up or down. This is one of those books that is weakened by its own convolutions. There are so many different characters-- and two main timelines plus lots of further mentions of other pasts-- that it is genuinely quite difficult to follow, especially in the beginning. Once I'd sort of made sense of who was who and when was when, it got better, but there were still too many characters and too much jumping around for any of them to make much of an impact. Also, the blurb hands you pretty much the entire plot of the book. Nina and Martha are both in relationships with a guy who seems too good to be true. A significant portion of the book is from the guy's perspective so we're not left wondering for more than a couple of chapters. There's no real mystery in this story; it's more about waiting for the characters to catch up and find out what the reader already knows. And about those characters-- it is really hard to have any standouts when you are moving between this many people. They come across as cliche and underdeveloped. Ash, for example-- her whole personality seems to be "vegan". It doesn't help that so many of them are naive to the point of being unbelievable. Several characters in this book question how they could have been so stupid, and I have to agree with them: (view spoiler) That being said, there was some fun to be had. Plenty of wide-eyed, open-mouthed reading at the audacity, plenty of wanting the culprit to be caught. Jewell often shortens her already quite short chapters towards the end of the book, racing back and forth between perspectives until they eventually meet at the climax. It's effective; I was hooked towards the end. So, quite compelling but lacking in strong characters. I would have liked to have seen more character development of them all. Even the character we spent most time with would have benefited from further exploration, I felt. I didn't feel I had a good understanding of him and his motivations, even at the end of the book.

3 stars! ⭐️⭐️⭐️ Outlier alert!! I don’t really like being on outlier island, but here I am. After reading and loving None of This is True, maybe my expectations were too high - I mean it’s Lisa Jewell after all - but this was just ok for me. If you are expecting a psychological thriller, this is not it. However, I did like the suspense and I LOVE to hate despicable, revolting characters! The short chapters are always a plus for me and I liked the ending. The main thing I didn’t like about this book - the alternating POVs - something I usually love. It was confusing at first, but once I was able to keep up with them I was bored. I grew tired of waiting for something to be revealed. I guess it was too much of a slow build up for me. There are tons of glowing reviews for this one, so maybe it just was wasn’t the right book for me at that time. I do enjoy Lisa Jewell’s books and I’m looking forward to the next one! Thank you to NetGalley and Atria Books for my advanced copy to read and review.

3.5⭐️ Dark, disorienting, and relentless! Lisa Jewell weaves a tangled web in this thriller, and I’ll be honest I spent a good chunk of the book caught in it, trying to untangle who was who and how they all fit together. The shifting perspectives, the uneasy connections, the disorienting feeling of being inside the mind of someone truly unsettling really made for an exhausting start. But I couldn’t look away. Paddy Swann, larger than life, is gone in an instant, leaving behind a wife, a daughter, and a trail of devastation neither of them fully understands. This is where things start to unravel, where the pieces begin to fall, and the weight of it all settles in. It’s mentally draining, and yet you have to keep reading, compelled by the need to see just how far one particular player’s twisted manipulations will go. But here’s the thing. I’m being deliberately vague because this is the kind of story you have to step into with your own headspace. It doesn’t hand you the answers, and it doesn’t let you sit back and just absorb. You have to work for it, feeling your way through the layers, the unease, the creeping sense that something is just off. It took time to settle into the rhythm, to stop fighting the confusion and just let it happen. But once I did? I was in it. Lisa Jewell has this way of making uncertainty part of the experience, pulling you deeper even when you’re not entirely sure where you’re going. And when everything finally clicked into place, when the weight of it all landed then I realized just how much it had swallowed me whole. *A wonderful Witches Words read that I had the pleasure of buddy reading with Brenda, Debra, Mary Beth, and DeAnn. Be sure to check out their reviews.

For a full spoiler version of this review, please check out my book review blog here: https://spoiledbooks.blogspot.com/ Don’t come at me, but this isn’t one of Lisa Jewell’s strongest books. Don’t Let Him In follows a charming, narcissistic man who moves from woman to woman, deceiving and manipulating his way through their lives. The premise is unsettling and very on-brand for Jewell, but the execution felt surprisingly straightforward. I kept waiting for the big twists and turns she’s known for, and they just… didn’t really come. The book is long, and at times it starts to feel repetitive as the pattern of manipulation plays out again and again. I mostly kept reading to see how it would end, and while there is a late reveal, it felt more like a technical twist than a truly shocking one. It’s readable and well-written, but for me, this was a solid-but-underwhelming entry by Jewell, in my humble opinion. Check out my review on Then She Was Gone Check out my review on Family Upstairs Check out my review on Invisible Girl Check out my review on Family Remains Check out my review on None of This Is True

*3.5 stars Don't Let Him In is a domestic thriller about a terrible and very manipulative man. The story kept my attention throughout, and I thought the ending was very satisfying. However I was a bit disappointed with the plot, and was hoping for something more unique. But overall, I really enjoyed this suspenseful and entertaining story. Don't Let Him in is my 14th read by Lisa Jewell. So even though Don't Let Me In isn't my favorite by Lisa Jewell, I will continue to read whatever else she writes. Don't Let Him In by Lisa Jewell will be available on June 24. Many thanks to Atria Books and NetGalley for the gifted copy!

As a quick synopsis, we are introduced to Nina and her daughter Ash grieving the death of their husband/father, Paddy. Fast forward a year and Nina is attempting to move on with Nick, someone that had known Paddy in his younger years. As they always say if something is too good to be true, maybe it is and in this case that too good to be true would be Nick. Ash is convinced he is not who he says he is and makes it her mission to investigate this man further. As for what I liked. The chapters were short and it was a quick read. Everything flowed seamlessly, and I was able to keep track of who is who, as there were multiple timelines and different characters. As for what I didn’t like. Not much happened. I wasn’t on the edge of my seat chomping away at my nails. I found with the amount of characters and the different avenues that were explored with each character it became repetitious. There really wasn't any mystery surrounding Nick. We knew very early on what was going on. It was just a matter of how everything was going to be closed out. While I have a lot of things, I didn’t like that doesn’t mean it wasn’t a good book. I just went in with different expectations and without getting into any spoiler territory, this is reminiscent of something I’ve seen recently. There are a ton of glowing reviews already out there, and I am certainly one that is of an outlying opinion. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher, for my advanced copy in exchange for an honest review

Not my favorite Lisa Jewel book. Who is Nick Radcliffe? One man, five different women…Will they connect the dots before it is too late? This domestic suspense thriller was not a fun experience for the reader. While I commend Jewel on her fantastic storytelling skills and ability to weave together so many intricate plot lines, I found the gaslighting trope exhausting and the stupid women frustrating. And…I guessed all of the twists before they were revealed. Consequently, Don’t Let Him In is not a stand out for me. Jewel is a fantastic writer and I am a huge fan of many of her other thrillers. I hope this was a one-off and still plan to read her next offering. Trigger warnings: suicide, gas lighting 3.5/5 stars rounded down Thank you to Edelweiss and Atria books for the ARC of Don’t Let Him In in exchange for an honest review.

**Many thanks to NetGalley, Atria, and Lisa Jewell for a DRC of this book in exchange for an honest review!** "Someone's knockin' at the door Someone's ringin' the bell Do me a favor and open the door and Let Him In..." - Paul McCartney Did Nina Swann have THIS very song stuck in her head that day? Was THAT the reason that she allowed the all-too-mysterious yet somehow intriguing Nick Radcliffe in her door that day? Or was it just a dangerous impulse... one she should have ignored? After all, from the letter he SEEMED perfectly kind. After losing her beloved husband Paddy in a horrifying way (he was pushed onto train tracks...but I'm sure there was NO foul play there, right?) Nina is left with her two grown children by her side, daughter Ash and son Arlo. Ash in particular is bound and determined to protect her mom...so when a letter from Nick arrives detailing his friendship with Paddy, she feels a mix of emotions and more than a little skepticism. After all, who IS this guy...and why hadn't they heard of this enduring friendship BEFORE Paddy died? As Ash begins to play armchair detective, what she finds is not only unnerving:it leads her to fear the man her mother is slowly letting infiltrate her heart and home. But can she click the last few puzzle pieces into place BEFORE Nick catches on? Meanwhile, florist Martha is growing progressively more impatient with her husband Alistair. Raising an infant is in and of itself enough to wear on her fraying nerves, but Ali has been gone longer and longer lately...and his 'work obligations' seem to have taken on a life of their own. After days away, his stories always SEEM to check out...but she can't shake a growing suspicion that something is awry and her woman's intuition is in hyper drive. Despite the lavish gifts and attention he gives her when they are together, their time apart prompts her to question just about everything about this 'perfect' man, and if the life of her dreams has been a bit TOO carefully curated...by a master of this very craft. As the three story lines converge, the common denominator slowly becomes clear...but the motive, the method, and the madness is still a mystery. Can these three women band together, with knowledge as their Weapon of Choice, and dispense the proverbial door slam by way of the 'clank' of a jail cell? Or has this powerful mastermind found a way to leave yet another unsuspecting love interest in his wake...and somehow escape unscathed to hunt for his NEXT victim? I'll admit it - I gave it everything I had attempting to temper my expectations before going into this one. I knew that there was probably no way this book would live up to the deeply unsettling and Netflix-READY None of This Is True (side note - where is the adaptation announcement? That book READ as though I were watching it, moreso than perhaps any other thriller I've read in the last ten years)...and yet there was STILL a small piece of me that was hoping it would beat the odds. I'm a Jewell loyalist of sorts - the kind that has added all of her NON thriller books to my TBR, because she is just that solid, reliable, and clever of a writer. Even those early YA-tinged college fics seem worth the read because well, it's LISA JEWELL. But as much as that dizzying maze of a cover drew me in, and as excited as I was after reading some glowing early reviews, reading the perspectives of these characters made me feel a bit like Alice down the rabbit hole...if she lost ALL of her clever, feminist perspective and turned into a gullible, gold digging, red-flag-ignoring woman instead. 🚩😞 Lisa Jewell either writes bonafide THRILLERS with the kind of twists and turns that you remember years later....OR what essentially read as thriller-tinged mysteries, usually with some deplorable male characters at the center...and I'm pretty sure based on the synopsis alone you can guess which category this book is in, and it's unfortunately my least favorite of the two. This book reads like a long, drawn-out episode of Dateline...and let's just say I'm not a HUGE fan of that either. By the time we got to the third instance of the same 'occurrence', it was all I could do to keep the eye rolls from cropping up ad nauseam. Of all things I don't love in a Lisa Jewell book, it's a protagonist that SHOULD see the writing on the wall and perhaps even does...but instead spends the next hundred pages frustrating the reader instead. This bounty of hapless and helpless females not only took significant effort to keep straight as they all read pretty much the same, but were so frustrating and one-note that I had a hard time keeping track of their story lines...and consequently, maintaining any sort of enthusiasm for them to overcome their shared obstacle. And speaking of the 'shared obstacle'...I would be remiss if I didn't spend some time on perhaps my deepest struggle with this one: Nick Radcliffe himself. In him, Jewell gives us a male MC that couldn't embody smooth and slimy charm OR be cartoony and villainous to seem like a true threat. Two roads diverged in a wood...and I guess Jewell chose neither? 🤷‍♀️ For a writer that has such chops in developing CREEPY incel-like characters (see: Invisible Girl) this shouldn't have been hard...and yet, I felt no true repulsion OR even that sort of disgusted intrigue when it came to Nick. His lies seemed thin at best, and I couldn't understand why the females in his life were so easily wooed or sucked in by his honeyed words. I wanted him to have the sort of icky charisma that you find in a serial killer novel...you know, the kind where you ALMOST end up rooting for the serial killer? (I'm looking at you, Blood Sugar!) but instead, he just read like a huckster...and I guess I'm so good at shutting out those types that I tuned him out from the opening pitch and never tuned back in. And at the end of the day, perhaps I should have let my introverted, 'closed door' policy that applies to all traveling salesman type solicitors apply to this BOOK too....because at least in those cases, you can BET I never let ANY of them in. 🚪 (Sorry Paul!) 😉 3.5 stars

Well it's about time I jumped on this Lisa Jewell bandwagon! I have seen her books all over GR and I consistently see high ratings so I was overdue for this! Don't Let Him In is the advice given to the women in this book that none of the women seem to listen to and "they just don't know why." I enjoyed this book but it's possible I may have had overly high expectations (see first paragraph). I appreciated the premise Lisa Jewell was building here but I felt that there were SOOOOOO many characters and by the time I felt like I somewhat got them straight, the story had lost a bit of its momentum. I do like how things turned out generally speaking. I am definitely going to pick up other Lisa Jewell books and give those a try in the future.

How exhausting having to keep up with so many lies and families. And just the aggravation of them always taking this crap again and again. My Gender needs to do better; Just glad they were redeemed by the end! How many chances does one have to give a loved one that keeps letting them down. Could it be up to the point of murder........Then we realize they aren't what them seem! Solid 3 stars!!!

3.5⭐️ Phantasma was very fun, so of course I had to pick this one up next! I was super excited at the start. Enchantra promised tension, fun, and an alluring world. While it didn’t quite live up to all my expectations, I still had a good time with it. It was definitely fun overall, though I think I enjoyed Phantasma just a bit more. The romance was really cute, even if it didn’t completely sweep me off my feet. The characters, though were awesome. Funny, intriguing, and honestly felt like they deserved a stronger plot to match their potential. I’d love to see more of them in the third book which I’m definitely picking up!

Phantasma was one of my favorite books last year, and I'm SO sad I didn't love this one. Unfortunately, the trials were pretty redundant and confined, which got a little boring after the first few times they had to go through them. I liked the romance enough, but I just wanted more! More twists, more angst, more danger. I still had fun listening to the audiobook, it just missed all the things that made me love book one so much.

you know what these books are CAMP and I get it lol

3.75⭐️ this was fun! i know people enjoyed this book more than phantasma but i still love phantasma better! not to say this book wasn’t great (because it was)… i just really love blackwell so im biased in fact, i really want another blackwell book!! i think book 3 is about sevin though which sounds promising

“Love. Loathing. Same passion, different names,” he told her. “And how easily and swiftly the line can be blurred, don’t you think?”

Please, for the love of God, can someone get this author an editor who will actually edit her books? Leaving this review as I did for the last one, because I don’t think the star ratings on Good Reads for JK Rowling actually show anything helpful due to the ongoing controversy surrounding the author. So many of the reviews are left in advance from people on either side, and as someone who likes to read legitimate reviews I thought I’d leave this here for anyone seeking out a review based on the book and not on the persons opinion of the author. JK Rowling is an undeniably fantastic author and world creator. She creates the world of the cult very intricately and it really does come alive. I was left feeling so tense after reading these chapters due to how vividly these were described. However, the book is too long. There are characters that you forget who they are if you’re reading over a number of days. There are multiple instances where references are made to previous books and these things are explained to the reader. For example the same character’s relevance to Strike is mentioned in two separate chapters, yet they’re completely irrelevant to the story (do they really need to be mentioned at all?). I get that with a huge name like Rowling there is an idea what people want is long books. And maybe I am in the minority; but the Cuckoos Calling was fantastic because it was so well plotted, tight and fast paced. These are losing their way because Rowling wants to cram absolutely everything in to them and it isn’t necessary. Overall the book is good. It’s filled with tension, and as you’d expect from JK it’s totally immersive. I just personally feel these books are let down by their lack of proper editing. We as the reader do not need to know every single tiny detail. We do not need to be reminded Strike dated someone a few books ago. We don’t need all the subplots. It’s fluff and it slows the book down. Should you read this book? Well, this was better than the last Strike book, which was overly complicated due to the online conversations. But if you’re not sold on the Strike books by now, honestly I’m not sure you should. There is some closure given to some of the ongoing subplots, but definitely not all. If you’re the type of person who loves tonnes of detail then you will like this book. But if you’re like me, and find that a bit slow reading then maybe give it a miss.

3.5 stars This is the 7th book in Robert Galbraith's (aka J.K. Rowling) series about grizzled private detective Cormoran Strike, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan who lost his leg during the hostilities..... ......and his pretty, strawberry blonde partner Robin Ellacott. The book can be read as a standalone, but I'd strongly suggest starting with the first book in the series, The Cuckoo's Calling, and going on from there. ***** Cormoran Strike and Robin Ellacott run the Strike and Ellacott Detective Agency, which is currently doing well after solving several high profile cases. Presently, the agency's work includes surveilling spouses suspected of cheating; getting evidence against a stalker; exposing a toy boy taking advantage of an older woman; and more. The agency's most important case revolves around the Universal Humanitarian Church (UHC), a cult run by a man called Jonathan Wace (aka Papa J) and his wife Mazu Wace. The church is allegedly dedicated to helping the homeless; giving needy kids a holiday; aiding survivors of sexual abuse; helping starving orphans; and other such good works. In reality, however, the UHC lures people in, isolates them from friends and family, and then milks them for money and exploits them physically and sexually. An escapee from the cult named Kevin Pirbright accused the UHC of serious criminal activity and wrote an exposé..... ......but publication was stopped by the UHC's powerful lawyers. Strike and Robin get involved with the UHC when they're hired by Sir Colin Edensor.... ..... whose son Will dropped out of university several years ago and joined the UHC. On the one occasion Will's mother and father were allowed to see their son (who was accompanied by a UHC minder), Will looked thin and glassy-eyed. Since then, Will has not responded to letters and has given the UHC a big chunk of money from his trust fund. Sir Colin is desperate to extract Will from the cult, and hires Strike and Ellacott to assist in the endeavor. Thus Robin goes undercover, joins the cult, and tries to discover information to be used against the organization. Robin learns that the UHC worships five prophets, the most important of whom is 'The Drowned Prophet.' The Drowned Prophet is a child called Daiyu Wace who accidently drowned at the age of seven, then (supposedly) came back as a wraith. Phantom Daiyu periodically appears at church services, and is said to haunt people who leave the church and make them commit suicide. Robin's experiences in the UHC are TERRIBLY HARROWING and take up a good portion of the book (too much in my view). On the upside, Robin discovers skullduggery in the church, and once Robin gets out, she and Strike try to disclose criminal activity in the UHC and expose the phoniness of The Drowned Prophet. Like Robin's time in the UHC, these activities - which involve finding and interviewing a lot of people with connections to the UHC - take up a good bit of the novel. As always in this series, some of the narrative concerns the personal lives of Robin and Strike. The duo have been in love with each other for years, but neither one has had the courage to admit it. So Robin is dating a handsome police detective called Ryan Murphy..... ......and Strike is dallying with a man-hungry bombshell named Bijou. In addition, Strike's former fiancée Charlotte, a gorgeous but troubled woman, is trying to inveigle herself into Strike's life once again. Strike is the son of a hippy-dippy mother named Leda and a rock star called Jonny Rokeby, who fathered children with a number of women. So Strike has a bunch of half-siblings, most of whom he doesn't know. In this book, Strike meets his half-sister Prudence - a psychologist, and helps his favorite half-sister Lucy take care of their Uncle Ted, who's starting to suffer from dementia. The book also focuses a bit on people who work for the Strike and Ellacott Detective Agency. For example, newly hired detective Clive Littlejohn is acting squirrelly; office manager Pat is troubled about something; detective Midge is getting too friendly with a client; and so on. I'm a big fan of the series, but the book, which has almost 950 pages, is much too long. I hope the author edits the next Strike and Ellacott novel more judiciously. Still, the book is a must read for fans of the series. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

After loving the author's previous two books, one of which is an all-time favorite of mine, no one's more surprised than me that I didn't end up loving The Lincoln Highway. Emmett has just been released from a juvenile detention facility after serving time for involuntary manslaughter. Now that his father has passed away and he no longer has family in town, he plans to pick up his little brother and drive along the Lincoln Highway to California so that they can start anew. But his carefully laid plans fall by the wayside when his friends show up and force him to embark on a different journey altogether. I hate to say it, but this book confused me. I thought Emmett was our protagonist, and I was all ready to cheer him on as he did whatever he needed to do to start a new life, mainly by driving along the Lincoln Highway (hence the name of the book, right?). But this must be a case of mismatched expectations because Emmett wasn't the actual focus of this book and he didn't drive along that namesake road. Emmett is but one character out of many in this book, and he shares equal limelight with them all. Each of these characters has their points of view and ample time in the book, filled with their corresponding backgrounds and narratives. But the issue is that the tales of these side characters are not vital to the story. You can just cut out their turns and still have essentially the same story overall. So to include them made the whole thing feel bloated and unfocused. It doesn't help that a bunch of the side characters kept clowning around and getting up to shenanigans throughout the entire book. It almost feels like slapstick comedy, where outrageous things happen just for some laughs. This was especially odd because a lot of the notable events in here were people getting beat up or killed. But there was this incongruous, jokey tone permeating those scenes that didn't really go with whatever horrible event was happening. That isn't to say this was all bad. I still enjoyed Towles's writing, even if I didn't really connect with the story. He always includes these little bits of wisdom coated in humor, and I gobbled up the Greek mythology references in here, as well as the trip down memory lane to FAO Schwarz. Clearly Towles was paying homage to 1950s Americana, and he does well from the parts I could pick up. But in the end, I just wasn't the right audience for this book, and I hope other readers trying this will have better luck than I did. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: A Gentleman in Moscow Rules of Civility ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧ ✧ This was a pick for my BOTM box. Get your first book for $5 here.

Choo choo choo! That’s the sound of my disappointment train which suddenly left the town. With this ominous cue you may sense some very unpopular review is on its way! I’m not sure if it’s about my changing literary taste or dark winter mood, but lately I start showing less interest to highly appraised and five starred books! After seeing those high recommendations, I thought I would absolutely love this book from the author of Gentleman in Moscow! I have to admit: the beginning was so promising and gripping which made me think I found another five starred gem but… till the characters hit the road, everything has changed, things got repetitive, new characters were thrown into equation and I didn’t like them much. Actually I showed no interest to learn more about their stories. And that ending….should I say disappointed, abrupt, empty… I don’t know what adjective I may use to define the ending without giving spoilers. I think I was expecting something more than reading a story about teenage boys and tangerine obsession. The beginning was impressive. In 1954, at a juvenile work farm, Emmett Watson who served for fifteen months because of manslaughter is getting to be driven to his house in Nebraska. His father passed away and his mother is long gone so only he and his eight years old brother left. The bank is already planning to take over the family farm. So at young age, his plan to have fresh start is driving to California with his brother Billy. But unfortunately the warden’s car which will take him to his home is already taken over by two friends at friend and now they are both headed to Big Apple . After that point the story’s direction absolutely changed. And I didn’t enjoy it! Well, of course I’m not gonna give two stars !I really don’t want to get booed! ( it happened to me when I wrote my unpopular review to Cloud Cuckoo Land) I’m giving my solid three stars! I was expecting so much more but actually this book was definitely not for me!

holy cow. this roadtrip is a nightmare. everything that can go wrong, does. all because of duchess, who is one of the most unenjoyable characters to read about in the history of books. and honestly, this is probably closer to a 2 star read, but the relationship between emmett and his younger brother, billy, deserves so much better than that. and its such a tremendous shame that too many other POVs take away from this amazing brotherly bond. i found nearly every character POV, other than emmetts, to be lacking and begging to be skimmed. with the exception of duchess and sometimes woolly, whose POVs do progress the plot, every other POV could be cut from the story without consequence. sure, they add some side stories but, for me, they just took away page time that could have been better spent on emmett and billy. the removal of these very distant side characters also would have helped with the long length and slow pacing. but gosh. again, i keep going back and thinking about emmett and billy. their connection is just too wholesome. i love their dynamic - emmetts cautious protection and billy innocent affection. they both steal whatever scene they are in and truly outshine all of the other characters. i easily could have read 600+ pages of just them and given it 5 stars. this also has some really great writing and storytelling with quintessential AT charm throughout. so its a shame that the story is bogged down by unlikeable and unnecessary characters. ↠ 3 stars

I was really looking forward to this one following the excellent ‘Gentleman in Moscow’ but unfortunately it failed to grip me in the same way. Undoubtedly well written but I felt it generally dragged and failed to engage me. I have read many reviews that contradict my review but at the end of the day it is my personal opinion and nothing else. In June 1954, eighteen year old Emmett Watson is driven home to Nebraska by the warden of the juvenile work farm where he served fifteen months for involuntary manslaughter. His father has recently died and his mother left a long time ago so the family farm is about to be taken over by the bank. Emmett plans to head for California to start a new life with his eight year old brother Billy. Once the warden drives off, Emmett discovers that two friends from the farm have stowed away in the warden’s car and have very different plans regarding Emmett’s future. Together the four travel in the opposite direction and head for New York. Well written but too slow and unengaging. I would like to thank both Net Galey and Random House for supplying a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review.

I am giving this book 3 stars because I was expecting so much more. And, maybe the author accomplished what he was going for with this book, but after his book A Gentleman in Moscow and the expectations I got from the first fourth (or so) of this book, it felt like it tapered off into rambling inconsistency. It wasn’t hard to follow, but I am still not quite sure what I read. First of all, this book is called The Lincoln Highway and the cover features a car on a road by a train. To me, looks like a road trip book reminiscent of On the Road maybe . . . with the spirt of Route 66 perhaps. Well, that is my fault for judging a book by its cover and title. It is a road trip book of sorts, but not the one you are led to believe you are getting into in the beginning. Also, The Lincoln Highway itself barely plays a part in the whole book – just being mentioned a few times and gives the reader the anticipation that you are eventually going to get to it. But, spoiler alert . . . you never do. It's not all negative, though. I do enjoy Towles storytelling. I think if I had approached this book thinking of it as a series of tied together vignettes (sometimes tied very loosely), I would have enjoyed it a lot more. It is almost as if he had a bunch of ideas for characters with interesting backstories and tried his best to incorporate them all into one book. So, if you are reading my review before you read this book, keep this in mind and I think you will enjoy it a whole lot more. In summary . . . still a good book but my experience tainted by it never really living up to my expectations.

Road story of juvenile delinquency. Usually, historical novels use major events as a setting. But not this one. The 50’ aren’t much exciting historical period. The wars are over, economy on the raise, people still traumatized but young boys in the story are more concern about the future than the past. The story of three former inmates of a correctional facility shows how difference in upbringing, social status, family and money reflect on people. Plot is dynamic and story has multiple pov, some of them with autistic traits. Many characters are unlikable, some interesting and one is as toxic as radioactive waste. But interesting ending makes up for it. The book is also full of historical detail and love for New York. In general, quite good but I didn’t care for characters much so at times it seemed boring.

3.5 I've finally finished this overly long book. It was a readable novel, especially since I had Eduardo Ballerini read it to me (for the most part, Marin Ireland and Dion Graham come on board for some minutes). When eighteen-year-old Emmett returns home to Nebraska, after serving some time in juvenile detention, he becomes the guardian of his eight-year-old brother, Billy, as their father had passed away and their mum had left them all some years back. Upon discovering some old postcards sent by their mum, they conclude that she must be in San Francisco. With the bank foreclosing on the family home, Emmett and Billy decide to take the Lincoln Highway all the way to San Francisco. Their plans take a detour, as two pals from juvie show up at the boys' home. Duchess and Wooley are two very different characters. They plan to go to Wooley's family holiday home to retrieve a big amount of money left in the safe. When Duchess and Wooley take off to New York with Emmett's truck, the siblings take a freight train to New York to recover their truck. All sorts of mishaps and adventures happen while on the train and when in New York. Duchess is one sleek, slippery character. There were sweet moments here and there, particularly when Billy was involved. But I don't know, this novel felt kind of directionless and I wasn't particularly taken with the ending either.(view spoiler) At over 16 hrs long or 576 pages, this novel had too much padding and too many side stories. I never felt emotionally engaged and it felt like I was riding in a car to nowhere.

It took me almost 8 months to finish this book, a book I looked forward to, but yet was a disappointment to me considering his past works. This Is a road story book, a book about 2 brothers desire to drive the Lincoln Highway in their attempt to find their mother who deserted them years before, but who sent them postcards on her flight from Nebraska to San Francisco back in the 1940’s.This book its set in 1952 after Emmett Watson is released from a juvenile reform facility, and makes his way home to his fathers foreclosed farm. His younger brother Billy has been living with a neighbor and his daughter Sally. Unbeknownst to all, two other juvenile offenders have escaped in the trunk of the car carrying Emmett to his home. Emmett and Bill want to head West to San Francisco but are shocked when Wooly and Dutchess appear, both of whom still have time to serve at the facility. And with this all things go haywire, as the 4 boys make side trips, and then Dutchess steals Emmett’s car to go to New York to claim Wooly’s inheritance. This forces Emmett and Billy to ride the rails to try and find the other two in NYC. And so it goes. I found the first half of this book tedious and put it aside for 6 months. It was easy to get back into the story, as each chapter has multiple narrators. It picks up steam and comes to a shocking ending in Upstate New York. It is well written but a letdown after Towles other works. See my full review of this and other books at www.viewsonbooks.com

I know there were a lot of people who loved this, but after such anticipation, I was disappointed. To me it lacked the magic of Towles's earlier two books, in particular, A Gentleman In Moscow, but then that book set such a high bar. Here, instead of having his central character virtually under house arrest and retaining the narrative to a single setting in "Moscow," Towles hits the open road in 1954 with four characters that made me think of Of Mice & Men by way of Huck Finn. I did like some of the atmospheric choices, such as the Highline decades before it became known as such and was still part of the railway spur that serviced the meatpacking district. But there were too many instances of deus ex machina, too many inconceivable occurrences, I could not suspend belief. I did finish since I was intrigued enough to learn what happens to these people, but was ultimately unsatisfied.

It was too long, directionless, and ended poorly. Overall, TLH had a good thing going. I liked the idea of a road trip of sorts with Emmett and Billy. I liked the idea of them starting over, and potentially finding their mother. They both deserved a win. However, when their plans derailed and Duchess came into the picture, everything started to unravel. The amount of sidebar stories became very exhausting to read and honestly, there were just too many unnecessary characters. Personally, I think this book was overwritten. Too long. Too meandering. By the time you get to the ending, which I wasn’t satisfied with, you were just ready for it to be over. The audio was actually very entertaining and held my attention, but it was just toooooo long. All in all, clean up on Aisle Towles! The Lincoln Highway needed more cohesiveness, less distraction, and maybe 150 pages cut out.

Not as good as I wanted it to be, not as bad as I thought it would turn out… Sigh. I think the problem is that once you have fallen in love with Count Rostov, the bar has been set too high, and now the expectation to see it cleared is just a set up for disappointment. So my review of this (objectively) very decent book is essentially me whining about the fact that it wasn’t, in fact, “A Gentleman in Moscow”. Apologies. “The Lincoln Highway” is a lot closer to “The Rules of Civility”, with multiple characters’ lives colliding and pushing each other around. Emmett Watson finished serving a sentence for involuntary manslaughter. As a minor, he served in a work farm, where he met Duchess and Woolly, who are not really truants themselves, just two young men who do not fit in the role the world has assigned them. When he gets home, Emmett only has one plan: to take his little brother Billy in his beloved Studebaker and head out West, where he wants to put his builder’s skills to use to make a better life for them than they can hope to get in Nebraska. What he did not expect was for Duchess and Woolly to have managed to stowaway out of the work farm before the end of their time and follow him along… Emmett’s plan is quickly derailed, and while Duchess is full of good intentions and Woolly’s innocent perspective on the world are far from malicious, they send the Watsons very far off course and lands them in some places they had never expected to see. There is a blurb on my copy that compares this book to Steinbeck and Kerouac; I’m sorry, but no. This is certainly a fun and unexpected road trip story, but Steinbeck and Kerouac it is not. Towles creates really great characters and ties them up together in very creative ways, but in this case, none have the Count’s charisma and charm, or Katey’s pluck. Emmett is a doormat, Duchess deserves every beating he gets, and while I appreciate Billy’s precociousness, the character I felt for the most was Sally, who seems to be the only one with an ounce of common sense and who has to manage all these silly boys. This is probably part of why that book sits weird with me: I hate it when there is that one smart female character who’s entire function is holding the bag while the men literally run riot. While she’s there making sure the bottom doesn’t fall out, her own life and stories are totally stunted, and that grates me. I think my favorite bit were the sections about Ulysses, and the brilliant way his journey home mirrors that of his famous namesake. The prose was also less interesting than in Towles’ previous work, which surprised me. I do think I’m having a weird reading year, and I wonder if it has made me especially critical and hard to please. But all means, if you enjoyed Towles’ previous work, check it out, but do not hope for another séjour at the Metropol.

2.5 stars I enjoyed this audiobook more than a Gentleman in Moscow. Nonetheless, it dragged and I didn’t feel anything towards the characters.. more thoughts to follow

3.5 stars This review was first posted on Mystery and Suspense. Check it out for features, interviews, and reviews. https://www.mysteryandsuspense.com/a-... It's 1968, and it's been fourteen years since the United States Supreme Court ordered the desegregation of public schools and four years since the Civil Rights Act outlawed segregation of public facilities, like drinking fountains and bathrooms. This makes no difference in Freeman County, Virginia, where Whites and Blacks live on opposite sides of the McHenry River, and Blacks are expected to know their place. Black maids and nannies can be seen working on the White side of town, but Black men are considered dangerous and not welcome in any occupation. Thus it's unusual for Black army veteran Jerome Washington to be employed by Anne and Leslie Randolph, one of the wealthiest and most prominent White couples in Freeman Country. Jerome drives the elderly Randolphs around in their car, works in their yard, and repairs things around the property. Jerome gets paid every Friday, forty dollars cash, which Jerome needs for his wife and three children. One Friday Jerome knocks on the Randolph's back door several times, and getting no answer, reluctantly ventures into the house. Shortly afterwards, Jerome is on his knees, his hands shackled behind his back, being viciously billy-clubbed by a white policeman, while another cop looks on. Anne and Leslie Randolph are in the dining room, dead and covered with blood. Jerome is arrested for murder, and in Freeman County, that means Jerome's conviction is almost a certainty. Even in Freeman County, however, a defendant is entitled to a lawyer, and White criminal defense attorney Jack Lee takes the case. Thirty-three-year-old Jack has always been aware of the unfair treatment of Blacks, vaguely thought it was wrong, but never did anything about it. Jack now has his chance, and he means to mount the best possible defense for Jerome Washington. This infuriates White racists in Freeman County, and Jack is called names and violently attacked. Things get even more fraught when a female Black lawyer from Chicago, Desiree DuBose, becomes Jack's co-counsel. Desiree works for the Legal Defense Fund, and has spent her life fighting for Black rights. The government stacks the deck against Jerome from the get-go. Working with representatives of segregationist George Wallace, who's running for president, the state picks Virginia Attorney General Edmund Battle to prosecute Jerome..... .....and Judge Josiah Ambrose to oversee the trial. This is massive fire power for an out of the way town, and it's clear the government has an agenda. Though the odds are against them, Jack and Desiree mount a vigorous defense for Jerome. Along the way, they endure public hostility, threats, and violence. Jack's parents, Hilly and Frank, are ambivalent about Jack defending Jerome, and have other concerns as well. Jack's older sister Lucy has the mind of a child, and Hilly - who had a dental procedure with nitrous oxide while she was pregnant - blames herself. And Jack's father, a mechanic, can barely stand to think about his son Jeff, a decorated soldier who had a crisis of conscience about Vietnam and deserted the army. The book is a compelling courtroom drama and a realistic depiction of the struggle for Black civil rights. In his foreword, author David Baldacci explains that he grew up in Virginia during the 1960s and 1970s, and has personal knowledge of the racism, offensive language, and right wing politics of the era. Civil Right March in the 1960s Baldacci tries to temper the novel's Jim Crow ugliness with the inclusion of a few touching scenes, but they feel contrived and unrealistic. That said, this is a book that's well worth reading, especially since America still struggles with race relations. Thanks to Netgalley, David Baldacci, and Grand Central Publishing for a copy of the book. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

This book is nothing like any of the others that I have read by this author. It is a standalone that deals heavily with desegregation in the South during the late '60s. As we all know, this was a difficult time for America, especially in the southern part of the country. I find it interesting that Mr. Baldacci would publish this novel now when America is yet again having racial issues and an election is on the near horizon. But as someone else said, this is a "cause" book, and it shines as such. It is a difficult book to read at times and not just because of the politics, bigotry, and bias - it is also difficult to read because it has been done before, although with a tad more subtlety. This book just pounds you over the head with hatred -aggressively. It did have an interesting little twist at the end that I didn't see coming. This book is very predictable, and I felt that the characters lacked something; some emotion, and I couldn't 'feel' for them. For comparison, try the classic book To Kill a Mockingbird *ARC was supplied by the publisher Grand Central Publishing | Hachette Book Group, the author, and NetGalley.

2.5 stars rounded up. This was a decent legal thriller but unfortunately it read like a B or C list John Grisham novel. I had to either skim or entirely skip the southern racism 101 monologues as well as the lengthy discussion of the dreams of achieving equality and Justice, blah blah blah. It got so redundant with the over the top preaching. I love books about social Justice issues - hence why I chose to read this in the first place- so perhaps that’s why I had such a problem with much of the content. The usual nuance and subtlety that make books on important issues like racism worthwhile and thought provoking were completely lacking here. I would think anyone reading this book would understand already the basic concepts that the author hit you over the head with, so it’s not clear who the intended audience for all the over the top preaching was for. I don’t see how it wasn’t enough to just have the story unfold - including all the overtly racist characters and awful circumstances for the defense team- without the ridiculous cliche diatribes All that said, the actually murder mystery was good and kept me guessing so that made up for some of the other things I didn’t like as much. In any event, I was surprised how mediocre I found this given the high reviews. I was hoping this would be a new author I could get into due to the genre of books he writes (and the hype), but reading another book of his seems to be less of a priority now. I’ll stick to Grisham, who incidentally tackles racial issues all the time but much better

I have read many of David Baldacci’s books, and with all of the outstanding reviews, I could not wait to get my hands on his new blockbuster, A Calamity of Souls. It’s short, predictable, and I know I am on an island here, but did the author of the Memory Man series really write this? Why the lengthy foreword? Baldacci is a talented writer, but this was not a typical Baldacci plot. There is nothing original about this conspiracy, especially after reading To Kill A Mockingbird in high school and A Time to Kill in college. In fact, I found A Calamity of Souls stereotypical and insulting. I quit the audiobook and purchased the book. Even then I almost did not finish it after putting it down several times. This is a very dark read that seeps too much hatred and violence. A courtroom spectacle told from opposing attorney POV's, the narration for such a famous author and hotly anticipated audiobook is atrocious, especially whomever voices Desiree and Pearl (horrible portrayals of the characters). Jerome Washington, a black man, is arrested for the gruesome murders of an affluent, elderly white couple based upon circumstantial evidence and the crime of being a Black man in 1968. Jerome gets a young, inexperienced white attorney Jack Lee to represent him. Lee quickly realizes this trial may be out of his realm as he, too, struggles with racial inequality until he takes this case and has his moment of reckoning. Desiree DuBose is a Black lawyer from Chicago who joins Lee in Freeman County to fight Washington’s discrimination and relentless injustice, forming an unlikely legal partnership with Lee in hopes of saving Jerome Washington from the electric chair. Baldacci is an accomplished author, and his descriptions of race relations in his home state of Virginia in 1968 are atrocious. Virginia was not Montgomery or Tuskegee. Unfortunately, the characters in this saga are stereotypes. Family members become innocent victims to racist perpetrators. The trial is a mockery. There is never order in the court. The judge presiding over the trial is also, not at all surprisingly, a member of the KKK. I despised the depiction of the county: filled with bigots, segregated, wealthy megalomaniacal KKK businessmen who treat human beings despicably, and oppressed Black townspeople who are at the whim of the white townsfolk. Baldacci finds ways to incorporate Loving versus Virginia, red-lining, sundown cities, the war in Vietnam, illegal abortions, and green books into the plot like a Civil Rights Unit taught in school. Sadly, there is no originality to this plot. The ending…Well, see this to the end and decide for yourself. 2.5/5

Pandering, overindulgent, on the nose, and in most moments preachy. Some rich engrossing characters and a somewhat redeemable ending. Writing was not strong and did not build anything new onto this style of tale. I may not be the target audience but at the end of the day there’s room for improvement. Star for omitting that word as well.

Meh. The Paris Apartment feels mostly like melodramatic dithering, but I guess I was somewhat entertained. Jess needs a place to stay, so she hits up her half brother. When she arrives at his residence, she finds a fancy building with questionable tenants, but no sign of Ben. As she digs deeper and asks around, she starts to realize that all is not as it seems at this apartment building. Dun dun dun! Having read a few of Lucy Foley's books, I feel like she's really good at building up anticipation. Every moment in this book is so dramatic, with dark shadows and scary sounds at every turn. That's all good, but after a while, it gets to be a bit much, you know? There's no natural ebb and flow in the tone. It's just all high anticipation, all the time. It doesn't help that every character acts so high-strung and paranoid, even when nothing is happening. I watched as Nick's friend plucked a sprig of rosemary from one of the bushes, tearing hard to wrench it free. How he crushed it to his nose, inhaled. There was something presumptuous about the gesture. It felt like an act of vandalism. What the heck. Who attacks a bush just to smell it? And who watches someone do that and calls it "presumptuous"? Reader, if you're able to keep from rolling your eyes, you're a better person than I am. For a book advertised as a mystery, it sure doesn't feel like one. Jess doesn't so much suss out clues as she bumbles around, pilfering stuff, sticking her foot in her mouth, and just generally acts like an incompetent idiot. The other characters are all unlikable too, though each in their own way. And everyone is smelly, with stale breath and excessive sweat. After all that exaggerated writing, do the twists deliver? Eh, they seem pretty standard to me for the genre. I wasn't really surprised or shocked. In fact, it feels more ridiculous than anything else. Still, I was compelled to turn the pages, so I must've been somewhat entertained by all the antics. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: The Guest List The Hunting Party ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

a surprisingly quick read for a story where pretty much nothing happens. lol. there is one reveal about halfway through and the actual events do start falling into place right towards the end, but even the fast conclusion couldnt make up for the fact that nothing else really happened for the majority of the book. the characters arent compelling, the setting is pretty basic (so much missed potential!), and the plot itself is just uninspired. im going to round up because there was never actually a point where i wanted to stop reading. i guess i was interested (or stubborn) enough to see the story through to the end. i just wish i had been more invested in it. ↠ 2.5 stars

I Expected More “Everything that has happened here happened because of him.” The Paris Apartment is a thriller about a journalist who mysteriously disappeared while living in an odd apartment building in Paris. Jess, fleeing her life in England, makes her way to Paris to crash with her charming brother, Ben. Upon her arrival in Paris, Jess receives a mysterious voice message from Ben. When she arrives at his creepy building, Ben is nowhere to be found. It appears that Ben has vanished without a trace. Jess begins investigating what could have happened to Ben, and she starts with the residents of his building. What she finds is a building with hidden secrets and residents who will stop at nothing to keep their secrets from coming out. The Paris Apartment is different from Foley’s other works. There are fewer characters to keep track of, albeit there is still a lot of them, and they are more likable…well, at least Jess is likable. The rest of the characters are hideous. Narrated by Jess, Nick, Sophie, Mimi, and the concierge, all of the characters fell flat except for Jess whose character has some spunk. Nick, Sophie, and Mimi were all cliches. My biggest problem with the narrative was that there was too much telling and not enough showing. Also, the timeline is muddled between the past and the present. I was missing the feeling of being in Paris. The building is atmospheric and plays a central role in the plot. But outside of some French and references to famous Parisian landmarks, this book could have taken place in any city. This was an easy, mindless read. Lacking in tension and suspense, I was a little bored, and at times, I skimmed what was happening because I wasn’t all that interested. However, there were some decent twists and turns. I figured out two of the three main twists, but one caught me off guard, and I loved it! I appreciated that Foley tried something different with the format and location, but this book fell short. However, I enjoyed the mystery behind Ben’s disappearance, and Jess's character saved this from being a complete miss.

Well, merde. It really pains me to say that I read the majority of this book last month...let it sit for 3 WEEKS, with barely any pages left to read...and JUST NOW completed it. Why, do you ask? It all started for me when the book jumped the shark, not too far in... Jess is in search of her brother Ben. He leaves her a message to meet him at his apartment, but when she arrives, he is introuvable. As she snoops around this gated community, she runs into an interesting cast of characters, from an old biddy concierge in an adjacent cottage, to a married couple with said marriage on the rocks, to a swoon-worthy hottie who used to be friends with Ben. As hours turn into days, Jess' suspicions rise, and it appears the building is more than stunning, historic Parisian architecture...and that this unique cast of characters may have more to do with Ben's mysterious disappearance than Jess could have even imagined. They ALL know him...but who was REALLY the last to see him...alive? First off, Foley certainly did her research for this one...which I always appreciate. However, her research, aside from providing a fairly realistic dose of atmosphere, seemed to be focused on interjecting naughty French word after naughty French word, sort of like the kid giggling in the back of the classroom. I imagine this may have been far less annoying in an audio book, but constantly switching back and forth from French to English for the reader's sake when it didn't FEEL authentic just seemed like an opportunity to demonstrate Foley's 'research'. And I'll be honest, every time she used the word poutain all I could think about was poutine. Which is NOWHERE NEAR the same thing, but it certainly tripped me up plenty! 😂 And now, for the 'jump the shark' discussion for those who've already read this... (view spoiler) So yes, this is another Foley full of unlikable folks, although I had a lot more trouble getting into the POVs in this book than I did with Foley's Guest List, so who knows if the audio would have made that a more interesting experience. I mean, there's a character who wants to eat another character's body hair trimmings...so you've been warned. 🤢 As always, Foley's short chapters are appreciated, although in this one it was more of a "let's read 10 more pages because I know it won't take too long" rather than a "how fast can I finish this addictive page turner" type of feel, evidenced by the fact that I was so able to let this one sit and not really care when I got back to it. Something tells me that much like the other scenic reads I've had this year, an actual vacation to Paris would be a far more exciting use of my time. Or at the very least, I’ll take some French Fries...hold the poutine. 😉 3.5 stars

Ok I thought I would love this one...not so much. I listened to the audio and the narrators did a very fine job. For me it was just too slow moving and I was not fond of the style. There were a bunch of characters to keep track of and at first it was a bit confusing. Once it got rolling I did become more interested in the story and finding out what actually happened to Ben. I think if I was actually reading the hardcopy of this book I would not have finished but the narration kept me going. I'm giving this an extra star just for the fantastic narration by the many narrators. Each one was unique and I enjoyed all the different accents. I did like the direction the story took and the ending was pretty satisfying.

This one is pretty difficult to rate. I think it's the first time that I skim through some chapters of a book, but end up thinking that the twists were very good! To me, there was a major problem with the execution. I don't know how I could feel so bored during most part of the book with an idea so interesting! Unfortunately, the author didn't achieve to keep me engaged because nothing was happening. I'll settle for 2.5 stars!

3.5/5 good enough to get me out of a reading slump but not the best mystery/thriller i’ve ever read. i liked the Cluedo style to the disappearance. each character was a suspect and brought different energies and backstories which were interesting. also the twist at the end was great :))

3 stars Lucy Foley is going to be one of those overhyped authors that everyone loves but their books are just okay for me. Like Paula Hawkins and Ruth Ware. The Paris Apartment follows Jess who left England and a bad job to stay with her half brother in Paris. Only once she arrives in Paris, her brother Ben is nowhere to be found and Jess suspects very quickly that something happened to him. Surrounded by the unique occupants of Ben’s apartment building, Jess looks for answers and begins uncovering something very serious. I wasn’t the biggest fan of The Guest Life, but I always like to give authors more than one chance so I put myself on the library holds list for this one. And I enjoyed it, for the most part. I think Lucy Foley just does too many character perspectives and while I understand why, I also think it doesn’t have the best effect, at least on me. Most of the time I’m annoyed when the switch happens and think that fewer perspectives would have a more succinct effect on the plot. I did really enjoy the ending, it was way more satisfying than I expected. I’ll probably read more by this author hoping every single time that I will love their new book because I’m just a weirdo like that.

I was just so underwhelmed by this book. I did not like any of the characters and the plot twists were decent but I just didn't care about them. It's a shame because I loved The Guest List so much.

It started off strong, but ultimately fizzled for me(too many boring side stories that slowed the pace). I enjoyed the narration more than the mystery. This book was over the top dramatic and laced with paranoia. Jess on a wild goose chase, knocking on doors, looking for her brother Ben. He was expecting her, so where is he? Knock, knock, bang bang, ring, ring. No one seems to answer doors around this place! 🚪 I was entertained/invested just enough to finish the book, but it failed in many areas. I feel like it could have been so much better with the less is more approach. If your looking for something just to kill some time, the french accents really enhanced the listening experience. I also was able to get the pantry tidy while listening over a few days. If you already own the book, I'd suggest reading it while switching with other reads because while entertaining, gets tedious at times. Library Audio Loan/ 6 enjoyable narrators/ 12 hrs 53 min

3 stars. An easy and entertaining “locked room” mystery. Ben’s sister, Jess, gives last minute notice that she is coming to stay with him after falling on hard times. Jess shows up at his apartment to find he is missing. Trying to track him down, she relies on information she learns from the mysterious neighbours and tenants within the building. The atmosphere was the best part of this novel! I loved the gothic apartment building with its dark history and hidden tunnels. The building was like a character itself. It added an eerie, foreboding tension and tone to the story which I loved. The chapters were relatively short, each one ending on a slight cliff hanger before changing to another perspective. While I liked the sense of mystery, a lot of the story did feel predictable but remained enjoyable and entertaining. The characters were unique and memorable — I liked that the author included their floor number on the chapter headings to keep their placement in the building clear. The backstory of each character slowly revealed multiple layers to the plot, at times carrying a dark and uncomfortable undertone. When I reflect on my reading experience, the story never felt “real” to me (which is usually a deal breaker) yet I was entertained and curious from start to finish. It had a creepy feel that got under my skin and kept me invested. I enjoyed the writing and look forward to trying out more from this author! Thank you to the publisher for my review copy!

Idk how I feel about this book. I listened to the audiobook as well as read the physical copy. I enjoyed the author’s previous book but this one I didn’t really care for the characters and the plot twist was just ok. I’m disappointed it didn’t blow me away.

To say this was a slow burn mystery is putting it mildly. It took me a while to get interested and time to figure out the broad cast of characters. I would definitely recommend the audiobook over the written version. The narrators do an excellent job bringing the characters to life and giving each a very distinct and engaging personality. The narration bumped my rating from two to three stars. This is the third book I have read by Lucy Foley and my least favorite. It’s not bad, just slow and not very thrilling. Without the audiobook, this probably would have been hard for me to finish.

I’m going to start off with what I really enjoyed about The Paris Apartment. I loved the fact that this book had short chapters, which I feel makes the book easier to read. I also liked the multiple points of view from the assortment of characters (which if I’m being honest, this story had a bit too many characters)… The storyline was also different and not what I was expecting- which brings me to the points of what I didn’t exactly care for. Maybe I’m getting too old, or maybe I’ve read one too many thriller books- but I found the twists and turns in this story a little bizarre. Too questionable in my opinion. I also didn’t care for any of the characters (except for the concierge), so I really didn’t care what happened to any of them- which then ruins the story for me. Having these feelings also made the story seem long and drawn out, and I was super ready for a conclusion by page 300. After having loved The Guest List by Lucy Foley, I will still continue to read future books from her. The Paris Apartment just happened not to be one of my favorites by her. I do however, feel that this book would appeal more to a much younger audience.

3 stars I enjoyed the less fun “only murders in the building” vibe of this book. and that’s it. It did a good job at building up the anticipation but the execution could’ve used some work. The characters were unlikable. I wasn’t totally bored while reading it, it was an easy read, but there weren’t really much going on.

3.5 Stars Jess is a bit of a transient bouncing from job to job and never staying to long in one place, contacts her half brother Ben(a freelance journalist) to stay in his apartment in France while she gets her feet on the ground. When she arrives she is unable to contact Ben. What happened to Ben and how did he come about staying in this very exclusive apartment complex? The main plot is Jess trying to determine why Ben was in Paris and where did he disappear to, and what better way then to start an investigation of her own by talking to all the neighbors. Each one seems to have their own secrets and are very eclectic. This def was a slower read but the chapters were so short and the writing made it a very fast read so I couldn't put it down even though for awhile not much really happened. I know, I say slow read while fast! We learn about everyone who lives there, which is roughly 5 different tenants as Jess tries to figure out what is going on. There were certainly twists I didn't see coming esp the one that falls in the middle of the book. However the final ending while good wasn't awesome. What I didn't like was there was some French sayings and words thrown in and some weren't explained, so I had to google or infer and it took me out from being immersed into the plot. But the title is The Paris Apartment sooo should be expected! I did learn some new words! One in particular that I shall not share! I think this is a good read but not super awesome and while this author is hit or miss for me, I'd say this is one to check out.

3 stars Lies in the uncanny valley where its stupidity becomes its own kind of brilliance, The Paris Apartment is so self-obsessed to be twisty, it abandons any resemblance of logic or realism, all in favor of a temporal thrill. Just like Riley Sager's Survive the Night, I was overall entertained, but at a cost — consist of me shaking head, laughing at the disjointed mess on page. This novel has a serious commitment issue. I was flabbergasted when it was revealed the female protagonist being a 28 yrs old, when her reckless behavior and angsty attitude positioned her squarely as a young adult (even now I still think the age has to be an editorial oversight). Despite its city-specific title, there's nothing Parisian about The Paris Apartment. Lacking any real grounded context (it's never specified which district or neighborhood this story is taking place, just PARIS at large), other than name-dropping a couple touristy landmarks, and characters going to une boulangerie instead of a bakery; this can easily be The [Frankfurt] Apartment or The [Barcelona] Apartment (as long as it's a non-English speaking European city). The novel also comes across as curiously self-censored; there's a recurring mention of riots happening in Paris streets, but the novel never clarifies its cause. It feels a little exploitative to populate the story with superficial element clearly inspired by recent political unrest, but dodging the responsibility to actually address it (the whole reference should be removed if the novel doesn't want to be time-stamped or taking a stance). Lastly, The Paris Apartment also has selective mental lapse on technology; even though characters use Uber, no one is aware of Google Translate, or storing critical information on a cloud drive. I'm aware the story is echoing the classic mysteries of Agatha Christie and Alfred Hitchcock, but I would've preferred some innovations, updating the well-worn scenarios to current time, rather than keep having characters finding notebooks or paper scraps, and be helpless when foreign language is spoken. The pacing is definitely propulsive, with its short chapters and ever-present cliffhangers. Even though some of the cliffhangers are becoming as hollow as loud-sound-effects-as-jump-scares in horror films (he's holding something sharp and metallic, gleaming in the dark —it was his phone / A blunt, heavy blow, tearing into her flesh — it was a cat). Without getting into spoilers, The Paris Apartment goes the maximalist approach with its story, in the end everyone is a caricature of themselves, the sociopathic one seduces everyone, the quiet one has issue, the drunk one gets drunker, and anyone may switch their sexual orientation halfway through. It's all really cheap tricks, but I can't deny once I'm in, I can't look away. The Paris Apartment is a novel seemingly born out of contractual obligation — not terrible, but assembled by committee, woefully recycled and even the slightest scrutiny will break its fragile illusion. Still, it is clearly a formula that works for established authors, who can withstand a bad book without tarnishing his/her brand. I hated this, but also genuinely had fun trashing it. Go figure. **The Book Troop Book Club March 2022 Selection**

This book is our online book club's selection for August. To read along with us, please secure a copy via our catalog, Hoopla, or Libby. Happy reading! To join the discussion: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/... Two staff members reviewed this book. Enjoy! Brandon's review: I read this since it is our August book club pick, and would give this book a 3.5 to a 4 star rating. I don't think I need to summarize the events of the book, since Cora did it so eloquently below! I will keep my review brief. I read the The Guest List by the author a while ago, so I had mixed feelings about starting this book. I really disliked almost every character in that book, where they felt cartoonish at times with how bad of people they were. Compared to this book where they were portrayed more realistically (I actually liked Jess as a main character). I enjoyed the relationships between characters and contrast in behaviors with Ben and Jess with their upbringing and interactions with the rest of the cast. The constant POV changes in this book contributed more to the story in this book versus the multitude in the previous book that felt unnecessary. I liked the storyline and the mystery in this book more as well. The one thing in my opinion that the previous book had over this one is that the atmosphere and the setting were better. I ended up liking this book more than I expected. Foley's writing was easy to get absorbed into. I wasn’t really surprised by any of the mysteries and twists revealed, but they weren’t as obvious as other books in the genre I’ve read recently. Overall, this was a nice quick read. I have to admit that it got tiresome when all the introductory chapters of each individual ended with pretty much “everything was fine until that man, Ben, got here.” Cora's review: Somewhere between 3 to 3.5 stars The Paris Apartment was an entertaining mystery/thriller taking place in a posh Paris apartment. My rating is based on my being spoiled by The Silent Patient by Alex Michaelides and that some of the twists were a bit easier to guess. All that notwithstanding, I found myself absorbed by the story. Everything was sketchy as soon as the story opens. Our protagonist, Jess, has come to Paris to visit her half-brother, Ben. (view spoiler) Jess is no angel, scrappy and reckless, yet readers will find themselves rooting for her to solve the mystery of this story. Jess arrives at her brother's address, but he's not answering. Of course, Ben is not there to buzz her in. He seems to have vanished into thin air. She has nowhere else to stay, so ends up getting herself into the apartment building with the help of one hostile resident and her own ability to pick-lock doors. Every apartment resident she meets over the course of a tense couple of days treat her as if she's dangerous, and tend to start at her questions of where her brother, Ben, is. Let's just say they all gave off airs of hiding something. It definitely kept me guessing. Let's take inventory. There's the reclusive Mimi, with serious psychological issues. (Serial killer in waiting?) She lives in one of the apartments with her more outgoing, party-girl roommate, Camille. Then there's Antoine, an abusive drunkard, whose wife, Dominique, is leaving during the time this story is set. Antoine's seeming opposite, the Cambridge-educated Nick, seems to be the most normal of them, although he is clearly troubled. Finally, living in the top-floor penthouse, there is Sophie, and her frequently absent husband, (and raging, misogynistic) Jacques. Me @ Jacques: Jess enlists the help of a few people to help her untangle the mystery: Nick, who'd been friends with Ben in their Cambridge days and seems to want to help, and Ben's journalistic contact, Theo. (Although, I was screaming at Jess not to trust Nick, because he was clearly hiding something, like everyone else in the cursed apartment building, even if he was a "nice guy." If there's anything I've learned from the few mystery/thrillers I have read, is to trust no one. Even Theo, I had questions about.) Turns out Ben was working on some sort of investigative piece that he had pitched to Theo before his mysterious disappearance. This is where some things started to click for me in the story. Rich people don't like people like Ben digging into their business. This premise made the story all the more realistic, notwithstanding that in the background, the Yellow Vest protests were happening in other parts of Paris. The whole atmosphere becoming sinister and almost echoing each other. There was the obvious violence of the loud street protests and the more silent, but no less violent happenings in the shadows. This is proven by Jess's various excursions into both the rich and poor sections of Paris in search of clues. Although, I gotta say, the author clearly set up that Ben had been hurt or worse by someone in the apartment building. I was saying to myself, "Ah yes, one of you silenced Ben and the rest of you are covering." But when what ultimately had happened was explained, I was not expecting the twists (in retrospect, I should have) involved. Ultimately, The Paris Apartment was a decent enough story to keep me occupied, a good literary escape into a city I have not had the opportunity to visit yet. Find this book and other titles within our catalog. This novel is our Goodreads Book Club selection for August. To secure a copy and read along with us, please check out our catalog or Libby. Happy reading!

3.5⭐ I finished this last night and I have some thoughts. I adored some of this book and some of it was just okay for me. Firstly what I loved - Being back with these characters felt like catching up with old friends. Richard Osman's humour - I laughed out loud many times reading this. The reference to David Tennant which made me squeal and THEN a reference to Pierce Brosnan with Ron saying Pierce Brosnan was his favourite Bond! (Both David Tennant and Pierce Brosnan were in the Thursday Murder Club movie and Pierce Brosnan plays Ron so this just made my little heart very happy). The exploration of grief. I'm so glad he didn't just sweep Elizabeth's grief under the rug. Now, what I didn't love - I guess the main thing was that the story and the mystery just didn't capture my attention at all. In fact the mystery was very basic, and we've been conditioned by the previous books to expect a very complicated but tight story. This just wasn't it. I saw the "reveal" coming a mile off and even when it happened it was just so anticlimactic. The "heart of the story" was missing. Let me explain - what I love most about these books is that there is always a deeper story underneath the mystery, that delves into love and grief and compassion and morality. This always adds the heart. Without spoiling it, in this book that story was supposed to be about Ron's daughter. But she was barely in it. The book explicitly tells you that this story wasn't about the mystery, it was about that story but I felt no connection to it because we never got to really get to know Ron's daughter. If she was in it more and we maybe had her POV this could have been really impactful - imagine writing an anti domestic violence plot whilst never actually looking at the perspective of the abused person. It made no sense to me that we got so much from Joyce's daughter's POV but not Ron's daughter. The side characters weren't very interesting either. I love how Richard Osman writes his suspects and villains and their characterisation seemed lacking in this book. Not enough Bogdan and Joyce - seriously my two favourite characters didn't even need to be in this book for all they contributed. There is at least some self awareness here with Joyce noting that she hasn't been much help but I thought she would turn it around at the end, and she didn't. Bogdan was wasted in this book. He was basically just Donna's boyfriend and I just missed him. I guess in summary this felt rushed, not well thought out and perhaps a little bit short for what Richard was trying to say, but I still love these characters and his writing so I still had a good time reading it.

So sad to say I was a bit disappointed? It was amazing to be with the gang again, That’s always good. But I felt disappointed when i finished it, it didn’t feel as good as the previous books. The mystery wasn’t as strong (and plot even less) as I’m used to, there was to less of Donna & Chris and Bogdan. Also the gang was more individualized, and not so much of the magic they have together. I’m so bummed because this was one of the books I looked forward the most for reading this year, waited quite long for a new book in this series and I felt the book did it’s previous books short, and it missed its magic and finesse what the rest of the series does have.

“The Impossible Fortune (Thursday Murder Club #5)”, by Richard Osman A generous 3 stars because the concept and writing are not bad, but there is no heart in this work. It wasn’t even fun! 76 chapters! A snooze fest! I was completely bored and struggled to finish it. I did restart it 3 times, because I thought I couldn’t focus, but now I know it wasn’t me. Everything was very uninteresting. I do think the author was under pressure and lost direction, or he is already tired of these characters. I know I’m the outlier in my group of readers. This one really did not work for me. But I loved the audiobook, which I paired with the ebook, both borrowed from the library.

Not sure how to rate this. I was looking forward to reading it, perhaps too much? This time around, the characters seem too stereotyped, but at the same time not quite right, not as they were before. Elizabeth is still too toned down and Joyce is way OTT. Clever twist, but I feel I may be done with the series.

Didn't hit like the others

It was lovely to return to the old characters but this didn't have the oomph I was hoping for. Nothing much happened ... Also, the word "says" must have been used about for about 10,000 words of the whole book and it began to grate on me after a while. The writing is sharp and witty but I just didn't feel the heart in this one. Will I keep reading the series? Yes. But it's gone down a bit on my estimations now I'm afraid.

Huh that was somewhat intriguing and binge worthy but at the same time, not as compelling a story as its previous two books. See, I really didn't like the second book in the series but I admit that the story was a lot more stronger. This one was kind of messy. With Enzo and Millie being married with two kids, I thought it would make a really good setup. (No, these are not spoilers. Y'all think before attacking people. It's in the damn blurb of the book!!) Anyway, I liked the family dynamics, especially the way Enzo was with kids and Millie. I don't think he has changed much, he is still his mysterious self, protective, passionate and trust worthy. Millie is still her naive, off the track self. I liked Ada and Nico, would protect them with my life. Given Millie is the main character, I didn't really see her as involved. She was just there observing things and that too in a completely wrong limelight. She wasn't good with the kids either. 🚩Firstly, sending off Nico like that to Suzette's house? Am sorry, wrong!!! 🚩Secondly, knows Ada is going through a tough time and does nothing. 🚩The main issue was the way she continued to jump to conclusions regarding Enzo. So she only loves him when it's convenient for her and when she thinks he acts as per her. I did not appreciate the constant character assassination going on in Millie's head by the author. 🚩Also, why was she turning into a little Nina? The overall crime was a bit predictable but the epilogue truly surprised me. Not sure how I feel about that. This could all have been avoided if Millie actually stopped being selfish and focused on her kids a bit? Although it's a binge worthy book, it doesn't make it a good story. Honestly, some authors need to realise when to put an end to a series. Can we please just let Millie be in her own naive little bubble now? ~•~•~ I wanna know if Millie is still naive 🫣

rtc is this a necessary addition to the housemaid and the housemaid's secret? no. am I still going to read it? yes 🤷🏽‍♀️

I was so excited for this one, but I was disappointed. To be honest, this didn’t even feel like a thriller for the first half of the book. There was very little suspense, part 1 was actually really boring. I felt like I was just reading about someone’s every day life. The rest of the book was a little better, murder mystery going on- who is the killer? But to be honest it never really pulled me in. There were no shocking twists, no extreme exciting parts. The one or two twists were somewhat obvious and they were not executed properly- very little suspense. It just felt like an unfinished first draft that should’ve been edited and made better. To be honest, if this wasn’t part of one of my favorite series I might have even DNF’d. The best part was seeing all my favorite characters again. Although Enzo was acting so badly the whole book that I started to like him less too. I think they set it up where there could be another book- I am not sure if one is needed now? This one didn’t even really feel like it belonged in the series. Was it the worst book ever? No, but when you are writing an addition to an amazing series, expectations will be high and this definitely did not meet them.

Unfortunately underwhelming, but overall good-ish

3 stars “But it’s hard to ever get rid of somebody when they live right next door to you.” Was this book needed? Absolutely not. Did I devour this book in just two days? Yes! Honestly, I don't understand the need for this book. This was just an useless exention to Housemaid series because there was just so much unnecessary drama and still I ate it up. But let's be honest this can never be as good as book 1 because that book made me a Freida McFadden fan for life. I wanted Millie and her vigilante shit but she acted so stupidly and naively in this book. She just kept on ignoring the signs that were right in front of her. Enzo was fine but he could've tried to avoid the misscommunication chains that only led to more unnecessary drama in this book. You must be wondering why I gave it 3.5 stars? Well, I needed something that could get me out of my slump and this book worked like magic. It kept annoying me with the misscommunications but it also kept me hooked with the plot. I kinda saw it coming but I was not expecting the last plot twist. It was well... something? This series is full of plot twists and mysteries and I loved first two books but nothing can beat book 1. I also liked seeing characters from previous books and I always wanted to know more about Nina and her daughter and how they were doing. Overall, this was an enjoyable and unputdownable mystery thriller by Freida McFadden. Not the best in the series but atleast we know how Millie and Enzo ended up together after book 2. “The third in a series usually isn’t that great, so it’s not his fault.” —————— I need more of Millie and her vigilante shit 🤭

The Housemaid has her own house, husband and kids now... as years have passed by since the previous book in this series. Millie's troubles are far behind now, or are they? Her younger boy is acting up, her husband might be having an affair and worse of all, he has hired them their own housemaid! The housemaid is watching! Solid first person storytelling as ever, and the reality and story building were top class, but the main plot points and twists sway into almost over-the-top as did the character's reactions, interactions and rationales on several occasions. Despite that. I can't help but love Millie and her family. A solid 6 out of 12 Three Star read :) 2024 read

FAST-PACED & BINGE-WORTHY I can honestly say I was a little nervous going into this book because I was not the biggest fan of the second book. However, I read this in one sitting and could not put it down. Short chapters and fast pacing made this story binge-worthy. I enjoyed this one more than the second and it was such a fun and quick read. 11 years after the last "Housemaid adventure" we follow Millie and her husband Enzo, along with their two children Ada and Nico. The family moves to a new community in a house that Millie adores, bigger than any house she's lived in and they got it for cheaper than the asking rate. WIN WIN! She's estatic and at the top of the world, until she meets her neighbors. First we have Suzette, a married real estate agent, who keeps flirting with Enzo in front of Millie. However, Suzette knows a lot of people in town and she offers to help Enzo get more work for his landscaping business, which they need so Millie overlooks it. Then we have Janice, the odd and paranoid neighbor busybody who is always watching out the windows so she can know everyone's business. Who do you trust when everyone is lying?? 👀We even have a few appearances from previous characters in the series. The last sentence of this book was such a perfect ending.😍💖 Freida please don't let me down. Give me those unexpected twists you are known for🤞💖

Seriously why is danger never far from Millie and Enzo??? They keep stressing the hell out of me. At some point I thought if they don’t end up murdered, they might actually go out from their weekly diet of mac and cheese. So many twists and too much unholy tension, it’s a miracle I didn’t expire before everything came to light Can’t tell you how glad I am that this ride is over. It was good while it lasted but whew!

“I look just like her. How funny” •Listen I’m the type of reader that’s always attached to characters. So Millie and her little family were not exception. But if it weren’t for my soft heart (😃) I would’ve given this book a lower rating. It seriously started to KIND OF pick up after 200 pages and since I really liked the first book and didn’t enjoy the second one I thought this one might be good. Because it had every right to be STUNNING but it sadly didn’t deliver as hard as I wanted it to. I recommend reading it just for the sake of short chapters, fast pace 390 pages and the “happy” ending Millie deserves. If you want a thriller as good as The Housemaid (book 1) then I’m afraid to tell you this isn’t the one😞 Overall, since I’m in no mood of reading scary and dark things. I was very pleased with the ending. I don’t think others are tho… but if you don’t want to read about Millie doing stupid things (yet again), weird neighbors and blood pressure, do not read this book (unless you want to give it a try). ⚠️SPOILERS⚠️ When Cecilia appeared and Nina was mentioned I felt like a proud mom🥹🥹🥹 Ada and Martha ATE with those last quotes. MILLIE HAVE YOU LEARNED NOTHING! (Again🙄) Did you seriously sent your eight year old to the neighbors house and didn’t suspect they had ANYTHING to do with his behavior. Also, am I the only one who thinks ADA knows about Millie’s past?

"𝘐 𝘸𝘪𝘴𝘩 𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘰𝘶𝘭𝘥 𝘵𝘢𝘭𝘬 𝘵𝘰 𝘮𝘦." "𝘐 𝘸𝘪𝘴𝘩 𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘦𝘳𝘦 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘺 𝘩𝘦 𝘶𝘴𝘦𝘥 𝘵𝘰 𝘣𝘦." "𝘐 𝘸𝘪𝘴𝘩 𝘸𝘦 𝘯𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘳 𝘮𝘰𝘷𝘦𝘥 𝘩𝘦𝘳𝘦." I really enjoyed the book when everything was still unclear and mysterious. Millie becoming a mother to two lovely kids honestly made me happy for her 🥹🤍 I truly adored them—especially Nico. During that phase, the story had so many complications that I kept waiting for something strong, shocking, and out of the ordinary. I had so many theories running through my head 🧠👀 But then… that plot twist happened—and I laughed out loud, not because it was brilliant, but because it felt ridiculous to me 😭💀. It was completely illogical. For a moment, I genuinely thought Freida McFadden was joking. She is capable of delivering something far stronger and more rational than what we ended up getting. Honestly and simply put: it made no sense at all, and I can’t convince myself otherwise. Millie felt very different in this book. Her kids describing her as a “normal” or even “boring” mom made me smile and think, “You have no idea who your mother really is…” 😏. Still, it made sense. In the previous books, Millie had nothing to lose. Now she has two children, and they come before everything else. Her being more oblivious felt strange 🤨, but it’s still better than reckless Millie—and definitely more realistic. As for Enzo… I either forgot or didn’t realize he was supposed to be that handsome 😅. But that thing he gave his daughter? It left me seriously confused. I still don’t understand how he thought that was okay, Very strange 🤨 And I still don’t understand why Suzette was flirting with Enzo—what exactly was she trying to get out of that? 🤔 And that nosy neighbor—oh my God. I really needed to know more about her relationship with her child, whether the child was actually hers, and how all of that affected him 👀. That part felt underexplored. In the end, I truly enjoyed building theories up until about 70% of the book. After that, the events started to feel illogical, unconvincing, shallow, and just very weird 🕵🏻‍♀️🔍🤍 ╰┈➤ˎˊ˗ 𝐏𝐫𝐞-𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐝 🔍 I wonder what kind of mess Millie is going to get herself into this time? 🤍🕵🏻‍♀️

So here, we get to meet Millie and her family. Her husband and her two children. Interesting story. Slow start, almost DNF. The final chapter was right up there for me. I especially liked the connection to the very first “crime” Millie ever commits. It was a fantastic pay-off. The ending felt a bit rushed, but having read so many books by this author, I’ve come to expect that. In conclusion I’ll say - not a bad way to close out the series. However, something tells me this is not the last we’ll see of Millie & her family.

𝟑.𝟓 𝐬𝐭𝐚𝐫𝐬 ★★★ ⸜⸜ 𝐈𝐭 𝐟𝐞𝐞𝐥𝐬 𝐥𝐢𝐤𝐞 𝐞𝐯𝐞𝐧 𝐭𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡 𝐰𝐞 𝐡𝐚𝐯𝐞 𝐨𝐮𝐫 𝐬𝐡𝐚𝐝𝐞𝐬 𝐝𝐨𝐰𝐧, 𝐬𝐡𝐞 𝐢𝐬 𝐚𝐥𝐰𝐚𝐲𝐬 𝐤𝐞𝐞𝐩𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐚𝐧 𝐞𝐲𝐞 𝐨𝐧 𝐮𝐬. ⸝⸝ ⟢ no spoilers, but I think you should skip this review if you haven’t read The Housemaid The first half of this book was boring , I was considering DNF-ing this. Yes, it definitely picked up after the 55% mark, and it returned to Freida’s classic easy-to-read and bingeable writing. But I’m not sure if pushing myself through all that was worth the weak reveal at the end . It was predictable, and too simple. An unsatisfying resolution. I felt the same way for The Housemaid’s Secret, but that one was still better. That plot twist left me stunned. But this one? I was disappointed when I reached the last page of this book—but not in a good way. I expected more, I felt like the story was incomplete and left a few questions unanswered. The epilogue did not help. ⸜⸜ 𝐒𝐞𝐞? 𝐈 𝐜𝐚𝐧 𝐥𝐢𝐞 𝐣𝐮𝐬𝐭 𝐚𝐬 𝐰𝐞𝐥𝐥 𝐚𝐬 𝐡𝐞 𝐜𝐚𝐧. ⸝⸝ The foreshadowing in this book though… 🤦‍♀️ Too much. Almost every chapter after the 60% mark ended with a line of foreshadowing. 😭 It’s REALLY obvious what the author wants her readers to think. Aside from that, this was still somewhat enjoyable to read (the second half, that is). I don’t think I regret finishing this? I loved seeing Millie and Enzo raise their children Nico and Ada. I probably love their children more than I like them. —— Suzette Lowell She isn’t really the main character, but I wanted to mention her first because OH GOD. She was INFURIATING. I have never wanted to reach into a book and slap a character SO BAD. ⸜⸜ 𝐁𝐮𝐭 𝐢𝐭’𝐬 𝐞𝐱𝐭𝐫𝐞𝐦𝐞𝐥𝐲 𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐝 𝐭𝐨 𝐬𝐥𝐞𝐞𝐩 𝐰𝐡𝐞𝐧 𝐚𝐧𝐨𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐫 𝐰𝐨𝐦𝐚𝐧’𝐬 𝐩𝐞𝐫𝐟𝐮𝐦𝐞 𝐢𝐬 𝐭𝐢𝐜𝐤𝐥𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐲𝐨𝐮𝐫 𝐧𝐨𝐬𝐭𝐫𝐢𝐥𝐬. ⸝⸝ —— Millie Accardi If I hadn’t read this, I’d say I would eat up anything about Millie being the baddie that she is, but after reading this, I think it’s safe to say that Freida should put her to rest… and move on to other books. It’s true what most reviews are saying, all Millie did, really, was watch . As a main character, I wish she was more involved in the whole story. Oh, and she worried about Enzo a TON. She has the right to worry, but I wish she’d done it less. It’s lovely seeing her with her dream job as a social worker though. One more thing: I DON’T CARE ABOUT HER BLOOD PRESSURE!! 😭😭 Freida, PLEASE. ⸜⸜ 𝐈𝐟 𝐈 𝐡𝐚𝐝 𝐦𝐲 𝐰𝐚𝐲, 𝐦𝐲 𝐞𝐧𝐭𝐢𝐫𝐞 𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐬𝐞 𝐰𝐨𝐮𝐥𝐝 𝐛𝐞 𝐟𝐢𝐥𝐥𝐞𝐝 𝐰𝐢𝐭𝐡 𝐩𝐚𝐭𝐢𝐞𝐧𝐭𝐬 𝐰𝐡𝐨𝐬𝐞 𝐟𝐚𝐦𝐢𝐥𝐢𝐞𝐬 𝐝𝐢𝐝𝐧’𝐭 𝐰𝐚𝐧𝐭 𝐭𝐨 𝐭𝐚𝐤𝐞 𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐦 𝐡𝐨𝐦𝐞. ⸝⸝ —— Enzo Accardi Another one; you don’t understand the irritation I felt throughout most of the book and the urge to slap some sense into him. I do not understand him! He could tell Suzette was shamelessly flirting with him, and yet he still interacted with her so often?? With his wife, Millie, knowing as well? I don’t think Millie’s blood pressure was a good reason for him not to tell Millie anything. They’re supposed to be a team, remember? 🥺 I miss their relationship so much in books one and two. ⸜⸜ 𝐈’𝐯𝐞 𝐚𝐥𝐰𝐚𝐲𝐬 𝐤𝐧𝐨𝐰𝐧 𝐦𝐲 𝐡𝐮𝐬𝐛𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐢𝐬 𝐚𝐧 𝐞𝐱𝐜𝐞𝐥𝐥𝐞𝐧𝐭 𝐥𝐢𝐚𝐫. 𝐈𝐭 𝐣𝐮𝐬𝐭 𝐧𝐞𝐯𝐞𝐫 𝐛𝐨𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐫𝐞𝐝 𝐦𝐞 𝐮𝐧𝐭𝐢𝐥 𝐈 𝐬𝐮𝐬𝐩𝐞𝐜𝐭𝐞𝐝 𝐡𝐞 𝐰𝐚𝐬 𝐡𝐢𝐝𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐬𝐨𝐦𝐞𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐟𝐫𝐨𝐦 𝐦𝐞. ⸝⸝ —— Nico and Ada Accardi Eek!! After finishing the novella and reading the blurb of this book, I just KNEW I’d love them! And I did! 🥰 It was soso cute seeing them grow up and take after their parents and some of their genes. Honestly, I think they are such brave kids, handling the home move and everything else like that, and I adore their sibling relationship! Nico especially, but I also loved his young naivety. 😂 Ada—I love her!! Though she’s such a crybaby. I admire the way she handled the situation with Hunter. 🤣 And even better, she’s a book girlie too! A quote from herself: ⸜⸜ 𝐓𝐡𝐞 𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐫𝐝 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐬𝐞𝐫𝐢𝐞𝐬 𝐮𝐬𝐮𝐚𝐥𝐥𝐲 𝐢𝐬𝐧’𝐭 𝐭𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐠𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐭 ⸝⸝ … well. 🙂‍↕️ It’s as if she’s speaking for this book. —— Would I recommend this? … mmmayybe…? If you can make yourself push through the first draggy half of this book, then you might as well finish it. But I don’t think this is a necessary read. ⸜⸜ 𝐈𝐭’𝐬 𝐧𝐨𝐭 𝐥𝐢𝐤𝐞 𝐈’𝐦 𝐝𝐲𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐭𝐨𝐦𝐨𝐫𝐫𝐨𝐰, 𝐚𝐟𝐭𝐞𝐫 𝐚𝐥𝐥. ⸝⸝ The Housemaid #1 — The Housemaid: 5★ #2 — The Housemaid’s Secret: 4.25★ #2.5 — The Housemaid’s Wedding: 3★ #3 — The Housemaid Is Watching: 3.5★ The trilogy as whole: 4★ ⠂⠄⠄⠂⠁⠁⠂⠄⠄⠂⠁⠁⠂⠄⠄⠂ ⠂⠄⠄⠂☆ Not the highest of ratings from my friends, 😬 but that’s okay because I just wanna binge this. 😝 Woah look at me actually completing a series!! 😱

3 ⭐ I don't know what to say exactly but this certainly didn't feel like a necessary addition to the series I mean the only thing that kept me caring about the characters is that I knew some of them before other than that I was kind of bored throughout the whole book sorry but I don't get the hype about this series however I'm gonna try to read something else by this author and I hope I'll like it more ....

The last line of the book… like come on 😂 but aside from that, the twists kept going back and forth w/ me. Like one moment I’d be like “oh my god there’s no way” but then like 5 minutes later I’d be like “actually what”. Like think it was trying too hard to be all plot twisty when all it needed was one good plot twist, and in my opinion it was SO CLOSE to that but then it just kept going and it felt like the plot twists had plot twists but they weren’t good enough to if that makes sense? So it was like fine. Not bad, but a little disappointing for the last book.

Happy pub day!! Downloaded this from KU right away. My actual copy is in the mail as usual 😆 idk why I bother preordering books when they rarely arrive on time. Oh well!!! I binged this book just like I do with all Freida books. One of my favorite things about her books is that they are effortless and great escapes. Truthfully, I didn’t love this book as much as the prior two, but overall, it was still a good read. The plot was engaging, and the story had multiple twists. It was a binge-worthy book that I absolutely could not put down. What I didn’t love… The twists were done in typical Freida fashion, but the build-up had too many distractions for my liking. The author tried to throw us off, but some curve balls felt overdone and not as smooth as her other books. I wanted more from Millie and Enzo. Their portrayal in this story was lacking. I didn’t like how they were depicted - I can’t say more without spoilers so that I will leave it as that. Also, I didn’t want details about the “villain’s” wrongdoing (I don’t care for graphics like that), but it felt vague - so that one twist felt rushed/not executed as well as it could have been. I did love the final twist, though. I was curious about how that part would be revealed. 👏🏻 I highly recommend rereading the prologue after the ending - so fun. That said, I adore Millie, Enzo, and their little family. It was nice to see a future glimpse into their lives. I’m happy to have read more of their story. 3.5 stars!✨ I need to digest the book further…not sure if I’ll be rounding up or down!

** spoiler alert ** *personal opinion * I wasn’t able to put the first two books down in this series, but this one … took on a completely different approach that I couldn’t get behind. I understand why it was all tied back to Millie’s past and how she went to jail for saving her friend from rape… but this book just seemed like it was written hastily. I felt a bit disturbed with the child abuse and mostly because I wasn’t expecting it. I normally have my jaw dropped by the end of her books, and maybe I’ve read too many that now I know what to expect, but the ending didn’t surprise me in the least.

This was a solid enough ending to the trilogy! I really liked the time jump between book 2 and 3, and the new setting. Cecelia's return was great, and all of the new characters added a little something of their own to spice up the final book. Overall, this series was entertaining, quick and addicting! I can now understand the hype around it and have recommended it to a couple friends/family. I would highly recommend picking this series up if you're a fan of thrillers, or if you enjoyed The Woman in the Window by A.J. Finn! Read my reviews for Freida McFadden's books here: The Housemaid - 4 stars The Housemaid's Secret - 3 stars The Housemaid is Watching - 3 stars The Widow's Husband's Secret Lie - 3 stars

Look this book is as pretty good, standard Women’s Murder Club plot. I love the characters that have been developed and their significant others. This one was much like the others and I’ve always liked them. But one thing annoyed me to no end in this story (I won’t give away the plot or spoilers). But the author makes a fatal error in writing this book and it dang near ruins it. How in THE HELL does the defendant take the stand, tell his side, and Yuki then reply “no questions” … ARE YOU FREAKIN KIDDING ME?!?! This made me want to stop reading right there. The defendant had been accused of past violence, the defendant had holes in his timeline, the defendant had a mistress, the defendant had his fingerprints on the murder weapon….. there is just no way the prosecutor wouldn’t have cross-examined the defendant.

I have been for years a fan of James Patterson's books ever since I discovered the 2nd book in the Women's Murder Club at a book sale. Some of his books are misses and others are hits. A couple of his series that I have stayed faithful to are the Alex Cross Series and the Women's Murder Club series. However, this one had me questioning whether like the Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich which is up to Book #27 whether this series is on its last legs. I just felt that this particular one wasn't as good as the others as it felt so open-ended and just a whole bunch of theories being chucked out as though we had several murders, everything about it and the evidence was all circumstantial and nothing could stick and then when it did, they chucked a whole new angle on the story which ruined their chances. I did however have a little chuckle in this book as there was a comment about Lindsay and Claire being likened to Rizzoli and Isles. It made me laugh as the actress who played Rizzoli in the TV series was also the same actress Angie Harmon who played Lindsay Boxer in the TV adaption of Women's Murder Club. This book starts with a missing person's case of a daughter and her baby, no one seems to believe the mother of the daughter except for Lindsay and Cindy. As the hunt continues, we have bodies washing up, being found in the local park and high school grounds. Are they all connected? Find out in 21st Birthday by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro today.

⭐️ 3 ⭐️ Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for the eARC in exchange for an honest, unbiased review. I enjoyed the fast pace of this book. I liked the characters, the narrative and the twists and turns of the plot. Unfortunately, the HUGE thing that spoiled it for me was the ending. I felt it was rushed and abrupt. A lot of questions remained unanswered and it just fell flat. ⭐️⭐️⭐️

This series started great, but I think it's a bit strained at this point. I still enjoy the characters, and they seem to have mercifully steered clear of the over-stuffed plots of some of Patterson's other work (I swear the last Alex Cross I read had something like 3 big villains and a few major subplots), but parts of it are just not working as well as they used to. Cindy, the reporter, gets a major book deal out of a story she wrote about this big serial killer case. When was that? Oh, yeah, now that we've started the book that way, let's go back and tell the story. A crazed woman storms Cindy's office at the Chronicle, insisting that her son in law killed her daughter and granddaughter. Cindy listens to her, sorts out some of the ranting, and puts her in touch with Lindsay, the cop, who tends to be the main character of the series. Naturally, there's something to the woman that no one else believed. The case takes a lot of weird twists and turns, and one of the ongoing issues with the series crops up again. Yuki is supposed to be this amazing prosecutor, but she tends to lose and, when she doesn't, there's something else wrong with the case. With her record, I'm not sure why her boss keeps giving her high profile cases. We also get the cliche of boss is very by the book and Lindsay goes semi-rogue to work the case, which should have had a lot more consequences than it did. And of course, her husband Joe just happens to know someone from his earlier career that can help with the case. Again. Some series manage to stay strong, or grow, as they go (Spenser, Dresden Files, In Death). This one doesn't seem to quite maintain that. The book is worth the read, but it could have been better.

I do miss and love this series. I am at a point where the loans from the library trickle in at a slow pace. That being said, I liked but didn't love this one. It felt like an intriguing crime to solve, but didn't feel the tension and impact that other books in the series have hit me with. Solid read for me.

I love me a good crime thriller. The bloodier, the better. 21st Birthday held promise. A missing twenty-year-old stay-at-home mom and wife has gone missing with her 16month old daughter. Husband, two decades order, not seemingly worried because "wayward wife." On further reading of the Women's Murder Series, I found out that this book was their 21st in a long series; therefore, the title had nothing to do with the story. That wasn't very pleasant... I loved the 4-women gang. Worked very well together and complemented each others' strengths and weaknesses. Also, they are a very tightly women group and feed off each other with supportive husbands/boyfriends/partners. The narrative started strong and had interesting and attention-grabbing vignettes, but it was not balanced. While some were detailed, others were hurriedly put together. I loved the idea of two killers, but both authors failed to bring this thread to a satisfactory conclusion. The storyline was great with markings of a fantastic "Whodunnit."

21st Birthday is fairly standard Murder Club fare...with a case that the club are desperate to solve. We have a missing young mother and child, with an ex-husband suspected of the murder. Nobody is quite sure what has happened but we quickly work out that someone is determined to hide what they've done. Our main suspect is teacher Lucas Burke, and his student girlfriend is definitely part of a potential reason. However, when Lucas is eventually brought in and charged he is adamant that his father killed his daughter and wife...and that this is the start of his killings. Throughout we get details about the killings and the reaction of the women to what has happened. If I'm being honest, there was nothing particularly new here. I felt like I wanted to know what had happened, but the reality was always somewhat elusive...and not for any reason other than to feel things were being spun out a little longer.

3.5 stars, I’ll give it to the book…it pulled me in and it was an easy enough read!! I LOVED the female leads and the idea of the women’s murder club, so so so fun! This was the first of the series I have read and while it kept me on my toes and kept me trying to figure out whodunnit throughout, to be honest the ending just fell flat. It was wrapped up far too quickly and left me with too many questions which is a real bummer, all in all I liked the book but can’t say I recommend due to the abrupt and unsatisfactory end.

Dragged on It could have been told in fewer pages. Definitely not my favorite Women's Murder Club story. Recently read a book about a serial killer by an unknown author which was way better, Murder on Moonstone.

3.5 stars. I really enjoy this series. I like the now-familiar characters in these stories. This storyline was good and kept me guessing. I just thought the ending was too abrupt and had too many loose ends. Won’t keep me from reading #22!

Overall, the story was interesting but, the writing seemed sloppy for a mystery novel, much less a novel from James Patterson. Not sure why Paetro moves the story backward in time and then forward in time, the prologue seems like a waste. Did Boxer really kick in a door with high heels on or did she do it barefoot? The author went to great lengths to describe the dress Boxer was wearing at the casino, did we really need to be told she wasn't wearing a vest? The police uncovered two different buried bodies, not part of the Burke case. Why offer up more dead bodies without some kind of a resolution to their specific cases? Could a San Francisco police officer drive out to the middle of nowhere in northern California and find a fugitive the FBI can't locate? The ending didn't really seem like an ending, was really looking forward to a complete story.

** spoiler alert ** This is the best WMC novel in quite some time but it also pi**ed me off. I want to know who actually killed the Tara and baby girl also, what pi**ed me off the most was how they were able to convict Lucas with no concrete evidence and he ends up taking his own life. This was headed towards being a 4 star book for me but it just made me too mad on the opened plot holes

3⭐️ Definitely had its moments but it wasn’t my favorite. ***This review contains SPOILERS so if you have not read HOFAS or the previous books in the series, STOP SCROLLING *** PS: If you want to read the bonus chapters, I have them ALL on my story highlights on Instagram @thebiglittlelibrary 🫶 My favorites are Target's & BAM's! . . . Here's a fun, little summary of what happens: ✨ ACOTAR crossover ✨ Bryce eats a magic bean ✨ Middengard Worm cameo ✨ History lesson with a ghost ✨ Nesta slayyyyyys ✨ Tharion is an idiot ✨ Baxian gets hungry in the dungeons ✨ Ithan packs one hell of a punch ✨ Lidia Cervos serves cunt ✨ Boring Quinlar reunion ✨ "We All Live In A Yellow Submarine" 🎶 ✨ Lidia's is legit Mother ✨ Lots of sad boi energy ✨ Hunt has a wardrobe malfunction 🍆 ✨ Asteri just being their usual asshole selves ✨ Hypaxia is . . . there ✨ “Don’t Fear The Reaper” 🎶 ✨ A random arranged marriage ✨ Hel is DTF with an alliance ✨ Hunt learns he was a test tube baby ✨ Parricide 👏 ✨ Avallen gets a makeover ✨ Bryce becomes death ✨ Ithan nuts up ✨ Hypaxia cures COVID ✨ Epic final battle ✨ Hel + sprites to the rescue ✨ Aelin Lidia serves even more cunt ✨ Pollux gets fucked ✨ "Super Massive Black Hole" 🎶 ✨ Bryce takes a trip to space ✨ Hunt becomes Iron Man ✨ Jesiba pulls a Ben Solo ✨ Happily Ever After ✨ My Little Pony reboot ✨ House of Many Waters COMING SOON featuring Tharion (and Ithan) My Thoughts: Was it a bad story? No. But was it the best? No. There were things I liked and didn't like. I'll be going over all of it. So buckle the fuck up because this is going to be one hell of a review. First, I want to address the ACOTAR crossover. Honestly, I'm indifferent about it all. I was surprised we mostly see Bryce interacting with just Nesta and Azriel, but I wasn't mad about it. I actually liked Bryce and Nesta's interactions and could DEFINITELY see them as friends under different circumstances. But honestly, Nesta was the best part of this entire crossover. Even after ACOSF I wasn’t a huge Nesta fan but after this, I really like her. I enjoyed seeing her from a total stranger's perspective! The entire point of the crossover was learning about Theia and her connection to the ACOTAR world - and it did its job there. HOWEVER, knowing that Hel knew the same history and could have easily shared this with Bryce is where my problem with the crossover comes in. If Hel had stepped in to give Bryce all the information (which Aidas says he didn't do because 'Bryce wasn't ready'), there would be no need for a crossover. I mean, I guess at some point she’d have to visit the Fae world to absorb Silene’s Starborn power, but I believe it could have been done without even seeing any of the ACOTAR characters. Which pretty much makes me believe SJM did this as a fan service and/or as a way to get fans who haven't read CC, to read it. It was a genius marketing strategy, but I don't think it did much for the story. And unfortunately, I’m hearing from quite a few people that the crossover disappointed them. So, in the end, it may have backfired on SJM. But if you enjoyed the crossover, I'd like to know and hear your thoughts on why. 😊 What I liked: The overall plot. Listen, I gotta give it to SJM, she sure knows how to weave a story together. It's wild to me that even the smallest of details tend to have some significance later on in the story - things you may not have even realized are of any importance at all. I enjoyed the journey we've been on since book one, and I thought how everything came together by the end was phenomenal. The insanity and possibilities of the Maasverse. I am still reeling from all the connections Midgard has to the worlds of ACOTAR and TOG. We mostly focus on the connections to the ACOTAR realm (the Fae home world) but we get some bits and pieces of the ties to the TOG realm thanks to the stories from Aidas and Jesiba. I am honestly in awe of how Sarah J. Maas is able to keep all this information straight and continue to build upon it. This is what I really admire and respect about the Crescent City series. From a fantasy standpoint, I think it was incredibly well done. This is a complex world with a complex history and magic system that can definitely be understood by a first time reader, but is probably appreciated more by those who've read her other series. I'm excited to see what Sarah does next in terms of connecting these worlds in the future. History lessons with Theia's daughter, Silene. This was so freaking cool. I absolutely LOVED learning more about our beloved ACOTAR world as well as the beginnings of Midgard and the role the Asteri played in all of it. It was a lot darker than I expected, which made it that much more interesting. The only thing I predicted beforehand was that the Prison was the Dusk Court, but besides that everything else was new information and super fun to learn about! Lidia mother-fucking Cervos. She is a baddie. Period. End of story. The things she's done. . . the things she's put herself through for years all for the sake of her sons. . . I'm in awe. Lidia is the definition of strength. Her backstory was so heartbreaking. I legitimately cried. The way she sacrifices her entire being (mind, body, and soul) really reminded me of the way Rhys sacrificed himself while under the mountain. Both these characters put on a mask and became monsters in order to protect the ones they love. Even how they act after they are free and deal with the trauma is very similar. There's a lot of parallels between the two, which is why I probably love them both so much. Honestly, Lidia is my favorite character of the entire series and I wish we'd gotten more time with her. Also, the fact she’s a descendent of King Brannon from the TOG world and therefore related to Aelin and Dorian in some way was not a surprise but super cool nevertheless. Lidia and Ruhn's romance. These two have my whole heart. 🫶 I absolutely ADORE them! They're probably my second favorite mated couple besides Feysand. They went through absolute hell in this book. Ruhn getting tortured and Lidia having to participate was so hard to stomach. Lidia saving Ruhn's life and nearly dying only for him to say “You’re dead to me,” made me want to scream. And finding out Lidia has children and her real motives for being the Hind absolutely broke my heart. 😭 They endure so much in such a short amount of time, and even though there was so much broken trust between them, they're able to accept the past and be there for one another. Lidia and Ruhn deserved their HEA. And if you haven't yet, RUN to the link in my bio at @thebiglittlelibrary and read their bonus chapter because it is so perfect! Ithan's character arc and story development. Did his rise to power feel a bit random and rushed? Yes. But I didn't expect it, so I liked that his story wasn't predictable - especially when he kills Sigrid by punching her through the throat. I GASPED so hard. lol Ithan was actually someone who really annoyed me in book two - he was immature and seemed lost - but his guilt for killing Sigrid takes him on a journey that ends with him coming into his own and finding his purpose as Prime. He grew up a lot and I honestly wouldn't be mad about seeing more of his story in future CC books. I'm also excited by the fact he has the elemental power of snow! Just another connection to the TOG world. What I didn't like: The multiple, mid-chapter POV changes DROVE ME NUTS. This was probably my biggest issue. Most of the chapters had three different POVs. And at the beginning of the book, there were four main plots happening at the same time: Bryce in the Fae home world; Hunt, Ruhn, and Baxian being tortured, Tharion with the Viper Queen, and Ithan and the other random side characters trying to figure out wtf to do. So each chapter, we'd follow one character and just as things were starting to ramp up, we'd shift to another character in a completely different situation. Because of these constantly changing POV, the story didn't flow well and I wasn't able to truly immerse myself. I felt removed while reading. Maybe if each chapter had only focused on one, maybe two (max) POVs, the story might not have felt so disjointed. The predictable ending. While I enjoyed the Asteri plot, I thought the ending was predictable and incredibly low stakes (since you know no one important is going to actually die and stay dead). This could be because I've read SJM's other series and have noticed some patterns and similarities to how she writes her endings. The allying with the 'dark' forces of Hel, the sprites showing up last minute, the Lidia and Pollux confrontation, and Bryce dying and coming back to life, felt similar to the end of ACOWAR. And while the ending had a different plot, the familiarity of it all didn't allow for me to feel any surprise. It definitely wasn't a bad ending . . . I just didn't really pull me in. The story is plot heavy with not enough character / relationship growth. There was too much going on plot-wise with too many different storylines and too many POVs. While everything neatly came together in the end, the journey to get there was messy and overly complex. I think SJM could have found a way to simplify the plot and cut some POVs to make this easier to digest. But at the same time, because there was so much focus on the plot, a few of the characters and relationships didn't get the attention they deserved. Specifically, Hunt and Ruhn dealing with the trauma from their torture, Lidia dealing with her trauma, Ruhn and Lidia's relationship (see below), Ithan's and his character arc, and Tharion as a whole because what growth has he even gone through throughout this entire series? Not only did Ruhn and Lidia not get enough screen time to truly work through their trauma, trust issues, and anger, but THEY WERE ROBBED of a beautiful romance journey. (Sort of how we were robbed of more Elorcan in TOG.) I totally get the need for more plot in this book because it's the ending to the series and things need to wrap up. However, we barely scratched the surface of Ruhn and Lidia's romance in HOSAB. And then in this book, things are bad for a while before they come together without spending adequate time resolving any issues, healing from their traumas, and growing as a couple. I understand that it wasn't possible to do this in an already 838 page book, but I truly believe other things should have been cut to make their story more impactful. Or, I think they shouldn't have been a couple at the end so we'd get a book that focuses on Ruhn and Lidia. Regardless, I think not diving deep into their story was a missed opportunity. Hunt and Bryce's 'reunion'. This was one of the most anticlimactic scenes in the entire book. I was expecting Hunt and Bryce to immediately jump into each other's arms . . . to sob . . . to kiss . . . and say some incredibly romantic and sappy shit to one another. BUT NONE OF THAT HAPPENS. After everything they went through to find each other again, this was not the reunion I was hoping for. Hunt and Bryce as a couple Listen, I don't want to get into it but I don't think they have chemistry. Compared to SJM's other couples, they're definitely one of the weaker pairings. I get that in the story, they supposedly have this insane connection that spans across time and space, but I just never felt it. Side note: I LEGIT forgot they were married. 😂 If you like Bryce and Hunt (and the rest of the Crescent City characters), I believe you'll really enjoy this story. But if you've struggled to like or even connect with most of them, this story will probably disappoint you. Unfortunately, I fall in the latter group. As a whole, I think the CC characters are a bunch of immature idiots who act more like the stereotypical frat guys and sorority girls than people capable of saving the world. I mean, the majority of the characters are in their 20s but even the ones who are older still act childish at times. Bryce. I'm sorry, but she's my least favorite SJM FMC. She's a selfish, immature, pick-me girl. If I had to read another sentence about how hot she was according to EVERY SINGLE GUY besides her brother, and listen to more of her shitty jokes (which EVERY SINGLE GUY thinks is so fucking funny), I was going to scream. And I get Bryce is a sarcastic bitch to everyone, but there's a time and a place for everything, and being obnoxious doesn't ever actually get anyone anywhere. Bryce also isn't a character that earned my respect as The Chosen One. Let's look at the origins of SJM's other main FMCs. Feyra was a hunter and Aelin was an assassin, while Bryce was . . . a party girl? The other FMCs proved themselves to be worthy of being the Chosen One but Bryce had zero skills to qualify her as a fighter or good leader yet somehow she was able to amass a group of people to follow her. Also, she never learned new skills. She solely relied on her inherited powers and the skills of others. Nepotism at its finest. Bryce was incredibly selfish when she unleashed an Asteri onto the Fae home world without a second thought for the millions of lives there . . . all because she wants answers, which she doesn’t really even get! Thank the Cauldron Nesta was there to save the day! And then, when Bryce tells Hunt, her supposed soulmate, to sack up and get over his trauma. Girl, WHAT?! Lastly, Bryce hating ALL fae because she’s had some bad experiences with a few seems incredibly close minded and just plain stupid. What about the fae in her life like Ruhn, Declan, Flynn and countless others who are kind and fight for what’s right? Apparently they don’t count. But how dumb is she to write off an entire race/species based on the actions of a few? Tharion. I didn't care for him in book one. I disliked him in book two. And I absolutely hate him in book three. I mean, does ANYONE like Tharion? Please, if you do, let me know in the comments and tell me why because I must be missing something. From what we've seen, he is a selfish, immature, fuck boi that doesn't go through any character growth throughout this ENTIRE series. I was extremely annoyed that his POV took up a huge chunk of this book when it added little to this story. But it looks like SJM was mainly setting things up for him (and Ithan) to be the MCs in her next CC book. 🙄 I know I'll read it because it's SJM, but I won't be happy about it. He better undergo a serious transformation, like Nesta in ACOSF, or else that'll be the end of my CC journey. So many side characters that don't matter. Declan and Flynn. Okay, Declan's THE tech guy who only has use whenever SJM needed someone to hack something. How convenient. 🙄 But Flynn . . . I CANNOT for the life of me remember anything useful he did. Baxian. He's Danika's mate. Cool. And? I guess he's a hunk of meat that Bryce can call on during a fight. But as a character, he's not THAT special. Sigrid. She had so much potential but only propelled Ithan's character arc forward. Super pointless but probably setting up for the next book. Sathia. The most random of all characters. She pops up out of nowhere (I genuinely forgot Flynn had a sister) and married Tharion? This has to be a setup for the next book, but it just added another unnecessary piece to an already overly complicated story. Fury and Juniper. Bryce's ONLY female friends and I forgot about them lol. The fact Fury doesn't play an active role in this series is another missed opportunity. What's the point in Bryce having a badass friend if she doesn't even help??? I truly believe Sarah could and should have cut out a few of these people to simplify the story. Aidas' reason for not just telling Bryce the entire truth about everything was flimsy. Apparently, it's because "Bryce wasn't ready". He couldn't risk her telling the wrong person and the Asteri finding out. So instead, he'd rather have Bryce go on an insane goose chase and risk her life doing a bunch of other dangerous shit because he didn't think he could tell her the truth and convince her to keep her mouth shut. This entire situation just brought up my PTSD from when Danika withheld the truth from Bryce. Riddle me this, how is it that someone who no one seems to trust ends up with the most power and becomes the savior of Midgard?? I also found it strange that Hel, a realm that has been trying to eradicate the Asteri for 15,000 years from Midgard and is currently helping other realms fight these beings, are fine sitting back, letting millions, if not, billions die throughout the years. From what I remember, after the initial rebellion with Theia, they tried helping once by creating the Thunderbirds. But that was eons ago and I don't believe they really tried since. It's like they were fine waiting till one of Theia's heirs was ready to take on the mantle and become the catalyst for a successful rebellion. But again, once they found Bryce, they didn't do shit to help her understand her powers or the history of Midgard and the Asteri. Ugh. Why??? There just isn't a good enough reason. So overall, I think Hel not stepping in more didn't make sense for a realm that is 'eager' to help the universe, but also Aidas not revealing the whole truth earlier was such a cop-out and made Hel's entire involvement useless until it was convenient for the story. Overall, House of Flame and Shadow was an okay conclusion to the Crescent City series. I enjoyed how everything came full circle and how SJM scratches the surface of the multiverse. Sarah J. Maas is still one of my favorite authors, and even though this may not have been my favorite book, I respect the hell out of her and admire her. She's created some of the most magical worlds and stories that have changed a generation of readers, so she'll always hold a special place in my heart. I am excited for the next ACOTAR book, but I do hope she does what she does best and gives us a story with the perfect combination of a compelling plot, character growth, and romance. And for the love of god please don’t let it have more than 2 POVs. Favorite Quotes: “You’re as much of a monster as they are.” “Love will do that to you.” _______ For Bryce, home was - and always would be - Hunt. _______ “You’re a prince, start acting like one.” _______ “I don’t fucking care who you are, so long as you’re mine. Because I’m yours.” _______ This wasn’t about sex. And as their breathing evened out, as they stared at each other in the near-dark, he’d never felt more seen. _______ “Choose life. Choose each other. I have lived with the alternative for millennia - the loss never gets easier to bear.” _______ “I see you, Ruhn. I see all of you.” _______ Ruhn looked back to Lidia and saw her smiling, delight and mischief brightening her face. And damn if it wasn’t the most beautiful thing he’d ever seen. _______ "You’re my best friend you know that? I mean, you’re my mate and wife but you’re my best friend, too. I’d never thought I’d have one of those.” _______ Home - he was home. Home wasn’t a place or a thing, but him. Wherever Hunt was . . . That was where home was. She’d find him across galaxies, if need be. _______ The friends they’d made were what mattered in the end. Not the enemies. Through love, all is possible. _______ “I love you. I fell in love with you in the depths of my soul, and it’s my soul that will find yours again in the next life.” _______ "What is made from love can never be destroyed.” _______ “The world was out there. Life was out there. So Bryce and Hunt ran out to live it. Together.” _______

3/5 I'm too lazy to write a proper review, but this is probably one of my least favorite SJM books. The fact that I was more invested in Ruhn and Lidia, than in Bryce and Hunt says a lot.

Super Magical Starborn waste of my goddamn time.

1.) House of Earth and Blood ★★★ 2.) House of Sky and Breath ★★★ ♡ all 5 HOFAS bonus chapters: tumblr + reddit this was a reading experience, friends! after my content and trigger warnings, i will do a spoiler section of my thoughts because at this point in the sjm universe / maasverse, and this being the third book in the crescent city series, it is difficult to talk about anything without it being a potential spoiler! i had a good time reading this. I really loved lidia and ruhn’s storylines and they really made the entire book for me. I am also still so very in love with hypaxia, and the things i would do to get her pov. speaking of, I felt a little bored at some povs in hofas - mostly ithian and tharion (i am so sorry to these men, i love them and feel so much empathy for them, but it is true). and bryce’s pov made me feel a range of emotions, that’s for sure, but most of the time it wasn’t the best emotions. ultimately, i think there were too many povs in this book and sometimes the switching between them felt very jarring and unbalanced. i also feel like there was just so much going on, which valid, but instead of it being information that we started to learn in the first two books, it felt like sjm was kind of just throwing out every plot she could think up. and i think this all made the pacing of this book a bit weird feeling. but i did love that baldur’s gate unexpected cursed dot storyline a lot. like all sjm books, this could have been edited down a little bit (or a lot a bit). But i think what all sjm’s books do exceptionally well is discussion of trauma and grief and learning to live coinciding with those two very heavy things and also trying to heal from them, and how those healing paths can look very different for everyone. I feel like we can really see that in her crescent city series and it is always something that i will appreciate her putting out into the world. overall, i had a lot of fun reading this and making connections between all the things. if you follow my reviews, you will know how much i love theorycrafting and connecting different universes together, and this book truly took this experience to a different level. each easter egg truly felt like a long awaited gift i was finally able to open. and once i finished this last page, well… and all the bonus chapters, the anticipation i felt for whatever sjm does next was very surprising and a little unmatched. plus reading a new sjm book when it drops, with what feels like half of the online book community, feels special each and every new release. trigger + content warnings: death, grief, blood, captivity, slavery, extreme torture, a lot of violence, gun violence, maybe cannibalism / maybe just a lot of gore, battle, war, loss of a loved one in past (and a lot of talk about it), loss of sibling in past, defecation and urine mentions, self harm to get blood, sexual abuse, threat of rape, talk of forced breeding, talk of medical experimentation, talk of domestic abuse, talk of parental abuse, colonization, needles, bombings, a lot of talk and mentions of hurt children, vomit, a lot of talk of parasites, drugging / poisoning, self sacrifice / a lot of attempts at self sacrificing this next section of this review will be filled with spoilers! please use caution! and please make sure you’ve read the entire throne of glass series and the entire a court of thorns and roses series! us finally getting the throne of glass crossover moment we have all been waiting for? I was truly screaming. lidia cervos, the woman you are. the stag throne, the hidden flame powers, the ruby ring, the blatant descendant name drop of whitethorn galathynius. i am still losing my mind while i type this. obviously bryce and ruhn being somehow related to rhysand is pretty cool. and i truly believe Ithan is a descendant of dorian because of the ice powers (and by the end of tog dorian was a shifter). but lidia being related to aelin? i am just speechless. lidia was the best character in this book for me, too. And she had the most heartfelt and empowering story going on throughout as well. and the naming of her one son brannon? truly, her and ruhn really were the stars of this third book and their povs were hands down my favorite. (that target bonus chapter? so good) okay more throne of glass crossover screaming - the under king! full credit to emmahalbrook on tiktok! but my jaw is still on the floor. i am just so excited to read reviews and find more crossovers that i missed, and to see all the crossover content that is still to come! my mind is still trying to process everything with theia and aidas (and helena and silene). i know rhysand is a descendant of theia and amren told him she was a prisoner of theia. But this book kind of makes it appear like amren was a captured “pet monster” of silene. i need to do more research but amren connecting all the gods and theia is really cool and something i think the fandom has been wanting more confirmation of for a really long time. okay back to crescent city, hypaxia was amazing, as always! i just love my sapphic necromancer queen. i know i made the baldur's gate joke above, but wizards of the coast are quaking at her finding the antidote to defeat the parasites and still finding ways to make it more easily accessible and forever lasting. she is actually the real mvp of this book. ruhn, hunt, and baxian going through some dark stuff and making jokes to keep light getting out of that dungeon. I actually really loved seeing their friendship in this book, even if… again, some dark stuff. i don’t want to talk about this, but ultimately i know i need to because i feel like this is the reason i am giving this book three stars, so let’s talk about it - bryce wasn’t my favorite in this book, sadly. her leaving cooper was just so cruel to me. i know many other reviewers are saying this, but bryce did so many things that made readers question that maybe she is turning into the villain (which might have been a little cool actually). but her leaving him behind was just wild to me. ember and randall showing they are upset because of this and voicing that bryce was wrong for leaving him still (or maybe even enhanced) made me so upset at her. But there were so many other instances too, like when she called lidia’s kids baggage? like when she told hunt to get over himself when the man was really going through it in those dungeons? what was all that? she felt so reckless and so careless and even heartless. ahhh i dont know, i just feel like bryce is easily my least favorite of sjm’s main characters, and i just liked her less and less each book, which feels so bad to say, but it really is how i feel. this is so random, but i also need to admit that i truly didn’t think cormac was dead dead, so i was so surprised when this book wrapped up and i guess that man really is! man oh man, i was truly waiting for that reveal and it just never came! okay, the ending! i loved seeing those three fire sprites truly saving the day. and them working at griffin antiquities at the end? oh, i really loved to see it. i shed many tears at jesiba actually saving the day, and i shed even more at bryce seeing danika and connor and everyone she loves waiting for her. and i did actually like the blackhole portal teleporting as well. the last 100 pages of this book were very strong and very heartfelt. and the very end? the way i truly wept at bryce's mom hugging and saying kind words to nesta. I actually felt insane with swollen eyes because of it. (the bam bonus chapter was probably my favorite of all the bonus chapters though. also, i just really want to live in the house of wind!) But yeah, i felt like this was a very strong ending to this book, and a very strong set up for whatever sjm does next! (probably with acotar now that nesta has the sword, dagger, mask, and a harp to potentially find bryce or whoever else whewwwww) lastly, because i cannot write a spoiler section review and not bring this up: when azriel said nyx is waiting too. oh, it got a tear from me. and bryce telling nesta and azriel how a phone works got a giggle from me. i truly cannot wait for whatever sjm gives us next. the acotar reread really came in clutch, especially acosf! But this whole reading experience just made me really want to reread tog asap! especially because (i can’t believe i am typing this) i think nesta is really making it hard for me to say that manon is my favorite sjm character! blog | instagram | youtube | kofi | spotify | amazon 1.) Throne of Glass ★★ 1.) A Court of Thorns and Roses ★★★★ 2.) A Court of Mist and Fury ★★★ 3.) A Court of Wings and Ruin ★★★ 3.1) A Court of Frost and Starlight ★★★ 4) A Court of Silver Flames ★★★★

I have a love hate relationship with this book. There were so many things I liked about it, yet a lot of stuff bothered me too that left me feeling perplexed. Despite my mixed feelings, I was completely engrossed the whole time and enjoyed it. It genuinely makes it hard to rate the book 🫠 I’m leaning towards 3.5 stars. It's not to say it was a bad book; it’s just not what I thought it’d be, and it gave a completely different vibe to CC1&2. Spoilers ahead!! - - - - - The book is extremely plot driven, and I loved learning about the universe’s lore! I don’t think I’ll ever wrap my head around everything revealed. How Sarah can think up these ideas and craft such intricate worlds, I have no idea!🤯 Part 1 was intense! The crossover was amazing. I appreciated how the book remained a Crescent City book and wasn’t wholly overpowered by the crossover. However, I didn’t like that too much was revealed all at once, too quickly, and mainly through direct dialogue. It would have been better if Bryce had discovered things on her own instead of being told straight up. It was almost a little too convenient. It set the tone for the rest of the discoveries as well. Nothing was played out entirely to its full potential. The lore was amazing, there’s no denying that, but the execution of it could have been better. It felt flat and almost like a tick box exercise, unlike Sarah’s usual style. With the number of things that were revealed, it might have been better to split this into two books as it sometimes felt rushed. I can’t get over the fact that this entire book's timeline was ONE WEEK! If it could have been spread further, it would have worked so much better, and that way, it would have addressed the lack of depth. My main dislike of the book was the complete lack of emotional connection. All the characters lost the usual flair they had in CC1&2. It was as if they all lost their personalities. And maybe that’s with it being plot driven, but something just felt off with them all, and there was a sort of emptiness to them. It’s the complete opposite of CC1&2. Those books had me sobbing, but with this one, I didn’t find it anywhere near as emotional as I thought it would be or what it attempted to be. My issues with this started to present during part 2, with the reunion of all the characters. It was so underwhelming. We know Sarah likes her POV switch ups, and I usually don’t mind it in any of her books, but something was off here. The switches were abrupt and often within the same chapter, so any emotional development happening instantly fell short, and I struggled to immerse myself. Not to be picky, but there were many grammatical errors, too. I found many missing quotation marks, which just ended up disrupting the flow even further, as I was like 'wait, when did the dialogue start?' On the other hand, I didn’t find myself getting bored in anyone’s storyline since it was extremely fast paced. It was hard to find a good point to put it down as the plot and the story just never stopped! Bryce frustrated me so much! She almost felt like a completely different character, and her character arc was extremely messy and frankly made no sense. She was acting as if she knew everything and was so unserious. Thankfully, part 3 is where she starts to return to her usual self, and by the end of the book, I was thinking 'there’s the Bryce I know and love'. But the arc she went on to get to that point was bizarre. Bryce and Hunt’s relationship is part of what made me love CC so much, but their relationship in this book was flat. It lacked the chemistry, banter, and warmth they usually had. Sarah, why on earth did you have them arguing after their reunion!?!?!? Why were they constantly at odds with each other? I thought they had resolved their trust issues in CC2, so I did not like the angst between them at all. I get that they’re portrayed as a real couple, but I’m sad at how it played out 😭 They just needed to talk to each other and explain their feelings, but it was instantly shut down whenever they tried. That was primarily due to Bryce - I don’t understand why she acted as she did towards Hunt; she constantly dismissed his feelings. And again, the abrupt POV changes did not help. I’m glad they returned to normal in part 3, and I’m happy I got the bonus chapters between them to end it on a good note. Ruhn and Lidia were certainly a highlight!! There were loads of reveals about Lidia, which were completely unexpected. It made me love her even more. I must admit their relationship development felt awkwardly paced to me, though, which is such a shame because their romance journey could have been so much more beautiful 😭 Surprisingly, I enjoyed Tharion’s and Ithan’s chapters. They added a nice reprieve from the intensity and added some value to the journey towards the end. Part 3 saved the book for me and was the only part where I felt somewhat emotional, even though the ending was pretty convenient. At no point did I even fear for any character, as it just didn’t feel high stakes enough. Shahar’s appearance was such a lovely surprise. I loved the reveal of Brann’s name. I didn’t connect the dots with that one, so I jumped out of my skin at that!! The sprites were some of my favourite side characters, and the mentions of Lele were a nice touch too 🥺 The Hel plot was handled well, and the reveal of Hunt’s father was a great twist. Overall, I’m feeling pretty bittersweet about it. Part 1 was good, I didn’t entirely like part 2, and part 3 saved it. It set up the next ACOTAR book well, and I can see how the next CC book will play out too. ——————————————— HAPPY HOFAS RELEASE DAY 🥳 ——————————————— apparently the book has been leaked and people are posting spoilers of the ending on twitter/tiktok etc😭 thankfully I haven’t seen anything but just had to give you guys a warning to be careful!!! ——————————————— OMG we have a cover!!! Jan 2024 can’t come quick enough 😫

3.75! “You’re my home, Hunt. Our love spans across stars and worlds, remember?” She smiled slightly. “I’ll always find you." MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD!! DONT READ IT IF YOU HAVE NOT READ HOFAS...IM KEEPING THE FIRST TWO PARAGRAPHS SPOILER FREE JUST IN CASE ANYONE ACCIDENTALLY SEES THEM. Sarah's writing style is one of my favorites. It's one of those where I can easily get lost although I loved it in this book I do admit that I found some problems pacing wise because the way those Pov's were switching was not really something I liked because like see in KOA we had the same pov switches but the stakes for every characters point of view were so high that It kept me invested and hooked but here I'd say some characters had a more gripping perspective others not so much so when it shifted I didn't enjoy that 😭 but besides some plot holes and inconsistencies it was enjoyable to some extent. “Honor is all I have,” Irithys said, the heat of her indigo flames strong enough to warm Lidia’s chilled hands. “Honor, and my name. I will not sully or yield them.” The plot build up and the worldbuilding was so immense. Sarah outdid herself with the build up here because it was so well written the stakes were so high everything was so intense the build up was absolutely amazing though I found the ending a too convenient and underwhelming everything else was done before the final battle since the past two book were done perfect as for the world building this series never fails to surprise me. “The world seemed to hold its breath as the elegant doe walked up to Ruhn and gently, lovingly, nuzzled his neck.” Bryce 😮‍💨 I like her but after HOSAB her decisions started to bother me so much like what were you doing woman? You were giving me a headache like I think a major reason why I did not enjoy these books as much as HOEAB was because of Bryce and her decisions. Definitely not my favorite sjm FMC but she's still a really good character, not a good MC tho. She just needed to figure out what other were feeling and i did not like how she ignored hunts feelings. Hunt 🥰🫶 I love everything that he did and I just wished Bryce would listen and understand what he was trying to say. Ruhn fucking Danaan can do no wrong. I loved every moment and felt his pain but I also wanted him to atleast listen what she had to say but then again I also get how his anger was clouding his judgement because it was a pretty big reveal but I loved how he handled everything and the character he became. LIDIA HAVING TWO KIDS WAS NOT ON MY BINGO CARD like what? How? When? I also found the back and forth between Ruhn and Lidias fight to be a bit too frustrating like him hating her and then her being angry with him both had good reasons but communicate for the love of god but thankfully they did and I kind of wanted more of them but I also understand why we couldn't get more of them. Tharion. Look I love him and I love his pov's plus his whole vibe but him making reckless decisions one after another 😭 but I also liked how fleshed out his character was like?? We get so much development on his side however his chapters at times didn't feel that good. Ithans storyline honestly couldn't give two flying fucks about Sigrid but ithans storyline itself was so lacking but the bromance was amazing and the pit scene/ fight scene had me gasping however I found it lackluster nonetheless and also i found the end of his story to be a tad bit rushed + his pov's like tharions were sometimes very boring but all in all, it was a very well concluded and so fitting for him!! Declan and Flynn i am so glad we got them in this story because the light and joy that they brought into this story easily balanced out the darkness and overall were a beautiful addition also they gave us this quote “We’re a pack,” Ithan said to Tharion, Flynn, and Dec. “It’s what we do for each other.” “But inside him, beyond that sea of pain and despair, Bryce was the entirety of his world. His mate. His wife. His princess.” The romance.. for this I will focus on just two romances that were the main focus number 1 being DAY and NIGHT y'all I love them so much. The tension that they radiate and I cannot stress enough on how much perfect they look together its like they are meant to be together. They obviously had some problems the way it HOSAB ended but I liked how they in the end figured everything out. Quinlar I wasn't exactly happy with how things went here. Bryce was the main problem here but I still like them despite everything that went down but I just don't love them as much as I loved them in HOEAB because if you read HOEAB Quinlar was at its peak. “Cassian’s waiting for you, Nesta,” Azriel said—tone gentling. “Take off the Mask.” Nesta stayed silent, Ataraxia ready in her hand. One swipe, and Azriel would be dead. “He’s waiting for you at the House of Wind,” Azriel went on. “At home.” Another blink from Nesta. The silver fire banked a little. Like whoever Cassian was, and whatever the House of Wind was … they might be the only things capable of fighting the siren song of the Mask.” LETS START WITH THE INNER FUCKING CIRCLE MAKING AN APPEARANCE not all though we didn't Mor or feyre and we only saw Rhys and Cass very briefly for like one bonus chapters which would be the Ember Randall bonus chapter which was also my favorite out of all of them. I kid you not when Nesta took out that mask I was like 😃 Nesta bestie put it back and when Bryce came up to take it. I was like the lion, the witch and the audacity of this bitch 😭 but DW I still like Bryce and I'm glad that we saw hunt using it to save her and not Bryce using it. Bryce planned everything perfectly. Okay so the crossover mostly focus on Nesta, Azriel and Bryce..I unlike some of you guys really enjoyed this crossover, it did mess up some things but overall it was very enjoyable mainly because we got to see so much of Azriel and to see him speak was something else entirely. I already love him so much and I didn't even know how much more I could've until this book came and my love for Az went sky high right up to the seventh sky. I loved every moment that we got of him but one thing that this crossover made me feel was an adverse feeling towards Bryce because okay I understand you came here and you obviously would have trust issues but these botches be trying to help you with your every move. They didn't kill you or torture you. They also fed you so for one fucking moment shut the fuck up and work with them. I found Bryce in here so fucking selfish because my god you almost destroyed prythian BY WAKING UP A FUCKING DALGAN ARE YOU OKAY? and then that bitch had the audacity to steal truthteller from the loml like back off 🥰 Also Rhysand>Nesta all day any day Now moving up to the bonus chapters: Since we are already talking about Azriel, Bryce and Nesta let's start with their pov. It took place at the same time as the crossover in the first 200 pages and the part where Bryce makes Az listen to a song and she hums and his shadows dance. THAT MOMENT WAS SO PRECIOUS TO ME LIKE SARAH YOU KNEW WHAT YOU WERE DOING!! and I'm 1000% sure that ACOTAR 5 will be about Az I also liked the tad bit emotions we got from Az regarding his mother plus Nesta's character was not insufferable and actually likeable in this one. Ember and Randall, I honestly was the least excited to read this one but then I went towards the end of the book and the gasp that I gasped and the scream that I scrumpt 😭😭 because no way Bryce did that my mom would've killed me. I was laughing through the entire chapter. We got to see RHYS and CASS and AZ I loved them so much the banter that they had with Randall was so fun like it took me one chapter to fall in love with them all and I love how Ember was fierce and how much Randall believed in Bryce. Also I want to see Rhys unleash his wrath on Nesta no because you all would saw it was her decision and she had the right but honestly if things went south and Midgard lost, prythian would be the world that would be in danger and the responsibility of Nesta's action would fall on Rhys's shoulders so yes she should've consulted him and yes he had every right to be angry go argue with a wall. Bryce and Danika their bonus chapter takes place before the events of house of earth and blood and we get to see the part where Danika tattoos the horn on Bryce's back and honestly it was a very wholesome scene. I really enjoyed it. Quinlar and day and night tbh I was most excited for these two and I enjoyed these two the least don't get me wrong I loved them but out of all the bonus chaps these were my least fav We also know that there will be a CC4 and its most likely going to be a spinoff like ACOSF and I am pretty sure the two main characters would be Ariadne and Tharion because they didn't get an end and the end itself the second last chapter was an implication on what lies ahead but tbh I think they will have different love interest because tharions is stuck in a marriage of convenience with Flynn's sister and Ariadne and Flynn have unresolved history! So I can't wait for their story. Overall it was a thrilling conclusion. Not Sarahs best but still one that I liked and would recommend!! My rating for the series: House of earth and blood: 5 stars House of sky and breath: 4.18 House of flame and shadow: 3.75 ༊*·˚Pre-review༊*·˚ Well well well look who's here. (AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHH) . I READ IT and it was amazing the prologue and the first chapter were so gripping and the scenes that we got AHHH i can not wait even for a day and a half BECAUSE OMGG i literally want it rn because we are getting all the characters! HELPP!!! . We asked for teasers but Sarah said no imma give you the whole ass chapter + the prologue 😭 I'll read it after my read of HOSAB tho . "The sword and the dagger weren't just tugging now. They were singing, and all she had to do was reach out to them." Shadowsinger 🤭 I'm dead, deceased, departed, gone, no more. 5 days 🤭 (single digit countdown 😌☝️) . I have a strong feeling that Aidas and Jesiba will have a strong role and I won't even complain because I love them sm!! "She'd always been enough, power or no power. Starborn crap or no. She was enough.." Yeah you tell them 😌 . "Bryce began running again, hurtling through the cave. Back towards Nesta and Azriel. And prayed there was something left for her to save." I. NEED. THIS. LIKE. I. NEED. AIR. . THIS WILL BE MY UNDOING ~~~ It's been what two years since I last read this series and I have to say except for the ending I forgot everything 😭 but I'm going to plan reread of it in the following months 🤭. There are so many teasers that sjm and acourtofmass have been sharing on Instagram and it is making me go absolutely wild! Obviously spoilers for HOEAB & HOSAB It is clear where Bryce is and whom Bryce is with. I honestly can't wait to see how their interactions would go because we got one scene and I went absolutely feral over it *threw my copy away* Also the fact that everyone including me gasped when Amren was shocked at what Bryce said 😭 like Amren you don't act shocked. Please don't scare us like that 🙏 Just a few things that I'm very excited for •Baby nyx scenes • Rhys mentioning Aelin when she fell through the realms • BRYCE MEETING THE INNER CIRCLE • More knowledge on HUNT AND HIS LINEAGE • LIDIA SCENES I read the prologuish teaser starting with Lidia and omg it had me in feels like GOOSEBUMPS. AND ISTG IF WE GET ANY SCENES WITH THE CHARACTERS FROM TOG I WILL DIEEE BECAUSE ITS BEEN YEARS SINCE IVE GOT MORE CONTENT ABOUT THEM!<\u>

I want a SJM book that isn't a 3 ★★★, I thought it was going to be this one, it wasn't.

I have such mixed feelings about this book. There are things that I liked and things that I really didn't. I definitely liked it better than CC2, but the series has just never gotten close to touching how much I loved CC1. Throwing 3.5 stars on this for now I think. Some vague, non-spoiler thoughts: - Bryce and Hunt continue to be the saving grace of this series, I genuinely think they're pretty good characters to carry the main plot. - The crossover - the thing I was most worried about in this book - panned out pretty well I think. I appreciate the balance here and don't think it overshadowed that this is ultimately a CC book, not an ACOTAR book. - Approaching this as a multi-POV book, I'd say I enjoyed 3 of the 5 plotlines in this and hated 2. - The first book was really well carried by its side characters and then in books 2 and now 3 the side characters actively drag down the narrative and feel like they're only there to pad pages and make these books 800 pages for no reason. Someone explain to me why Tharion and Ithan, two huge idiots who add nothing to the narrative, are worth a POV and not someone like Fury, an interesting character we've veiled in mystery who could be actually useful and yet have severely under-utilized since the first book. - Info dumps. Pages upon pages upon pages of infodumps. Entire chapters of "sit down and take notes while I verbally explain all of this to you and also try to justify why I didn't explain any of this to you two books ago even though I absolutely could have." - Still vacillating on how I feel about Lidia's storyline. - A number of side plots that were either dropped entirely or tied up far too quickly, to the point that it feels like the side plot should have just been edited out. - The culmination of at least one large overarching plotline we've had going since book one played out very well. - But ultimately the ending is SILLY (truly there is no other word for it) and of course incredibly predictable in classic SJM fashion. I don't know why I ever expect anything different from her, she does the same thing in the same order every single time. I devoured this book in two days - largely to avoid spoilers - and while it kept me mostly pretty engaged for all of that because I was invested in where things were going, there were definitely severe lulls and entire POV characters that I dreaded seeing on page (Ithan and Tharion). As I said above, mixed feelings.

im so sorry but yall need to lower ur expectations for this one 🙈🙊

RATING BREAKDOWN Characters: 4⭐️ Setting: 4⭐️ Plot: 3⭐️ Themes: 2⭐️ Emotional Impact: 2⭐️ Personal Enjoyment: 3⭐️ Total Rounded Average: 3 ⭐️ The book picks up where the cliffhanger left us in HoSaB, and Part 1 did not disappoint in that regard. I wanted a crossover to pay off! I needed the clues and easter eggs to be addressed and to lead somewhere. Bryce's point of view DELIVERED in that regard, and that was so satisfying! The other points of view felt a little more drawn out and superfluous to me in Part 1. It felt like they had to somehow match Bryce's pacing, so characters could align for Part 2, and because of that, I wasn't as invested and got frustrated with what felt like filler. I am so invested in Ithan and Lidia from the previous books, but the pacing in Part 1 disconnected me from them. The mini climax between Parts 1 and 2 was top-tier SJM writing! As Bryce is getting reveals upon reveals, Ithan is fighting for his life, and Lidia heads up an epic car chase escape. It was fabulous! Absolutely LOVED it. The rest of Part 2 got rough and slow again, but also gave me some ick and cringe, which is so rare for me with SJM. I just got a vibe from so many of the characters (specifically characters in power) that everyone was going through pubescent angst for no reason. It felt like every confrontation led to some leader being bratty and abusive with no substantial motive. It got trite and annoying. And then the main characters would either react by feeling debilitatingly guilty, or sassy AF. At one point, I was truly wondering where all the grown-ups were. Why was everyone reduced to their most juvenile tendencies? To be fair, Bryce has always been a challenging FMC for me in this regard. She's hella capable and powerful, but she doesn't feel mature to me personally. Part 3 got mostly back on track, and we got more crossover delivery which was, again, so satisfying. We also got connective romantic moments that are classic to SJM books. The finale was creative, satisfying, well-paced, emotionally stirring, and pretty perfect. All in all, she stuck the landing. There's dead weight in here though, and that affects my rating. To get specific, I think Ithan's arc with the Fendyr heir could have been cut, and the HoSaB reveal felt a little cheap because of it. I also think Ariadne and Tharion could have been given those pages. Their stories and arcs feel incomplete to me somehow. Despite this, I have good feelings about this trilogy. I look at it as a novella for ACOTAR, and a fascinating and lovable one at that...I just wish it was as punchy as a novella, with some of the excess fat trimmed.

** spoiler alert ** Small edit: After sitting on it for a couple days I'm giving this 3 stars lol I can't ignore all the bad in the book Can't decide if I want to rate this 3.5 or 4 stars lol I struggle giving low ratings to her books because I love these characters and worlds so much but this book was a bit of a disappointment for me. I got this book early and read it in 24 hours so I might have to do a reread or two to really know how I feel. But honestly the more I sit down and think about it the more problems I have. I think Part 1 of this book is great. So many shocking reveals - some that a lot of us have had theories on for years, and some none of us even thought of. Or some that are completely different from what we originally thought. I love that we can still get surprised. It's also my favorite for a more personal reason, but I'll leave that for the more spoilery review lol Part 2 is a STRUGGLE. I think the middle gets bogged down A LOT and it makes the book much longer than it needs to be. A lot of strange decisions that didn't need to be made and scenes that I felt didn't need to be included at all. And honestly some of the scenes I was waiting for just weren't satisfying. Part 3 gets better but it's still kind of all over the place. It's very unserious lol there are moments that I absolutely LOVE but there are some that are just... there lol it's very 50/50 for me This book is not at ALL what I was expecting, and I'm not sure how people are going to feel about it. I think SJM had a huge task at hand and it's hard to please everyone. I almost feel like.. she got scared or nervous to include other worlds in this and didn't want to commit. Or maybe she just bit off more than she could chew. I still love this world and these characters but I genuinely don't think any of them were done justice in this book. SPOILERS: • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Things I liked: The ACOTAR crossover parts are the best parts. I didn't want the book to solely rely on the crossover portion to be good but honestly it's the strongest part of the book. There are still some good CC moments but the scenes with ACOTAR characters really shine through. If you hate Nesta or ACOSF...... you're going to hate this book LMAO it is the Nesta show and I'm so happy. She's my favorite character of all time and was such a BADASS in this. And we finally get to see her use her powers, it was INCREDIBLE. The way she commands the trove??? Yeah best character idc. AND THE ENDING??? She's literally a queen, idk what to tell you. Completely left it open for more Nesta content in future acotar books. SJM really saw all the Nesta/ACOSF hate and said, "here ya go, have fun 🫶🏻" also the mother/daughter moments between her and Ember had me literally crying full on tears. I didn't know I needed that. All the dungeon scenes and ESPECIALLY the escape scene. The escape is probably my favorite of the whole book. I love the Lidia reveal and Jesiba sacrificing herself for Bryce All of the small ToG connections made me happy. I was not expecting a full crossover but honestly.. Bloomsbury baited us. There's a video that came out months ago of them showing HOFAS but then printing the special edition version of Throne of Glass. How is that not a clue that ToG would be included? People were already going to buy the book, they didn't need to do that. Things I didn't like/didn't make sense: What the FUCK was Ithan's storyline? Tharion's is also weird but my god. I don't know what happened there. I hated getting to his parts. Why bother bringing the Fendyr heir into the story at all? HOSAB literally ended with her seeming like an important character and she wasn't at all. What a waste. Speaking of waste of character - the Hawk. Everyone was convinced it was Vaughn but he was literally no one lmao he didn't have a name and he died so what was the point of introducing him as a character at all? The comm crystal??? I think Sarah completely forgot about it because it was never brought back up. Unless it was confiscated from Bryce by Rhys but it was just never talked about. Maybe it will be in a future acotar book but I'm not going to get my hopes up. Ruhn and Lidia's relationship could have been so much more. Most of the time they were just there. I was really disappointed with their scenes in the last half of the book. Like Ruhn literally SHOT HER?????????????? Let's just sit down for a second and think about that. Would Rhys shoot Feyre? Absolutely not. Would Cassian shoot Nesta? HEEEELLLLLLL no. Would ANY mates that Sarah has written do something like that to each other? Idk about you but I don't fucking think so. AAAAND he shot her because he thought she would be reckless and wasn't in right state of mind. I'm sorry but this is THE HIND we're talking about. You don't think she can handle herself????? I'm angry. Anyway. No Ruhn/Rhys reveal. Like okay if you're not going to give us an explanation couldn't you at least add a fun scene with them meeting? Also no Fury reveal was odd to not include. I'm guessing it will be in the next book but it better be good after making us wait years lol The parasite in the water is so........ weird? And to create a cure so fast?? Okay. There's a lot of parts in the book where there are quick solutions. - Hunt's halo. He could just remove it himself this whole time and then does it in 2 seconds. - The bullet full of second light from a bunch of dead people??? Someone please explain that to me because how, what, and why. The Under-King. He seemed like this terrifying character in HOSAB. Basically someone who was untouchable and couldn't die. But then in hofas he dies so fast and in such a stupid way. Like I had to reread that part several times because.. what?? The defeat of the Asteri was just.... silly. There was absolutely no point to the sword and dagger because Bryce just went and made a black hole herself. How does that make sense? And honestly most of the time the Asteri aren't a threat in this book. We only see them for a short time in the beginning and then right at the end. Bryce and Hunt. My poor babies what did she do to you 😭 I will ALWAYS love them but this was not the same ship I feel in love with. Bryce is super selfish the entire book and it seems that all these two do is argue. Hunt has so much trauma and was literally just TORTURED but yeah let's question his motives. The reunion scene was AWFUL. Y'all were just separated by UNIVERSES and one of you was in a dungeon being tortured close to death so why are you not on the floor in tears and in each others arms 🤨

I'm free! No thoughts at the moment, need like a week to think this over. 3.5 ~ 4 (still deciding) --------------- I've got it!!!! Going to finish this series and buddy reading journey with a bang and with @Bella 🫂

⭐️ ⭐️ 1/2 Do you remember when you were growing up and a friend or sibling would act like they were going to hit you, and then when you flinched they gave you “two for flinching”? Yea, me too. I didn’t feel any of that in this book. I wanted to flinch from its gruesome horror, or disturbingly graphic scenes. I wanted to flinch from the thoughts of a despicable villain, or from the cruelty inflicted on the innocent. While some of that did happen, it never felt “flinch-worthy”. I just stared this book in the eye and received its punches completely motionless and unphased. While ostensibly a Holly novel, this never really felt like a Holly novel. That may be a positive to many of the “tired of seeing a strong, neurodivergent woman outmaneuvering bad guys and generally being an amazing protagonist” crowd, but it’s a massive negative for me because, well, I love all those things about her. Her quirks and idiosyncrasies rarely come through in this book. She is too ordered and typical, which practically buries all of her charm under a boring facade of normalcy. I love Holly as a character, which is why this book is so frustrating because if you changed the name on the page, you’d never know this was the same person. Abortion is once again used as a stand-in for political discord (I see you Insomnia), and is done so with similar success (like that of an out of work artist). Kate gives off serious Greg Stillson vibes. I was ready for Johnny Smith to show up at one of her events to save the world from an inevitable, terrible fate. Feminism is at the heart of this book, and while admirable in its attempt to pay homage, it felt like a less exuberant return to his early 90s, bad man chase strong woman, female character-centered self. Let’s be honest, it felt like an old man’s take on progressive feminism. Trig could have been one of the great King villains, but instead he felt two-dimensional and unbelievable. His motive felt inadequate at best. We needed more depravity, more gore, more everything from him. For a book with so many murders in it, it felt surprisingly sterile. And what in the weird, out of left field, completely unnecessary hell was up with the Sista Bessie/Barbara storyline? What a mess that was. I see how it played a role in getting the right people into the right places for plot purposes, but surely there was a more coherent, believable way to do so. If you took the worst parts of Insomnia, Dead Zone, Rose Madder, and End of Watch, stuffed them into a blender and poured it out into heaping, wet mess of muddled soup, you’d get this book. If you’re into that sort of thing, this one might be for you. I’m your biggest fan Steve, but this one was rough for me. Here’s to looking forward to whatever you have in store for 2026.

So, I’ve had some time to reflect since finishing this one and my overall feeling is one of frustration, frustration at what is a strange mix of some truly compelling parts mixed with stuff that just didn’t stick at all and quickly faded from my memory. Never Flinch is a book that teases, that threatens to be excellent, but ultimately doesn’t deliver and instead feels tired, feels like hard work, and - at least to someone like me who isn’t enamoured with Holly Gibney - begs for this character to be shelved, for a few years minimum if not binned all-together. Let me start with what I liked here, as there was plenty of it. This story runs via a number of threads that start with distance from each other before slowly, inevitably converging towards a big meeting at the end. That takes skill to pull off, and King makes it work well here - I guess you could say he doesn’t flinch! Anyway, those parallel tracks of Trig’s killing spree blended with connections to the worlds of recovery and meetings - a world King knows well and is always able to draw so clearly, along with Kate McKay’s roadtrip, her stalker - with whom we also spend plenty of time inside their head, as well as the seemingly minor distractions of Sista Bessie, the police v fire department baseball match, and catching up with Robinsons. That’s a lot of plates to spin and while I found a couple of those paths far more interesting, King pulled it off with the climax. That ending is worthy of a mention here. It is good; propulsive, frenetic, tense…I moved through the final hundred pages faster than the 300 that had come before it. Once the handbrake was taken off, this book moves and it is fun. But, most of all, it’s the villains I liked here. King gives us a pair of captivating baddies that are running their own races, and is able to bring them together in a way that just about works. Kate’s stalker is hella interesting - a dark backstory and a fascinating present day scenario. I can’t say too much because of spoilers, but I enjoyed following them, learning more about what was going on with them and who was driving them. But it’s Trig who is the standout part of this book for me. As King tends to do in the Gibneyverse, he shows us who the killer is early on and gives us a howdunnit instead of a whodunnit. That means we know Trig is our guy basically from the start, and the scenes where we see him killing are fantastic and chilling. There is a coldness, a bluntness and a randomness to Trig’s actions that really got under my skin - yes, he has a purpose with his actions, but the exact details of the lives he takes mean nothing to him. His first victim - a woman out jogging with her dog - could have been anyone, and the way Trig then muses over what life and what connected lives he has just completely exploded really got to me. As the novel goes on, Trig feels less and less stable, which makes him even more compelling on the page…as we often get in Holly books, he’s a great villain. There are some elements about Never Flinch that I was ambivalent about. Actually, there were some characters that made me feel this way. Izzy felt more developed, but I didn’t buy just how in awe of Holly she was all of the time. I had high hopes for Kate McKay, but was left a little underwhelmed - mainly because I still don’t really know what her politics are, or really what she stands for. She’s clearly a divisive figure, but that largely seems to be based on being pro-choice and wanting better rights for women…but when it comes to ‘content’ from her talks in this book, it feels light. I was expecting something bigger, more bombastic…although I’m obviously relieved to know she has ‘full breasts’ - a key detail of course! I won’t lie, I was very nervous about the prospect of Sista Bessie going into this book, but the result was much better than I was expecting. Yes, she feels like a caricature of a Black, larger than life, legendary soul singer, but she feels like a breath of fresh air compared to some of King’s non-white characters. I did not buy her obsession with Barbara, but it seems that everyone loves every single Robinson character in this world without question. I grew to enjoy Bessie more as the book went on, but didn’t need reminding every other page how much her breasts were. I get it, she’s well-equipped, thanks! The plot was generally pretty good. I was sceptical of Holly ending up as a bodyguard but I understand how King got there. Kate wanted a woman who wasn’t connected to the police, so she fits the bill…but in the real world someone in the firing line would surely have hired, you know, an actual bodyguard? Other than that, Trig’s ongoing quest for revenge worked for me and was the fizz the book needed when it would otherwise have felt flat. However, there was also a lot here that I read and forgot almost instantly…there wasn’t the usual stickiness that a King book gives us. This was like a boring flavour of bubblegum…there in your mouth while you’re chewing, but gone and forgotten soon after. But, there were things I didn’t like here. I won’t simply say it was Holly; I actually enjoyed seeing her much more socially capable and much more confident in herself and willing to break from her comfort zone and try new things. Holly just being Holly here was ok. It was everyone else’s complete love for her that I bucked against. Everyone she encounters here knows who she is and thinks she is the best thing since sliced bread and it is exhausting. In particular it was Izzy’s reverence for her that put me off - I didn’t believe an actual detective would be so reliant on Holly and I just found it tiresome. And then there’s the Robinsons. Jerome doesn’t feature more - although we do get a reminder that he’s a best-selling author now. It almost feels as though King is maybe tiring of him. Not so much Barbara. I was basically rolling my eyes every time she appeared. I didn’t accept that Sista Bessie, this all-time legend, would start her reunion tour in Buckeye City purely because of Barbara. Sure, she liked her book of poetry, but come on? And for Barbara to spend a few days as a roadie? Only to then move her to a backing singer, because obviously Barbara is an amazing singer as well as everything else, and to then turn Barbara’s poems into not just a song, but THE song that would close her set and get updated for every city they were in? Nah. Come on. It’s too much. The line when Sista Bessie basically yelled ‘you’re so goddam talented’ to Barbara actually made me groan. That’s one of my biggest takeaways from Never Flinch; these characters need a break…a permanent one if needs be. There are no stakes here, not really…it’s so clearly established that Holly is the bee’s knees and we know King loves her too much to dispose of her. But her deductions here often felt too easy. It bordered on being phoned in at times. As for the Robinsons? I don’t need to read about them ever again. They can do everything to a world-class standard, they have no flaws and they are dull, dull, dull. I liked them in the Mercedes trilogy, but really don’t need them any more. My other takeaway came from King’s afterword. This book appears to have been an effort to birth into the world. It went through various titles - We Think Not and Always Holly - and was written over a period where King had hip replacement surgery. He mentions that his wife Tabitha read the first draft and told him he could do better…and I still think he could improve this, if I’m being honest. There’s almost a resignation in that closing section where he talks about being as happy as he can be with it, and it feels more profound than his usual self-depricating false modesty. I get a sense this book wanted to come out but made life tough for King to realise that ambition. I get the sense it was a slog, that it was work…and that’s how I found it as a reading experience. King is famously productive. He’s been blessing us with at least one new book a year for half a century pretty much and he’s still doing it. It’s an incredible feat. But this is the first time where I feel like he might have benefitted from a pause. I’d rather have a fallow year and get something where he writes with the flair and conviction that we got in the stories in You Like It Darker in 2024, than risk something like this being churned out that has some moments but is largely flat. And don’t get me wrong, there were big chunks of this I liked - even trying to be as objective as possible, there are swathes here that swat away lesser authors with ease. Trig is a brilliant character, and his killing scenes are some of the most unnerving and spine-chilling passages I’ve read all year. Those sections are where King finds a groove, locks in, and delivers the goods. But, overall this feels tired, this feels like an acceptance of being ‘good enough’ rather than ‘good’ or ‘great’. I will always get excited for new King, I will always read it and I will always encourage others to give it a try, but I can’t see Never Flinch being any Constant Reader’s favourite book. Thanks *so much* to Hodder for the early copy!

Another Holly book. Except in this one Holly really doesn’t do anything. It’s almost like he had another book already written and decided to turn it into a Holly adventure. You could take her out of the story and it wouldn’t change much at all. At least it is slightly better as far as his political soapboxing goes. He does throw a bit in here and there, which seems jarring and out of place, but it appears he has an editor that has taken care of the worst ranting.

Sigh….I think there just was too much going on in this book for it to gain any traction. There are three main arcs to the plot. We have the police, along with Holly‘s help, investigating a possible serial killer, secondly a feminist book seller on tour receiving death threats who also enlists Holly‘s help and then finally a musician who is working with Holly‘s friend Barbara on producing a comeback concert. It seems like a lot, doesn’t it? I felt myself never being able to get engaged due to the constant back-and-forth between the three plot points some of which I felt could’ve been left out completely. I hate to say it, but I skimmed over one of these once I realized it was not really going anywhere. Interestingly enough, I liked the last little chapter of the book. Would the book have been something a bit different if that had been introduced a little bit earlier?🤔 As I said before, there was just too much going on and for all of it to tie together at the end just seemed way too coincidental as in if the stars align perfectly, and the moon is exactly at this position away from the sun, etc. these things could happen . But I get it, it’s fiction but I just expected so much more being that it is a King book. Maybe the Holly series is just to cut and dry of a thriller when I want something with a little bit more “supernatural-ness” to it. I loved the Outsiders where I first met Holly but after that, I just haven’t enjoyed the rest of the series. If another book comes out in the series, will I read it? Yep. I was wavering between 2.5 stars and 3. Looking back at my rating of Holly, I gave it a 2.5 and I enjoy this one a bit more than that one so settled on the three.

An egotistic, pro-choice feminist, a gender fluid alt-right zealot, and a homicidal addict with daddy issues walk into a bar. Wait, that's not a joke, it's plot of this book. I always feel like I need to disclose that Sai King is one of my favorite authors. This means that I have unrealistic high expectations for every one of his books. 'Never Flinch' met my expectations, but didn't exceed them. This is book four in the Holly Gibney series. Outside of 'The Dark Tower' series, I think Holly is King's most recurring character. And who doesn't love a quirky, neuro-divergent detective. Holly follows a long line of these 'detectives on the spectrum' including Sherlock Holmes, Columbo, and Monk to name a few. King just improves the trope by make her female. I think it's hard for men to write realistic women protagonists and it's brilliant for King to pick one who's a bit emotionally stunted. There was much to enjoy in this book. The characters are distinct and fascinating. We get plenty of King's trademark astute observations of people and life. The stakes are high throughout the story and the tension is weighty at the end. The plot is unpredictable, which I love. However, it's a straight detective thriller and while King is top-notch in this genre, it's not his most fertile ground. Without the paranormal or supernatural, it lacks the edge that put many of his tales over the top (the exception to this was Mr. Mercedes!). He does up the intensity by having two villain's, but for me, it wasn't enough to make this one of his top books. The way he pulled in Holly's friends to put them in peril felt forced to me. While I appreciated the book, I couldn't help but be a bit disappointed (largely due to my sky-high expectations of Stephen King). Three and a half bloody stars, rounded down to three for this tense, character-driven, detective thriller.

I'm a constant reader/listener. Audiobook 3.25 stars.

If you read one Holly book you read them all. I’m not a huge fan of SK’s crime detective book. They well writing, I’m just not the target audience for this type of story. And that’s fine. It gives me a safe way to branch off into types of stores that I would otherwise might not explore. With SK I know it’s going be well written with good character work. And that was the case here. There was more of the side of SK that you see on his social media account. A part of me wish he spent more time on that side of stuff. But this was a Holly crime story and he stayed true to that which I can appreciate. So for this installment of a Holly book, if you like the other ones you like this one. If not, then you probably won’t care for this one either.

In the afterword to this new novel, author Stephen King comments that it was difficult to write and that he's "happy enough" with the final version. That's largely how I feel as a reader, too. This is pretty far from the writer at his best, and in fact, a lot of it plays out as him repeating some of his previous work -- not only the earlier Holly Gibney and Bill Hodges detective stories, but also shades of Insomnia with its extremist attack on a feminist rally. The most original element here is an alcoholic serial killer's comparison of his two compulsions, a sharp characterization that's presumably rooted in King's own admitted struggles with addiction. Structurally, the book is all over the place. We're following two murderers whose paths eventually happen to cross, but that entanglement occurs so late in the text that their separate plots seem fairly coincidental. One is a religious zealot stalking a liberal activist, although her politics are so vaguely defined that it's hard to understand the bigot's anger at her as a specific target, while the other is embarking on a somewhat goofy mission to kill twelve random people in protest of a jury who convicted an innocent man. (He leaves names of the jurors in his victims' hands, apparently to try guilting them into suicide.) The latter takes a ton of risks in his opportunistic murders, which fits with his nature as an addict but makes it frustrating that the various investigators aren't able to capitalize on his missteps to easily track him down. They don't even look into how he knew the identities of the anonymous jury, which should be an obvious first step! Holly Gibney and her friends Jerome, Barbara, and Izzy are back as those protagonists, although the piece is basically standalone and probably works fine if you haven't read their prior adventures. It's also an entirely mundane crime thriller up until a stinger in the epilogue, which I continue to think is an odd approach for a series, alternating between the existence of the supernatural or not. Finally, I'd be remiss if I didn't complain about the treatment of gender in this tale. King is pro-choice and an outspoken Trump critic, but he's also a 77-year-old with some rather regressive attitudes and knowledge gaps. Thus he has his political mouthpiece here repeatedly crow about how no men have ever had an abortion -- ignoring the reality of transgender men, some of whom have indeed undergone that procedure -- and his secondary villain turns out to have Dissociative Identity Disorder and a genderfluid presentation, sometimes manifesting and dressing as his late twin sister. It's problematic to say the least, especially in a work with no other meaningful queer themes or characters, and it strikes me as the sort of unwelcome throwback a competent editor should have vetoed. Still, King is compulsively readable as usual, and I'd say the title is his typical page-turner overall. But I've never loved Holly Gibney myself, and I'd personally be okay if he retired the heroine and her world at this point. [Content warning for child pornography, racism, gun violence, and gore.] Like this review? --Throw me a quick one-time donation here! https://ko-fi.com/lesserjoke --Subscribe here to support my writing and weigh in on what I read next! https://patreon.com/lesserjoke --Follow along on Goodreads here! https://www.goodreads.com/lesserjoke --Or click here to browse through all my reviews! https://lesserjoke.home.blog

Today is a sad day. It's the day that I revoke the "read anything King writes" card. And it's not that this is one of his worst. There are several books of his that are outright misery (pun intended). There are some of his books that are not particularly good or bad but are too long for the idea. So for this book to break me, it's not some Tommyknockers level tragedy that deserves scorn. What Never Flinch is, is a book that is dull and did not need to be written. It feels phoned in, which is made sadder by the afterword in which he talked about how much he had to rework it and how much effort he put into it. It doesn't show, Stevie. This should have been abandoned, but King is transfixed by Holly, a character who has not progressed enough in the last 4 installments of her appearances to warrant this focus. Jerome remains one of his worst characters ever written, it just boggles my mind that this character has appeared in 6ish novels and nobody has pulled King aside to be like, "you gotta stop with this or take a workshop or something". Nearly every line Jerome has is cringy in some way. Even a benign one like showing up and asking Holly "did you get my vid?". What 20 something person talks like this out loud to another human being? Just gives me a headache whenever he shows up. A headache caused by the days of forgotten past when King was great with character voices. None of the other characters are worth talking about because theyre all boring and I've forgotten them. Theres a sassy pop star whose sassy and THE SHIT and you don't mess with her. There's a killer who is perplexing only insofar as King claimed he had to plot out this novel ahead of time for the first time because he wanted to do a traditional mystery novel, and yet we get the villains POV (who feels exactly like every crazy villain King has ever written but worse, sometimes I would just think I was reading The Outsider or Holly again) and we get his entire motivation so I am truly gobsmacked, completely bamboozled in every direction at what on earth he could have possibly needed to plot out ahead of time to keep the "mystery". what mystery. where. This seems like a lot of vitrol for a book I didn't hate. But this book committed the sin of boring me to tears and wondering why I still consider this man one of my top favorite authors. Need to go reread one of his great books again and forget this one ever existed. 5/10

First ever 3-star for a Stephen King for me. It just doesn't feel like him. Maybe not a "cozy mystery" (the WORST, imo) but pretty close, much as I hate to say it. It fits together too neatly, relies on improbable leaps and not too believable connections. Just was not feeling this one. At all.

I agree with Tabitha :(

* A train wreck with flashes of brilliance * Stephen King wrote NEVER FLINCH while he was recovering from hip surgery. He didn't need to persevere while he was in pain. He is rich enough, and famous enough, to be allowed time to recuperate before he tackled another major project. His beloved wife, Tabitha, undoubtedly advised him to occupy his restless spirit with minor projects until he was physically stronger. But King wanted to immerse himself in the complexity of ideas that were swarming in his mind. He couldn't let go. Consequently, the whole was lost in the jumble of parts. Let's look at the writing. Stephen King's composition style is distinct. That's why a bookstore clerk was able to spot his Richard Bachman pseudonym. King uses short sentences, which are easily processed by the brain. But short sentences are also the tool of the hack, and it takes immense effort to formulate several in a row without producing a boring, unvaried set of monotonous units. When I started the story, the first few pages were filled with perfect short gems. This was the section where we are immersed in Trig's thoughts. For example: "When the meeting lets out, a fine drizzle is hanging in the air. By nightfall it will thicken and turn to sleet." Perfect. But soon, the scene turns to the investigation—Izzy Jaynes, Lewis Warwick, Tom Atta, Holly Gibney, and the "letter". And this section is boring and repetitive because the sentences are boring and repetitive. And the story progresses from there, alternating a few perceptive passages (usually from Trig) with lots of uninteresting, stale, back-and-forth jabber among the investigators. It's too similar to the abounding serial killer police procedurals that currently are being published. Perhaps the Trig story could have been rehashed, the plot improved to help us understand the convoluted thinking patterns of the insane. Perhaps the mishmash taking place while Trig is killing and ruminating—the Guns and Hoses baseball game fiasco, Sista Bessie's rock and roll replay, various characters hearing their mother's/father's voice in their head, the eBayers—could have been rolled into a coherent rendering of the chaos occurring throughout America. Perhaps. There were some insightful passages. For example, "It doesn't matter if it's booze, dope, food, gambling, or obsessive-compulsive behavior, at bottom it's always the disease of addiction." But King branched into an offshoot that had nothing to do with the main plot, the Kate McKay story. The only thing connecting this spin-off to the Trig theme is Holly, and when Holly becomes Kate's bodyguard, she changes so much that she's no longer "Holly", the off-kilter heroine from previous narratives. The change is too abrupt. The Kate McKay segment should have been a separate novella, not crammed into what was already a medley of concepts. We don't like Kate, and Holly doesn't like her much either, but King never gets into the underlying cause of her Brahmin type behaviour. She's a cardboard character and plays no meaningful role in NEVER FLINCH. She might have been interesting had she appeared in a separate novella. I didn't dnf. I read till the end. So it deserves three stars, even though it's poorly written King. Thanks to the Greater Victoria Public Library for providing a copy of this ebook.

Out of the three books in this franchise, this one finishes in third place. Still enjoy Mr.Balcacci's writing, but the plot was far to convoluted and unbelievable. Sometimes simpler is better.

*** 5/17/25 *** As a huge Baldacci fan, I was happy to recently get this on kindle from the Los Angeles Public Library. At 432-pages (hardcover) it is a substantial story, and judging by the nearly 30K reviews putting it at 4.3*, his audience is happy with his work. I liked books #1 & #2. I loved the novel at the start - Travis Devine is smart, curious, hard working - and dives into an unusual job of escorting a 12-year old girl already under federal protection to a meeting with her rich, powerful uncle, who is her only living relative, but also happens to be under indictment on RICO charges. We soon learn that the girl's account of her parents' deaths differs from the official report. There is a weird small town with bad vibes at the center of it all, and lots of unanswered questions. The FBI agent assigned to the young girl is portrayed in a poor way for most of the book, and I don't understand why, especially since it is revealed she is a parent. I liked the book through all of this lead up, but when we started to get into the weeds on what was going on in the town, with its mayor and police chief, things started feeling a little extreme. But where the wheels really came off the cart for me is when Uncle discloses the truth of his 'familial' history with his sister et al. Nope, didn't like it, didn't buy it. Also, like many books with children in a key role, this girl is extraordinarily precocious, and able to handle information and activity like someone who is 20, not 12. It didn't feel authentic to me at all. Overall, I felt this book pushed the bounds of reasonable reveals, and it wasn't one I enjoyed as much as prior books. In some series, the authors ratchet up the extremism of the plots to keep the excitement going, but I would rather they just keep it all going at the same level, with the main character evolving in different ways. Unfortunately, I'm an outlier on this book, and rate it 2.5* rounded up to 3.

Not Much I could never get into this story. It was long and boring and had to force myself to read it. Devine seems super human and foes are idiots. Don't waste your time. Find something else.

I listened to the audiobook version of this book, which was enjoyable, as the cast made it come to life. That being said, this was a miss for me. I love Baldacci’s writing, but this hit a little too close to home in today’s political climate. For starters, I loved the first two books in this series, but this one felt unfinished and rushed. The ending wasn’t totally unexpected, but felt rushed, which is a common theme with Baldacci’s books. Travis Devine is back on a new adventure involving a 12 year old girl whose parents ate murdered, and an uncle who is involved in organized crime. Come to find out, the organized crime leads him to white supremacists who want to overthrow the government. Sound familiar?? The story itself was written well, it’s just not my cup of tea. The girl on the train makes her appearance well known in this story, and to be honest, it felt very forced. She was crossed by someone in her past, and has been hired to kill Devine. Let’s just say they end up working together and the story continues. Not my favorite Baldacci book, but still entertaining enough.

My actual rating would be 3.5. For the first 100 pages or so I wasn't sure I would like this book from Baldacci but then things got a lot better and interesting. What I like is the subtle likeness of what's going on in the states politically and how scary that is. People in power stacking the deck so that they can take total control, without checks or balances to keep them within the law... Sounds familiar? Yes this book is fiction and nothing like this could ever happen... and yet?! Next hardcover: "Hook" by Terry Brooks (1991).

Only 3 stars I’m afraid. There’s some truly awful dialogue. I understand that military types call each other by their surnames. It may feel somewhat stilted, but it’s to be expected. However, always referring to a 12 year old girl by her surname? “Odom did this.. “, ” Odom did that.. “. She’s simply Betsy. The Travis Devine series is not Baldacci’s best. I’ve persevered because of the fear of missing out. I have fond memories of the King & Maxwell. Maybe the next one will be better.

Not his best: the plot is far fetched with so many characters that it was hard to differentiate them. So-so.

A Baldacci book always delivers what you know it will and is a good “head holiday” while you read but you have to put up with the cheesy as well as the action and this got a little too much in the italic “thoughts” of our hero. “All the feds horses and all the feds men” was probably the best line of the book though, very funny. This series isn’t my favourite of Baldacci’s characters and unfortunate timing for its release given that it’s about white supremacists and extremists plotting to run the US government which seems pretty on the mark given the election results.

I gave this book 3 stars as it was a bit convoluted and had too many characters. Half of the law enforcement agents from the various departments appeared and then quickly became just onlookers. Why was Betsy called by her surname most of the time? She’s supposed to be a 12 year old girl. The loss of her parents was portrayed as little more than mildly upsetting. Deep thought and emotions don’t come easily to Baldacci. Having said all that, I’ve read every one of his books and will probably read the next one.

Gotta be 3 stars. Love a good Baldacci thriller, but I think Baldacci was watching a little too much CNN when he thought up the villain for this one….😂 And there’s some classic cheese (good thing I love cheese) I’d say this book wasn’t …… “to die for” but it was pretty fun.

This review was first posted on Mystery and Suspense. Check it out for features, interviews, and reviews. https://www.mysteryandsuspense.com/re... 3.5 stars In this 6th book in the 'Amos Decker' series, the detective's investigation of a bizarre murder in North Dakota unveils diabolical wrongdoing. The book works well as a standalone. ***** Amos Decker, 6'5" tall and 300 pounds, was a professional football player until a massive hit ended his career and left him with hyperthymesia and synesthesia. The hyperthymesia gives Decker a permanent detailed memory of everything he's ever seen or experienced - like a combination photo album/video in his head. And the synesthesia makes Decker see things in false colors - like death scenes glowing blue. Unfortunately, Decker's hyperthymesia doesn't allow him to dim the memories of his dead wife and child, who were murdered a few years ago. On the upside, Decker's phenomenal memory helped him in his career as a police detective, and he now works for the FBI - on a team that investigates crimes. Decker's FBI partner is Alex Jamison, a woman who understands his problems and has his back. As the story opens, a wildlife tracker in London, North Dakota finds the body of a woman with her face peeled back, brain removed, and torso dissected. When the FBI gets wind of the discovery, Decker and Jamison are sent to investigate. The FBI agents work with local police detective Joe Kelly, who tells them the victim was a comparative newcomer to London named Irene Cramer. Cramer had an odd combination of professions: she taught school for an Anabaptist religious sect called The Brothers and provided escort services for oil field workers. North Dakota's oil industry exploded when fracking was developed..... .....and at least half London's population of 15,000 are oil field employees. The boom town environment resulted in increased drug use, theft, drinking, bar fights, prostitution, etc. - but Decker's instincts tell him Cramer's murder wasn't connected to sex work. In addition to the Anabaptist compound and the oil fields, London also boasts the George S. Douglas Defense Complex, an early warning Air Force station that scans the skies for incoming missiles. So there's plenty going on in London. To begin their investigation, Decker, Jamison, and Kelly speak to Cramer's landlady, examine Cramer's apartment, visit The Brothers Compound, inspect a hotel room used by hookers, speak to townspeople, visit the Air Force Station, and so on. Decker and Jamison quickly get the feeling something is wonky in London. For one thing, the Air Force station claims a perfect safety record, but there are ambulances stationed all around. The detectives get their first lead when Decker reads Cramer's autopsy report, notices something odd, and rushes to the funeral home to examine her body. This starts a cascade of suicides, murders, disappearances, and kidnappings - and Decker himself is targeted by an ace gunman. Luckily CIA assassin Will Robie (from another Baldacci series) is on hand to save the day. Robie's partner Jessica Reel and their CIA handler, the Blue Man, also show up - proving that the treachery in London goes WAY beyond Irene Cramer's homicide. It turns out that sinister schemes abound in London, and there's so much going on that Decker and Jamison struggle to put the pieces together. They succeed eventually, but not before numerous gun fights and assassination attempts leave bodies scattered across the landscape. A variety of characters add interest to the story, including Decker's brother-in-law Stan, who happens to be working in London's oil fields; a coroner who fudges his autopsies; two rival multi-millionaires who, together, own almost everything in town; a beautiful woman who turns men's heads; a feisty nonagenarian who harbors secrets; and more. Baldacci's stories often feature complex conspiracies, but he goes a bit overboard in this book. It's hard to believe one town could harbor this many diverse cabals. That said, this is an engaging thriller with interesting people, plenty of action, and characters from two of Baldacci's series. Maybe it's the beginning of a trend. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot....

Love Baldacci But I didn’t love this book. Too many story lines going. The entrance of Robbie kept me going for awhile, but, there were big holes in the flow, and the integrity of the story was ruined by the uncharacteristic procedure lapses made by the main character, Decker. I feel like the author was playing a game of switch-up, or how many story lines can you fit in one book. PS: I’m never going to North Dakota.

I love this series but not so much this one. Not a lot of his memory strengths. Plot seemed a bit disjointed. I like having Will Robie join them. A little bit of politics but not too bad (though I don't need to be lectured in my fiction). I'm not sure if I'll keep reading this series. Anyone else?

Sixth book in Amos Decker series starts off with a good start and premise. Will Robie, a character from a different Baldacci series, joins about a third of the way in. But then we get the overplotting and silliness I have come to expect from this author.

I have read and loved every Jack Reacher novel, but I was disappointed in this one. I found the plot thin and strained. There was really no character development. It was just Jack on a quest at the Mexican border fighting and killing bad guys. As a female reader, I missed the attention to hygiene and the little romance that humanized Reacher and didn’t just make him a killing machine. Yes, the killing and chases are thrilling, but I found something missing. I’m looking forward to reading a more evolved Reacher adventure, as I loved in the past. Thank you Netgalley for this ARC.

First Reacher book I've given 3 stars to,because there's little of the Reacher we know and love here.Plus,not a good plot either.Pity the transition to Andrew Child is not working.

I always look forward to this series. I've read every one of them...but his might just be my last one. The one before this I forgave since it was Lee Child's brother, Andrew Grant, joining in. I've read his books also and always liked them, but he just doesn't have the "voice" of Jack Reacher...actually we hardly recognized Jack. It's not a horrible book by any means, but this is just not the Jack Reacher we knew and loved. His lack of concern about crossing lines to get the job done, his violence without hesitation or remorse, his unapologetic appreciation of women; that's what made him stand out and endure through so many books. I love the books and the character enough that I'll give the new author another chance, but if he doesn't get Jack back like he was soon, I give up. I gave it 3 stars for "old-time's sake". The rating was closer to 2.5

The current collaboration between brothers as Lee Child plans to pass on the popular Jack Reacher series continues to feel unsatisfying, rather than trying to breathe new life into the franchise - it's making it feel tired and repetitive. It's certainly true that this was a marked improvement from the first attempt where many fans criticised the now chatty version of Reacher. I'd suggest that it was then a bold move to write this installment in the first person narrative. I guess it must be hard to keep an air of mystery to the main character which series now boasts 26 titles, maybe a spin off series from Andrew would have been a better way to continue? In fairness this did feel like typical Reacher as our hero meets a fellow army veteran who is searching for her twin brother. The plot felt too similar to previous stories as Jack gets more involved, but a back to basics approach seems an ideal way to help Andrew capture the character better. I'll always have a soft spot for this series and it does seem like an impossible task to try and capture the magic of the earlier books. I hope for Andrews sake that he's got some exciting ideas once he takes sole charge and the series remains popular, but it's hard to see on the current evidence.

Not the best of the series, not too fond of the plot just seems so far fetched at times.

Still very readable but the plot was ridiculous. There was way to many descriptions of rooms. The villain was bizarre and the need to see all the dead bodies himself was ridiculous. Reacher was still Reacher. Coffee addict, smart phone phobia, saving the damsel in distress and lots of fights where no guesses he comes out on top. I would have thought with a tunnel from the US to Mexico then drugs would be the merchandise being smuggled. Instead we never really find out what Dendoncker was smuggling. The convoluted responder and watch detonators was ridiculous. Why did the terrorists just use a drone to detonate the Trojan bomb? The short chapters and short sentences still work. However, Fenton the female in distress trying to save her brother Michael was standard Reacher. A strong woman character who shared Reacher’s homicidal tendencies with absolutely no grey areas. I will stick with the series as the formula appeals to me and they are entertaining even when ridiculous.

Jack Reacher is still moving forward. When things kick off in Better Off Dead he is heading west, hoping to reach the ocean in the near future. He’s made it to Arizona when he comes across what looks like a car accident out on a deserted highway close to the US - Mexican border. In this instalment Reacher joins forces with Michaela Fenton, helping her out of what appears to be an impossible situation that has resulted in her twin brother, Michael being put in mortal danger. Michael has been working for an elusive criminal who goes by the name Dendoncker but has sent Michaela a message suggesting his life was in danger. The task is to lure Dendoncker out of hiding in order to then track down the whereabouts of Michael. But it’s not quite that straightforward with a string of henchmen to confront, fight, extract information and outwit to get through. The plan he comes up with is quite the imaginative one and acts as a catalyst to ensure that Reacher is all in on bringing the man down. The heart of the matter appears to be all about explosives and building bombs that are destined to be placed in significant locations around the country. Michael was involved in the creation of the technology to be used in the bombs and this raises the crucial question in Reacher’s mind as to whether he’s out to find a good guy or a bad guy. In many ways this is a typical Jack Reacher story in that he stumbles into a situation where a rich or powerful (bad?) person is taking advantage of a weaker, more vulnerable (good?) person. Reacher, sensing the injustice taking place steps in to level the playing field. What has changed over the last few books is a sense that Reacher has become more violent in his actions, not to mention more single minded in his mission. This makes him quite a ruthless individual and something more than the people’s avenger and more akin to a deadly assassin. Let’s put this gradual change down to the development of the man and the effects of previous experiences rather than the fact that a new hand is involved in his creation. One thing I had a problem with was that it felt as though there was a greater focus on providing a minutely detailed description of every fight scene. While it helped to paint the picture, the level of detail felt cumbersome and robbed each action sequence of any hint of free-flowing energy. This gripe aside, I’m still a sucker for the Reacher style and his go-forward attitude. I’ll continue to front up to read what he’s going to get up to next.

It’s that time of year when Lee Child used to publish his annual outing with one of my favorite fictional heroes, Jack Reacher. I must admit that this time out, I was less than optimistic because those days are gone. Now it is Andrew Child, Lee’s brother, in the role of writer while Lee provides editorial feedback and support, as their transition from big brother to little brother continues. Last year the transition began with Andrew taking the lead on “The Sentinel”, which kept some things the same some things different. Andrew was definitely not Lee and his changes were weren’t always subtle to the millions of Reacher fans. In my review I commented that it wasn’t fair to judge Andrew Child on one Reacher novel. We owe him another one or two to find his groove. Either he finds it or we will have to accept his version of Reacher will have different nuances than that of his creator. That continues to be the case in their second outing, “Better Off Dead”, which starts with Reacher on the move again, this time in the middle of nowhere, Arizona, somewhere down near the border of Mexico. He left Tennessee at the end of the last book and he is heading west to San Diego where he is looking forward to seeing the Pacific Ocean. As is Reacher’s habit, he comes upon an apparent vehicle accident scene where a woman has crashed her jeep into a tree by the side of a rode. Unfortunately, he figures out that there is much more going on than what meets the eye. Before he knows it, he finds himself embroiled in helping the supposed crash victim, Michaela Fenton, an army veteran and FBI agent, trying to find her twin brother, Michael, who is involved with some really dangerous people doing some really illegal activities. However, trying to find the missing Michael doesn’t turn out to be easy. When Reacher finds some of the bad guy’s muscle men, he finds that most of them would rather die than betray their leader. Their loyalty runs deep as they are more afraid of his retribution that anything that Reacher can do to them. That’s awful hard to believe. Their mysterious leader’s name is Dendoncker. He is a man that is rarely seen, stays out of sight, and has control over nearly everyone in the nearby border town that is way past its better days. The only time he makes a local appearance is when someone who challenges has been killed. When that does, Dendoncker has a habit of showing up to make a personal validation that an enemy is really removed. It appears that Reacher’s only chance to meet him will be to die first, definitely not his first choice. However, failure is not an option that Reacher accepts… Let’s start with the good stuff first. Like the last book, this was an easy and fast read. Andrew tends to use more of the shorter chapter approach that James Patterson has made a more than successful living using. And he packs a lot in each one, constantly moving the plot forward as fast as possible, and never standing still for long. The plotting and pacing were good most of the time. Andrew captures much of the same plot development style and flow as his brother, Lee. Although it felt a bit formulistic at moments, the storyline revealed itself scene by scene as Reacher played investigator and brawler simultaneously. Like the last book, I felt like the fighting was a bit over choregraphed at times. There was also a lot of running around. In these last two books, Reacher spent a lot of time moving around small towns where nothing is supposed to be happening, but major crimes are taking place. There were also some dramatic descriptions at times, but I am learning to live with that from Andrew. As for the things that didn’t like as much or struggled with. Andrew writes Reacher differently than Lee. That is reality and it isn’t going to change anytime soon (per his interviews). Andrew’s Reacher for two books is focused more on his physical skills and instinctual strengths. I noticed that in this book Reacher seems to lack some character quality and depth. He is more instinctive and fly-by-the-seat-of-his-pants in Andrew’s writing, who elaborates on the fight scenes in much more detail. Yet, to me, his character lacks depth and alignment with his uniquely personal code of conduct. He feels somewhat one dimensional and predictable at times, missing some of his subtlety and methodical nature that served as two of his biggest strengths when Lee was writing him. For example, in both of the last two books, Jack has for the first time taunted and berated his opponents in mean and degrading ways. I remember Jack getting mad and seeking justice, but not ever in a taunting manner before beating up the bad guys. Yes, he was sarcastic, but not so downright mean. I also felt like the ending did not deliver on the buildup as well as it could have. Reacher was doing everything himself, including taking unnecessary risks that he didn’t need too, and there were several times any bad guy with any kind of intelligence would have just shot him. By the time you got to the climax, the villain was turned into a weak hackneyed version of a stooge and Reacher was providing the closing Hercule Poirot speech that put all of the clues and missing pieces together in a brilliant, but over the top, summation. Overall, “Better Off Dead” was a transitional work in progress. I understand how some Reacher fans will love it and others will pick it apart. Although it probably doesn’t feel that way after reading my review, I am probably somewhere in the middle. Lee was certainly burning out on writing Reacher. That was clear and he has described it in recent interviews, so it was time to move on. However, with a new writer comes new perspective. In fairness, Andrew is not Lee and cannot be Lee. He is his own writer. For example, nobody will ever be James Bond in my mind, but Sean Connery. He was the first, the best, and the model every other Bond is compared to. Most cannot come close to his greatness. However, everything considered, Daniel Craig did pretty dang good in his own version and I am enjoying his take on the character. He’s not Connery, but he’s much better than the others. In the same way, it isn’t fair to judge Andrew Child with the expectation of being a Lee Child clone or copycat. We owe him the right to deliver Reacher using his own style, which means that we may have to accept his version of Reacher with different nuances than that which his creator instilled. At that point, we can choose to stick with him or leave, and that’s a personal choice the readers can make on their own. For me, it’s still early to make that call. We’ll try again next year, but until then, this is another three-out-of- five-star-rating for me. Somewhere above middle ground.

This is the second book in the series co-written by Lee and Andrew Child and it left me wondering how much difference Andrew’s contribution has made to the novels so far. In terms of plot outline, it would appear, none at all. Or, one could argue, not enough. This story pretty much follows the template of several previous ones. Whilst on his travels across the US, Reacher encounters a damsel in distress and, in his attempts to rescue her, finds himself up against a crime boss and his gang up to all sorts of nefarious activities. Then, a few hundred pages and many broken bones later, Reacher’s sorted it all out and continues on his unending journey. Perhaps a bigger difference can be noted in the narrative style. This novel is told in the first person – a device only used in five of the previous novels – although that doesn’t seem to make a big impact. Some stories are best told through the protagonist’s eyes and others need a more panoramic outside viewpoint. The main difference seems to be in the micro- narrative. Andrew tends to write in a more staccato style with short sentences almost tumbling into each other, whereas Lee used a more relaxed languid style with longer sentences – making the short, furious action sequences more of a contrast. I felt this reflected Reacher’s feline-like nature – normally laid-back but springing into action in an instant. It remains to be seen how the collaboration will develop further. Reacher novels always make for an exciting read, however I felt this one didn’t have any special ingredients to raise it among the best.

Disappointing entry in Reacher series. Seems lazy and boring through most of it. I have to go back to book 21 to find one that I liked less. Too many coincidences, too much seems rote. I'm not sure who to blame. Might be time to wrap up the series and focus on the TV adaption instead.

JACK’S BACK! For those of you who don’t know “ where he went”, I will just say that the fact he’s BACK is a high compliment, and I trust I am not premature in issuing it. This installment redeemed the Reacher series for me. Two recent installments have been off - way off - in substance and style. Transitioning authors from Lee Child to brother Andrew has been a difficult one as Reacher became “lost” in the process. Parts of his character are still missing but I hope Andrew will continue to improve in his writing techniques to capture the essence of Jack Reacher. His voice is back. His moral code is intact. His sense of justice is strong, especially for the underdog. His intuitive spidy-sense keeps tingling and provoking him to dig further and deeper to reveal more plot complexities. YAY! The plot is interesting and the research is informative. (I have always enjoyed learning new things from Reacher novels.) The pace is good. The opening jolt of the book’s opening is explosive, hooking the reader and setting the stage for an intriguing storyline. The character development is lacking but since I was so happy to find a return of Reacher’s character, it didn’t matter. The climax is okay and the denouement satisfying. I can’t say I am THRILLED with this new “thriller” from Lee Child and brother. I can’t say it is actually a thriller; It is not electrifying; it didn’t cause my heart to race nor provoke much emotional response. “Lackluster” is a term that fits its description. It is a good (average) 3 star read. And I’m glad Jack’s back… or at least on his way! My thanks to NetGalley and the publishers for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.

I was kind of disappointed in this one. Too many long descriptive fight scenes and not enough personal stuff that makes Reacher, well, Reacher. Won’t deter me from the series tho as it’s one of my favorites. Thanks to the publisher and netgalley for this copy for review

Not bad but it’s been a while since I really enjoyed a Reacher novel.

It was...fine. But I'm done buying these. It's best to just remember the older, better books.

I find myself conflicted over my feelings towards Jack Carr in general, and the last two books (Only the Dead and Red Sky Mourning) in particular. On the one hand, Carr (real name George Petersen) crafts intricate thrillers that are taut with tension and high stakes. The characters (rather lead or bit players) that inhabit his world are fully realized and fleshed out in such a way that you can feel the weight of their history through their actions and words. The action is brutal and realistic-ish in a way that runs contrary to modern action stories. However, by the start of the third book in the series (Savage Son) the pattern and formula for these novels becomes painfully evident. In each of his novels you will meet: a corrupt politician (usually an American, but sometimes not), a person with ties to main character James Reece (or his father) who purposefully withholds information or harbors resentment towards him, a car chase of some kind, a grandiose end of second act gunfight, a grandiose climactic gunfight, a Hostelesque torture porn scene (Red Sky Mourning gives us two), and a massive exposition dump (Red Sky Mourning also gives us two). Of course all of these failings pales in comparison to the massive over explanation of the numerous brands that Carr chooses to highlight in excruciating detail. Whenever a character first appears, you are guaranteed to learn not only the brand of clothing they are wearing (Reece wears a Sitka pullover, Origin jeans, and Salomon running shoes) but what type of firearm they carry in what caliber with what optic with what type of ammunition in what type of holster attached to what brand belt. That's just the main character. Each of those grueling details is attributed to nearly each speaking character you meet in the book. To further compound the endless name dropping, each workout is given it's just due with origin and exacting information. Each vehicle, be it automobile, boat, or plane, is explained down its most granular detail. All of this brings me to book seven in The Terminal List series, Red Sky Mourning. (Also, fun fact, the series was not formally known as The Terminal List series until the production of the eponymous tv series starring Chris Pratt was released. A fact that Jack Carr is fond of repeating in every piece of published advertisement for himself and his books.) Red Sky Mourning starts off with a tremendous bang that sets in motion the whole series. But, from there, it all devolves into the formula that Carr is oft to use. The variables and details change, but by and large, if you can recognize the pattern then you will not be surprised by any of what transpires throughout the book. The action remains top notch. The setting remains taut. But everything else is an exercise in paint-by-numbers thriller writing. If you choose to dive into the pages of The Terminal List series, do so expecting each of the pros and cons listed above. If you are a gear head, then maybe the aforementioned gear dump won't bother you so much. If you enjoy quick reads without any surprise to it's conclusion, then maybe it won't bother you so much. But be warned, all these things become grating to the reader over time.

3.5 stars - Another action thriller that keeps you invested with its blend of authenticity and raw emotions. Main character James Reece is being called upon again to save the day against a conspiracy that threatens the country. There’s a rogue Chinese submarine, a foreign controlled politician with eyes on the Oval Office and an AI supercomputer named Alice. Overall I enjoyed this one but not as much as others in the series.

I have one major gripe! Too much information, whether to pad up the book or not I don't know, but every small brand - be it military hardware or clothes is always specified and most times it reads like overkill! I'm aware he's ex-Seal and his knowledge about military hardware is very extensive but what jacket, what t-shirt and what brand of shoes James Reece is wearing didn't have to be specified in such detail. But, then again, it could just be me. I felt that it just slows down the narrative a bit and without this padding, it could be a crisper read. Otherwise, a typical James Reece novel, fast and furious and psychologically challenged. Worth reading...

This review has me very conflicted. I like Jack Carr. On one hand, The Terminal List is one of my favorite books. Despite borrowing heavily from Brad Thor, Carr has the real world experience to make the details of a life in the shadows come alive. He knows violence and revenge, and as a reader you can tell. His follow-on books continued a good mix of spy thriller and modern day political/operational analysis/commentary that worked and kept me reading. On the other hand, this particular novel is just as much a work of contemporary threat inflation as it is a work of fiction. For a moment indulge me… following the political and international security trend, Carr makes his newest enemy the West’s Modern Cold War adversary - China. While I am quite sure he read (at least what he thought) was the requisite literature on the topic (see Rush Doshi’s The Long Game, Pillsbury’s The Hundred-Year Marathon, Dollar’s China 2049, etc), he is simply furthering a new “Red Scare”. In truth, most of Carr’s references and analysis in this novel read like a first semester international security studies curriculum. All that being said, I read and enjoyed it (minus the repeated deep sighs during discussions of Chinese nefarious activity and inclusion of pop culture conspiracy theories). He creates good pace and the details of “working in the grey” are enticing. Lastly, for those complaining about the references to companies and products, Carr name-drops for three reasons: 1. As a shameless plug for businesses owned by his special operator buddies and generate support/sales. So sue him for helping out friends. 2. As a literary technique to give the story validity and anchor it to modern day. “Oh he knows what he’s talking about, listen to the detail.” “He has Netflix? I have Netflix.” 3. As a trail of breadcrumbs for the reader to learn more about topics for themselves. If he lists books, authors, businesses, historical programs, etc. the reader can educate themselves and further understand the characters (and authors) point of view. This is also a military style of education “here’s a bunch of stuff, go figure it out for yourself.” All in all, if you like this genre of book or his previous books - well, you’ll like this one too. I couldn’t get past the over generalization of the current international security climate, hopefully this is just a hook for audiences. 3 stars.

I could have given this a 4, compared to his other books though, this was tough to get through at times. Starting with Terminal List, Jack Carr writes way too many details on weapons. Now he’s writing every little detail on vehicles and every little movement of characters and it’s just exhausting to get through. We don’t need that much detail. It took like the first third of the book to set up the story, just way too long to get to the plot.

I have loved this series but this one didn’t flow as well as past ones for me. When it was pure storyline it was great.

My least favorite book so far in the series. I felt like it was great book the last 1/3 of the book. Just had to get through the history lessons in the first 2/3 of book.

This book was solid, but I didn't enjoy it as much as the rest of the series. It took a while to get to the real action, which is not necessarily bad, but it felt slow in this case. There seemed to be even more recitations of brand names in this book; they all have these highly detailed descriptions of everyone's gear, but it seemed to be a bit much in this book. There was also some exposition dialogue that was too clunky. It sounded like podcast talking points. And the lack of contractions in the dialogue drove me nuts. People just don't talk that way, military or not. Still, it's another popcorn novel that is a fun, easy read. This may be the end of the series based on how it ends. Apparently, Carr's next book is coming out now and it's a prequel featuring Reece's father during Vietnam. I think that time period with less tech may be more fertile ground for a story. Hope so.

I didn’t realize this was part 7 of a series of thrillers about former Navy Seal James Reece. Carr does a good job of referencing the other books without overplaying the canon card. I was able to enjoy a solid summer thriller even without having read the other books. I didn’t love the first part of the novel—I gave it about 50 pages and was tempted to hang it up, but I’m glad I finished it. The last half—and particularly the last third is fast-paced and thrilling. If you are interested in the proper names of weapons or watches this book is definitely for you—and make no mistake James Reece is an ass kicker.

Much like others that have read the series, I felt like Carr’s characterization of James Reece has declined. The plot in the later books has not been nearly as good as earlier entries. Chapter 10 served no real good emphasis to progressing the story, and as others pointed out felt like a caricature of a personal review Carr has received. The long lists of authors listed in several chapters just seemed to run on, 5 would have been sufficient but 15+ was overkill.

A book of two halves. The first one is a somewhat slow setup for the story with people talking to each other through cliched quotes from classic thinkers and the now customary (but completely unnecessary) pushing of products and brands. The second part is quite enjoyable action (if you don't count the 12% of glossary in the end - even less needed). As a positive, I was happy to see that the series is moving away from the Cold War legacy and to more relevant issues - China (finally), AI, space security.

Anyone who gave this 5 stars is sipping the Jack Carr Kool-Aid. The first few books in this series are some of my favorite ever. The past two have been a mix of absurdity, product promotion and just enough Reece to get us coming back.

3.5 stars Authors Hillary Rodham Clinton (left) and Louise Penny For this thriller, Hillary Rodham Clinton drew on her experience as U.S. Secretary of State and Louise Penny on her talent as a mystery writer to craft a tale about a Secretary of State trying to stop nuclear terrorists from exploding bombs in American cities. The twist - a traitor in the upper echelons of the U.S. government is helping the terrorists. ***** Newly elected President Douglas Williams isn't Ellen Adams' favorite person. When Williams was a powerful senator and Ellen was in charge of a global media empire.... .....Ellen's journalist son Gil Bahar was kidnapped by Middle Eastern terrorists. Senator Williams wouldn't allow the government to negotiate for Gil's release and Ellen expected her son to be beheaded momentarily.....but Gil miraculously escaped. Gil has now converted to Islam and has friends and contacts in the Middle East. After Williams failed to help Gil, Ellen used her media conglomerate to lobby HARD against the senator being nominated for president, but Williams got the nomination and won. Now - to everyone's shock - Williams has made Ellen Secretary of State, but he plans to sabotage and disgrace her. The new administration has to repair the damage done by the previous president, Eric Dunn - called Eric the Dunce by his critics - who cozied up to dictators, allowed Iran to pursue nuclear weapons, damaged America's relations with its allies, and more. As if that's not bad enough, three bus bombs explode in a single day - first in London, then in Paris, and finally in Frankfurt. Just before the last bomb explodes a Pakistani-American foreign service officer called Anahita Dahir realizes a gibberish email she received, which her boss thought was spam, was a warning about the bombs. Secretary of State Adams gets the news just moments before the last bomb explodes, and is able to warn her son Gil, who's on the Frankfurt bus following a Pakistani nuclear physicist. Gil escapes the bus in time, but is injured and taken to the hospital. It turns out the bombs were detonated for the express purpose of killing three Pakistani scientists on their way to build nuclear weapons for other Middle Eastern factions. The theory is that Iran planted the bombs to stop its enemies in the region from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. The situation in the Middle East is always complicated, but the U.S. suspects the Russian Mafia - under the supervision of Russian President Ivanov - is selling nuclear components to Middle Eastern terrorists, and a Pakistani nuclear physicist called Dr. Bashir Shah is providing scientists to those same terrorists, all to help the zealots build nuclear bombs. Ellen and her trusted counselor Betsy Jameson..... ....along with foreign service officer Anahita Dahir and members of Ellen's staff - rush to the Middle East. Ellen plans to consult with the leaders of Iran, Pakistan, and Afghanistan, hoping to get information about the terrorists' identity and location. Along the way Ellen learns that three nuclear weapons have been placed in American cities, and are set to be detonated at any moment. Meanwhile Ellen's son Gil leaves the hospital and makes his way to his secret source in Afghanistan, who tells him a 'High Level Informant' in America is in league with Russia and the terrorists. When Ellen learns about the traitor she sends Betsy back to America to investigate the miscreant's identity. Betsy gets assistance from a disgruntled member of former President Dunn's administration, and their prying leads to murder. Meanwhile Ellen - with the blessings of President Williams (who's come to appreciate her intelligence and capabilities) - is in a race against time to stop the explosions on American soil. Ellen even confronts Russian President Ivanov, and gives him a taste of his own medicine. As with all thrillers, the plot requires some suspension of disbelief, but it mirrors several real world worries, like the Russian mafia arming the world, and Americans trying to undermine their own government. Fans of Louise Penny's Detective Inspector Armand Gamache series, set in the Canadian village of Three Pines, will be happy to see some favorite characters. Moreover, Secretary of State Ellen Adams' favorite poet is Ruth Zardo. 🙂 I enjoyed this fast-paced thriller, and got a kick out of Ellen Adams and her ally Betsy Jameson going face to face with some tough guys. Thriller fans (except for supporters of former President Trump) would probably enjoy this book. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

Average thriller read

detailed thriller but not a page turner though could of been much shorter as seemed to get lost in too much detail

3 ⭐️ The ending . . . I cried. I had a heart attack. And now I’m staring into space like life has no meaning. I am unwell. "The first year is when some of us lose our lives. The second year is when the rest of us lose our humanity." Prepare to join the revolution. WHAT TO EXPECT: ✨ adult romantasy ✨ book 2 of the Empyrean Series ✨ established romance (but they're stubborn idiots) ✨ war college setting ✨ dragon riders ✨ magic ✨ unique world building ✨ complex politics ✨ found family ✨ chronic illness rep ✨ action-packed ✨ high stakes ✨ 2.5/5 🌶️ (3 explicit spicy scenes) ✨ massive cliffhanger ✨ TW: physical torture, imprisonment, brutal injuries, perilous situations, blood, dismemberment, burning, murder, death, grief, ow drama. My Thoughts: It's been one week since I finished Iron Flame and I am still unwell. No matter how hard I try, I cannot get this book out of my head, all because of those last 25 pages . . . ⁠How dare Rebecca do this to us, knowing we have to wait god knows how long for book 3. 😭 ⁠ Did I enjoy it? Yes. ⁠ Was it better than Fourth Wing? No. ⁠ But will I continue the series? Abso-f*cking-lutely! ⁠ This book is really hard for me to rate because while I enjoyed the story and the ending, there were a lot of technical (plot/character) issues that definitely hindered my overall enjoyment. *SPOILERS AHEAD* ⁠ What I liked: ⁠The story is action-packed from start to finish, so you'll never want to put this book down. Iron Flame is divided into two parts. Part one takes place at Basgiath War College and part two focuses on the Revolution. There's 623 pages total, and I genuinely felt like I read two books because so much happens. I'm glad I took detailed notes because I've already forgotten a lot and I know I'll need to refer to them before starting book 3. The continued world-building is fascinating. Like I said, this story is non-stop and that includes uncovering new information about the history and politics of this world. We now have a solid idea on what's really happening on the continent, however, there's still so many unanswered questions about the past (before the unification), the venin, and the Empyrean. I love this phase of a long series because there's still so much we don't know or understand, and I can't wait to see everything unfold and come together in the next few books. ⁠ These characters are some of my favorites and need to be protected at all costs. Violet is still a badass. Xaden is still daddy. Tairn is fucking hilarious. And Andarna is the sassiest bitch in the realm. I do wish she wasn't away for half the story though. Violet internally struggled a lot more in this book by bottling up her emotions, distancing herself from her friends, and taking on too much responsibility (like researching the wards). Violet is just as strong and determined as she was in Fourth Wing, but in Iron Flame, we see the toll everything takes on her. I'm glad that by part two she starts to lean on her friends more, but I'm worried how she's going to manage after the events at the end of book 2. There's only so much a person can take, and I fear Violet may break at some point in the future. I'm looking forward to seeing how her character develops in the rest of the series. PS: Violet during the torture scenes and and final battle when she saves Sawyer was impressive as hell! I respect her so much and strive to be just as badass. Xaden is still top tier book boyfriend material. Look, he is not perfect. In fact, I'm a little pissed at him for constantly putting the responsibility of sharing truths on Violet throughout this story when he could have easily been open and forthcoming. BUT I DON'T CARE. That man is just so damn confident, intelligent, sexy and loyal to Violet, that the minute he's on the page, I lose my damn mind. And when he writes letters to Violet . . . I melted. He isn't even a romantic guy, but did one of the most romantic things in the world. There's also a lot of side characters (both old and new) that I enjoyed getting to know better: Rhi, Ridoc, Imogen, Bodhi, Mira, Brennan, Sawyer, Jesinia, Sloane, and Maren. There's also a bunch of characters I loathe and wanted to see die a slow and painful death. Some don't. Some do. *cough* Varrish *cough*. Fuck that guy. But I can't complain, because everyone likes a good villain and Iron Flame definitely had a few! PS: I don't hate Dain anymore. Obviously, what he did was absolutely horrible and I don't think I can ever truly forgive him for the role he played in Liam's death. BUT we have to remember, he didn't know what was going to happen and seems to be very repentant for it all. Do I trust him? Hell no. But do I think he's a bad guy? No. I still think he needs to redeem himself, so I'll be curious to see where his character goes from here. Those few chapters with imaginary Liam were everything. 😭 Liam's death absolutely broke me and still haunts me to this day. So seeing him again, in the way that we did, gave me some closure. But this entire situation has me wondering (THEORY AHEAD), what if Violet's second signent is her talking to the dead?! We know a lot of history has been lost or written out of existence, so I'm wondering if the only way Violet can find answers is through some power of communicating with the dead? RIP Mama Sorrengail. For all of Fourth Wing and most of Iron Flame, I hated her. And honestly, even after everything, I still don't like her very much. However, while I know she wasn't a great person or mom, I understand her choices. Again, I don't agree with them, but she really thought she was protecting her children. I wept when she died, not because I am sad she's dead, but for Brennan, Mira, and Violet. They now know that even if their mom was misguided, her intention was driven by the love of her children and now that she's gone, they'll mourn what was and what could have been. They each had such different responses and I felt them all. The ending . . . I mean, I've already talked enough about it but DAMN, I DID NOT SEE THAT COMING. I predicted General Sorrengail would die but I thought maybe Violet would get taken by the Sage or something. So yeah, I am still completely shocked by that ending, maybe even a little pissed, and will be sending Rebecca Yarros my next therapy bill. What I didn't like: This is a small gripe, but why are they using the Julian Calendar in this fantasy world? I mean, Rebecca created a completely new world but couldn't come up with different names for the months of the year? Every time it mentioned December or July, it totally took me out of the story. ⁠ The pacing was frantic and for what? So much happens, yet, at the same time, I didn't feel like a lot happened to push the overarching plot forward. The highlights are: Violet goes back to school, Violet tries to learn about wards, Violet gets tortured, Violet and half the college goes back to revolution headquarters, Xaden and Violet get the luminary, and then the final battle happens. We didn't need 600+ pages just to give us that. @listenwithbritt mentioned in an IG reel that the pacing felt like she was watching a TV series, and I totally agree. Every few chapters felt like a TV episode with some small task that needed to be accomplished or there was a hurdle to overcome; then it would get quickly resolved and they'd move onto the next thing. There were a lot of small subplots that were unimportant and felt like filler scenes. So the constant bombardment of action, angst, or mystery was a bit overwhelming and it was hard to decipher at the time what scenes were really important for the overall story. For example, what real value did the survival class or the death hike scenes offer? In my opinion, not much but creating small moments of conflict to keep the story moving along. Maybe Rebecca wrote Iron Flame this way since the series is getting turned into a TV series by Amazon. The story was too dense. There were too many new names, history, and general knowledge to really keep track of what was important. And there were quite a few things that weren't fully explained or were overlooked. Pair that with the frantic pacing, and there wasn't enough time to fully digest all this new information before we were forced to move on to the next part of the story. I had to read slowly, re-read sections, and take notes to keep track of everything. Doing that for 16 hours was a bit overwhelming and exhausting. I HATED the other woman (OW) drama. It’s a tacky, cheap, and overdone romance conflict and totally unnecessary. There was also a big inconsistency surrounding it. First off, Bodhi mentions Cat early on by saying how Xaden has never cared so much about anyone, not even Cat, which alluded that at some point Xaden was involved with and potentially cared deeply for another woman. But later, Xaden says Cat could die for all he cares and he has never loved her. So why was Violet lead to believe he had feelings for another woman at some point? Solely to create drama between Xaden and Violet. And why didn’t Violet ask Xaden about Cat the minute she found out about her? If she did this, she wouldn’t have been blindsided by it all CHAPTERS LATER when they went to get the luminary from Cat’s family. Also, Xaden should have been transparent about Cat when it first came up so Violet didn't spend chapters feeling insecure. And the way Cat was a nasty bitch to Violet the entire book, but then randomly decides she's cool with her after Violet saves her life was so anticlimactic. This was probably the weakest sub-plot of the entire book. And if there's more OW or OM drama in the rest of the series, I will fucking riot. Xaden better not use Cat to drive Violet away in the next book. I was underwhelmed by the romance. Honestly, their relationship was stagnant because they didn't have enough time together in this book. With Xaden being away for most of the first part and then they end up doing their own things for the Revolution during the second part, there was little time for them to really grow deeper as a couple. I also expected more groveling by Xaden at the beginning, but instead he makes Violet responsible for his honesty by saying she has to be the one to ask questions and then he'll answer. But for the entire book, Violet doesn't ask him anything! So, she doesn't get any answers! Meanwhile, Xaden just sits around, not communicating with Violet, when he could easily take the initiative to share his truths. Their lack of communication was so frustrating and was definitely done to create drama for the story. It was dumb and lazy writing. They could have easily set aside time to really hash out the issues of their relationship and dive deep into the secrets Xaden is keeping, but they don't. The smut also didn't hit this time. For the size of this book and the fact Xaden and Violet are an already established relationship, I expected at least five sex scenes, but we got three. Okay, I'll admit, the throne scene was hot but only because of the setting. I wasn't excited by the dirty talk and, yeah, the smut was just lackluster in my opinion. It wasn't bad, just forgettable. It didn't feel like any character had enough time to go through any real development. I think this occurred because there were so many new characters introduced that the attention of the story was split. Or maybe it's also because the story is in Violet's POV and she pulled away from everyone, so since she wasn't as ingrained in their lives, she didn't notice changes/growth? I don't know, but I wish we could have had more time with Xaden, Rhi, and Sloane. There were a few things that didn't really get explained. For example, why wouldn't Brennan encourage Violet to do research on wards? Violet was trained as a Scribe and would be an excellent person to assign for this task. I get he didn't think they would have enough time to figure it out and he thought they should focus on making more weapons, but no one assigned Violet a mission, so why have her do nothing instead of possibly finding a solution to win the war? His logic wasn't full-proof. Also, the end where Brennan fixes the wardstone. . . we spent the entire book trying to understand wards and then figure out how to mend them and somehow Brennan does this but we don't see how? It better be explained in the next book and not glossed over. Also, why did Xaden become venin? In the dream he has, the Sage said it would save Violet from dying while she was draining herself for the wardstone, but I don't see how thats true. If you have any ideas please let me know. And random but can someone please make a timeline of when Xaden would have been able to have a relationship with Cat? Because according to my math, he would have been, like, 14 years old! There are even more situations that needed an explanation but I don't have the energy to go through them all. Overall, Iron Flame was a decent sequel. I enjoyed it. I was entertained. But it was messy, and left me wanting more and less at the same time. It should have been shorter, the plot should have been cleaned up a bit, and we should have spent more time with our favorite characters instead of being introduced to a shit ton of new characters (whom I'm still not sure are important). It really is entertaining though, so if you enjoyed Fourth Wing, you'll probably enjoy this one, or at the very least, be able to push through it. I promise, the ending is well worth the wait. - The Empyrean Series: 1. Fourth Wing: 5 ⭐️ 2. Iron Flame: 3 ⭐️ 3. Onyx Storm: 3 ⭐️ 4. Book 4 5. Book 5 - Favorite Quotes: Love doesn't even have the decency to die. It just transforms into abject misery. _______ Love, at its root, is hope. Hope for tomorrow. Hope for what could be. Hope that the someone you've entrusted your everything to will cradle and protect it. And hope? That shit is harder to kill than a dragon. _______ "Even when I'm not with you, there's only you." _______ "Humans have the memories of gnats. Dragons hold grudges." - Tairn _______ He is the horizon and nothing exists beyond for me. _______ "You and I are not easy people. What we build together has to be strong enough to withstand a storm. Or a war. Easy isn't going to give that to us." _______ "Violence, remember it's only the body that's fragile. You are unbreakable." _______ He smells like mint and leather and mine. _______ "Gods, look at you. You are all I'm ever going to want. Just you. Just this. Just us." _______ "An emotional inconvenience? Is that what I am to you?" - Violet "You're currently a prized annoyance." - Tairn _______ "Don't leave me." "I won't. I swear." 😭 _______ "I will happily watch Aretia burn to the fucking ground again if it means you live." "You don't mean that." "I do. I'm sorry if you expect me to do the noble thing. I warned you I'm not sweet or soft or kind, and you fell anyways. That is what you get, Violet - me. The good, the bad, the unforgivable. All of it. I am yours." _______ "I love you. I'm in love with you. I'm grateful my life is tied to yours because it means I won't have to face a day without you in it. My heart only beats as long as yours does, and when you die, I'll meet Malek at your side. It's a damn good thing that you love me, too, because you're stuck with me in this life and every other that could possibly follow." _______ "I am not powerful just because he loves me." "No. You're powerful and he loves you, which is even worse." _______ "Do you know who you sound like right now? "Please, enlighten me." "Dain." _______ "Would Riorson let you rush into a battle against gods knows how many wyvern - or worse, the venin who created them - when you're wounded? "Yes. That's why I love him." _______ "Secrets die with the people who keep them." _______ "We do not eat our allies. Find another snack." - Tairn _______ "My house. My chair. My woman." 🔥 _______ "Nothing you could ever do would be unforgivable to me." _______ "How long do you think it takes for someone to fall out of love? A day? A month? I'm asking because I don't have any experience with it." _______ "You're capable of hurting me in ways I'm not sure you've ever begun to fathom, Violet. I might be skilled enough to land a death blow, but you alone have the power to fucking destroy me." _______ "I love you. You could throw my entire world into upheaval, and I would still love you. You could keep secrets, run a revolution, frustrate the shit out of me, probably ruin me, and I would still love you. I can't make it stop. I don't want to. You're my gravity. Nothing in my world works without you." _______ I will not die today. I can't say the same about tomorrow. _______ "I would rather lose this entire war than live without, and if that means I have to prove myself over and over, then I'll do it. You gave me your heart, and I'm keeping it." _______ The world doesn't exist for me beyond you. _______ "Do me a favor and don't die. I don't want to live without you." "We don't die today. Even Malek himself couldn't keep me from you." _______ I am the storm. _______

Because love, at its root, is hope. Hope for tomorrow. Hope for what could be. Hope that someone you've entrusted your everything to will cradle and protect it. And hope? That shit is harder to kill than a dragon. Well, fuck🥲 That being said, I promised myself I'd finish my current readings before starting this one, but FoMo was a bitch and then, would you believe that, I tripped and fell into Xadaddy's arms. Silly, clumsy me. Iron Flame was alright, but I'm not crazy about it. I found the writing even more YAish than it was in Fourth Wing and I, painfully, have to admit I feel the same about the romance. I don't know if maybe, when I first read Fourth Wing, I was in a place, mentally speaking, where my reader needs were more than met despite the flaws, but it seems like I can't overlook them with the sequel. Being completely honest, the plot does pick up after the first half and the romance has its up and downs all through the story, but it never reaches the point where I felt like giving up on it completely. The smut was fine and the tension well written, but I'm not a fan of Yarros's idea of spicy dialogues. The one liners, sometimes, made me cringe a little, and the characterization of the main characters left me a tad confused, at times, especially at the beginning. I couldn't follow the story properly because I felt like Violet was thinking one thing then acting in a completely opposite way. Speaking of Violet... When I read FW, I thought Yarros'd made her a bit of a Mary Sue, but that was okay, because she had obvious flaws, even she was aware of, to balance her randomly having every special skill on the menu and succeding in every single task she was burdened with. Iron Flame Violet is a total badass and she's definitely grown a lot, but she also feels a little incomplete and rough at the edges. I don't know if it's intentional and/or tied to her future evolution, but I wouldn't have minded her being more confident, especially when it comes to her relationship with Xaden. Xaden is still daddy, in case you're asking, and he was a total dreamboat, the ultimate book boyfriend from start to finish. Like I've mentioned before, I wasn't really sure about the romance, at first. I wanted more grovelling and Violet's constant thirsting over Xaden's fine behind gave me a headache. It gave me major early Tory/Darius vibes, and if you're a fan of Zodiac Academy, you'll get what I mean. Thankfully, things took a pleasant turn when I reached the second part and I wasn't only rooting for them, I was absolutely feral when everything mined their eventual happiness. This works for the plot as well. In the first half, I wasn't really enjoying myself and could count on one hand the moments I actually found interesting. But then shit hit the fan, twists started piling up and every page turned was an angsty fest I totally wanted to attend. I devoured the second half in hours and when I reached the end, just felt like staring at the wall. And have a mojito or two. I definitely didn't see THAT coming. Another thing I really appreciated, aside from the chef's kiss perfect action scenes and THE SASSY DRAGONS (omg my baby Andarna!!!), were the secondary characers. Violet and Xaden's friends deserve their own books - Rhi in particular <3<3<3< - and I definitely hope the sequels will focus on them more, especially because some characters are only now starting to blossom and they seem particularly interesting. I also would like to take advantage of this topic to admit I never really hated Dain. I'm pretty passive when it comes to him, but I swear to god, if RY takes that direction, I'm gonna throw a fit. Overall, this was, for me, a decent sequel, albeit an unnecessarily long one. If you loved FW but are having trouble with it like I did, I recommend pushing through it. All in all, it's pretty worth it. I'll leave under the spoiler tag some sort of disclaimer because, even though I usually try my best to stay clear of any kind of drama and hate brining real life politics into my bookish heaven, I've been harassed for a couple days both in public and in private because of my choice to give this book a chance, so for the first and last time in my permanence here on this site, I'll go out of my usual way and discuss things I usually never discuss on GR, after all. (view spoiler)

3.5 ⭐️ this was still good but not as good as fourth wing. It felt rushed and definitely didn’t have to be 600+ pages. I hope she takes her time with the next book.

Fourth Wing was so unique and special. Meanwhile Iron Flame was just mediocre. Things I liked: -Andarna. She's just...... 🥰💖✨💓😍💗🥺💞 -Tairn. Thank god he's huge because he had to carry the weight of the whole series on his back. That scene when he made that guy kneel and apologize? Papito 😮‍💨 -The torture and rescue scenes... no spoilers. Just, physical and emotional torture porn done right, I guess. -Liam. Even dead, he was the best in this clusterfuck. -The throne scene. Gave me very strong FBAA vibes but eh, we dig it. Things I didn't like: - Catriona. Throw this whole plot to the pits of fire. I hated it so much. Women fighting over a man only makes me hate that man. Xaden lost hotness after that. It was just fucking silly and juvenile and disgusting. Authors who aren't girlie girls shouldn't write romance, it just sours the whole thing for me. - Jack ????? Even worse than bringing main characters back to life, is bringing the villains back. Nope. Hard pass. We already dealt with him in the first book. Just keep him dead. - The constant back and forth between Violet and Xaden. Their arguments were so shallow and stupid. This whole book reads like a YA book but with smut. Fucking weird. - The reveal of Xaden’s secondary power and her reaction. Made me realize they are probably not that compatible and their relationship is mostly based on attraction and bonded dragons. -That ending. Such bullshit. I hated it. Unnecessary drama to drag things on for 5 books. We already know Xaden will be fine. Whatever. -Same popular tropes and plot twists we have seen in romantasy before. Not a single original thought in sight. And what I hated the most: I won't support Rebecca Yarros anymore. I loved Forth Wing and needed to read the next one, but after such a disappointment, I can drop the series without regrets.

“my house. my chair. my woman.” BOOMSHAKALAKA.

3.5 Umm, so why was this actually almost good? Like, astronomically better than Fourth Wing? I went in with extremely low expectations and… I think I’m impressed? So I still don’t really know how I feel about this book but I will say that one constant between the first and second books was the writing which was absolutely horrid. Honestly, this book would have probably been over 4 stars for me if it wasn’t for the unbearably cringy and overall clunky writing. I don’t understand why Rebecca puts in periods just about everywhere that they don’t belong and there were enough f-bombs to write 10 pages. Without the f-bombs we were already at 623 which is far too long but that just put me over the edge. The number of chapters that ended with “Fuck.” was criminal yet still not quite as bad as the use of the term “abso-fucking-lutely” which made me want to crawl into a whole and never come out. Overall though, I would say that almost every other problem I had with the first book improved drastically in this one. Most noticeably was the world-building which expanded significantly and got a lot more (and much needed) attention. That’s not to say that there weren’t some plot holes in this regard though. I still don’t understand why Basgiath, a war college in desperate need of soldiers to fight in all these wars, is so proud about their high death rate because they kill off so many of their cadets. Like, what? I also don’t think that the difference between all these different species of creatures (mainly wyvern and dragons) was ever described and how all the different magic systems work. The characters were also a lot better and the side characters got a lot of attention and added depth which was desperately needed in Fourth Wing. I loved the addition of new characters too (my homegirl Sloane ily :), especially in the 2nd half. But also, why did this book drag a little? I really wasn't expecting any slow spots but I did do some skimming. The romance was better but the bar was basically on the ground because it was so bad last book. I had a lot of issues with it previously because there was a lot of objectification and sexualization (on both sides) and i felt like the romance was purely physical. I’m not even going to get into the cringy sex and Violet’s whole “I want to climb him like a tree” thing (oh and let’s not forget “flaming hot, scorching hot, gets you into trouble and you like it level hot”) but I think that Xaden and Violet must have aged a few years because they seemed a lot more reasonable this time around. I mainly want to give props to Xaden though whom I really disliked in Fourth Wing but redeemed himself (a lot) because he was actually trying to improve his relationship with Violet and understand her better on an emotional level (and they were always trying to become more trustworthy and work on their communication). I mean, I did wish that he was a little more remorseful and I was looking forward to seeing him pining after Violet after he basically destroyed his whole character at the end of the last book, but I was a little disappointed in him tbh. SPOILERS And because we can’t talk about Xaden without comparing him to Dain, I present My Defense of Dain Aetos. Okay, I understand that Dain did some pretty messed up stuff, taking Violet’s memories and all that, but he really isn’t that bad compared to literally every other person in these books. I mean, Xaden lied about his whole identity (multiple times) and kept a lot of secrets from Violet yet she still forgives him despite the fact that he really didn’t do much to try to win back her trust and make it up to her. Dain, on the other hand, did everything he could to win back Violet’s trust and make it up to her. He apologized and admitted that what he did was very wrong and it also was revealed that it wasn’t really even his fault that Liam and Soleil died. Dain is a rule follower and he’s always going to do what he thinks is the right thing. His whole life, Dain was raised to hate rebels like Xaden so of course he wasn’t going to trust Xaden and would want to fight against those rebels. He also was just overprotective of Violet when she arrived at Basgiath because 1) he had just spent a year watching all of his friends die and 2) she was literally trained to be a scribe and was, statistically, likely going to die because she was so unfit to be a rider. Everyone wants to hate on Dain for not believing in Violet’s capabilities but she literally DIDNT HAVE ANY. Like, of course he, her best friend, was going to try to get her to leave and go back to the scribe quadrant where she, you know, WOULDNT DIE. And he really did redeem himself in this book and was one of my favorite characters tbh. That's not to say that I actually like him, but id put him on par Xaden, which is to say not very much. Problematic, but not without their good qualities. Anyway, back to my review. THAT ENDING. Absolutely phenomenal. Xaden and Jack Barlow (still mad he got resurrected), my favorite venin brothers. Maybe I should have gasped or something when I got to that part but I couldn't stop laughing. SPOILERS END So, long story short, Violet's still annoying and the writing's still terrible, but this was a big improvement.

Second read: we made it ya’ll 🫡 still a 3 star read, thankfully the graphic audio helped me get through this. ——— First read: 3 stars 🌟 ╰⪼ Thoughts Was this book written the best? Sadly no. The writing in Fourth Wing was better and the 6 month turnaround did translate on page. There was multiple times while I read this book and found myself re-reading certain lines or pages again because I couldn't work out what was going on. Sometimes I couldn't work out who was saying what and to who. There are so many unanswered questions and potential plot holes to be covered in the next book but I’m struggling to see how this can span over 5 books. The fantasy elements and world building was a lot heavier in this book than Fourth Wing which I expected, although it was overkill to an extent. ★ Violet I've seen quite a bit of hate towards Violet for her role in the communication breakdown with Xaden. I don't find this completely fair, they were both as bad as each other. Violet has been lied to her whole life. The cliffhanger from Fourth Wing was a massive revelation. Xaden played a big role in the communication too. I think it was important to Violet to assert her role in their relationship and set boundaries. She spent so much of book one putting her heart on the line for Xaden. Violet wasn’t blameless and purposefuly avoided asking what she wanted and lost her spark from book 1. I did enjoy the angst and tension between Xaden and Violet because it gave us the last 50% of the book, but I’d be lying if I said the first half wasn’t a struggle. I was getting tired!! ★ Xaden This man did everything I wanted him to in this book. I was upset at him too but he slowly started to show the pieces of himself to Violet. We love men who yearn 🧎‍♀️ As much as I love him, he’s not faultless. He kept pushing her for the "3 words" but he had never actually shown that vulnerability to Violet that he was demanding. ★ Cat This girl gets her own section. I don't think I've ever hated a character as much as her AND that includes Varish of all people. I'll be honest, I really don't see how this storyline was necessary. It was a hard pill to swallow but we got chapter 48 out of it which was a win… ★ Dain Honestly, all I have to say about him is that he done one good thing in this book and it still wasn't enough for me to like him. I felt like his presence was entirely unnecessary and I will not be hopping on his redemption arc. "Would Riorson let you rush into a battle against gods knows how many wyvern or worse, the venin who created them? When you're wounded?” "Yes. That's why I love him." ★ Andarna and Tairn Tairn and Andarna CARRIED this book, I absolutely loved their grumpy dad/teenage banter. This was all written perfectly and lightened the book up when it needed to. "We do not eat our allies. Find another snack." "You never let me have any fun." THE ENDING I mean that CLIFFHANGER? What is Rebecca Yarros trying to do to me... I can see what people have compared it to Vampire Acaedmy. The timeline of the ending kind of jumped all around the place which threw me off massively, I had to go back and reread it a few times. I have so many theories but I want to keep this spoiler free. Rebecca give me peace please!! Quotes "Even when I'm not with you, there's only you." "I simultaneously want to climb the man and kick him hard in the shins." "You love me" He whispers. “Stop reminding me. I thought we agreed not to fight tonight." "Maybe you're not the one I'm reminding." "Who the fuck's flight jacket are you wearing?" "Violence, remember it's only the body that's fragile. You are unbreakable." "I'm sorry if you expect me to do the noble thing. I warned you I'm not sweet or soft or kind, and you fell anyways. That is what you get, Violet - me. The good, the bad, the unforgivable. All of it. I am yours." "I love you. I'm in love with you. I'm grateful my life is tied to yours because it means I won't have to face a day without you in it. My heart only beats as long as yours does, and when you die, I'll meet Malek at your side. It's a damn good thing that you love me, too, because you're stuck with me in this life and every other that could possibly follow." "There are hundreds of people in this palace of a house and I want them all to know you're mine." "Scratch her eyes out." "My house. My Chair. My Woman." "Let's feed her to Sgaeyl" "That trick that you mentioned? You know with the fingers? Thanks." "You're capable of hurting me in ways I'm not sure you've ever begun to fathom, Violet. I might be skilled enough to land a death blow, but you alone have the power to fucking destroy me." "I love you. You could throw my entire world into upheaval, and I would still love you. You could keep secrets, run a revolution, frustrate the shit out of me, probably ruin me, and I would still love you. I can't make it stop. I don't want to. You're my gravity. Nothing in my world works without you." "I chose you!"

5 stars for the dragons minus 2 stars for violet and xaden being kinda annoying plus 0.5 star for that ending total 3.5 stars

It's getting so hard for me rate books in this series because the reality is... nearly any book in the In Death series is going to be a fun reading experience for me. I love the characters, I love the way the plots tend to work- basically, I love the general cozy feelings that this series gives me, which is a weird thing to say, I know, based on how grisly plot elements can get. That said, while I had a lovely time reading this, I don't think this was one of the best in the series. Particularly, I think some of the "hurt one of our family, hurt us all" elements just came across as kind of cheesy & improbable. I also am just uncomfortable that there is so much extrajudicial violence that continues to be perpetuated by the police in this series. I know that we're supposed to know that Eve & her team are "the good ones," but it's 2020. I think it's time to let fantasies of police taking justice into their own hands (e.g. allowing a suspect in their custody to be beaten in an act of personal revenge) go. It always takes me out of the story & mars what is otherwise a fun book.

This is book 51 of the Death series and I think Robb is getting bored. The book is well written. It is fast paced and the plot is interesting. What I miss are all the fascinating characters. I know she does not put all of the characters in every story but she usually rotates them. In the last few books, the majority of the interesting characters have been missing. To me, it is these unusual and exciting characters that make the book. I do realize this story is primarily about Roarke’s childhood. The book is a good –get- away-from- it- all. Susan Ericksen’s narration really makes the story move. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book is ten hours and 30 minutes. Susan Ericksen does an excellent job narrating the story. Ericksen is an actress and award-winning audiobook narrator.

This was exactly what I expected and was looking for. A five star read if you think about it being as I had desired; but really only a three star read in the grand scheme of things. I turn to this series when I need a break or am having a tumultuous time in my life. In this instance I was unexpectedly let go from my job. Just a 'bit' epic in the middle of pandemic restrictions and given I was not expecting it. I'm not sad to see that job go but I am stressed to now need to find a new job immediately with a set (somewhat short) timeframe before we have to dip into our emergency money now. But alas that is how it goes I suppose. A couple times late at night when I couldn't sleep I, very slowly, read this and it did provide the comfort I was hoping for. So that was nice. The plot and characters are same old, same old here. This time it's someone from Roarke's childhood who comes to town. Same old "it's personal" and "one of ours" rhetoric that Robb/Roberts has used to death (haha?) in this series. While it might even be just as productive to reread one of the earlier better books in this series; at least this way I didn't know exactly how it would end. Although of course it still ends positively for our troop. If you're expecting something different than usual here, or better than the last 3 or 4 books then you can skip this installment. There is little to no progress for our characters overall and no major plot points you need to know for future books that I can foresee. The only relevance might be that the crew may know a little more about Roarke's shady past; but still not any strict details and only confirming what they have all long suspected. The best part was a little tidbit, side comment, about a jewel heist that made me giggle. Gotta love when Robb/Roberts adds in those little, exciting, past events with few details.

Decent story, I was engaged, but not fantastic. My main problem was the villain. I didn't find him believable or probable. I was never seriously worried about Eve or Roarke's safety. And the fact that this character had never been mentioned or hinted at yet he was supposedly an important part of Roarke's past? Yeah, that didn't work at all. I liked the hunt for him and the support Eve and Roarke got from her team and the NYPSD. My how things have changed! :D It was good seeing Roarke's Irish relatives again and seeing the update on An Didean, the school/home for children in need. I enjoyed the story as a whole, it kept me reading, but I never bought into the villain. Maybe if we had some time in his POV or seen him in action more (though he was pretty nasty the few times we saw him in action) but he never felt real. We read all about him, heard other characters talk about him, but he himself was barely on page. Anyway, decent entry in the series, but not a must read.

This was good for a read but it may be the end of the road for me with this series. I am just a little tired of the same ol' same old. You expect that Eve will act and say what she does and she does, same for Roarke and Eve's team. I like them but might kiss them good-bye.

Okay, this book pissed me off at one particular spot, well no. More. SPOILERS AHEAD Roarke has been the one to straddle the line to help Eve in a case. Eve has always been the one to hold the line only dipping her toe across it in the name of justice. Table have turn and I get it. She wants to help her man. He’s always there for her, right? But this felt out of character. She has the creep wife killing husband with enough evidence to send him away and she’s willing to plead way down to get evidence she doesn’t need on the hired killer and Roarke’s nemesis. The thing is, what the husband has, she doesn’t really need to put him away. So why plead out. It’s just so out of character for Eve. She’s straight down the line. Believe me, if the husband had something she desperately needed, it wouldn’t have bothered me. Enough rant. The story was better. We weren’t dealing with Eve’s overplayed issues. I did find it hard to believe Eve’s only hearing about this nemesis Roark’s apparently been watch until now. We need a new series ARC. Eve needs a new issue that rattled her chain. I’m telling you pregnancy is it. Just saying. Narrator was awesome as always.

Shadows In Death is the 51st in the futuristic cop series by JD Robb. So, author Nora Roberts (writing as Robb) is obviously doing something right. The series kicked off in 1995 but—as I've mentioned before—our characters traverse time slowly so, Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her billionaire hubby really only exist when we're there to see them. Just like Santa Claus. Except the opposite. Here, Robb offers us something a little different. The 'crime' in question happens early, which isn't uncommon. But usually we would spend the rest of the novel trying to work out whodunnit. Here Eve and her offsider, the delightful Detective Delia Peabody solve this pretty quickly. It's murder for hire but things get complicated when Roarke's (kinda sordid and unlawful) past comes back to haunt him (and those he cares about). We've learned a bit about Roarke's history in previous novels (well, there have been 50 of them!) but it's revisited here so if you're just joining the series you get some backstory. In short, there's a vicious killer on the loose. Which isn't uncommon. But Lorcan Cobbe has got a Roarke-sized chip on his shoulder that's been growing since their childhood. Of course, we (and all of their friends and colleagues) know the Eve Dallas / Roarke team is basically invincible so all should be good. But we're happy to settle in for the ride anyway. I loved that this novel takes us in a slightly different direction. A cat and mouse or mouse and cat kinda scenario. Instead of needing to identify a killer, they're trying to track one down. One who's eluded Interpol (which exists in 2060 you'll be happy to know!) and chalked up over 400 murders. Eve, Roarke and the team do lots of digging here and unearthing of detail about Cobbe and (as usual) I enjoyed this element. I have to admit however the last few chapters became a little too fantastic. I mean, I know it's the year 2061 but this felt a little over-the-top... an action-loving techie's wet dream or similar. I was also unconvinced Cobbe would so easily change his plans near the end. That being said, this novel is excellent fun. Robb knows her characters well. Regular readers will be happy to see a little more of Eve's boss Whitney here as well as her mentor Feeney. And there's a stronger focus on relationships as well as actions and repercussions, which I liked as it reminded me of the early days (years or, ummm... decades?) of the series. Shadows In Death by JD Robb was published in Australia by Hachette is now available. I received a copy of this book from the publisher for review purposes. Read my review here: https://www.debbish.com/books-literat...

I don't dislike It Starts with Us per se, but it does feel more like a long and unnecessary epilogue to It Ends with Us rather than the separate, worthwhile story it should've been. I remember vividly the experience of reading It Ends with Us, how every page felt riveting and every moment essential. There were so many memorable scenes, so much emotion embedded in the pages. I sobbed my way through it, especially that ending that completely gutted me. To prep for this book, I reread the ending, and sure enough, it walloped me again. So it's rather disappointing that this story didn't do anything for me. There was no emotional punch, no compelling conflict. It took me days longer to read this than I anticipated because I didn't feel any pull to keep going. And now having finished this, I'm already unable to point to a single memorable moment because there honestly weren't any. But then, that's always the fear when an author gives in to fans and writes a sequel or prequel they originally had no intention of writing, isn't it? That the result would be mundane, at best an unnecessary add-on, at worst ruining the legacy of a previously amazing work. (I'm looking at you, Harry Potter and The Hunger Games.) More spelled out isn't always better. Whatever I had imagined in my head for Lily's future, it was more interesting than what I got. And in fact, to spell out Lily's future in the way that this sequel did took something away from the difficulty of Lily's decision at the end of the first book. Part of what I loved about that book was the nuanced and flawed characters, while this book distilled everyone down to either just a good guy or a bad guy. The other issue is that there is no real conflict or surprises in here. Sure, I enjoy reading a happy ending as much as the next person, but not for 300+ pages. It's clear without having read a single page of this book what will happen and who will end up happy. And sure enough, the story progresses and ends exactly the way you'd expect. And that just does not make for an enthralling read. This all sounds rather harsh, but it's really not that bad. It was an alright way to pass a few hours if you're not quite ready to leave the world of Lily and Atlas. This pleasant and unexciting story won't leave you breathless, but it shouldn't offend either. Just be ready to forget about it almost as soon as you're done. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: It Ends with Us Verity Reminders of Him Regretting You Ugly Love Layla ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

"want" to read lmao. i'm the clown with the big red nose reading this for the goodreads choice awards. HONK HONK

This book left me feeling more frustrated than fulfilled. As much as I wanted to love this book, especially given the anticipation following It Ends with Us, it ultimately fell flat for me. What I had hoped would be a deeper exploration of complex emotions and relationships felt more like a recycled story with little growth from the characters. The emotional tone of the book, which is usually Hoover's strength, felt watered down this time around. Instead of diving into the raw, messy feelings that made the first book so impactful, the sequel seemed content to stay on the surface. There were moments that felt forced, like it was trying too hard to tug at the heartstrings, but it didn’t land as authentically as I’d expected. It was almost as if the magic of the original was lost in an attempt to give readers a neat and tidy conclusion. Atlas and Lily's relationship, which had so much potential for a meaningful exploration of healing and second chances, felt like it was on autopilot. Their interactions lacked the depth and intensity I was craving—everything just felt too easy, too predictable. Instead of growing with them, I found myself disconnected, skimming through the pages hoping for more emotional depth that never fully arrived. The book tries to balance heavy themes with a more hopeful narrative, but in doing so, it sacrifices the weight of what made It Ends with Us so memorable. Instead of sitting with the pain, growth, and complexity of Lily's journey, it glosses over them in favor of an overly saccharine story that felt more like fan service than a true continuation. I’m all for happy endings, but when they come at the expense of authentic emotional exploration, it’s hard to stay invested. If you're looking for a light, feel-good read, It Starts with Us might satisfy you, but if you're hoping for the same depth and rawness that Hoover is known for, you might find yourself disappointed like I was. blog instagram facebook twitter

— 3 stars ✰ everyone wanted this book, now it’s here and suddenly everyone hates it. don’t know why everyone is disappointed, what exactly did you expect to happen? personally i enjoyed reading about lily and atlas story, some flashbacks were unnecessary since we saw those in iewu already.. was the book necessary? no. was it for the fans? absolutely. you don’t necessarily need to read the book. it ends with us works perfectly as a standalone but as i said before, i still enjoyed it josh and theo carried the book, loved the interactions between atlas and emmy but why, WHY did not ONE single person suggest that lily should go to therapy? what the hell???

I was so excited for this book. I ran straight home and read the entire thing on release night. It Ends with Us is on of my favorite books and I'm obsessed with Lily and Atlas. Unfortunately, I was so bored and underwhelmed by this book. In the beginning, I was giddy. I was back with my favorite characters and I jumped right into Atlas's POV. Unfortunately, that giddiness wore off and I was just bored. The romance just felt generic and boring because there was no angst or conflict that really kept them apart. I really loved the storyline with Josh and my favorite character was Theo, but I felt like we barely got to see them. I would have loved a deeper look at the Josh plot line and just more Theo in the story. I just felt like we had some side plots that were glossed over and weren't given enough time. And we didn't even get to see anything that much into future for Lily and Atlas. This book took place immediately after book one ended, and we didn't get much beyond that. We don't get to see any of the future? Just them trying to adjust to being together?? Overall, this just didn't have heart and the plot felt cliche and generic. This didn't have the romance and angst and punch I've come to love from Colleen. It was nice seeing my favorite characters, but it just left me a bit disappointed.

Atlas is a character you LOVE to LOVE. This is the story of Atlas and Lily. What could have been, what is happening, and what will be. The best part of It Starts with Us is Colleen Hoover's gift of Atlas' perspective. We get to see how he feels, where he is in his life, and what he wants for his future. We are introduced to a new character that plays a significant part in Atlas' life--but we’re not very interesting, unfortunately. Lily is a single mother, raising Emerson. Ryle and her are trying to co-parent. It's complicated. Ryle still has feelings for Lilly, what will she do? I liked Hoover's emphasis on Atlas and his journey. Lily lets Atlas read some of her old journals and in return, Atlas starts writing letters to Lily. However, Atlas’ POV sounded like Hoover was the writer, and didn’t get into HIS head enough. I wasn’t feeling the whole “Dory” the fish story line. I liked this book, but it didn’t have the punch of ‘It Ends with Us’. I think it is clear that Hoover's storytelling, more than her writing reels you in. An interesting plot, and multi-layered characters are part of Hoover's strength. ‘It Starts with Us’ is a very simplified version of real life. I don't believe things come easy in complicated relationships. Some of the more dynamic plots ended too quickly, in a less real world format. If Hoover would have dug a little deeper, showing the reader how dynamic single motherhood, the relationships we keep post divorce, and the hardship, it would have been more realistic. Overall, I loved Atlas and Lily's growth—but I don’t think it ties together on such a neat boy in real life This was a well done ending to the story. I hope we get a show/movie soon! 3.8/5 stars. Check out my other Colleen Hoover reviews: It Ends with Us November 9 Verity Reminders of Him Ugly Love

I hate to be the one to say it… but Lily and Atlas are better off as friends. Yes, they’re soulmates, but PLATONIC soulmates. Sorry🙈 Also I feel like Theo was just thrown in there for gay rep.. like he was only there so that everyone would be like ‘omg lgbtq rep!!’ He was funny and cute but he served literally no real purpose I rate it a 3.5⭐️.. I liked it more than It Ends With Us but only because there’s significantly less Ryle in this one !! I do see why somebody would rate this a 4 or 5⭐️ but there were just little things for me that I couldn’t put behind me :)

PSA!!! If you still “love” or feel there should be a redemption of Ryle… this isn’t the book nor is it right. Once again, It Ends With Us & It Starts With Us is women’s fiction and not a romance novel. GET IT THROUGH YOUR THICK HEAD. DONT FUCKING DRAG ME IM SORRY. Love is love. There’s hatred with love. Love in hatred. Though I think Atlas & Lily have that type of love that will reach the moon and never stop. "𝙔𝙤𝙪'𝙧𝙚 𝙜𝙤𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙤 𝙙𝙧𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙛𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙢𝙞𝙡𝙚𝙨 𝙟𝙪𝙨𝙩 𝙩𝙤 𝙜𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙢𝙚 𝙖 𝙝𝙪𝙜?" "𝙄’𝙙 𝙧𝙪𝙣 𝙛𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙢𝙞𝙡𝙚𝙨 𝙟𝙪𝙨𝙩 𝙩𝙤 𝙜𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙖 𝙝𝙪𝙜.” 3 stars. (i keep changing the rating stop being dramatic.) Rtc… COULDVE been a bonus chapter. Will change rating again because problematic.

To begin with, I think it is only appropriate that I admit to being a fairly avid reader of John Sandford over the years, a fan of both of his Lucas Davenport “Prey” and Virgil Flowers series, which easily captured my imagination. Davenport and Flowers are perfect opposites, providing a great compare and contrast personalities, as well as approaches to investigative work. Now, for the second time, Davenport’s adopted daughter, Letty, continues to take her own turn in the lead role of her own adventures. When we are reintroduced to Letty “Dark Angel” a year following her reputation building shootout in Pershing, Texas, she is working for Homeland Security on a stakeout of a FEMA warehouse where a group of employees are stealing heavy equipment and selling it to a Chinese company for some serious fringe benefits. During the mission, Letty gets partnered with Cartwright, a strong sharpshooter and fellow agent from another unnamed government agency. Afterwards, they become shooting partners and friends. Then Letty’s is called in to visit with her unofficial boss, Senator Colles, and other government officials who are drawn to her special skills and want for a dangerous assignment. Before she knows it, Letty is working with both Homeland Security and the NSA to infiltrate a hacker group going by the name of Ordinary People. They aren’t just any hacker team. They successfully got into the Russian train system and caused enough havoc that they were able to get a fifty million ransomware Bitcoin payoff. It now appears that Ordinary People are currently in Southern California looking at striking again, this time shutting down the natural gas systems in different parts of the United States, and risking economic havoc for more ransomware rewards. Letty’s job, along with her reluctant NSA programmer partner and slob named Baxter, is to head off to So-Cal posing as free-spirited programming rebels for hire. Needless to say, Letty and Baxter have severe personality differences, but that is only the first challenge they face. As they try to make connections with members of ordinary People, things immediately go haywire. People get killed. People are following them. And it doesn’t take long for Letty to realize the officials sending them on this mission were hiding things from them. Important things, like finding out that the hacker team is not their only enemy. There is a much more fearful one that will quickly move to permanently eliminate them. Even with the help of Cartwright being added to their twosome may not be enough to keep them alive… My upfront view is that I enjoyed this book; however, to a lesser degree than Letty’s first adventure. Let me shar what I liked first, and then I will address the reasons why I just didn’t care for it as much as the first one. There are some interesting aspects of Letty serving in a lead role. I appreciate that Sanford treats her as a complex, intelligent, and physically capable character, with depth and unique background that molds her into a strong female protagonist. Although she is still young and learning, Sanford gives her two different partners in this outing that contrast well with her personality and lifestyle. Cartwright serves as Letty’s own version of Spenser’s classic partner “Hawk”, providing self-contained violence and a sharp wit to match. Baxter, on the other hand, is brusque, whiny, and obnoxious, yet challenges Letty in her understanding of men and relationships. Cartwright and Baxter balance Letty’s aggressive style by letting her go and supporting her actions, and yet gently pull her back and teach her things that she still needs to learn. I really enjoyed the development of Letty and Cartwright’s relationship. There were also several fun moments in this one in which Letty and her partners outthink and out-maneuver the bad guys. I appreciated how Sandford put them into tight situations and they creatively and/or skillfully got themselves out. As a writer, this is one of his strengths. In addition, like her first outing, Sanford again provides Letty with the opportunity for adventure and development. He creates enough conflict and a dangerous adversary to challenge her face, and yet still allow her to learn the necessary lessons she needs along the way. The bad guys were bad, but not bad enough for her to outthink and strategically outflank them (along with governmental resource support). This is a tough thing for a writer to balance. She is still in her twenties and just gaining experience in her early career, even is she is in many ways (her stepfather) Lucas Davenport version 2.0. His influences on her are so much stronger than I previously thought. They both have a strong hunger for justice, for hunting down criminals, and a willingness to bend the law if needed for a righteous cause. I must admit that I like watching another Davenport take center stage as a young pup and blaze her trail in law enforcement. On the other hand, there were several things that were less enjoyable than the previous book. As I mentioned, there was more time spent on Letty’s relationships and interaction with her partners, which was cool. However, I wish there had been more time spent on developing and strengthening the primary hacker storyline. Unlike the last book in which it felt like Letty’s life was in real danger several times and she was physically drained, I never felt like she was at risk of being hurt in this one. She was always one step ahead of the bad guys throughout, from beginning to end. I am not even sure she sweated at any time. I have mentioned this previously and it has become a bit of a repeat. Over the last several Davenport and Letty books, the bad guys have been anti-government, political revolutionary-minded groups, ranging from racist supremacists to downright hicks with hatred and guns. One of the problems with using them as bad guys is that they don’t come across as organized, financially backed, or powerful. The other problem is that Letty spends more time running around and connecting the clues and investigation dots with lesser characters at the cost of building up the bad guys and making them more impressive and intimidating. There was a lot of running around in the first half of the book before the plotline really got moving along. Although I like how Letty was thinking and analyzing what was going on during the investigation, too much time was spent running from one location to another having heavily detailed discussions about firearms, and violent shootouts. What was missing was building sustainable tension and a strong plotline that demanded my attention. I never doubted the outcome of the concluding shootout and it felt a bit anti-climactic. Then there was the last five pages that came out of left field and came across as quite awkward – interesting, unexpected, but very awkward. It was so disjointed to the rest of the book and happened so fast that it lacked the proper development it deserved. It felt way out of character and I found myself shaking my head and mouthing what the heck? No spoilers here other than to say, it was a rather extreme behavior for Letty and it felt like there was a lot of situational context and explanation missing. It's almost like Sandford lost a bet and had to write those last five pages to force in a character action to make other people happy. Having said all that, I am giving this 3-stars because the enjoyable things outweighed the constructive feedback and weird ending, for now. But if these issues continue in future books, my ratings on Sanford novels will start dipping again. Let’s hope that’s not the case.

Plenty of stuff going on for Letty in the hacker community as she goes undercover.....and gets dragged in sideways to some very current events. The book was well paced and satisfying...and the major discomfort I got was the gun culture shown by the authorities in the beginning of the book especially...

I am on the fence on this series; I love the character of Letty and Sanford is building a great set of supporting characters. In that way, and in the action and investigation aspects, it's very similar to the fun of the Prey series but the canvas is bigger, given Letty's role. I don't think he's doing a great job with the more female aspects of the character, basically I feel a bit like it's writing Lucas as a younger, modern person vs Letty as her own character. Maybe that will change with time. The story is timely and a very tight clock on the plot, which adds a sense of urgency. As I mentioned, I really like the supporting characters and the world that's being built around Letty. I hope to see many of them again. I liked the story, feel like the plot worked very well all the way through; didn't particularly care for the epilogue, I felt like that particular story existed just to be salacious but maybe the next book will prove me wrong. I received an advance copy of this book from the publisher and Netgalley.

3.5⭐️ rounded down I’ve been a long time reader of this author and while I prefer his Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers books, the Letty Davenport books are a fun escapist series to read. I liked Letty a lot more in this book! She still doesn’t have the charisma that her father does, but it’s nice to have a strong, smart and capable young woman as a MC in a thriller. This was another action packed fast paced story. It’s a timely plot with aspects pulled from current global political situations and kept my interest the whole time. I was happy to see more female characters in this and hope the ladies, especially Barbara, make future appearances. I also really liked her computer nerd partner Baxter, but didn’t appreciate the way his weight was discussed throughout the book. Letty constantly makes snide comments when he eats or says he is hungry and even lectured him several times about being out of shape and overweight. He is called “that fat guy” by almost every character at least once. It was a very strange and distracting aspect and I have no idea why this was a focus when it had zero impact on the story. There were also too many descriptions for me. While they were well written, having detailed descriptions for all guns, clothing, food and drinks, etc just felt like too much and made the plot drag at times. Overall this is a suspenseful and action packed plot that makes for an entertaining read. I split time between the audiobook and ebook and thought the narrator did a great job and would recommend either format. Thanks to @putnambooks @prhaudio for the DRC & ALC!

This was one of the hardest John Sanford books to read for me. I struggled to get drawn in. To me Letty is taking the shape of the character in the Steig Larsson novels. She seems too tough and a bit callous. I felt like Lucas raising her had softened her a bit. Didn’t care for that bit - but on a positive note I did enjoy the book about 2/3rds of the way through. The introduction of a few new characters made it more interesting and easier to follow.

2.5 but I’ll round up. I find Letty to be so uninteresting and contrived but it was a fun story. I think Letty is an attempt to recreate the magic of Lisbeth Salander but she falls so flat.

Interesting enough read as Letty goes after a hacking group.

Fine, but a bit complicated. I kept losing track of what was going on and who was who, which likely was a me-thing.

~ Quick Summary ~ We follow AnnieLee’s journey in becoming a star and making it in Nashville. But she is also running away from her past. ~ Pick this up if you enjoy/don’t mind the following ~ 🧍Mostly about AnnieLee’s journey to become a star 🎭This has a side of mystery only and a sprinkle of thriller at the end 🎵 Focus on music ~ What I Enjoyed ~ I enjoyed AnnieLee’s journey and her inner thoughts, especially when she didn’t feel confident but she projected a different persona. Very relatable! At times her past catches up to her and I'm intrigued. I want to know what she is running from. I listened to the audio book and it was AMAZING I had to give this another star. I love it when there are multiple actors AND they have conversations with each other, rather than one person having to put on different voices. If anyone knows of any other amazing Audibles please let me know! ~ What I didn’t enjoy ~ 90% of the book we follow AnnieLee’s journey to fame and then the last 10% it suddenly pivots to a thriller-ish that it gave me whiplash. I didn’t like this sudden change because the mystery/thriller component to me really felt like it was put in as an afterthought to spice it up. The past could have been anything and it would’ve fit into the story. It felt like a silly decision was used to progress the plot and create the climax. (view spoiler) I wish we were given more glimpses or hints of AnnieLee’s past and that there was more build up around it. I was told not shown that she had a traumatic past. Yes there were a few scenes where the past caught up with her but afterwards they were shoved under the rug like it never happened because everyone acted normal afterwards, even AnnieLee recovered easily. We get a one liner saying that Ethan was also holding a secret and then it was an information dump. I wish there were more hints before to create more mystery. I didn't feel any urgency throughout the novel. AnnieLee’s journey navigating the music industry was very smooth and a lot of it came to her. It felt too easy.

3.5 rounded down AnnieLee Keyes has been writing tunes and singing since she could talk and now she is leaving home and heading east to Nashville. She arrives at the Cats Paw saloon and asks for a chance to sing on stage. Ethan Blake, a musician who works with Ruthanna Ryder, the Queen of country music, hears AnnieLee singing and persuades Ruthanna to come and hear her. The novel focuses on these three characters whose lives become connected and entwined. Each of the main characters is carrying baggage of some description which has shaped them and made them what they are. I think it’s fair to say that the co-author Dolly Parton shines through the book and gives it an air of authenticity especially on the ins and outs of the music business. The characters are good with AnnieLee being the most colourful (some self-portrait there maybe??! Certainly in that she’s a pint sized!!), she is very funny, smart which is seen through the dialogue, she is brave, gutsy, talented and very ambitious and oh yes, a bit of a firecracker! Cue, song! Ruthanna and Ethan are extremely likeable to and I enjoy the way they look out for AnnieLee and bend over backwards to help her. Whilst I wouldn’t necessarily describe this as a mystery thriller, there is a decent mystery surrounding AnnieLee and this does build to a good ending. There is some tension and excitement but as for being a thriller, no, it has thriller and elements as there are some pretty dark sections but it’s not your typical thriller. I do feel the novel follows a fairly predictable path which isn’t necessarily a bad thing but on occasions it does feel a bit cliched. I’m not entirely sure why I got irritated with some of the Songlines which kept getting repeated but some I do like as they fit in with the narrative . Perhaps it’s because you don’t hear the melody that they don’t resonate so much. Overall, it’s an enjoyable read. It’s well paced with chapters that are short and sharp which works well. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Random House U.K., Cornerstone/Century for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

If you are a Dolly Parton fan you have probably already ordered this book and added it to your collection. And...If you did so, you were treated to an album of 12 original Dolly Parton songs from the novel that were part of the characters collection. However...Those of us who checked this out from the library – well the CD did not come with the library book. We just got to imagine the songs as we read the lyrics – and of course, the author(s) treated us to the complete songbook words at the end of the book. That is one treat to this story. Another is the mystery. So...Who is AnnieLee Keyes? What is she running from? Who is chasing her and wanting to hurt her? Why is she so reluctant to seek support? And...This talented, mysterious, beautiful, tough young singer has guts and spitfire and as readers we are rooting for her. Also...There is Ethan with his hidden secrets, and Ruthanna, an established Nashville singer willing to be her mentor who provide substance to the story. But...It is the secrets that we want to learn about that keeps us going as readers. Dolly Parton is a perfect storyteller for the ins and outs of the music industry. Obviously, James Patterson knows his way around a mystery. But...It could have been better. And...Was this really a mystery thriller – or were the authors just needing to make it one because that is what Patterson is known for? To be honest, because it was Dolly Parton’s name attached to this book, this was the reason I picked it up and read it. But... I probably would have preferred to listen to the book via audio-books so I could have listened to the soundtrack along with the reading of it. I think I missed out on an important part of the reading/listening experience. So...As a library check-out, this may not be the best way to do this book!

Every song tells a story. She's a star on the rise, singing about the hard life behind her. She's also on the run. Find a future, lose a past. Nashville is where she's come to find her destiny. It's also where the darkness she's fled might find her. And destroy her. This story is a mixture of mystery, love and song. AnnieLee dreams of being a huge country star, but her past keeps creeping up on her. The story is mainly about making it big in the music business. It's not a twisty thriller, it's more of a fun read. The prologue promised us an action packed thriller, but it never really delivered. This is a quick and enjoyable read. Dolly Parton is releasing an album that she has written for the book to be released on the 3rd March, the same day the book is published. I would like to thank #NetGalley #RandomHouseUk #Cornerstone and the authors #DollyParton #JamesPatterson for my ARC of #RunRoseRun in exchange for an honest review.

An exciting look at one of the most iconic women in America's history. I enjoyed Dolly's story and loved learning about what made her who she was, and how even through her struggles, she ended up one of the nicest celebrities out there.

James Patterson certainly is a master of telling a story and Dolly Parton has probably forgotten more about music than most people ever knew. Together they have created a ubique partnership. I thought the rise to stardom for Ruthanna was a bit rushed and unrealistic. The days are over that everyone that plays a guitar and is willing to try to sing is over. Nashville is now filled with wantabe country singers. Ruthanna and all the other characters are damaged somehow, full of emotional trauma, and unsaid lies. Way too much so. There's no plot line like James Patterson's books usually have. No murder, no mystery, I can't even call this a thriller. It felt like he only had his name on the cover. I like both James Patterson and Dolly Parton, but I like them doing individually what they each do best.

When I saw Dolly Parton and James Patterson had written a book I expected a treatise on Country Music, some Romance, and that it would be a thriller. Well, my prediction was entirely true. There was a lot of violence which was perhaps unnecessary but maybe that was the only thing that justified Rose's fear and all the suspense that the authors contrived to build up. Not bad but not great.

Run Rose, Run was a quick and easy read, mostly entertaining, but I was also a tiny bit bored every now and then 🙈 Picked it up for Dolly Parton and I wanted to love it, but it ended up falling rather flat for me.

I have to admit I am not exactly a fan of country music. I also have to admit that I am a huge fan of Dolly Parton. (I mean who isn't?) She was one of the main reasons I picked up this book. Though I couldn't exactly identify with some of the characters' motivation and decisions, I found myself caring about a few of them quite a bit. For the most part I was entertained but the story felt more like it should've been a colab with Nicholas Sparks rather than James Patterson. I did not think this was a thriller but rather a drama with elements of romance and a touch of suspense. AnnieLee is resourceful, tough and a bit of a firecracker with hints of a dark, tortured past which she channels into the song she writes. She comes to Nashville with nothing but her talent and a drive to make it as a performed. Ruthanna has already reached the level of stardom AnnieLee dreams of. She is a huge but retired country music star with colourful personality. Despite her decision not to perform anymore she still loves making music. Ruthanna takes AnnieLee under her wing but AnnieLee's rise to stardom is complicated by her past starting to catch up with her, as well as by her attraction to Ethan Blake, one of the musicians working with Ruthanna. I love the fact that Dolly Parton released an album to go hand in hand with this book - I love book and music combos. And though I liked main characters, the story fell a bit flat for me. At best this is kind of a mindless entertainment kind of book. I wouldn't be surprised if this ends up being one of those rare instances when I like the movie better than the book. (of course Run Rose Run is being turned into a movie!) Curb your expectations but if you are a Dolly Parton fan I feel like it's worth reading the book just for fun!

I loved Dolly's contributions about the music biz but overall James Patterson is just an ok writer. I found the story and "twist" extremely lackluster. Would have been a 2.5 stars without Dolly.

I’m more of a Dolly Fan over James Patterson (although I’ve enjoyed his earlier mysteries). I listened to the audiobook just to hear Dolly portray the character. I also enjoyed Kelsea Ballerini’s performance narrating parts as well, among many others. I felt as it was very slow to unfold. Some of the stars were for the “Dolly-like” sayings that were peppered throughout the story. Still I found it lacking in excitement and depth.

not sure whether this was dolly parton fan fiction written by dolly parton or dolly parton fan fiction written by james patterson but either way, it was dolly parton fan fiction that was a fun, oddly paced, entertaining rags to riches romance/thriller that admittedly was lacking in thrill but was entertaining nonetheless. TW: sexual assault, sexual harassment

I felt bad giving this book a 3.5 star but this wasn't much of a thriller. I would consider this a chick lit with what the book was based on. AnnieLee looking for fame and success in Nashville. She was lucky to meet the right people to help her. Ruthanna was the quirky and fun character in the book, her personality reminded me of Dolly Parton. I picked up this book just to see what Dolly Parton and James Patterson could come up.

Guess who's back, back again. It's Myron and the crew. Even asshole Greg Downing is back from the dead. This book is very unbelievable and far fetched. Coben loves to add too many twists at the end of a book like a mask reveal at the end of a Scooby-Doo episode. Having said that, I teared up at the very end of the book. The last scene was touching. I have invested so much time in Myron and Win that I got caught up in the moment.

3.5 stars This book kept me turning pages, especially the last third, however it wasn’t as well written as soon of his earlier in the series. Like all Harlan Coben books there were twists I didn’t see coming but they just weren’t as believable to me in this book. All that being said. I’ve read every book in this series and it was great to have the characters back. I’ll still be looking forward to the next book.

So great to be reading a Myron Bolitar mystery again. I liked the story a lot until it took four concluding chapters to explain the motive and reveal the murderer. I am still mystified by the murderer’s motives. The earlier books in this series are so much more fun.

I have read all of Harlan Coben's books including the Myron Bolitar series but I read so much that the MB series stands alone for me since I recall few details. Myron and his friend, Win, are terrific characters and I forgot how witty and clever they are when they solve crimes together. HC knows how to construct a story with suspense, intrigue, horror and humor. In this tale Myron is trying to track down his friend, Greg, who was presumed dead but the FBI believes he is alive and responsible for a double homicide. Myron runs into many roadblocks with people out to stop his investigation and they use threats against Myron's elderly parents to tighten the screws on him. This was a suspenseful and yet emotional thriller that I enjoyed immensely. 3.5 stars.

2.5⭐️’s rounded up. Something was really obvious from the beginning. I am not sure if that was intentional or not and will keep it to myself in case it is the latter. I enjoy this narrator so I am continuing on with what my Libby app has available in this series. I am not incredibly invested in this character. It is nice that it doesn’t seem to matter if you have read previous books since, from the few I have listened to, there aren’t any recurring characters other than Reacher. Reacher seems to have the ability to get people to trust him quite easily and go along with his plans. He also seems to attract absolute chaos and corruption. Though, I suppose without that, there wouldn’t be a series! These books tend to be long winded for me. I think I made this comment on one of the updates or maybe a previous review, but I would probably be just fine with abridged versions. (How is it decided what is taken out of a full length book? Hmmm…might have to Google that someday.) Thoughts and rating posted: 2/11/26

The good news is that this book is way better than Blue Moon. After a relatively irrelevant introductory scene where Jack helps a band get paid for a gig in a Nashville bar, he catches a ride to a small town where the municipal technology systems engineer has become a pariah after a ransomware attack. Jack rescues him from a kidnapping attempt by parties unknown, mangling a couple of people, which angers the local police. Always a champion for the little guy, Jack naturally protects the techie, finding out that he has developed some useful coding. But, there is further skullduggery in town, linked to a death by torture of a journalist and some deep secret buried in the town's computer archives. Discovering the identity and motive for the bad guys is a chore, but kind of Jack's forte. 2.5 stars, rounded up.

The baton of authoring Jack Reacher is handed over from Lee Child to his brother Andrew Grant (aka Child) and the result is little disappointing! Jack Reacher walks in on a kidnapping attempt and seeing the complexity of the plan and the apparent vulnerability of the victim decides to stay back and investigate.... What happens next? Please read my review here https://rb.gy/s3qrpg to know more! Please read, Like, Comment or Share 🔥 it's incredibly encouraging!!

This is the 25th book in the Jack Reacher series by author Lee Child and the first with his brother Andrew. I have read all the books in the series and I have shared the feeling that the series was becoming tired and monotonous and needed freshening up. Well I suppose with the introduction of Andrew that was perhaps the intention but unfortunately for me it just added to the problems. In my opinion the character of Jack Reacher has been transformed and bears little resemblance to the one that we have got to know. The new Jack Reacher is far more chatty, looking for action, arrogant rather than the usual loner who is far more reluctant to get involved. It is difficult to stop reading a series you have enjoyed in the past as you hold the hope that you will rekindle what you had before. Well I have been saying that for too long and maybe it is time for me personally to bow out of this one. I loved the early books but now find it tired and run it’s course.

It’s that time of year when Lee Child publishes his annual outing with one of my favorite fictional heroes, Jack Reacher. I must admit that this time out, I was hesitantly optimistic. Over the last four or five books, Child has been a bit less than stellar, and more hit and miss, in providing his usual high-quality reading experiences. Them with the well-publicized news that Lee was handing over control of the Jack Reacher franchise to his younger brother Andrew, there was a sense of uncertainty. Would Andrew approach Reacher differently, change him, or struggle to capture the uniqueness of the character’s true essence. Well, their first Reacher collaboration is “The Sentinel” which turns out to be the same in some ways and quite different in other ways. When “The Sentinel” starts, Jack Reacher is getting off a Greyhound bus in Nashville, Tennessee. Because he has nowhere to be, Reacher catches a ride from an insurance man to Pleasantville, a sleepy little town 75 miles away, also in the middle of nowhere. Before you know it, (drum roll please), Jack finds himself walking into an ambush of an unassuming and completely unaware victim. The victim is Rusty Rutherford, an IT manager for the city who was fired a week ago when he failed to stop a malicious cyberattack on the city’s systems which took down all it’s information, including records, data, and even the traffic lights. But the bigger problem for Reacher is why the attack involved a team of four well-coordinated members? Before he knows it, Reacher finds himself helping and protecting Rutherford from unknown criminals who have him marked for something they want. There is something dark going on in Pleasantville that involves the local police, a murder, a conspiracy, decades old secrets and cover-ups, skinheads, FBI, and foreign spies. Just another typical outing for our hero, Jack… Let’s start with the good stuff first. The plotting and pacing were good. Andrew was able to capture the most of the same plot development style and flow as his brother, Lee. Although it felt a bit formulistic at moments, the storyline revealed itself scene by scene as Reacher played investigator while mixing in several fight sequences to keep the action involved. Sometimes I felt like the fighting was a bit over choregraphed as the descriptions played out what would happen before it actually did. Still, other than that and some other dramatic descriptions, the plotting and pacing were pretty enjoyable. Now for the less than stellar stuff. Let’s deal with the elephant in the room. Did Andrew capture the essence of Jack Reacher? In some ways yes, but in other key ways, no. This is not the classical Reacher character that we have come to know and love. This is not your Lee Child Reacher and Andrew writes him differently. Let’s share some examples. Reacher is much more talkative and friendly. He speaks more in this book than the last two or three combined. Reacher said nothing is no longer a descriptive trademark. It should now be Reacher says a lot… Reacher looks for trouble rather than just letting it come to him. Usually, Lee found ways to pull him into the action and persuade him to help out others. In this book, jack is actively seeking to help out before knowing anything about the situation. He has turned into a Robin Hood, seeking justice for others without being asked beforehand and taking direct charge of things. One of Reacher’s key traits is that he has a quiet sense of confidence, especially in his fight scenes. His essence is based on less is more when it comes to speaking. In this book, however, Reacher has much more bravado. Way more. He brags before every fight he faces, describing what damage he is going to do to his opponents in a taunting manner. When did Reacher become such a rude and talkative braggart? Reacher also seems to have developed an interest in music that hadn’t been demonstrated before. Although it’s a minor nit, it was still noticeable and left a kind of awkward feeling during the times it was mentioned throughout the book. In addition, the prose at times seem overly dramatic, even for a Reach novel. There were a few clunkers that I kind of scratched my head over because it disrupted the flow. And by the way, this was the shortest Reacher novel I think I have ever read. I know a low word count is not reflective of the quality, but I was hoping for a little more meat. Overall, “The Sentinel” was an experimental read. I understand how some Reacher fans will love it and others will pick it apart. Although it probably doesn’t feel that way after reading my review, I am probably somewhere in the middle. Lee was certainly burning out on writing Reacher. That was clear and he has described it in recent interviews. With a new writer comes new perspective. In fairness, Andrew is not Lee and cannot be Lee. He is his own writer. For example, nobody will ever be James Bond in my mind, but Sean Connery. He was the first, the best, and the model every other Bond is compared to. Most cannot come close to his greatness. However, everything considered, Daniel Craig is doing pretty good in his own version and I am enjoying his take on the character. He’s not Connery, but he’s much better than the others. In the same way, it isn’t fair to judge Andrew Child on one Reacher novel. We owe him another one or two to find his groove. Either he finds it or we will have to accept his version of Reacher will have different nuances than that of his creator. At the point, we can choose to stick with him or leave. But for me, it’s too early to make that call. Let’s try again next year, Andrew…

My concentration is nowhere at the moment and I’m juggling too much, so this one didn’t hit the way I wanted it to. I still love love Reacher and the audio is great, smooth and capable. The character, the narration, the whole Reacher energy still works for me. The stories just aren’t sticking the same and they’re not hitting those big four and five feelings. Enjoyable, easy to follow, just not memorable for long. I’ll always reach for Reacher thought. Don’t you worry about that 😉

3.5 stars, actually. I'm a longtime fan of the Jack Reacher series - heck, I've even forgiven the 2012 movie that cast diminutive Tom Cruise as Goliath-sized Reacher. Based on his physical stature alone, it wasn't a good fit. And this book isn't the best fit for the series, either. If I had to describe it in one word, it would be contrived; it seemed as if the intent was to identify a couple of in-the-news hot topics and then try to fabricate a story around them. The dialog seemed forced as well; granted, Reacher is a loner and a man of few words - and that's true here, in spots. But in others, he spouts lengthy and intricate explanations of computer functions which, coming from a guy who needs help operating a smartphone, just didn't quite, well, ring true. Time will tell, I guess, if that's the result of the author's collaboration with his younger brother Andrew to write this book (the person he's chosen to carry on the Reacher series in the not-too-distant future). All that aside, it's an intriguing story that held my interest throughout - but then, I admit to having a computer geek side. Hiking out of Nashville to anywhere else, Reacher gets a lift from a guy who's headed in that direction - namely, to a much smaller town in Tennessee. Not long after he's dropped off, Reacher's killer senses kick in and he saves local guy Rusty Rutherford from an apparent kidnapping. Not that he'll be thanked anytime soon, mind you; Rusty is despised by just about everyone for the role they think he played in the recent disastrous crash of all the town's computer systems and phones. Rusty, though, insists he's totally innocent; in fact, he was trying to keep that from happening. Now a pariah and, more importantly, out of a job, he and a former FBI friend are hoping to salvage a program they wrote to protect the town computers that could make them very wealthy. For his part, Reacher takes pity on the two (plus he figures the would-be kidnappers aren't likely to stop at a single attempt) and agrees to stick around for a bit. From there on, the plot gets pretty complicated - even to the computer geek side of my brain. There are Russians who may not be Russians, undercover FBI agents and physical attacks from all corners of the town - leading to the usual blowout fights in which Reacher is outnumbered and must reach to new levels of his considerable pugilistic abilities to survive. Confusion over who's who and what's where leads Reacher down a back alley (or two or five) until near the end, when it's time to put up or forever be shut up. Conclusion: Fast-paced and action-filled, this may not be the best entry in the Reacher series, but it's still Reacher and anything Reacher is still worth reading. Bring on the next one!

A typical Jack Reacher story in a different town. ⭐️⭐️⭐️ SUMMARY Rusty Rutherford is an unassuming IT manager, recently fired after a cyber attack locked up the data and records in Pleasantville, Tennessee. Jack Reacher is just getting into town when he notices that Rutherford is blindly walking into an ambush. It’s four against one, so Reacher can’t help but intervene in typical Reacher fashion. After the intervention he soon learns that the bad guys who attempted to jump Rutherford are part of something serious, involving a conspiracy, a cover-up and murder all centered on what this mousy little IT manager knows. Reacher is intrigued. “He found people respond to crises in two ways. Some get to work fixing the problem. Others, proving the problem wasn’t their fault. Reacher liked the first kind. Rutherford seemed like the first kind. It was nice to see someone not dumping on him for a change.” REVIEW The Sentinel is typical Jack Reacher story in a different town. Reacher at six-foot-five is his own man. He is smart, strategic, strong and empathetic. He has the ability to find trouble everywhere he goes. And he will never turn a blind eye to a good guy, like Rusty Rutherford who needs help. This is Jack Reacher #25 and I am happy to say, up to now I have loved every single one of Lee Child’s books in this series which started in 1997. Each book is a comfortable and fast read. But now I think it’s time for me to move on. If you have not read Reacher before I recommend the series, each book can be read independently but it’s always fun to start at the beginning to see how rReacher became who he is. For those of us that have read them all...you may want to pass. reading about the same character 25 times is enough. The formula is getting old and way to predictable. This one just didn’t hold my attention as much as others in the series have. LEE CHILD had been joined by his brother Andrew Child in writing The Sentinel. The writing continues to be descriptive and intense. They makes it easy to visualize the mousy Rusty Rutherford walking into an ambush. Publisher Delacorte Press Published October 27, 2020 Narrated Scott Brick Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

This book was like coming home to an old friend. But one that you’ve kind of outgrown and you can only rehash the same old stories. Between all the bonus insights over the years, I didn’t feel like I learned anything new.

I cant believe I read this... 600 pagessss!!! It's been.... a long ass time since I read anything fifty.. and boy... I reminded myself how much I disliked Christian I enjoyed his pov more then Ana but DISLIKED HIM SO BAD!!! He acted like a child in this book even more of a manchild then Edward was in his own book lol. Also took me forever to pick the book back up because he made me so ughh I had to read other books before coming back to this. Guys this is what you get in this 600+ book Pre wedding second thoughts Bachelor party Fighting between the 2 Planning the wedding Fighting Wedding and honeymoon Fighting Redroom and sex Family drama Flashbacks Fighting and fighting The baby bomb Fighting and lot more stuff lol Alotttttttttttt of Fighting between the two like lord.. who knew Christian job was so boring and he fights with Ana over the simplest things like her on a jet ski, her going for a drink, her not wanting tonobeying in her "vows" yeah I swear this man. The only thing I was excited about was that baby bomb part and that drama!! And boy you wanna smack him during that part and his dumb ass pov on why would she be mad 😠🤣oh chris you dummy.. Beside that I'm glad I am finally finished with this series... GOOD BYE MISTER GREY!!! Low angst,Ow/om drama, Drama, sexy times, no virgins Recommend-hahah if you wanna see his pov Cover-⭐⭐⭐ Heat level-🌶🌶 Push/pull Panic attacks Ptsd triggers Bdsm Orgasm denial Anal play Violence Child abuse Hea Epilogue

i read the original trilogy back when it first came out. i was relatively new to the book community and trying to expand my genres. i was young and felt so mature reading those books. i really did love them. that being said, i am now older and wiser and have read so many truly outstanding books since then that i can see ELJs writing and storytelling for what it really it. while i still 100% think this story is much more suited to told by christian - hes a far superior character with the complexity needed to sell the narrative - this is honestly just an average book/story. i also thought this particular installment was a bit too long and drawn out. overall, not as amazing as i used to think, but okay for what it is. ↠ 3 stars

I don't wanna talk about it. But... I just had to finish the series. Out of duty. Let's not mention this again 🤣

This was…. Long I know that those kind of books seem to be boring to a lot of people since they already know the plot but I usually like it. Seeing things out of a different perspective, understanding a person more. I die enjoy the first two parts out of his perspective but this one was just not really it. That many pages are just simply too much. Most of it was either the same or just business talk and I can’t think about a person he likes to read it all. The book was so stretched out that I had the feeling it would take forever. Some Chapters were just too long with about 50 pages or even more. It was not appealingly Since everyone knows Christian I don’t think I need to explain how he kinda seems to be an ass but he was even kinda boring in this one. Besides the hypocrisy at the end. All together this was a long read and absolutely unnecessary.

It pains my heart to give such a low rating to the man that captured my heart from the get-go but no sorry for me this was not Christian Grey. I read the whole book even though I wanted to bin it many times but because I knew what was coming next (I have read them all) I wanted to see what his side of a certain moment was so this is the only reason I stuck it out. I guess somewhere in me I hoped for a glimpse of my book boyfriend but he never truly came. With Grey and Darker I felt that he was kinda more witty and possessive and obsessive but Freed made him seem more like a spoilt brat throwing toys from a pram and being needy let's not forget this man runs a multi-billion-dollar company and was a Dom for how many years? yet he's made seem very incompetent at times. so no I cannot say that I loved it sadly, Has E.L James simply lost her touch forgot the man she created and got sucked into someone else's perception of Grey or is it me and it was just simply the right book at the wrong time... I dunno but for me, this was NOT the man I have come to know and love.

Freed by E. L. James was the long-awaited installment of the Fifty Shades franchise, as told by Christian. I was waiting for what seemed like forever for this one to come out, and I gotta say, it fell short. Coming in at just under 800 pages, Freed seemed to be just a bit too drawn out for me. I don't remember Christian being as whiny in the first two installments either. I may be wrong, but there was something about him in this book that made him seem like a depressed man who was trapped in a relationship as opposed to the first two where he stayed true to who he really was. I also found Anastasia to be underdeveloped in this installment, unlike the other versions of this story. Yes, the sex was hot, but a lot of the time, it was underwhelming, especially from Christian's perspective. I'm glad I got to read it, since now it really feels like the series has come to a final end, but I gave this book 3 out of 5 stars.

I'll give this 3 stars purely for old times sake. I was bored and skimmed a lot of this. It almost felt like there was more page time with Elliot than Anna. I'm glad I've completed the series but I'm kinda also glad it's over.

First and foremost, we should appreciate how talented this woman is. In the midst of helping to sway a national election and two senator races, Stacey Abrams wrote and edited a nearly 400-page thriller. And not just a boilerplate thriller, either, but one replete with genetics, chess theories, Supreme Court operating procedures, company mergers, political hierarchies, and a bunch of other moments of textured research I am surely forgetting. Some people are too talented-- can't she share some of her skillset with others? We start out with a rollicking first chapter, laying the ground for a complex thriller, posing several juicy questions to chomp into. The irascible Justice Howard Wynn leaves Avery Keene as his power of attorney, a controversial decision that leads Avery on a John Grisham-esque legal goose chase. Luckily for us, Abrams is a much better writer than Grisham. Unfortunately, the supposed strengths of this book are also, to me, what is holding it back. Every character speaks in an erudite, polished manner, indistinguishable from one another. No character has the quirks, complexities, and contradictions that would make them memorable. This novel feels like it has been through 1,000 drafts, every rough edge sanded down, every unique phrase stricken and replaced with academic verbiage. Avery Keene, the protagonist, is likeable enough, a young woman in the mold of "people keep underestimating me, I'll show them!" However, she had little personality, and is the type of character I’m liable to completely forget as soon as I put the book down. The best character, Justice Wynn, spends almost the entire book in a coma. We fall into a series of hurried, whispered conversations in the middle of the novel, exchanging information in a repetitive manner. This continues towards the end of the book, as the convoluted plot is explained by various characters stepping into the scene and explaining it for us, like a Scooby Doo ending, over and over again. I had largely lost interest by then because I didn’t care about the characters, although like any reader I wanted to grasp the mystery. The complex web of dark forces that conspired ultimately felt stilted, Abrams jamming every element together in a last-ditch effort to impress us. Abrams is very smart and painstaking in her research, but those two attributes alone do not make a great novel. Stop making fertilizer bombs in your basement and listen to full pods here.

I wanted to like this more than I did, but it's just not very exciting. There are a million characters to keep track of, and the third person omniscient POV makes for some jarring narration (there are occasionally passages where we jump into a character's POV for one paragraph or a few sentences before switching again). That, in conjunction with an abundance of unnecessary detail and some truly bizarre syntax and diction that read like Abrams wrote with a thesaurus tab open on her browser, make for a not-entirely-enjoyable reading experience. There are some really fun elements, like the chess theme, but not enough for this to rise above "pretty good, I guess?"

I wrote this review a year ago on my Facebook page (2022). And I want it known I am forever grateful to this woman for all she has done for her state of Georgia. My review: First and foremost, we should appreciate how talented this woman is. In the midst of helping to sway a national election and two senator races, Stacey Abrams wrote a nearly 400-page thriller. And not just a boilerplate thriller, either, but one replete with genetics, chess theories, Supreme Court operating procedures, company mergers, political hierarchies, and a bunch of other moments of textured research I am surely forgetting. This after all, is a big book. Unfortunately, the supposed strengths of this book are also, to me, what is holding it back. There is so much the reader can appreciate, but it was tough (for me) to get through. It is dense with unnecessary knowledge, which I guess showcases how smart Stacey Abrams is but does not necessarily make for a good read. She included every detail but a compelling story in this one. We fall into a series of hurried, whispered conversations in the middle of the novel, exchanging information in a repetitive manner. This continues towards the end of the book, as the convoluted plot is explained by various characters stepping into the scene to tell us what happened and why. Okay, mystery explained. I had largely lost interest by then because I didn’t care about the characters, although like any reader I wanted to grasp the mystery. The complex web of dark forces that conspired ultimately felt stilted. Was Abrams jamming every element together in a last-ditch effort to impress us readers? Abrams is very smart and painstaking in her research, but those two attributes alone, to me, do not make a great novel. I really, really wanted to like this one.

Went from OK to ARE-YOU-KIDDING-ME?! A political thriller With a plucky heroine With dastardly opponents Trying to uncover clues left behind by a comatose Justice. Sounds OK, right? BUT…. The reader ALWAYS knew who the good/bad *guys were. Thus any reveals rested on clue finding and physical threats. I don’t know about you, but following the Scooby Gang (yes, there were 4 “good” guys fighting for justice) isn’t my ideal of a political thriller. STOP! The Scooby Gang had at least the drama of a big reveal of the bay guy. This one didn’t even have that. YAWN. After all the hype & long wait for the library borrow, I was left disappointed and wanting. One good thing: a BIPOC heroine. My rec? There are other political/judicial thrillers out there that have more suspense than this one.

The premise was intriguing and the characters well drawn. Unfortunately, for me, the pace for the first 160 pages was extremely slow. There was too much description without enough action. Still, the reader needed to pay attention and plod through because the information in those pages set the stage for the rapid escalation of the plot in the following pages. Despite the rapid escalation, though, there was still too much extraneous information that was frustrating to wade through. Many times I just read the leading few sentences of the paragraph. While Jared’s estranged relationship with his father was given a thorough context, the complicated relationship between Avery and her mother was not. It led me to question that, given the many years Rita’s drug addiction weighed so heavily on Avery’s life, the many lapses breaking Avery’s heart and putting her in debt to finance Rita’s number of rehabs and the jeopardy to Avery’s career if her mother’s sordid life were to be known in Supreme Court circles - what was the basis of Avery’s enduring strong bond with her mother ? There was so much other narrative but this crucial relationship was not given depth. I suppose we were to assume that Rita was an exemplary mother before the death of Avery’s father. But given the immense sacrifices Avery made for her mother, the reader needed some concrete examples in order to believe Avery’s devotion. This book had such promise with its unique plot and strong characters. It could easily have been 5 stars with more adept editing. Even so, there’s enough compelling material, in the hands of a top notch screenwriter and discerning director, to make a blockbuster movie.

meh. the ending was stupid ↳˗ˏˋ 𝐩𝐫𝐞-𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐝 ˊˎ˗ 🏀 reading this for school! it seems my english teacher has a thing for Grisham’s sports dramas 😭

4 for the story. 2 for the writing. Grisham is a master storyteller and this was a good one but the writing... who wrote this one? Really, did he give the story outline to his summer intern to flesh out? The basketball theme was exciting and the South Sudan situation was heart wrenching but the rest, meh. It felt like Grisham wrote the game scenarios and an intern wrote the rest. Samuel’s totally out of character ending felt like a mean manipulative plot device just to wrap up and it made me angry. This was a big disappointment. Book 25 of pandemic year two, 2021

"Please know in advance that I am talking about the plot of the book (spoiler)". I assign 3 stars to this book, but only because Grisham's writing style is always engaging and always manages to take you to the end of the book, but otherwise I must confess that it is a book whose meaning I absolutely did not understand. What remains in the end is the feeling that it is a biography, that of Samuel Sooleymon, called Sooley, but then, since you know that the book is a work of fiction, then you wonder what sense it makes to write a book, in the form of a biography , of a fictional character. And the answers are many, given that in the book the author denounces the state in which South Sudan is, forgotten by the world, with the daily violence perpetrated by the "rebels" against the civilian population and internal feuds between the various tribes , in a context of absolute poverty; but Grisham also highlights the hard work and self-denial of organizations such as Doctors Without Borders, to then move to the other side of the ocean, where there is the American dream, that is the possibility for good athletes to enter university colleges and to make a career as a professional in multi-million dollar basketball teams; an America, however, where the temptations for these young people who came from Africa and who have never seen 100 dollars all together, represent a terrible danger, given that wealth and fame, at only 18 years old, can make them lose their mind. And this is what happens to Sooley, a basketball talent born in Sudan and who has the opportunity to be known in America as a high-level player and, given that he is a phenomenon, manages to obtain a scholarship and to make a career up to get an NBA contract. Sooley, however, does not flatter himself and remains a good boy throughout the book, whose only purpose in life, in addition to basketball, is to try to bring in the USA his mother and two brothers, who remained in Sudan and survived a rebel raid that they killed the father and kidnapped a sister. But Sooley, and that's what doesn't convince me at all in this book, one night he meets a girl called Jackie, who gives him three pills of ecstasy and he, who has never taken drugs in his entire life, takes three pills all at once and dies of overdose: here there is the least successful thing in the book, since Sooley has always been a very rational boy, without drugs and without strange girls in his head and then instead, within two pages, he knows this Jackie for 10 minutes and he takes the ecstasy that will lead him to die, again in the course of these two (2) pages. In short, hundreds of pages to build this invented biography and then make it end in this silly and unlikely way. The death of Sooley, who in those few months in America had become an idol of his fans, then gives Grisham the opportunity to introduce another American dream, namely that of non-profit foundations, which in the name of Sooley will allow to raise millions of dollars and help many poor kids. And this will also give Grisham another chance, to tell us that legality in America is sacred, but that if you have a lot of money and good lawyers, this legality can be easily circumvented: and that's what happens to the mother and brothers of Samuel, who with the money of the foundation and a good lawyer, will be able to immigrate to the United States, first clandestinely and then regularized. In short, as I have already said, it seemed to me a book in which Grisham vented and put many themes that are close to his heart, inventing the story of Sooley just to put all in. It didn't convince me.

A story where information feels drip-fed and never-ending. Pros - Grisham can weave a story with the best. Basketball fanatics (based on other reviews) love this sports dominated tale. Characters are complex, easy to love and genuinely written. Cons - for me - it felt like a very, very long read. I know the big twist played into Grisham’s master plan but I wasn’t a fan of the outcome for many characters in the book. I am definitely in the minority with the rating and I’m glad others have loved it. Author’s note explains his motivation for writing this novel.

absolutely did not expect the ending

Up front disclosure. I read most of James Patterson’s books and have for several years. Some might ask why and that’s another whole discussion best saved for another day. I have really enjoyed some, liked some, and didn’t really care for others. On a personal level, I must admit that his Women’s Murder Club series – focused on the professional and personal lives of four women in San Francisco - has been very hit and miss over the last couple of years with more weak outings than not. This year’s outing - “The 23rd Midnight”- has three primary plots – Lindsey’s police team’s hunt for a serial killer, Cindy’s troubled book tour, and Yuki’s courtroom case involving a battered wife. This time it’s Claire’s turn to play more of a supporting role. It starts off with a new serial killer that refers to himself as Blackout, committing a horrendous double murder. At the same time, Cindy Thomas, news reporter and author is attending the first event on her tour promoting her new book on the life of serial killer, Evan Burke, who is serving life in prison. Her fellow members of the Women’s Murder Club – Lindsay, Yuki, and Claire – show up to support her and indulge in a celebratory dinner afterwards. However, their dinner is interrupted when Detectives, Lindsay Boxer and Rich Conklin, are called away to a murder scene where an attendee who argued with Cindy’s at her signing has been found murdered. Then the next morning Lindsay receives a video from the killer, calling himself Blackout, and wanting to share his deadly work with her, as well as his admiration for his mentor, Evan Burke. While Lindsay, Conklin, Brady and the rest of the detective team race to find the identity of this new killer, Yuki is also facing her own courtroom challenge in defending a who has been brutally beaten by her husband who left her to die. To make matters worse, Cindy is trying to continue her book tour visits to popular independent bookstores, but it seems that Blackout is following her and targeting those in attendance. Then the worst possible horror, Cindy goes missing… For those who are avid readers and fans of this series, I have some good news. Not great, but still, good. In my opinion, this series, written by Patterson and Paetro since the fifth book has been really hit and miss over the last five to eight outings. At times, it has lost steam, including superficial and ludicrous serial killer villains, repetitive and formulaic storylines that have grown old, and stagnant growth in most of the primary characters. The good news is that is a pretty good book. Not a great one, but a solid improvement over several of the previous half dozen, building on the multi-book arc involving Evan Burke. This book stayed consistently busy, moving back and forth between the multiple storylines, and keeping a strong pacing the whole way and avoiding the choppiness and messiness of recent outings. There were focused storylines that developed from beginning to end. The Blackout serial killer plot was predictable, but the delivery wasn’t bad, and the way things were wrapped up in the end provided a nice sense of closure that sometimes is found lacking in this series. I loved the final scene with Lindsay, Brady, and Burke. Well done. Even the court case that Yuki was defending started off in what seemed like a one-sided expected outcome, but Patterson and Paetro found some ways to add in some worry and concern before the ending resolution. What I also liked was seeing some character conflict and development built into the storylines. I want to see these characters learn and grow from their challenges. Examples include Lindsay dealing with her stress as a police officer and working through them with her counselor. Also, Cindy has been playing a key role in authoring Burke’s life story and going on a publicity tour. Spending so much time n his evil world has forced her to pay a deep personal price that she may not be able to come back from. There are a couple of other developments, but to avoid any spoilers, I will keep them to myself. What I would add though, is that I think it would be good to give Yuki a different kind of storyline. It seems that every plotline she’s involved with is prosecuting the case of her career. It’s time to develop her in other ways that are outside of the courtroom. Show that she’s more well-rounded and has other aspects to be explored. Truth be told, I had low expectations when starting this novel, but I came away pleasantly surprised and pleased with it. Again, it’s not great, but good. Patterson and Paetro played around enough with their established formula and structure to provide a better casual read. Overall, my rating is a solid 3 out of 5 stars. I might even be convinced to go as high as 3.5 stars, but Goodreads doesn’t do half stars in its scoring. More importantly, I hope that next year’s outing – a title with “24’ in it – builds on their momentum and doesn’t take a step back again… Let’s be hopeful…

In the beginning I had a difficult cult b/c the author used the names Catherine, Claire & Cindy (all “c” names). Plus, Lindsay & Cindy (similar type names to me) were used. I felt like part of the story could have been eliminated. The book held my interest. It was just okay. Please read other reviews because many people seemed to really enjoy reading this book.

The murder of one person is a lame excuse to link the story of Yuki’s trial to the story of Boxer’s larger homicide investigation. Sure there is lots of “action” as one person after another dies and clues are scarce. However, overall this is not a strong entry in what used to be a reliably well-done and enjoyable series.

Another series that is falling into the trap of having the main characters as the victims. It was a good read despite this - but it's one of the complaints I have for the Alex Cross series too.

** spoiler alert ** This is one of my favorite series. It's great for a quick read when I want to hunker down with familiar characters or when I'm scrambling to meet my Goodreads reading goal for the year, which somehow seems to happen every year. The plot of this one wasn't bad. Cindy has just published her book about prolific serial killer Evan Burke and is starting her book tour when a young mother and child are found dead with similarities in both physical appearance and manner of death to Burke's daughter-in-law and grandchild (the plot in book #21). Then, after the first stop on her book tour, a heckler at the signing is found murdered and a video of the murder is emailed to Lindsay. This cycle repeats after each signing, cumulating with the kidnapping of Cindy and the race against the clock to find her before it's too late. In true Patterson style, the pacing was good with just the right about of suspense and I did question if it was going to end with the predictable ending. I wasn't really sure which way I wanted that to go. Would he actually kill off another member of the Women's Murder Club? Long-time fans will remember Yuki was not one of the original four. So that's the good. But I found myself questioning more than once if anyone read the manuscript before it was published. A few examples: *After one of the videos is sent to Lindsay, Lindsay goes to tell Brady about it after it was established he was sitting next to her when she watched it. *At one point, it is determined Cindy could be the ultimate target and she is told she is going to have 24/7 protection until the killer is caught. So how the hell did she get kidnapped in broad daylight if she had cops watching her at all times? *Fearing for Cindy after her flight is cancelled due to the worst fog San Francisco has seen in years, Rich goes to Las Vegas to join and protect her for the night. I guess he made the 8.5 hour drive in record time given all the flights were grounded. In severe enough fog to shut down SFO. And the next morning, no one knows where he is when he doesn't show up for work. There is no way he would have gone off to protect Cindy without at a minimum telling Lindsay. *After this appearance results in another murder video, we are reminded that relative newcomer Alvarez is FROM LAS VEGAS and knows half the cops in town. So, she couldn't have just phoned a friend to help out? This made it a bit confusing to follow at times and I have come to expect a lot better from a book with Patterson's name attached to it so hopefully, this was just a fluke and the next book will be better.

If you're a fan of James Patterson's previous works, you'll likely enjoy his latest novel "23rd Midnight". While not his strongest work, this book is a decent thriller with an engaging plot that keeps the reader interested until the end. The story revolves around Detective Lindsay Boxer's pursuit of a copycat killer who has recreated the crimes of an infamous serial killer she put behind bars. The book's pacing is solid, and the writing resembles Patterson's style. However, the characters feel a bit one-dimensional and fail to really stand out. Additionally, the ultimate resolution of the plot is predictable and lacks the satisfying twist readers have come to expect from Patterson's thrillers. Overall, "23rd Midnight" is a solid thriller that will keep readers engaged until the end, but it falls short of being a standout entry in Patterson's impressive catalogue of work. If you're a fan of the genre, this book is worth checking out, but don't expect any major surprises. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher Random House UK for an advance reader copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

I've been reading this series since I was in high school. There have been some hits and misses along the way in this series, and this to me was a miss. The story was not bad, but for me, some loose ends were not fully tied up. They wove both stories together towards the end, but never explained the reason for the two to intersect. I do enjoy that these are always quick reads.

I’ve read every book in this series. I didn’t like this one as well as some of the others. A lot of death and gory details. I know it is fiction, but how do these 4 women continue with their jobs,nearly getting killed and constantly being around criminals and death and keep going each day?

3.5 stars Cross Down is a thriller co-written by James Patterson and Brendan DuBois. While this story has thriller elements, I felt it was leaning more towards suspense. As with any Patterson novel, you can expect a fast pace and short chapters. This book is different in the sense that it focuses more on John Sampson and his investigation, while Alex Cross is man down. There are reports of military attacks across the country and John Sampson needs to find the mastermind as well as save his friend before it's too late. It's interesting to see how Sampson works on his own and how he handles the entire situation. In this installment, Sampson is carrying the weight of justice on his own and I feel we see how he develops. While this is not my favourite of James Patterson's books, I still felt it was enjoyable. As the cover suggests, an original series is coming to Amazon Prime soon, and I'm quite curious to watch it. I always find it interesting to watch the series after reading the book, especially with thrillers as it helps me to see the book in a new perspective. I do not want to go into too much detail as a lot happens in this book, but if you're a fan of action films, then you'll enjoy this book. Thank you Penguin Random House SA for gifting me a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

Hmmm... Is James Patterson slowly pulling out? Is this going to spawn a spinoff of just Sampson? If so, he needs to own it. The mystery is good, but the lack of Alex Cross makes it hard to fit into the series well. It was nice to get some more details about Sampson, though I love Sampson, but he needed to stand out more. The full-cast narration was weird because someone else was voicing Alex in the beginning, and I hated it. The timeline mashing in the beginning was something that usually isn't a Patterson standby, so it must have been a result of writing with another author; it was pretty muddy. I love the details, but this felt too messy for my liking. However, it is still important to read for fans of the series. 3 Stars

Entertaining but goodness it took a while to get used to his writing style, so boomer

I love a good Alex Cross thriller- but this was a disappointment. He usually faces a serial killer, but this book was written from the perspective of John Sampson and was all about domestic terrorism and conspiracy theories. Not what I expected or like. Hopefully, the next Alex Cross book is written without a co-author and returns to what we all know and love.

Thrilling read 3.5 ⭐️! There were parts in the middle that lost me but the ending was tense and suspenseful! Shoot me down but the last 100 pages reminded me of “White house down” lol! Look forward to read the next Cross and Sampson thriller!

This one went way out into an extreme plot!

I wish I could give it a 3.75. Pretty good! I'm a tough grader. Brendan is a great co-author!!

It was easy to read. Not really a great Patterson thriller. Perhaps he should write his own books again!

Too many characters, had trouble keeping them straight sometimes.

A bit misleading. This one followed Cross’ friend, Sampson. It was a decent action packed thriller with terroristic threats and conspiracies that does lead Cross right smack in the middle of danger, but it wasn’t a Cross book like I anticipated.

Alex Cross is sidelined early on due to serious injury and the narrative is from John Samsons perspective. This is a nice refreshing change. Enjoyed this more than I have the series in a while.

Good book- but def not my favorite in the Alex cross series… a little in the slower side

I was disappointed that Alex was not the detective. The detective in charge had everyone to keep safe Cross, and his family. John, and his daughter, plus every person from the diabolical killer. He even has to protect the president, with Cross down, and not getting up soon, he had more than enough, for one story. 3, ratings. You can tell that this was laid out by Patterson, but he let the other writer do the heavy lifting . I find it tiresome when you buy just a Patterson book, and learn that Alex Cross has a short part in the book. Three stars.

˗ˏˋ ★ ˎˊ˗ 3.75 Stars ˗ˏˋ ★ ˎˊ˗ Sonya has inherited a mansion in Maine that is haunted with the ghosts of brides who have died in the house on their wedding day. Sonya is trying to break the curse set upon the house in order to free the spirits. ˚₊· ͟͟͞͞➳❥ First, I want to say that Brittany Pressley - what. Omg she did such an amazing job narrating -she carried much of this book for me! The story picks up right where the first book left off and I was effortlessly pulled right back into this world. Nora Roberts does an exceptional job at world building and creating such realistic and well-rounded characters! ˚₊· ͟͟͞͞➳❥ I did feel like this one moved a little slower in terms of pacing. I was also hoping to get more information regarding the plot, but this installment didn't move along much in terms of the main storyline, so I was a little disappointed with that. This is a great series to pick up during the autumn months, if you're looking for something spooky but not actually scary with a haunted mansion and ghosts - spirits and magic. This is a very vague review - Apologies... avoiding spoilers for an ongoing series can be a challenge. 🤗 ˚₊· ͟͟͞͞➳❥ Book 1 review ˚ ༘✶ ⋆｡˚ ⁀➷ Inheritance Review Many thanks to NetGalley and Macmillian audio for the advanced audio copy - all thoughts are my own. ✨🔮 ⊹₊ ˚‧︵‿₊୨୧₊‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹

3.5 stars The Mirror is book 2 in The Lost Bride trilogy. In this book we see Sonya learning more about all the brides that were murdered in her Victorian home. Sonya and her friends and loved ones also search for answers/ways to get the evil spirit out of her home. A lot of this felt like repeat information from the first book which was slightly annoying. The plot did move forward, but a lot felt like swimming in place. I still love how Nora Roberts world builds and develops her characters so I didn't mind as much, but I'm glad there's only 3 books in the series and hopefully everything gets wrapped up in the next one.

It’s been a while since I read the first in this series, so it took a bit for me to refresh myself with the characters. As Sonya and her friend settle into the mansion that she inherited in Maine, it’s clear the house is haunted. Music plays, doors slam, etc. But with the use of “the mirror” she can see/visit the past. Every bride that came into the house was soon dead, and there’s an evil presence who always wanted to be the lady of the manor. The characters are fun, and the storyline is engaging. But somehow I got lost in the stories of the previous brides and keeping tack of their stories. I’ve read Nora Robert’s throughout the years and for the most part have always enjoyed them, but I felt a little less connected in the book. 3-1/2 stars rounded down, but will read the third to see how the trilogy ends.

I loved the first book. The plot is interesting and the characters are likeable. This second book is a bit slow on the narrative for me. Hopefully, the final book truly moves the plot forward. At this point, Im invested to know what happens at the end.

The Mirror is book two in The Lost Bride Trilogy. I do feel like it could be read even if you haven't read the first one, as there is a lot of repeat information from the previous book. I still recommend reading them in order, since it picks up right where Inheritance left us. It was a good follow up, but it did lack a little of the suspense we had from the first book. I felt a lot of information was repeated, a lot of things we already knew. We got a lot of the day to day lives of the characters, where I was expecting more ghosts, more creepiness and more suspense. It was fun to get more flashbacks into the previous brides lives, the curse and the manor. I liked knowing their backstory and what truly happened to them. The aspect of the mirror and how Sonya was using it to see the moments of their deaths and get more insight into the truth. Although I did want and expect more suspense I still applaud Roberts for the originality aspect of this novel. It remains an interesting read which I'm highly anticipating will end with a bang. They're definitely worth a read! ✨️Thank you to @stmartinspress & Nora Roberts for my gifted ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Actual rating 3.5⭐️ I was a little disappointed with this book especially after how much I enjoyed the first book. I found the plot didn’t really move forward in this book. It just felt like a bunch of filler. Like how many times can they drink wine in one book? I did enjoy somethings in this book, especially the animals, but in the end it was lacklustre for me. I’m hoping the third book picks up the plot more and has a strong ending for this trilogy. Just like the first book I listened to this on audiobook and Brittany Pressley does an amazing job at bringing the characters to life!

It's a good thing I enjoy spending time with these 4 characters. Because this book suffers majorly from middle-book syndrome. We spend such a huge majority of time just existing with Sonya and Cleo (with occasional drop-ins from Owen and Trey) going about their daily routines. And by this point in the story, those routines include the ghosts' antics. It's make food, put the pets out, listen to a song played by DJ Ghost, talk about the brides, do some work, have sex, sleep, sleepwalk, wake up and do it all again the next day. It's not that I was bored, or that this is written poorly. It's that there's hardly any plot to speak of. No furthering of the story. A solid 70% of this book is literally, "I know, let's have a party!" And then spending 400 pages preparing for said party. And then that's over in just one chapter. I can enjoy spending time with these characters, watching them learn to cook and work on their different jobs and socialize with their menfolk all day - but when it comes down to it, this book was supposed to be about a mirror. And it's barely in this book at all. Certainly not at all in the first half. This part of the story could have been abbreviated into a few short chapters and added to book 1 and saved everybody the money. It wouldn't surprise me at all if this book's rankings tank compared to book 1. It wouldn't surprise me to find that people DNF'd it. If you're not a character-focused reader, I think you'll probably struggle with this. Because it is 100% a slice-of-life sort of book, with only a few spooky things thrown in for flavor here and there. If you thought we were going to move the mystery plot along much at all, you're going to be disappointed. Because while, yes, we do get to see more of the brides' stories, nothing even remotely begins to be done about any of it. At all. Sigh. I still find Nora Roberts easy to read and cozy. I still enjoyed this book, I swear. I'm just frustrated because this could have been an email.

This book was really cute! Henry and Halle are such sweet characters and have such a healthy and heartwarming relationship. Buttt I wanted to feel more towards the romance and towards the book in general. I do think a lot of people will like this book if you enjoy a feel-good romance with relatable characters and not much conflict with the relationship. But for me I wanted more angst or passion or tension or conflict or something. I will say! The characters did have conflict in their personal lives and I really enjoyed those plot lines. I found Halle and her people-pleasing very relatable. And Henry is neurodivergent which impacts his life in so many ways from his relationships to his schooling. I really enjoyed reading and learning about Henry. Overall though I liked Icebreaker and Wildfire a lot more. Very cute and sweet romance though!

REVIEW! ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ 3 stars -`♡´- spoiler free | Thank you edelweiss and simon and schuster for giving me the opportunity to read this one month before it's release in exchange of my honest review ⭑.ᐟ 𝐈𝐍𝐓𝐑𝐎: AHHHH I have so many thoughts and I'm going to try my best to put them all in a coherent way. The first thing I want to adress is Hannah Grace what kind of magic did you do? This book was SO GOOD I physically cannot belive this is the same author that wrote "dicknotized". The only characters I liked in icebreaker were JJ and Henry so when this book was announced I immediatly wanted to read this, I started reading PRAYING that she wouldn't ruin Henry and safe to say Hannah made me love him even more. NO insta-love, NO smut until 50%, and NO sex until 70% 😦 . I know I probably have low standards for Hannah Grace but I was constantly comparing this to the deal by elle kenedy that has a similar plot and I rated 4 stars and if you liked that one you’ll probably like this one too. I think this is my new favorite hockey romance 🤭. ₊˚⊹♡ Anyways this review is for the girls like me that rated icebreaker a 1 KEEP YOUR MIND OPEN, I promise it's worth it. When it comes out READ IT it's such a wholesome read. ⭑.ᐟ 𝐂𝐇𝐀𝐑𝐀𝐂𝐓𝐄𝐑𝐒: 𓍢ִ໋🌷͙֒ 𝘏𝘢𝘭𝘭𝘦 She is a bookworm, a fellow romance reader, a swiftie, and an aspiring writter. She is the eldest daughter and she constantly stuggles with putting everyone else's needs before her own. People pleasers core, she literally rearanges her whole schedule just so she can accomodate her exboyfriend who is also a hockey player. She is everything to me 🙂‍↕️🙂‍↕️, and by far the most likeable fmc of this series. 𓍢ִ໋🌷͙֒ 𝘏𝘦𝘯𝘳𝘺 THE PERFECT MAN, not only does he keep a box of stuff in case any girl stays over (which includes cramps pills and hair ties) but he is actually the sweetest man ever. He is neurodivergent and he struggles trying to filter himself so he won't hurt people but he tries SO hard to understand Halle, and even comforts her when she cries even though he's highly uncomfortable with other people crying. He buys her a necklace with his initial on it 😭😭 (yes they share initials but she said it was for him). I could talk about Henry all day long but I don't want to give any spoilers so I'll just say this man has all the love languages, touch, words of affirmation, acts of service, you name it and he does it. I'm quoting my update but he is a man raised by two woman and IT FREAKING SHOWS. ⭑.ᐟ 𝐏𝐋𝐎𝐓: Halle gets broken up at the beggining of this book by her best and only friend named Will, why you may ask? because she won't have sex with him and he as the andrew tate listener that he is decides that he deserves better 💀 (I FUCKING HATE WILL). Anywho, with the break up Halle realizes that all of the people she thought were her friends were actually only Will's, tired of feeling sorry for herself she decides it's finally time to do something for herself. So she enters a writting competition with the prize of a free course in New York. She's writting a romance book, BUT she realizes she hasn't expirienced any of the things she's writting about so she's stuck. At the same time my man Henry is struggling in one of his classes, as he neurodivergent and the teacher's style doesn't work for him so he's struggling. Dangling a position as captain in the hockey team and keeping his grades perfect as his coach won't accept anything less, Henry is left feeling overwhelmed. He is dragged by Aurora to a bookstore to buy leadership books to help with his dilema. There he meets Halle while she hosts her romance bookclub (SHE RUNS A ROMACE BOOKCLUB 😍😍). She offers to help him with his class as she has a neurodivergent sister and knows easier ways to help them learn, and he (as the beautiful man he is) offers to help her too because he doesn't want to "abuse her kindness", so in exchange he will help her write her book by giving her the expiriences she lacks. "Thank you for being on my team, Henry.” “Thank you for giving me the love I could never picture.” “And how does it make you feel? Now that you can picture it?” He’s quiet while he thinks. “Like I’m living in my daydreams. So, pretty damn happy.” ⭑.ᐟ 𝐅𝐈𝐍𝐀𝐋 𝐓𝐇𝐎𝐔𝐆𝐇𝐓𝐒: I did NOT expect to like this as much as I did, Hannah Grace you have truly redeemed yourself. This was sweet and wholesome and it is truly impossible it belongs to the same series as icebreaker. I know I shouldn't compare but it's hard not to when the same characters I used to hate are here being nice and normal. Henry and Halle were wholesome, they were sweet, they understood each other and took care of one another, and more importantly THEY COMMUNICATE 🎉🎉🎉 *applauses*. I HATE SMUT SOOO MUCH, but the way it was written in this book made me not hate it and also it was actually a pretty heartfelt scene 😭, he doesn't pressure her into anything like her ex and he is the most patient and attentive man ever. To the bio he goes. I can't say much without spoiling so I will end it here, this is your sign to add this to your tbr immediatly.

3 ˖⁺‧✮ “Yeah, they ask a lot of me sometimes, but at least they always want me around. They say I hold everything together." Even if it means sacrificing what you want to hold everything together? If everything falls apart because I rocked the boat,who's going to notice if I fall overboard? Who's there if I sink? I notice everything you do, Halle” ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ this was the best book in the series. most relatable female character who finally found her perfect person. the one who understands her and sees her perfect without needing her. same goes to to henry. i wasn’t the fan of him as much as i liked halle. she was a definition of an older daughter. i hated how long this book was. percentages 70-80% weren’t needed at all! i was so bored with this same plot going and going on again. however, the paint scene🫢 ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ favorite quotes ”I’m annoyed about all the shit I’m going to get for being the one to break up with you, when you’re just too much of a fucking people pleaser to do it yourself”. “Do you ever wonder if you’d have your own friends if you didn’t live in a fantasy world?” “For as long as I remember, all I’ve heard is, “Oh, Halle won’t mind helping,” and not once, “Halle do you mind?” or, “Halle, do you have time?” I don’t remember opting in, and I’m tired.” “I know you have high expectations because of the books you read, but real people have flaws, You included.” “I’m good with doing whatever strips the noise in your head.” “Because I don't want to be in charge of everything. I'm tired of being in charge of everything, and everyone, and having to be the leader. I don't want to be the captain or the family manager. I'm so tired and it's all falling apart." “I, in the calmest and most well-structured-and-not-at-all-tearful way, explain that everything has snuck up on me and collapsed, and now I feel like I'm buried beneath the weight of everything and everyone.” “I'm tired of having to think about everyone else before myself. I'm tired of putting everyone else's needs before my own. I'm tired of feeling like the only way I can make people like me is by doing something for them!" "I hate being the family manager. I hate that the only time anyone ever thinks of me is because they want something from me. I hate feeling like I'm everyone's mom when all I ever want when I call is my own mom. Being the eldest daughter is a curse and I'm sick of it.” pre-read please please please be good! i need something fun to read

ahhh my hopes were so high but this was just okay. cute, cozy. friends to lovers. virgin and player. neurodivergent and people pleaser. im starting to think maybe hannah grace isnt the author for me? i think her characters are great and fleshed out which i always enjoy, the found family and humor is good… but her books always feel far too long and devoid of an actual plot. the same issues i had with icebreaker and wildfire are still continuing. i just needed more tension or something. i had to force myself to finish it. :(

𝟯 🌟!!! I was so excited for Henry's story ever since he was introduced in 𝐼𝑐𝑒𝑏𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑘𝑒𝑟, but after seeing mixed reviews, I approached this book with low expectations—and unfortunately, I was disappointed. The plot felt almost non-existent, and at times, it dragged on. It was more about “no plot, just vibes,” which didn’t quite work for me. While I adore Henry—he’s one of the sweetest, most thoughtful, and caring characters I’ve encountered—there wasn’t enough romance to satisfy me. Most of the book focused on their friendship, lacking those romantic moments I was craving. Henry is such a gem, raised by women and is the greenest flag ever. Seriously, where can I find a guy like him in real life? I related to his struggles due to him being neurodivergent and just wanted to give him a hug.🤧🥺 I like Halle and she had her relatable moments, especially her eldest daughter struggles, overthinking and people-pleasing tendencies. I appreciated her love for Taylor Swift and books, something both of us have in common which made her more relatable. However, I found her a bit annoying at times,since she couldn’t stop bringing up her ex during conversations with Henry. It drove me crazy—yes, he treated you poorly, but now you’re with an amazing guy like Henry! Enough with the constant bitching and moaning!!!😩😭🤚🏼 However, I enjoyed the side characters and the group chats that had me laughing out loud. And Hannah Grace, if you’re reading this, please give JJ—THE LOVE OF MY LIFE—his own book! I need it or I’ll be sending you a strongly worded email! All in all, while I liked certain aspects of the book, I was disappointed overall. Rating Henry's book three stars has me in a state of having a mental breakdown, so please, don’t talk to me for the next 3-5 business days. 🥲🤧💔 *:･ﾟ✧*:･𝐩𝐫𝐞:𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐝- This is one of my most anticipated reads HOWEVER I'm going into the book with zero expectations. I'm buddy reading this with my irl bestie. Shoutout to her for being the sweetest girl and patiently waiting for me to finish The Cruel Prince so that we could buddy- read this one together.😭♥️

3.5⭐️ Listen I adored Henry and Halle, they were so cute but honestly I was just really bored the entire time. If you love really sweet fluffy romances I think this would be for you

Hannah Grace is in desperate need of a good editor. I think the bones of her stories have such great potential, and that her as an author has a bright future ahead, but her books are just too bulky and bogged down. It worked for me in "Icebreakers" (I agree with the discourse saying that a romcom really shouldn't be over 400 pages, but sometimes if the silly dating moments are *good* then by all means write me a book of one shots that culminate in a HEA), but in her recent releases (this one in particular) it has resulted in a book that feels like too much and nothing is really happening. Give me a few solid chapters of good banter, crazy hijinks, and swoon-worthy kisses and you're GOLDEN. Once you're getting into 10 different occasions of studying, 10 random parties that neither of the main characters even like to go to, etc. etc. etc. the reader starts to get bored and feel disconnected from the characters. Not to mention the MANY moments in which we're told something fun happened or that these characters feel a certain way, but we aren't shown these things. PSA TO ALL AUTHORS PLEASE STOP TELLING RATHER THAN SHOWING !!! It makes for an unbelievable story that has awkward pacing and bores the reader. I really really really feel that at the heart of this book was a beautiful love story––I just wish we got to see it through all the unnecessary parts. Another detriment to Grace's series is that there are way too many characters, most of which I do not care about. It dilutes the attention rather than immerse the reader the way a good group of fictional friends should. Don't even get me started on the dialogue in this book. It was all incredibly weird, awkward, formal, and unnatural. I wanted to scream and throw the book at moments when all I wanted was a great romantic line. I didn't laugh once while reading this book––and I definitely didn't cry! (This upsets me, as an eldest daughter, who must protect all other eldest daughters at all costs.)

⌗┆ 3.5 stars🪿₊ ˚! ↳ spoiler free review ⊹"this might be my favorite romance book, but we are my favorite love story." ┆⤿ thoughts 🧦 ⟡ ugh this book exceeded my expectations! the eldest daughter and adhd rep was CHEFS KISS. i literally thought i would hate this but it was so fun?!? the banter 😛 SO SO good ┆⤿ characters 🧺 ⟡ halle. i personally didn’t connect with her much, but i can see how relatable she is! her struggle with being the eldest daughter who is forced to plan everything was soso sad to see! i think everyone can find a piece of themselves in her. reader, people pleaser, eldest daughter, etc. i was SO proud of her for gaining confidence and doing something for herself! i feel like i know her personally…like im genuinely so happy she found henry!! ⊹"thank you for being on my team, henry." ⟡ henry. hey so hes perfect. hes soo loveable!! WHEN HE SHOWED HER HIS ART?!? oh my god. i know he would be SUCH a good friend 🙂‍↕️ the constant reassurance was so so so sweet. THE BOX OF WOMEN PRODUCTS IN HIS BATHROOM!!? yeah. hes perfectt ⊹”i need you to talk to me if you feel like i’m not stepping up, because i will. i’ll do anything for you, halle... you are a high priority to me.” ⤿ ⊹₊ ˚ november 23rd, 2025 ➤ december 2nd, 2025 ⊹₊ ˚ ── ࣪˖ ࣪ ⊹ ࣪ ˖ ── ⌗┆pre-read 🪿₊ ˚! ⤿ ⊹₊ ˚daydream, hannah grace ⊹₊ ˚ did i love icebreaker? no. did i read wildfire? also no. BUTTTTT i LOVED henry in icebreaker 🙂‍↕️ tbh im kinda in the mood for a romance with little to no plot LMFAOO

I know i’m late in writing this review, but if i’m being honest I was just not into it. If I look back I think is the whole dynamic between the characters that was too in the air and not as grounded/solid as I am into while reading a romance. Don’t get me wrong my 3 ⭐️ review means that I finished it and was satisfied with my read but nothing stood out to me like at ALL. I was so hooked in Icebreaker and Wildfire that this was for me like a “aw, i guess”. The love story was cute💞, but too cringey at times and Henry was just too average for what I look into a MMC. I’ll be cringey right now and say: “it’s not you it’s me” because that really sums up what I felt while reading this book 🤷‍♀️ Will I recommend this one? Maybe? Really depends on the reader 😖 ⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆.⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆. ➳ 𝗽𝗿𝗲-𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱｡ꪆৎ ˚⋅ ya girl needs an audiobook for work and it can’t be onyx storm so.. let’s see if this gets my itch 😅

she was cutie but i got bored halfway through

A simple and sweet romance between two college students, one a hockey player and a bookish fellow student. Listening to this book I kept hoping that Halle would set boundaries with all of the people in her life. That was the biggest standout. To the point that about halfway through I almost dnf'd because I was very frustrated with both main characters. But the last 30% of this book was really well done and ultimately I enjoyed their journey even if it wasn't my favorite book in the series. And while I get it's not the point of this series, it's so weird to me to read a book set between college students and none of them ever seem to be at class. Maybe it's just me.

I hate to say it but I think this was my least favorite of the series. There’s only so much self sabotage a girl can take. I found Justin to be the most unrealistic of the leading men… boys like that do not exist. There were definitely some sweet parts I enjoyed, but they were always immediately followed by something annoying. I’m thankful to Abby J for getting me back into romance but I’m ready to try out a new author!

** spoiler alert ** 3.25 stars sdlkfjhdlsakhfsa;dkljfhshlkasjdf;ksadhfasldnfsd - those are my current feelings on this book. I was really excited for this one because I LOVED the previous two books and so I had pretty high expectations and maybe that was my main issue. This may be a me problem or maybe I wasn't in the right frame of mind for this type of book, but I was not a fan of Emma. Usually, I really like books that tackle mental health and how it can affect and ways you can take care of yourself. But this just wasn't working for me. Emma was in HUGE denial of her mother being the spawn of Satan, and as the reader we had no reason to believe she was anything but, so it was incredibly hard to see Emma's empathetic point of view. And it just kept getting worse and Emma would even see as much but still keep her head in the sand. And then she is giving Justin this speech about his mother and it all seemed very hypocritical considering her own situation. And then there was her relationship from Justin, which was clearly moving toward something serious for Justin and she still was stringing him along and saying it could only be casual. Also not a fan of the third act breakup and the subsequent EASY way they came back together despite the fact Justin had just said he wouldn't be able to trust her again. Overall, Emma wasn't much of a good character for me. We didn't get to see enough of her positives to really sell me on their relationship. But I still do lover Abby's writing and there parts about it I really loved, but I had some problems with this one 😢

An Action-Packed Adrenaline Rush “I am serving the fifth year of a life sentence for murdering my own child. Spoiler alert: I didn’t do it." I Will Find You is an OTT thriller about a prison break, a case of mistaken identity, and a startling revelation. David has been serving time for 5 years for the murder of his 3-year-old son, Matthew. A visit from his sister-in-law, Rachel, changes everything. Narrated by David, an FBI special agent named Max, Rachel, and a few others, this novel is not about the characters. The plot revolves around David and Rachel, but the reader doesn’t know much about them. The chapters between Max and his partner Sarah were schticky and cartoonish. David and Rachel are likable enough, and I did care what happened to them. This is a fast-paced, quick read, but the plot is out of control and over the top. One will have to suspend their disbelief to fully enjoy this novel. The revelation behind Matthew’s murder had me rolling my eyes. The premise grabbed me, and the first half had me riveted. There are a lot of twists and turns, and I was never bored while reading this, but I couldn’t get past the lack of believability and a few plot holes. To sum it up: Not my favorite Harlan Coben but still a decent thriller. I received an ARC of this book from NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing in exchange for an honest review.

This is my first novel by Harlan Coben, and it's an intense experience for sure. I devoured the book in just two sittings, unable to look up, and that's rare for me. I found it challenging to fully suspend my disbelief, though. This is a common issue I have with thrillers. So maybe that's a me problem. Don't let that deter you. Coben's style can only be described as action-driven, the story moves forward at a breakneck pace. The characters aren't all that interesting, but I don't read thrillers for the characters. Overall, an enjoyable read with a very likeable main character. I was rooting for his success throughout. I can see why Coben has such a dedicated fanbase. If you enjoy fast-paced thrillers filled with action, suspense, and unexpected twists, this book will not disappoint. I look forward to picking up another one of Coben's novels in the future.

3.5 stars - rounded down! ⭐️⭐️⭐️ I’m no Harlan Coben expert, but I have read a few of his books, which I’ve really enjoyed. This was just ok for me. I agree with some of my fellow GR reviewers about having to suspend some disbelief, but I usually don’t have a problem with that. It’s a fiction book - I try not to take them too seriously if I don’t have to. I Will Find You started off really strong. The premise had me immediately requesting a hold at my library. I think certain parts could have been left out - no spoilers here - and it was a little laggy in the middle, which was why I rounded down from 3.5 stars. I did like the book enough to recommend!

This review gonna be a lili bit of raving about this book by itself VS ranting how it was as a continuation of Maas’s series Honestly, my biggest challenge going into this book was all my preconceptions of this world and its characters. The stakes were high. Cassian is one of the biggest favorites in the fandom Whereas Nesta has a reputation for being a.... So going into it, the book was better when I tried to block out all the nasty shit in previous books and high expectations. This isn’t the start of a new ✨Maas✨series, just a standalone romance happening in same world. I highly recommend that mindset cuz then it's less disappointing. Moving on, ꧁The Characters꧂ I have never liked Nesta Acheron. sorry not sorry. I didn’t like her much in the previous books but I acknowledge that her character has potential for such depth that Maas really tried to develop here. But did it work? Typically these characters dynamics would usually have me ✨screaming✨ with a bloodthirsty heroine and spitfire cocky guy who always comes back for her!! I’ve always loved Cassian. But i didnt *quite* love his POV. I felt like through an attempt of making his character more dimensional, we lost some of his key characteristics as the flirtatous badass who uses humor and adrenaline to cope... Yes it was amazing getting insight into his thoughts and Maas’s writing style easily adopted this dual perspective. But I wish we got more of the Cassian that trained Freye and let her punch out as needed while cracking jokes at Rhysands expensive. Maas is known for her growling, purring, overprotective, asshole, alpha males. BUT I LOVEEE ITTTT And his relationship with Nesta was so well developed. He knows Nesta as a victim, killer, broken girl, self-sufficient woman, and general badass. He's seen it alll and he keeps coming back for her. Together, these two were the perfect combination for a hot chaotic relationship that had you swooning, cackling, and gasping. I don't think Nesta will ever be my fav character however her story really speaks to mental health for someone who reacts/protects themselves with sharp words and anger Some describe Nesta as ambitious and authoritative character but to me she was very selfish, cold, and distant. She did nothing to help Feyre provide for their family. She spent the money Feyre earned on frivolous items. THEN in fey world, Nesta went on whole refusing to train/ help others but demanding they protect ONE of her sisters?! *fuck off, I have 2 sisters and it hurt from reading Feyre POV to not feel chosen in the family group dynamic* In this book, Nesta *finally* had moments of -boohoo i’m tired of not being able to protect myself. LIKE YES BITCH THAT'S WHAT THEY ALL BEEN SAYING THIS WHOLE TIME So on that element, I was sooo glad she was actually making progress and decisions! At the same time, I found myself disappointed with the Inner Circle *gasp* I know, I was sad about it too. I understood why they were done with her shit. Because, same. But the constant bashing of Nesta's drinking, sex, and weight were low blows especially compared to the violence and weight loss Feyre went thru. hypocrites much? I fully recognize this isn’t reflective of the characters we know and love. This is Nesta’s perspective of the characters acting towards her... *Shrug* Granted this book was supposedly our opportunity to get to know Inner Circle better. But nooooo - We need another Stair scene. God forbid Nesta seeks out any truth or backstory for us readers who have been DESPERATE to know Cassian SINCE 2016. Selfish asshole. ꧁The Maas Quality꧂ Honestly, sad to report no major twists. It was just a really good, borderline dark, romance driven by character development and lotttta sexy sexy fun times since its not longer YA If I had just randomly picked this up, then this book would’ve been off the charts with such dynamic characters, beautiful worldbuilding, and an okay plot. But in comparison with her others, this book’s plot was basic and was missing some fun intricate details and plot twists that you usually can count on with Maas. To sum up it was an epic story of redemption-- Of a girl finding herself again after tragedy. And along the way she makes friends, and a lover who listens to her who supports her rough recovery, and not always her actions. Somehow this book felt soooo long and overly descriptive.. but also was not enough. No idea how that happens but there it is. The next threat/enemy makes logical sense. So I liked that I wanted Nesta to get fierce FOR her sisters and be finally willing to fight FOR them. I love some badass sisters dynamics of teasing each other, bitching at each other but would do anything for each other in the end! Didn't really quite get that. I was constantly underwhelmed by Nesta. She talks lotta shit but what has she actually done? She has continuously refused to show initiative in her own life and failed to provide for herself. Instead, she constantly chose to lean on the resources of others for her survival. All she has done is complain. Complain about her human life while refusing to work and save herself or her sisters. Complain about the happiness her lili sister found while refusing to be part of it. Complain about the only people willing to fight and save humans while refusing to train or learn to fight FOR HERSELF. iM bOrEd and AnGeReD by the dismissive bullshit that defined her character up to this point in the series This book showed some sparks of greatness - Taking initiative in her life! Using all that spitfire and backbone to make something for herself! But in the end, it kinda failed to live up to the fierce powerful Nesta I was hoping she would transform into. Reading this book you can’t help but compare to Maas’ other great heroines. I think the big difference is that Aelin always kept moving forward. And Bryce was a little shit. But Nesta handled her depression by freezing and becoming nasty. Which is just really hard to read sometimes. Overall, I’m glad I read this book but it won’t be a major re-read like most Maas books. The book stands on the friendship the characters build, Nesta overcoming her despair and FINALLY developing her interesting powers. I greatly enjoyed the character dynamics of how Cassian and Nesta are such strong complex characters, but I wanted their romance to be more epic and to sweep me away. I love this world and all the creatures and BADASS FEMALE WARRIORS but the plot was lacking and I hate the power change that a lot of Maas’ characters are undergoing. If you are teetering whether to read this book, I gotta tell you to lower your expectations and try to forget the bullshit of Nesta’s past in order to just fully enjoy this book. It was pretty great seeing the Inner Circle’s relationships in the aftermath of Wings and Ruin, especially through Nesta’s harsh eye that hardcore READS THESE BITCHES and all their flaws. Plus it gives some foreshadowing and builds excitement for which characters might be next. It was a good romance, but it wasn’t a great Maas book. ALSO I’M STIL FRIGGEN PISSED ABOUT THAT COVER ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Pre-Book thoughts I have never liked Nesta. sorry not sorry. I didn’t like her much in the previous books but I acknowledge that her character does have potential for such depth Some describe Nesta as ambitious and authoritative character but to me she was very selfish, cold, and distant. She did nothing to help Feyre provide for their family and spent the money Freye earned on frivolous items. THEN in fey world goes on whole refusing to train/ help others but demanding they protect ONE of her sisters?! *fuck off* Just the idea of a sister knowingly fucking over another in how she treated Freyre as human for YEARS ... it actually hurts my heart a little bit .... that kinda selfishness But Cassian liking her will probably MAKE me like her more *god i hope so cuz he deserves the best* I just sick of Nesta's unrelenting nastiness while also hoping she resolves her trauma and that Cassian finds the happiness he deserves Wish list It’d be kinda cool to find out that she was doing something —sacrificing— to help the family that Freyre never knew back when they were humans behind the wall She just needs SOME redeeming quality for all the times she constantly bitching and lashing out at everyone. Some reason for why the whole Cassian ignoring thing and treating her sis Feyre like dirt *shaking my fucking head* Also generally she way 2 protective and angry towards people for there not to be some sorta backstory or event behind it hahah Cover: ehhh I not really a fan of this style... also don’t think it really suited for Cassian with the hardcore Autumn court theme and colors. This just seems like such a let-down and step-down compared to the artful creativity and beauty of Crescent City *frowny face* But its Maas so of courseeeee imma read it *duhhhh*

Did I read this 757-page novel in one day? Yes. Do I have any regrets? No. This was my most anticipated book of the year, which is shocking. It's no secret that I don't like this series. ACOMAF and ACOWAR had basically no plot. Rhys and Feyre are annoying to me because they are perfect and have no flaws and that's boring. I literally could not care less about any of the other characters besides Nesta, Cassian, and Azriel. SJM also uses repetitive language, and I swear she gets paid per ellipsis. There are many things I don't like about these books. But dang it, are they entertaining! And I would be lying if I didn't say that I shipped Cassian and Nesta like I never have anyone before! I was so ready for this ship to sail. And now that it has, I gotta say, I'm disappointed. I wanted more. I can't even tell you what I wanted more of. I just wanted more of it. I think I hyped this up in my mind so much that there was no way it could ever live up to it. I wasn't consumed by the romance the way I wanted to be. I wanted an epic love story and I didn't get one. The whole romance felt 'meh' to me, which sucks since it's the main reason I read this book. I wanted the angst, the longing, the pining, the yearning! You romance readers know what I'm talking about. Instead, I got a lot of sex scenes. And while I don't mind it, I wanted more romance than sex. It didn't live up to my expectations. I also liked but didn't love the characters. I used to love Nesta, and while I liked her growth and seeing her overcome her trauma, she didn't feel like the Nesta I liked so much in ACOWAR. Maybe it's just my disappointment, but she and Cassian felt off to me. Just slightly out of character when compared to what I'd seen before. Then again, people are different from different perspectives. Having seen it all before from Feyre's POV means that we got a biased, not necessarily accurate representation of who they are. That brings me to the fact that I actually liked the Inner Circle more in this book than before. I still don't love them and think they're all lowkey horrible in their own way, but I was more ok with them. Maybe because unlike Feyre, who saw them as perfect people who could do no wrong, Nesta isn't afraid to point out their flaws. Unfortunately, Cassian is blind to the fact that Rhys has flaws at all. It bothered me so much how angry and borderline violent he'd become whenever Nesta mentioned she didn't like Rhys. I also hated how Cassian was so unbothered when Rhys threatened to kill his mate. I kept waiting for Cass to stand up for Nesta in front of Rhys. It didn't happen. I don't know why everyone in this series insists on acting like Rhys is the greatest thing since sliced bread. All of that said, I did enjoy watching Nesta come into her own, and find happiness with her new friends. I also loved Nesta's relationship with the House. The House and Nesta is a friendship I didn't know I needed. By far the best relationship in the book. !!!THE FOLLOWING IS A SPOILER!!! I hate that Nesta had to lose her power. She was death incarnate and could wield insanely powerful objects as no one else could. Then it was taken away. It's like SJM didn't want her to be a match to the ever-perfect and powerful Rhys. Same with Amren in ACOWAR. Why can't powerful women stay powerful? Also, while I'm all for girl power, Nesta and her friends shouldn't have won the Blood Rite. How do girls who have been training for three months win against warriors that have been training for years? It makes no sense. !!!SPOILER OVER!!! Also, this had a weak plot. All of the books in this series do if I'm honest. It's definitely a character-focused novel. The plot feels distant from the story. It's worse because the plot of this is very obviously a setup to other novels. The villain in this story was irrelevant, they didn't even make an appearance until the end. It feels like the introductory book in a series, which I suppose it is, but I still didn't like it. This made the book feel longer than it was, and it was already pretty gosh darn long (not that it stopped me from reading it in one go). Overall, this book was OK. Nothing more. Nothing less. I am still eagerly awaiting Azriel's book. Also!! Apparently, Feyre doesn't suck at painting! Shocking right! This is the first time that her paintings were described in detail and people actually commented on their beauty rather than just vaguely acknowledging them. In my mind she still sucks though.

thank god im not straight. this was all parts good and bad. you know who was the best-straight-alpha-broody-hot-guy in here? my boy AZRIEL!!! Can the next book be about him please. maybe being single. or just gay. (sjm would never though.) rhysand can burn in hell goodbyeee . 3.5 STARS. check out my full review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HAg98... Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |

3.5 stars. here comes the post-series hangover. it's safe to say that this series has my entire heart. nesta’s redemption arc is 751 pages of smutty illyrian desperation (maybe slightly too smutty?!) and self discovery. i now like nesta because i’ve also disliked her. the ugliest parts of nesta are things that i recognize in myself and that’s the beauty of this book. ✨a court of smut and self-help.✨ and, of course, men with wings are just superior in every way. 🤍 i need azriel to get his own book now (though preferably not with elain lol) (acowar & acomaf remain my favorites from this series, but i can’t wait to see what sjm has in store for books 5 and 6.)

This Review ✍️ Blog 📖 Twitter 🐦 Instagram 📷 Support me ☕ “Your power is a song, and one I’ve waited a very, very long time to hear, Nesta.” Whenever SJM releases a new book, you start seeing it everywhere related to books, whether it is GR, blogs, book twitter and even memes. I tried to read the book as soon as possible not because I was super excited but because I know some people got zero chills and can’t help but spoiling it for others. And to give you a better idea of Sarah’s success I am gonna provide some numbers here: She sold more than 10 million copies, her books are translated into more than 37 languages, her net worth is around 40 million dollars according to Google and ACOSF, her books that just has been released already has 27K ratings over on GR which takes some books years to reach. I am saying all of the above because I understand that SJM is not perfect and no one said she is. I don’t consider myself a SJM stan and I gave her books all kind of ratings from very bad to excellent according to me! And the important thing is that this is highly subjective, some readers enjoy her books and some don’t which is totally cool. The not cool part is shitting on people who reads her books. The thing is I know this review won’t change much, Sarah will continue releasing books, her readers will continue to read them and the SJW will continue doing their job. I will try to keep this spoiler free and if there are spoilers I will point that out and hide them. But if you have not read the original trilogy then don’t continue this review because you will get spoiled. The story takes place after the events of the last book and it is a full novel focusing on Nesta and Cassian. Nesta is kind of traumatized after the events of the last book and she’s specially affected by her father’s death. She goes into a self destructive cycle which makes Feyre and Rhysand involved to help her. In addition to that there are some issues from the last books that are further explored like the human Queens and the political problems within the different courts. Now here is the thing with SJM stories, I think they have the romance part and the fantasy part. I am a bigger fan of the later part and the first part can sometimes be too cheesy for me! To be honest, this entity is the filthiest and has the most smut in all of SJM books. I think this is not appropriate at all for younger readers. The writing was typical SJM writing, Sarah has the ability to keep you hooked and entertained throughout the story even if it is a 700+ book. There were readers who finished the whole book in one day!!!!! I also believe that Sarah listens to her readers, there was certainly less purring in this one but there were definitely moments that made me cringe. I am not the biggest fan of terms like “Mate, territorial and primal” which are used. Also the character’s ability to smell each other and know who had sex with who always made me cringe and I don’t think it is romantic at all. Another thing I like about the book is the world building, I kind of enjoy the lore and the settings of the world. The magical house in this book was a great addition and I don’t know if it can be considered as a character but I loved it and saw that many readers did too. “She was a wolf who had never learned how to be a wolf, thanks to that cage humans called propriety and society. And like any maltreated animal, she bit anyone who came near.” And speaking of characters, it should be mentioned that this is a character-driven book. I think SJM taker her time to explore characters and trying to expose them to all kind of stuff and also giving us an insight to their backstories so that when the actual plot happens, it is empowered by the reader caring about the character. Nesta grows a lot throughout the book, she starts as someone who is in a dark place, self destructive and cold and we see her slowly becoming a better person through the book. I loved her relationship with Emerie and Gwynn. I tend to like SJM’s platonic love dynamics! However, I thought that Nesta was sometimes not treated fairly and no one acknowledged that fact and they just ganged up against her. Cassian is also good, But I wish Sarah’s males were a bit different and more distinct from one another. Rhysand, Rowan and now Cassian kind of sounds the same with their big wings and bigger cocks. We understand that they have “rippling” muscles and nice tattoos so I wish the author focused on their personalities rather than what we have outside. Az is actually a bit different from them and I want his book right now!!! It is funny how Rhysand was insufferable in this book, and not just to us as readers but also the different characters pointed that out whether by speaking it out loud or rolling their eyes…etc. The plot is there but I feel there were multiple subplots rather than one main plot line. I think after reading 10 of Sarah’s books I became very good at catching her foreshadowing which made almost all those plot lines predictable one way or another. (view spoiler) “Whatever you need to throw at me, I can take it. I won’t break.” Summary: I think it is kind of a typical SJM story that will appeal to fans of ACOMAF. I liked the main characters and I liked their romance but not all the sex and focus on physical traits. I liked some of the sub plots but some of them felt too convenient or predictable for me. It was a gripping read and the last 10% was exciting and addicting. I want the next book to focus on Azriel so can anyone tell me it will be his book please?!

ACoSF—Reading Vlog To the people who look at an SJM book and give an amused look, To the amused looks and the unbeatable 1 star reviews that follow. *I'll drink to that* Me: *Googles the genre of ACoSF* Google: Fantasy Fiction: check. High Fantasy: nope. Don't JOKE. Romantic fantasy: nope. Replace romantic with "Highly Smutty" Now, after ranting about this book so much, why did I not rate it 1 star? Positives first. One, because I had no expectations from this book regarding anything other than the smut (not forgetting even that disappointed me.) The book is more about Cassian's dick than Nessian's sex. Two, I surprisingly related to Nesta. I Hated her and there was no convincing me to like her BUT this book did it. Let me tell you a specialty about Sjm's writing. She's a Queen when it comes to making us love the Characters we hated (ehm, ehm, Rowan. Ehm, Dorian, Ehm, Manon.)—I didn't like any of them and started to like/love them. BUT, She's also a bitch when it comes to making her readers hate the Characters they love just to make them like new ones. (ehm, ehm, Chaol. ehm, Rhysand, ehm, Aelin, Tamlin, Aedion, etc.)—I'm not even kidding, I really loved them all and started disliking and then hate them. Three, I find that no matter how flawed her books are, there are always some really amazing motivational lines in her books and sometimes, I need them. Four, I really liked the House giving Nesta all those books and I liked the scene when she cried and confessed things on that hike (no spoilers). Enough of that! Why is this book shit? →Because I literally hate everyone I liked. →Because it was SO boring that I had to start skimming it. (Not just lines; paragraphs) and that's something I only ever did in Tower of Dawn. Yes, another book by this woman. →Because I know this series can never have a serious plot and all I wanted was the smut and even that I didn't get enough of. →Because I don't care about FEYRE or RHYSAND or the UNBORN baby who's image he saw and CAME. →Because I literally don't care if they die. In fact, I wish they do. Cauldron boil them alive. →Because she has taken the concept of faeries and made it ridiculous. If you don't know how to write about them, just stop. You'd do MUCH better writing a simple Adult-Romance book. Or should I quote a few lines as an example for why she'd be better at writing Adult-Romance and Dom/Sub plots? Here: WARNING: ADULT CONTENT which of course you know if you've checked the genre but still if you're not comfortable. “Get on your hands and knees,” ... “Good. I want my cock to be the only thing you think about.” ... “Are you always this wet for me, Nesta?” ... “Do you want my fingers, my tongue, or my cock, Nesta?” It's mostly a dominant guy who talks like that and I think Maas should put aside all this fantasy and just get into purely Adult Romance Novels. Something else. SPOILERS I also hate all this fantasy concept by Maas because she ends up taking the power she gives her characters. She took Nesta's power away and AVOID the next few lines in italics if you haven't read "shadow and bone" trilogy or the "throne of glass series" because I read them both recently and I'm so mad that both Alina and Aelin had to give up their powers for saving the world. I really really want a book where the main character realizes the true potential of their power and GETS BETTER at using it and gets STRONGER and MORE POWERFUL, rather than becoming nothing. This, I give up my power to save the world—Trope is getting on my nerves. So, coming back to the book and plot. I repeat, WHAT PLOT? I've been noticing a pattern in all Acotar books. Book 1, introduced a good guy and a bad guy and a villain. Book 2, takes that good guy and turns him bad, takes that bad guy and makes him the hero and the plot revolves around him and introduces a villain you can't kill coz he has to drag his life till the other book. Book 3, kills the villain and introduces Swan Lake who asks Feyre for help Leaves a Made IMMORTAL Queen out in the world (leaves, not kills) to create a plot around HER as the new villain in the next book. Book 4, kills the Queen but that's not how it ends coz there are still bad people out there who want war (aka. introduces new villains) and another book for some "So-Called-Plot" and of course, the Swan Lake who I'm sure Sjm has plans about. I just, I can't. I don't care about these books. Every book sets the base for an unbeatable and very strong villain who can't be killed in the next book because they have to be killed in the book that comes AFTER the next book. Ugh. Anyway, tell me this. Why are the Archeron Sisters so damn important? I still stand by my word that I HATE Tamlin BUT, I still think he was better than Feyre. That Feyre didn't deserve him. That he was really a nice guy but sjm HAD TO turn him bad by writing those bad things about him just to make us Like Rhys. (Which I did) Sjm wrote about how Feyre suffered, She wrote about how Nesta suffered But made us hate Tamlin so much that I don't even care about reading about him and yet, HE SUFFERED and sjm doesn't care because she created his Character just to be hated! I see some potential (idk why, I think so) That there might be a good way of writing and redeeming Tamlin (and ofc, Maas is good at making us like the Characters we hate) but I don't want to read a LONG book because that's all sjm does (writes long books for money, greedy woman) only to like him, I want a SOLID plot. Oh, and I didn't write what this book is about, did I? Even if I did, I think I NEED to say this: The title of this book should have been, A COURT OF SMUTTY NESSIAN ON FIRE And I still don't get the point of this cover??? Someone please explain? This Mask doesn't even symbolise the Mask that is written about in this book. :) I like Nesta now coz I related to her a lot at times b-b-bbBUT, I still hate this book for so many reasons. Reviews from some people who wrote mostly everything my heart says with each heartbeat. But of course not everything, there are some things they say that I don't agree with which I'll write soon but still, soooo many things I wanted to say, they've written already. First, an update I related to really hard: an update by Sophia Next, the best 3 line review I've read and agree with. NReads's review And of course, my favourite rant reviews. theburqaavenger's review Yumiko's review —Bye, Rhys. You are cancelled and we are not getting a refund. That's it, you said it for me, Yumiko! My Reviews of ACOTAR 2.5 ★ ACOMAF 2.5 ★ ACOWAR 1.5★ ACOFAS —didnt read and won't. __________ pre-read thoughts 23rd Feb— when you're happy and you know it, clap your hands. *Clap, Clap* when you're reading SJM books, say you're trash. *Trash, Trash* when you're reading SJM books and you know there won't be a plot but you still read it for smut, admit you're trash. *Trash, Trash* __________ 22nd Feb— please don't tell me Tamlin loved his role of a beast in book 1 and wants another Feyre which of course he won't get so maybe he'll work it out with Elaine? Huh. The soft, sweet, garden loving girl tames the beast? 🙄 __________ 21st Feb—the Plot, WHAT? — Lilah said there is smut but then there is the SMUT. I'm liking the smut but I'm waiting for the actual SMUT ALSO, when you read sjm books, you should be prepared for dirty stuff. As for me, I already have a dirty mind, when it comes to her books. 🙈 __________ 20th Feb—Guess who's hard every other page? Right. Him. Cassian. __________ 19th Feb—The best thing so far? The smut XD Nesta reads (surprisingly) and she reads smutty books. And cassian is bound to smutty thoughts and getting hard. Like, really. REALLY HARD. you know, Rock Hard. Solid. yeah. 😏 — How can I like Nesta? No—i can't, no. (yes) — Nessian training sessions are way better than feysand's. Period. __________ 19th Feb—Just read the prologue and and that was some serious nonsense! I can only laugh at that with my eyes rolling. It's like I entered a book full of smut which starts with a horror comedy for young adults. __________ 15th Feb—Why the hell is a book on Nesta almost 800 pages?

3.5 Stars ⭐️ Absolutely loved parts of this book Trigger Warnings for A Court of Silver Flames: PTSD, graphic sexual language, abuse, sexual assault, rape, depression, suicidal thoughts, childbirth complications. Pages mentioning sexual assault/rape: 59, 174-175, 365-366, 380-381, 694-695. Most of these are flashbacks or recollections of previous assaults. Page 365-366 is a scene where it is implied rape almost happens but does not. A Court of Silver Flames didn't really feel like an ACOTAR book. Sometimes it read like a 700+ page fanfic, which if you're only here for the Nessian romance, then I'd give it 4-stars. Personally, I fell in love with SJM's amazing world-building and creative plots, and in regards to those things, ACOSF falls flat. BUT before I go into all that, let me share with you some of the things I LOVED: *SPOILERS AHEAD* The Smut. This book is DEFINITELY +18! Let me tell you, as a married, twenty-seven-year-old woman, there were still a few scenes that left me reeling from heat, while others had me uncomfortable with secondhand embarrassment. 😂 There was plenty of sexual tension, fourplay, and graphic sex - honestly, the best faerie porn SJM has written yet. Apparently, there even was supposed to be a threesome scene, and I'm quite happy it was left out. I don't know if ACOTAR fans were ready for it. 😅 Nessian. My love for them is heavily intertwined with the romantic aspect of their relationship, but I did enjoy seeing Cassian support Nesta through her struggles without taking sole charge of her mental health and well-being. Nesta's Healing Arc. This was honestly the best part about ACOSF. In the previous books, we are inclined to dislike Nesta for her nastiness, coldness, and cruelness. However, since ACOSF is half-written in her POV, we finally see the real Nesta. We learn that she is full of pain, fear, guilt, and self-loathing. That her cruelty, drinking, random f*cking, partying and pushing everyone away have all been coping mechanisms for years of PTSD (either from childhood or guilt for her actions/inactions). I went from hating Nesta at the beginning to completely respecting and truly loving her by the end. Her road to healing is long and painful but beautiful as she learns self-love and forgiveness (of others as well as herself). I think a lot of readers, myself included, will find themselves relating to Nesta a lot more than they thought possible. The friendship between Nesta, Gwyn, and Emerie. This story of healing extends to many others in the book, including Gwyn and Emerie. No matter the horrors each has experienced in the past, together, they learn to trust and find strength in one another. Indeed, we don't get to choose our family, but we can choose our friends; and sometimes, they become our real family. Nesta claiming Gwyn and Emerie as her "sisters" reminds me of how Rhys, Cas, and Az see each other as brothers. I love this new girl gang of bad-a$$ females and can't wait to see how they take on the world! Now for the things I didn't like: The unequal focus on multiple plots. In A Court of Silver Flames, it's Nesta's healing arc, Valkyrie training, Cassian and Nesta's romance, Dead Trove / Briallyn / Koschei, and Feyre's pregnancy. While these plots were well written and intertwined at many points throughout the book, the one with the Dread Trove / Briallyn / Koschei seemed to take a back seat when it shouldn't have. This is the main plotline that will drive the series, and you're telling me in over a 750+ page book, SJM didn't write more than 100 pages about it? I know we will get this info in the next books, but we really needed more groundwork in ACOSF because, as of now, the antagonists' role is weak and not very intriguing. Repetitive storylines. There were many similarities between Feyre/Rhys and Nesta/Cassian's mating story. The males always know first, then the female claim they only want sex for sex or fun, then once they find out or discover they are mates, the female leaves the male, only to reunite and accept the bond. While it's not really a bad maneuver, we've already seen it before. Another time this happens is when Feyre and Rhys almost die . . . AGAIN. But I already knew they wouldn't die because of the plot armor (immunity from death due to their essential roles) laid out for them ACOTAR for Feyre and ACOWAR for Rhys. This is twice now that both Feyre and Rhys have basically died and come back to life due to some random, dramatic miracle. Again, this isn't necessarily bad; I just find it boring and not very interesting. Rhys lying to Feyre. Rhys has always been adamant that Feyre has a choice in every decision concerning her life. But Rhys decides not to tell her that giving birth will kill her, and consequently him. In fact, Rhys lies to Feyre (well, ignores her questioning) about it as we learn from the extended chapter edition but tells the Inner Circle. Since when does Rhys hide sh*t from her? You're telling me the male who sent his mate into the Weaver's Cottage and on other dangerous missions is now not being honest because “I can’t bring myself to give her that fear"? She's not some delicate flower. Plus, as the mother, she DESERVES to know! That's BS. So inconsistent with Rhys' character in the previous book. It's just not something he would do. But you know who would??? Tamlin. Rhys effectively pulled a Tamlin. 😡 Nesta, Gwyn, and Emerie surviving/winning the Blood Rite. I loved that these females participated; however, them not only surviving but winning is unrealistic. They're up against Illyrian warriors who have been training for this moment since childbirth, while they've only been training for maybe 3 months? Honestly, that's not enough time to become proficient in survival or combat skills. There's also a moment when Nesta shoots a bow perfectly, and her reasoning is, “My sister taught me. . . a long time ago.” Girl, Feyre took you out to practice one time. You're telling me you're already a pro?? It's just improbable. Overall, A Court of Silver Flames was decent. I truly enjoyed Nesta's healing arc and the romance, but I wish there were more driving the story. Since I'm a huge ACOTAR fan, I will definitely read the next book hoping that the plot thickens and there are some twists and turns along the way. Just for fun, I want to make some predictions for the next book!!! • Az and Gwyn are MATES! I read the bonus chapter from Azriel's perspective, and there's an interaction that has me thinking this. Her breath curled in front of her mouth, and one of his shadows darted out to dance with it before twirling back to him. Like it heard some silent music. She angled her head, hair shining like molten metal. "Do you sing?" He blinked. It wasn't every day that people took him by surprise, but . . . "Why do you ask?" "They call you shadowsinger. Is it because you sing?" "I am a shadowsinger -it's not a title that someone just made up." She shrugged again, irreverently. Az narrowed his eyes, studying her "Do you, though?" she pressed. "Sing?" Azriel couldn't help his soft chuckle. "Yes." Azriel entered the warmth of the stairwell, and as he descended, he could have sworn a faint, beautiful singing followed him. Could have sworn his shadows sang in answer. I think he's hearing her heart sing to him, and his shadows are singing back. 💕 There's also an important moment in Chapter 52, when Gwyn sings during the priestess service. It says, "Gwyn sang, chin high, a faint glow seeming to radiate from her." I think this could mean that Gwyn is a lightsinger in contrast to Azriel being a shadowsinger. She's the light to his shadows. Two sides of the same coin - his other half. 💕 Also, in Chapter 29, Gwyn mentions that her nymph bones are more pliant than ordinary High Fae, meaning she could give birth to an Illyrian baby! Bye, Elain! 👋 • Gwyn is Tamlin's daughter! In Chapter 29, Gwyn says that her mother participated in the Great Rite with a male stranger. Remember, the Great Rite is where the High Lord of Spring Court has to find the Maiden and bed her to generate magic for the land. Her mother never found out who the father was but says that the magic chose him that night. Tamlin has been ruling Spring Court for at least 50 years, so if it was a High Lord, it was him! I definitely think Gwyn being his daughter is the key to Tamlin's redemption arc if SJM decides to give him one. Tamlin literally has no one: no friends, no family, no mate. He's absolutely depressed and spiraling. What he needs and wants is someone to protect and love unconditionally, and what could be better than the arrival of a long-lost daughter? I don't think anyone in the ACOTAR universe wants to see another Tamlin romantic storyline, so I think the only other possibility is to show a different but powerful sort of love - the love of a parent. I think this could be a beautiful story. I'm here for it. • On the other hand, Gwyn could possibly be Lucien's daughter and Helion's granddaughter. While I think the Tamlin theory seems more probably, here are some reasons why she could be Lucien's daughter. I previously mentioned how Gwyn glows when she sings. This could mean she has inherited some of Helion's light powers, same as Feyre. There's also the fact her hair is described as coppery-brown/chestnut, which indicates she is linked to Autumn Court. However, Gwyn does say her grandparents were from Spring AND Autumn Court so she could have easily gotten it from a grandparent versus a parent. My issue with this theory is that if Gwyn is Lucien's daughter and Azriel's mate, this would create such a weird dynamic in regards to Elain. Too weird. So until we get the next book, I'll keep hoping she's Tamlin's daughter. Also, Gwyn says that magic CHOSE her father that night, which sounds a lot like when magic takes over the High Lord of Spring Court to claim the Maiden - not a random High Fae like Lucien. • Emerie and Mor will become lovers. When Mor visits the library, Emerie is with Nesta: She sighed, nodding toward Mor. “I always forget how beautiful she is. “She never comes to Windhaven these days.” Nesta could have sworn pink stole over Emerie’s brown cheeks. It might be nothing, but with SJM, it's always something. • Eris is getting a redemption arc. During their last conversation in ACOSF, Cassian say, “I grew up surrounded by monsters. I’ve spent my existence fighting them. And I see you, Eris. You’re not one of them. Not even close. I think you might even be a good male. . .You’re just too much of a coward to act like one.” We know that Eris hates his cruel father. He has consistently sided with Rhys and the Night Court to fight against the antagonists of the series. Plus, Eris mentioned multiple times that he left Mor wounded at his border for a reason (alluding to the fact it was in her best interest). While he may be a prick, he seems to have good intentions and follows through with them. This quote just confirms that SJM is setting Eris up for a redemption story. • What if Nesta becomes High Queen of Prythian? Okay, I know it's crazy, but at the very end, Cassian thinks that Nesta has some connection—or understanding—with the Mother. She also hears a woman's voice speaking to her throughout the book, which I think is the Mother guiding her. We know she's was (is?) a death-god and can slay immortals. She mastered the Dead Trove. She will most likely lead a new order of Valkyrie. And she probably will end up killing Koschei with Ataraxia. There are also mentions of Cassian being King of Bastards - which using the title 'king' seems like some suspicious foreshadowing. I don't know how it's all connecting, but I think there's a slight chance they could rule Prythian together. • Elain goes evil. This is honestly more wishful thinking than anything, but I think Elain will reject the bond with Lucien, and when Az realizes his mate is Gwyn, she's going to lose it because it'll be the second time someone she loves rejects her due to fae-related things. A few times throughout the book, Rhys and Nesta say they haven't seen the real Elain. That possibly in the future, "we'll see a different side of her emerge" (Extended Feysand Chapter) versus the sweet and innocent character she portrays. She still has the Cauldron's power that hasn't been fully revealed, and this will probably be important in the next few books.

"But Nesta knew well how invisible wounds can be. How they could scar as deeply and badly as any physical wound." When I started reading this, I was so ready to give it 5 stars. The first 100 pages were excellent and this comes from someone who had mixed feelings on the first books in the series, but it quickly went a bit downhill. "For every Nesta out there- climb the mountain" If you don't know this is the forth book in the A Court of Thorns and Roses series. We don't follow Feyre as a main character anymore (thank god), but we follow her older sister, Nesta as she deals with everything that happened in her life up to this point and the way the things that happened in A Court of Wings and Ruin affected her. This book is a bit too long. Did I mind that? Not really. This book isn't really plot focused, it's more character focused and I was here for it. I can't say anything about the plot that we did get without spoiling anything from this series or from this book, but I gotta say I was more invested in the journey that Nesta was taking, not the things that she was helping Rhysand and Feyre with. This is a story about healing and I just loved following Nesta along. art by Charlie Bowater "Nesta is a wolf who has been locked in a cage her whole life." I love Nesta. I loved her before reading this and I still love her now. I love seeing her journey and how she developed from the beginning of the book until the end. Sarah J. Maas ssometimes handles some topics with not as much care as she should, but she excels when it comes to mental health. The way she writes it might not be for everyone, but I personally loved it and I loved sometimes seeing myself in Nesta on so many occasions. art by Charlie Bowater Cassian was another one of my favourite characters in the original trilogy. And I still love him. I loved how he was there for Nesta and he was doing everything he could do help her. He was just so sweet. I loved the dymanics between them and I just love most of the scenes that they had together. "Everyone deserves happines. The road there isn't easy. It is long, and hard, and often traveled utterly blind. But you keep going. Because you know the destination will be worthwhile." I loved the relationship between Nesta and Cassian so much more than Feyre and Rhysand's. I feel like it was developed so much better than Feysand, but I may be a bit bias since I don't like Rhys nor Feyre as characters and I will most likely never like them. But I'm not gonna lie, the lack of comunication between Nesta and Cass was getting on my nerves sometimes, but in the end I still love both of them. Also Feyre and Rhys were way too present in this book. Like isn't this a book about Nesta? Begone you two, I don't care about you guys, I want more of Nessian. Also why did SJM tried to make me hate all the Inner Circle. I was so annoyed with Rhysand and Amren. What the hell was wrong with them?! I guess I understand, but it felt unnecessary and I just wanted to punch both of them. Now, the main reason I rated this book lower is the smut. It was just way too much and it literally added nothing to the story. Nothing. I lost count after 8 smut scenes so we might never know how many there actually are in this book. If there were half of those smut scenes this would have been a 5 star read for me. Why was everyone just so horny? *screams* art by witchlingsart I love Gwyn and Emerie. The friendship between them and Nesta was everyhting and the scenes that they had together was some of my favourites in the book. This was one of the most beautiful female friendship that I've ever read about. I just love all three of them so much. art by witchlingsart "Our stories are worth telling." The ending made me mad. If I could re-write anything in this book, it would have been the ending. I'm just annoyed by what happened and it seems to happen so much to female charcters in books. I can name at least 5 books where this happened and I wanna scream. I hate when that happens. With all the things I complained about in this book, this was still my favourite in the series and I'm not sure if I would say I would recommend it to anyone, but it still is an enjoyable read. “Amren put a hand above Nesta's heart. "That's the key, isn't it? To know the darkness will always remain, but how you choose to face it, handle it... that's the most important part. To not let it consume. To focus upon the good, the things that fill you with wonder." She gestured to the stars zooming past. "The struggle with that darkness is worth it, just to see such things.” ____________________________________________ I finished it. I read this monster of a book. And it might be my favourite in the series. RTC. ____________________________________________ Pre-read: IT CAME IT'S HERE and i'll probably be done with it by saturday 👀 ____________________________________________ [Edit:] guess who just ordered this book haha? i'm low key excited for it to come ____________________________________________ After finishing ACOWAR, I promised myself that I would not read this book. I didn't like the ACOTAR series as much as I would have liked and I don't make it any secret that I really did not like the first book, so I said to myself I would not read this book. But guess who is starting to get excited about this book now? This bitch. I don't even know why. My theory is that I just want to torture myself, but who knows?! Maybe I'll be more interested in Nesta and Cassian's story.. BTW I hate that cover. The design is nice, I don't have anything against the artist, props to them for being able to draw such a intricate design, but I don't like it as a cover for this series. I really wish they sticked to the old covers, they fit this series so well.

I’mma be honest, I’m doubting whether I should read this or not 👀 I mean, I love SJM, and House of Earth and Blood and the Throne of Glass series (excluding the first book) are some of my all-time favourite books. But A Court of Thorns and Roses series, which is more popular than the others, is not really my cup of tea? 👀 It’s just too sweet 👀 too romantic 👀 and I don’t know 👀 I don’t do sweet 👀 and should this even exist 👀 like how much romance do we need 👀 I want intricate plots and worlds 👀 and unique, complex characters and dynamics 👀 but that’s not what this series is about 👀 which is why her other series are superior to it 👀 at least in my eyes 👀 as I said 👀 not my cup of tea 👀 but also 👀 it’s entertaining 👀 like a fun, dramatic romcom 👀 that I need to be in the mood for 👀 and right now 👀 I’m not 👀 what do I do 👀 —★— I’ve decided the cover designer was, indeed, drunk. How do you take so many gorgeous pieces and somehow make them look so wrong together? —★— I don’t know how I feel about this cover? I mean, the art is pretty but like who put the text there were they drunk?? I DON’T HAVE AN OPINION OH MY GOD SOMEONE PLEASE LEND ME THEIRS I NEED AN OPINION RIGHT NOW. —★— I’ve just been informed: SJM is out to assassinate “A [BLANK] OF [BLANK] AND [BLANK]” title trope. WHO IS CELEBRATING TONIGHT. Companions Series playlist: Spotify LINK

3 stars First of all Sarah J. Maas why the sudden change? In writing or the way of writing but there was a change. Maybe because the genre of the book was different that's why? I knew it was a different genre but I didn't expect it to be one of the reasons I wouldn't like this book. Don't get me wrong, I do read New Adult, Smut I like them! But the sudden change in between of series- I didn't like that. It felt like the world that was in previous books suddenly changed. Everybody is immediately cursing and being out of character. In Part I and a bit at starting of Part II, the smut and sex felt forced (way out of character), and honestly, I can't believe I am writing this but this book would still have been good without that. The whole scent thing finally grossed me out a lot. But hey! does it all matter? The out-of-character thing as long as I enjoyed this book? If you would have asked me this question a year or two before when I was new to reading, I would have told no, I would have told same now also that as long I enjoyed a book it doesn't matter but in this book the out of character thing was not enjoyable at all. Now don't think the characters had a full personality change- just a bit but that bit annoyed me a lot. It felt like Sarah J. Maas had 'adjusted' their personality for the story, for her convenience. I would have loved to see the characters as they were and not just characters but I felt she kept adjusting rules and the world of the fae for the storyline changed them, it was something in book one and it was something in this book. Another thing that annoyed me was that the world of A Court of Thorns and Roses was changed. It felt like everything was happening in the modern era, from the first book I was having olden-era vibes but in this book, everything felt modern- especially the language and there was even a mention of 'mail service' It annoyed me! Why was the same thing not continued! The same language?! Where was my favorite 'The Vulgar Gesture'?! Ugh! Another change I noticed in Sarah J. Maas's writing was well I don't know how to explain this but whenever I read her earlier works, it felt like I was living in that world but in this book I only found few instances to feel that. Also, I found few things about Nesta & Cassian to be similar to Feyre & Rhysand or should I say Aelin & Rowan (from Throne of Glass series)? I am confused between the two. Few dialogues exchanged between Cassian & Nesta were way too similar same as Feyre & Rhysand/Aelin & Rowan, even actions/storyline felt similar. This reason is exactly why after a while I stop reading a particular author's books because everything becomes predictable and repetitive. Let's talk about something important... *drumroll* Nesta! I have never liked Nesta, I have hated her not because she was mean or rude or blah blah blah but because of the way she treated Feyre, she loved Elain but hated Feyre- the person who loved them, who worked for them, who could have left them and had a proper life just by earning only for herself, who despite all hatred from Nesta still worked for them! And the reason that was given in this book for all her actions- I am not satisfied with that, I kind of sympathized with her while reading this book, even almost started liking her but keeping in mind all her actions I just found those reasons to be like that of a 'spoiled child' but since she is the reason why I liked Feyre even more in book one and she did some really good things in this book, all I can do is forgive her (cause I am great 😌😌✌). I don't hate her but I also don't like her (just a bit, I guess) Now I want to talk about something that has been eating me alive from A Court of Frost and Starlight and it is the whole situation with Tamlin. I get it what he did was bad, I remember I was b*thing about him *coughs* a lot while reading A Court of Mist and Fury but after A Court of Frost and Starlight I just thought few things *My mother: Finally this girl is using her brain for something* Tamlin was going through same problems as Feyre, yes, what he did to her was completely wrong & it definitely shouldn't be justified but should we forget what he went through? That even he had problems? That even after finding out things between Feyre & Rhysand he still helped them? And by now Rhysand & family should have forgiven him, they all seem like they forgot what Tamlin did for them, they still hate him so much and I mean so much. If Sarah J. Maas wanted to show him negative why not show him negative completely? Why throw positive bits and pieces? And now I feel bad for Tamlin, everybody is acting like he is completely bad that he didn't do anything well, it is pissing me off because now Rhysand & The Family are showing double standards. They like NESTA & even ERIS!, they pity them, understand them but the same is not with Tamlin! Somehow Tamlin is different?! Ugh! (view spoiler) Wow while writing this review I have changed the rating 4 times and reached 3 stars from 4.5, again Ugh! When I first picked up this book I thought the only reason I wouldn't like this book would be because I had higher expectations and then was disappointed but surprisingly it wasn't that. I liked + enjoyed this book despite all the above which were 'thorns' in my side while reading this book hence 3 stars. Now somebody give me more of Azriel please! Please book gods let there be a book for Azriel, Lucien & even Tamlin, or at least give them a happy ending! And don't let the above problems be there in Azriel's book. Edit: Just read Azriel's POV, his book is going to be so painful😢 Please excuse any errors that might have crept in

Reread 2022: I still stand behind my rating & review. Now it’s finally time to dive into book two. "Light it up, bitch." Did I cry? Twice Is this my favorite SJM book? No Do I need the next book? Immediately I have A LOT of feelings on the first book in the Crescent City series so I'm going to do us all a favor and just get straight into all the things I liked and didn't like about this! What I Liked 👯‍♀️ The emphasis of friendship. Y'all mind if I scream for a sec? I didn't read the synopsis before I picked up this book and the last time I read it was months ago, so imagine my surprise when I finished part one of this book. I was pretty gutted to say the least. Now, after finishing it and realizing the full extent of Bryce and Danika's friendship, how much they loved each other, and the lengths they would go to save each other literally makes me want to bawl my eyes out (especially when we find out the significance of some of the things they say to one another). By the end of this book I was reduced to a blubbering mess of tears. Pass the tissues, please. 💁🏻‍♀️ Bryce Mother F'ing Quinlan. I love that bitch even when she is a bitch. I'm not trying to jump the gun or anything here but she MAY be my favorite female MC we've had so far. She's a curvy, red-headed, sassy, cursing up a storm, take no shit type of gal and we love to see it. I adored how unapologetic she is for being herself, how fierce and hard she loves people, and how much she cares for the greater good as well. Her character growth in this was phenomenal and heart breaking and I need the next book immediately because I need more time with Bryce in my life. 🤬 Cursing and sex talk. If you want my honest opinion SJM writing adult book feels so right and if she never went back to YA books I wouldn't care. I think the way cursing, talking about sex, drugs, partying, and drinking is brought up in this book is pretty realistic to the society we live in today. And I think that this made the book feel a tad more "normal", you know, as normal as we can get when we're talking about witches, wolves, vampires, fae, mermaids, and life vest wearing/mail delivering otters. 🌎 Urban fantasy world. I really don't read enough of them but when I do I always love them. There's just something about all these paranormal creatures in a modern/futuristic world with technology and what not that fills my heart with glee. And Sarah builds this world up just like her others. She did a really great job of creating a complex world...even if it did take a little while to catch on. Once I was able to catch up it really did make me appreciate how well it was all put together and I definitely can't wait to see more of it. 💘 Romance. Can we just talk a second to appreciate how SOFT Hunt Athalar really is? Because I could cry thinking about it. I loved how this took a friends to lovers approach and that within the time of Bryce and Hunt becoming friends and developing feelings for one another there was a whole lot of healing going on too. I am praying to all the gods that they are endgame and will legitimately riot if they are not. What I Didn't Like 🙃 I am confusion. This book just started name dropping people and places left and right like it was nothing. SJM honey, please let me catch up I'm trying to figure out who is who, what planet we're on, and what in the hell CBD stands for. Eventually I got it but it's just one of those cases where you have to just power through and hope for the best that it will all make sense. 😴 Too long. It's a good thing that I enjoy SJM's writing because man, was this long. I tried not to let it bother me that much but the fact that you have to sit through just about 500 pages before any "big" revelations start to pop up was rather annoying. For readers who don't like her writing this could definitely be the thing that makes or breaks you. Looking back on it I just feel like so much of the first 500 pages could have been condensed and it pretty much would have read the same way. ☠️ My favorite character died. I don't think I really need to say anymore than that. But I am DEVASTATED and honestly ready to sue. ♻️ Not the most original. I told myself going into this that I was specifically not going to compare this to the ACOTAR and TOG series. Since it's a brand new series I wanted to give it my undivided attention and not look for similarities, but it was SO HARD. A lot of this felt like Sarah took the best parts of ACOTAR and TOG, mashed them together, changed the time period/setting to a more futuristic one, and added more paranormal creatures. And while I loved this world she created it always felt like this was something I had read before. I mean, there were even similar phrases used in this with just a few words changed from her other books. And there you have it friends, my complete list of thoughts on House of Earth and Blood. I am definitely excited to continue this series and despite the 3.5 rating I still really did enjoy this. I'm not stressing too much over this not being my favorite SJM book because her sequels are usually the BOMB and you best believe I'm anxiously awaiting the next installment for these characters!

review 2/9/24: i maintain that the Guild Hunter series by Nalini Singh is this, but like... much much better. there is just no convincing tension between Bryce & Hunt and Bryce's motivations are so weak. ur bestie sorta sucked but you're out here risking ur life to find out why she died. not to be a dick but who cares. lol. this book is just not it and is lacking a lot of what makes Maas' books fun. ---------------------- review 2/24/22: honestly enjoyed this more the second time around. i still maintain that this book is too long and lacks the kind of direction i prefer in fantasy. but upon reread i can appreciate the sheer depth of the world... the politics are pretty interesting and the hierarchies are clearly well thought out. i don't think this is maas' best work by any means but i am curious to see where this series goes. ---------------------- review 4/4/20: bold and brash but will i wanna throw it in the trash after reading, whispers: trash -------------------------------- since when do i write reviews anymore... if you want a 25 minute spoiler filled vlog of messiness, i can provide here

i have very conflicting feelings about this book. it was fun at times. mainly the beginning half. but honestly it started dragging in the middle then at the end it finally got more fast paced but also dragged a bit there too. it’s definitely not perfect. this book has some very modern elements to it. it was different. but it kinda make me laugh that they have “tech guys” in this magical world and hunt the fallen angel would fly away talking on the phone. its a good world but it felt like there was a lot of info-dumping all throughout the book. the plot was decent but it got dragged so much just for the end to not be as mind blowing as i would have expected it to be. some of the twists did shock me but some were also very predictable. but the romance and the characters were mid to the extremest of all levels. romance : bryce and hunt had their moments for sure. you know that moment when the mcs throw their prejudices aside and finally start to admire each other jchcsjsjhdhe i ate that part up. the longing stares and their hearts starting to do stuff. saur cute. however, somewhere along the way the romance fell a little flat to me. i’m not sure what happened. they feel more like friends in a way than lovers. i love how they understand each other and are there for each other but for me the romantic vibes and passion/chemistry were just not there. idk what happened dont look at me look at sjm :/ part of me also feels like they might not be endgame. i know thats sjm’s thing atp but i can see bryce / aidas being a thing? characters : i feel like this book is very plot heavy, and the world building is quite intense, that we didn’t have enough characterization. we met so many people in this book and i barely know any of them. i really wish we got more from bryce’s character. she hides behind this tough exterior and honestly treats everyone in her life pretty shitty. i don’t think we explored her feelings enough. i just feel like im missing something from her character. like we only scratched the very surface with her. i understand she was grieving and hiding from her feelings but we had hundreds of pages to delve deeper into her character imo. shes a loyal ass friend which is so relatable but give me more ?? i wish we got to see more of her relationship with her parents and other friends. her friendships with juniper and fury are so odd. they tried to patch that up in like one page but their friendships are fucking weird. are we supposed to care about them?? the only friendship she has that i care about is with lehabah. THAT’S MY GIRL <3 i have a bone to pick with sjm tho because bryce’s 25 year old self talks like a whole ass pre-teen sometimes. her constantly using the term “alphahole” made me physically recoil. and she changes her name on hunt’s phone constantly to shit like ‘bryce rocks my socks’ its just so cringe. it’s giving hacking into your friends social media account when you’re 12 and posting that. hunt’s been through a lot in the past and i definitely understood his character’s motivations. i felt so sad for him at times. like poor guy. but i also just don’t care much about him if im being honest. anyways it was a good book but it didn’t change my life in any way and im not running to read the next one which i usually am when im starting a series. also the length is gonna put me off from reading the next one for who knows how long oop

feb 2024 i was NOT planning on continuing this series until i saw so many spoilers about where the rest of the series goes and now i feel like i gotta. gonna be honest, when i reread this, it was like reading it for the first time. i remembered absolutely NOTHING other than glimpses of scenes, but all of the plot twists and characters were literally brand new to me. welcome to reading during the height of the pandemic lol i had a lot of the same issues outlined below. the first half was BORING. info dumpy. absolutely agonizing to get through. i just really don't like urban fantasy like this. and the writing is so millennial cringe and so irritating. i can't believe the same woman to write the greatest novel of all time (acomaf) is also capable of writing shit like "his abs are so hot i could fry eggs on them." like huhhhh??? there was so much cursing and cringe shit thrown in just to make it seem ~adult~ the second half is so much better than the first, even though overall this book is so overwritten and it takes way too long to get to good action. even though the good action is a circuitous route of "omg we found the killer! jk wrong person." over and over and over again. i did appreciate bryce's emotional journey more this time around, but hunt pissed me off more this time around. this ended in a place where i'm intruiged and i'm ready for book two but i still barely grasp the worldbuilding and it's SO vast and bryce and hunt's part in it is soooo tiny. i already know book two is gonna be a big push to get through as bad as this was. overall. ?????? i'm absolutely shocked the acotar girlies can even finish this one because it's pretty painful. goddamn sarah janet maas for (view spoiler) -- april 2020 I can't believe this book blue balled me for 800 whole pages.... As much as I was hoping this would just be some good, messy fun, I actually am shocked on how downhill Sarah J Maas's craft has gone. This book was entirely too long with characters who were trying to out-wit one another with every line of dialogue, and it was exhausting in more ways than one. Part of the reason I didn't enjoy this more is because I just don't care about murder mysteries, so I really just bit off more than I could chew. But when it comes down to it, this was just longwinded and went in so many circles that none of the plot twists were that exciting. The best thing about this was that it reads like a standalone so I can choose whether I want to read the second book or not.

“That's the point of it, Bryce. Of life. To live, to love, knowing that it might all vanish tomorrow. It makes everything that much more precious.” representation: characters of colour (multiple characters mentioned having brown skin), main character 'curvy', m/m side relationship, f/f side relationship (but please note we barely see any of these relationships). [trigger warnings are listed at the bottom of this review and may contain spoilers] OKAY. I HAVE THOUGHTS. This is the first SJM book I've rated less than 5 stars and it feels WEIRD. I don't really know how to summarise my thoughts so we're just gonna do dots points. - the first 550 pages = boring as hell, hardly anything happens, so much info-dumping, plot goes around in circles, i'm assuming the main point of the middle like 300 pages was to build the slow-burn romance, but THE PLOT SUFFERED, SARAH - from page 550 = really started feeling FEELINGS (esp. for the love interest, HELLO), plot started to pick up and the last 200 pages??? awesome. - so first 550 pages? 2 stars. Last 250 pages? 4 stars! - the romance was top tier, once it got moving! "You're my mirror" omg rip me - themes of grief and depression handled so well (sjm is always good at this - see heir of fire!!) - couple of times i teared up!!!!! (view spoiler) - the talks of Bryce being rejected from dancing professionally because of her body type = A+ although I wish we could have had a fantasy world where shit like this isn't a problem - the fact that we got cockblocked.... so rude. but the one sexy scene we did get??? HNNNNNG - the brother/sister bond that developed between Bryce and Ruhn was SO GOOD. FEELS. - can't think of anything else right now, but i know there's more i wanted to write, so when i remember i'll update this review! “Through love, all is possible.” trigger warnings: mentions of slavery and prostitution, violence, drugs/addiction, alcohol, gore, death of loved ones, mention of suicide attempt in the past, pet being hurt, probs lots more i'm forgetting SORRY.

I love this series but there wasn’t enough of Joe in this one!

I really used to love this series. But I think this might be the last one I read. Goodbye Joe Pickett. It was good knowing you.

I'm apparently in the minority here, rating this only three stars, but I've my reasons. First, full disclosure, I used to read the Joe Pickett series faithfully and enjoyed the early iterations of the series. However, over time, the stories became more and more repetitive, the plots grew further afield from reality and credulity, and I lost interest. So, when I saw the impressive number of 5 star reviews for Battle Mountain I figured, sure, I'll given 'er another go. I figured that Nate Romanowski was a more interesting character than Joe Pickett anyhow, and since he was featured heavily in this book, I was optimistic. To be fair, 3 stars is a fine rating, signifying a good, but not great, reading experience. This book has several exciting scenes, some of which are almost believable, but once again, none of them stood out from average. Additionally, I took off a few points when Nate began communing with his falcon and seeing the enemy's number and position through his bird's eyes as it circled overhead. Really? Perhaps Nate has some Vulcan blood and performed a mind meld with the falcon? Generally speaking, I think that if you've read one or two of these, you've read them all. It's a decent way to spend a few hours, but the book just didn't rise above average for this reader.

Idk if I had to read more of these books beforehand to really get the character development, but it just wasn’t it for me. Idgaf about falcons or half the weird story plot. I also didn’t understand the character connections that well. I enjoyed the fast pace and action packed plot tho! But prob won’t be reading any other joe Pickett books unless I decide to really get into it lol

Review of ARC provided by NetGalley. If you are a fan of this series, this story will be no exception. It’s full of the scenery and action everyone has come to love. To be honest, after 25 books though, this series has become a little boring to me. It seems to be more of the same each time. Some people enjoy that though, I just am ready to live on to other things.

This series, which is lengthy as well as long running, has been very consistent over time, but as my spouse said, this is a particularly good installment (although with a lot of carnage involved)--the depiction of law enforcement in the western states is a bit sobering, but probably not off base. This is a series that benefits from being read in order, because there are big changes that occur from book to book, and it is worth it, especially if you like murder mysteries set in the west.

I’ve read and enjoyed the Joe Pickett series from the beginning. The primary characters grow and change throughout the series. The stories are fast paced and entertaining. However, this will be the last book of the series I’ll read. The violence is excessive and often extraneous to the main storyline. It seems each book is more violent than the last and that’s quite a feat. Much as I’m entertained by the writing, I’ll pass on the significant bloodshed and murder.

Brad Thor seems to be losing his step on this one. Very predictable with Russian collusion, greedy politicians, and very “ripped from the headlines” story lines. Feels like it was written to go straight to Netflix. Definitely the weak link in the series for me. Plus it’s time for a character refresh or start a new series. This, of course, is my opinion but the last few books seem to be getting too predictable. Maybe Mr. Thor will go in a different direction for the next book??

Prob my least favorite Thor book.

It was ok. Not my favorite.

Scot Harvath is back in Edge of Honor, book 24 in this series, and for a change Scot is battling unknown enemies on his home turf, the DC area. When a former ambassador whose life is in danger calls Scot for help, Scot, now married and retired from the Carlton Group, obliges his old friend who once saved Scot’s life. Additionally, several terrorist attacks in Washington DC increase the drama and Scot is thrust into the middle of the action. While the body count here is predictably high, the absence of Scot’s team from the Carlton Group and the now overused plot diminished the enjoyment of this edition, and the book plays out more like a police procedural than the high-stakes espionage thriller that readers are used to in this series, and the departure from the norm is obvious throughout, as long time readers will notice. Curious to see where the author now takes this series, as this one seems off track.

Popcorn entertaining thriller with quick chapters to keep you invested and a linear plot that’s easy to follow. The author’s decision to have 60 chapters in 322 pages makes this book really easy to fly though, but that also gives the illusion that it’s better than it is because you’re flying through 5 page chapters. Make no mistake, Edge of Honor is fun and entertaining, but there’s nothing profound or different/unique/special that pushes it into higher ratings. Author Brad Thor alludes to various political tropes in 2025/2026’s US political landscape which is cool, and it’s nice that he isn’t directly recreating real people with his characters but rather taking some but not all of their traits (that really helps the characters feel standalone), but there isn’t anything profoundly political here. It’s just a simple, intriguing thriller, with that topical political backdrop. The popcorn entertainment of it all reminds me of the movie Olympus Has Fallen. Fun. Good. But that 6/10 spot is where it belongs. Now, I had two key issues with the book. None of these are groundbreaking or dramatic, I just didn’t like them and feel they’re worth mentioning. First, this book is annoyingly masculine. And I can’t believe I’m saying this because more often than not books are geared towards gals and not guys (more gals read anyway so it makes sense), so I would’ve thought it’d be nice to get away from the constant “but I have to choose between my quest/career or relationship/family and because I’m strong I choose career even though there is literally nothing stopping me from having both besides this weirdly hypocritical feminist rhetoric telling me I have to reject the patriarchy and choose career-only to be ‘strong’, but then I tell myself it’s ‘society keeping women down’ and ‘sexism’ when I’m sad about my decision while everyone else in the book is like wtf is wrong with you, no one made you do that shit, bro is just a city official he can take care of the kids and the house while you go on work trips…but you’re the protagonist so we celebrate that you’re sooooo ‘relatable’” (I have very major beef with that trope and how it’s in damn near every fantasy book I picked up at Barnes & Noble today, needed to get that off my chest). Based on that completely random and highly peeved ramble, you’d think I’d want a more masculine read, but this book is just annoyingly so. Like we get it you’re a “man’s man” who has killed a ton of people, has a hot blonde badass foreign wife, and you hate driving a V4 car, and are rough and tumble, and eat gross things, and love America, and have all these cool guns and gadgets, and everyone’s like “wow Scot you’re so cool”, blah blah (so fucking drab). At some point you’re just annoyingly cliche and there’s nothing interesting about your character whatsoever. I found that I cared about the story and the implications of what was happening, but not any of the characters. Second was the use of torture. First, I dislike it because it’s such a lazy cop out narratively. The issue of how the protagonists get the admissible information they need from uncooperative detainees with an imminent threat is RIPE for heart pounding drama; but nope, let’s just torture this guy, and this guy, and “oh you don’t wanna answer my questions, you too buddy!” It’s just such a cop out to get to a conclusion in lieu of a clever plot, and that’s not even getting into the fact I don’t support torture so I don’t like reading it. It’s the absolute worst side of humanity, and seeing it glorified bothered me. Usually other books do a good job of showing that side of things as an ugly reality (which makes it far more tolerable because it’s acknowledging how horrific the act is) but this book just jokes around with it and there’s almost no pushback from other characters or obstacles to prevent the torture from occurring. Call me soft, but fuck that. I feel weird generally liking a book but having my review be predominantly a discussion of my negatives, but that’s what happens when the positives are pleasant but unremarkable, and the two negatives draw my attention more. Think I’ve been spoiled coming off of two books I absolutely adored. 6/10

I’ll start with quoting the end of the review made by another contributor herewith, namely “thewanderingjew”, who also gave a 3 star rating. Quote: “ The story sometimes seemed contrived as Solvi and Scot were always thrust into the same dangerous situation, often appearing like super-heroes. Scot seemed like he was always racing to protect both Solvi and the country. The dialog also seemed trite and filled with needless details to fill pages. The book was in need of editing to make it less confusing, easier to follow, and more exciting. There were far too many characters and diversions to follow the story comfortably.” Now more of my own opinion. I praise Brad Thor and I have deeply enjoyed all his Scot Harvath series. However, this one displays way too many intertwined stories and characters, plus the need to now always have Sølvi to somewhat save the day, along with or besides Scot is a bit too much. BT is a skilled writer, but he loses himself, and the reader, in way too many useless context descriptions, the book would have gained to lose like 25% of “bad fat”. Also, I’ll never stress enough how much, when you have such a strong character as Harvath, at least 80%, if not more, of the book should be showcasing him. Please sir Thor, and every other story teller, take example on either Jack Reacher’s or John Puller’s books (no need to name the authors I guess…), those are the epitome of maintaining the reader’s focus and excitement from page one to the end. I’m just saying …

Scot Harvath and his new wife Solvi have been honeymooning for six months. Upon their return to Washington D.C., they are on their way to the Norwegian embassy when a peaceful protest at the Vice President's residence turns into a massacre, which they are able to thwart. A former military advisor is attacked because the new President has refused him Secret Service protection, and there is a plot to force the President to resign in favor of the Vice President for not delivering on his campaign promises, led by a vengeful Senator and a rogue podcaster. Scot and a couple of friends agree to protect the military advisor, and Solvi has a favor called in to help protect the president of Norway on her visit for a NATO conference. Both Scot and Solvi have to defend their charges from superior numbers and firepower, respectively, causing Nicolas to look into governmental corruption and collusion, using the resources of the Carlton Group. The end game for the cabal is a doozy.

Somehow I missed #1-#23 of Brad Thor's Scot Harvath series. However, this #24 book can be read stand-alone. No doubt men will enjoy reading about Swashbuckling Scot Spy Guy with his gear, guns, and cars as he goes after the bad guys amidst the crazy politicians in Washington, DC. It all seemed to focus on urgent issues of national security. Scot wastes no time whatsoever after returning from his honeymoon with his new wife, Sølvi Kolstad, who is with Norwegian Intelligence. There were oodles of characters (30+) and lots of action as Scot protects the ex-Secretary of State so no doubt this book could easily be made into a movie.

Edge of Honor By Brad Thor This was the first book I read by this author. It was a page-turner filled with twists and turns. The plot involved deception and conspiracy theories. The main character was drawn into a scheme that could threaten the American government. Taken from today’s headlines, the democracy of this government feels volatile. With the political climate being chaotic, you never know who to trust. Harvath has to make impossible decisions to prevent the government from being overthrown. The book was a good read.

2.5 to 3 Stars I am in the middle of the road on this one . . . it has the typical feel of a John Grisham novel, and I thought at first it might come in highly for me. But, something odd happened about 2/3 of the way through it . . . The pros: - Unique and intriguing plot/mystery: A mysterious death during a hurricane? Yes, please! - Fun characters: I like all the people we meet on Camino Island. Most of them are quirky writer types with interesting backgrounds. The (maybe) cons: - Grisham and food: I have said in previous reviews that one of the biggest things I have always noticed with Grisham from the very first time I read him, he has to give detailed accounts of all the food and drinks consumed by his characters. This was very obvious in Camino Winds. I think the book would be about one fourth shorter if the food a drink mentions were removed. Maybe not really a con, but it just stands out as filler (and makes me hungry and thirsty) - The rush job: This was the odd part for me that kind of soured the whole experience. Grisham spent a couple hundred pages developing this intricate mystery and setting up all the situations and characters with a precarious heightened intensity. Then, I guess he got a call from his publisher saying the book was due because suddenly it was several weeks later and everything that had been built up was summarized in a few pages and it moved on to the end game of the novel. I felt a bit cheated to have everything I have been getting into resolved with some Clif Notes. This happened to me last year with another book (Gwendy’s Magic Feather) and I was much harsher on that one – mainly because I don’t think the rush job led to a bad ending like it did with that one. But, still . . . let me know if you read this one and felt the same way – it just stood out so much that it was shocking! I was speechless! I checked to see if some part of the copy I had was missing! A decent book if you like the Grisham formula. But, don’t be surprised if you are looking for the missing pages like I was.

2.5 stars! The plotline was both frustrating and a bit dull to get through plus parts were very questionable with this book #2...

Disappointing. Not as disappointing as John Grisham’s last release, The Guardians, but still pretty disappointing because Camino Island is arguably my favorite Grisham novel. If you didn’t like that one, you’ll likely dig this one, and vice versa. Grisham stripped away almost everything I loved about that book—the languid pace, the light romance, the writer community characters—and instead focused his sights on writing a high-concept thriller that almost reminded me of mid-tier Dean Koontz in its the latter half. Still, this is John Grisham. He’s a seasoned veteran, so anything he publishes is at least readable. I gave this 3 stars after all; there were bits and pieces I liked. The first third or so I dug, it’s only when the few characters left over from Camino Island started investigating I lost interest. Dunno why. I felt like I was reading Stephen King’s Bill Hodges trilogy without the weird quirks and fast pace that made those books such a joy. This is Grisham without personality, without flavor. It’s his courtroom thriller thing without a courtroom or lawyer. It shows occasional flashes of the color and inspiration that made its predecessor such a success, but most of the time it’s a fairly standard investigative crime thriller, hold the thrilling. I came away from this feeling empty, not hating or loving it. Indifference.

Probably closer to 2.5. Not as enjoyable as Camino Island. Not sure now if I want to read the third book

Mr Grisham...can we have a chat? Just between you and me sir...who ACTUALLY wrote this book? Was this a first draft that got sent to the printer on accident and it was like "welp, we printed them, too late now"? If it weren't for all the food references (typical Grisham writing), I would think you let an assistant write this book sir. I felt like I was reading a Nancy Drew book...super outdated writing and unrealistic character actions/reactions. The heart of the story was fantastic. But the execution of it was underwhelming. This is definitely the worst John Grisham book I've read out of the 12-15 I've read. Luckily for readers, it appears each book can act as a stand alone in this trilogy. Camino Island was fantastic! But this one, if you aren't a John Grisham fan and must read everything he writes, I wouldn't recommend this one. I am still going to move on to the last book in the trilogy next. Fingers crossed we finish strong!

3.5 ⭐️s Camino Island was my first Grisham read ever, and boy did I walk away loving that one. It was a quirky mix of thriller, light romance, and action-tinged crime caper. It was an oddly captivating gem. Very little of that came through in this second novel. This felt much more sterile, awkwardly paced and boiler plate to me. It was starved of the wildly beguiling dynamic between Bruce and Mercer, and the fact that Mercer played such an insignificant role in this book drove me crazy. All that said, I still breezed through this one in a day, and never once felt bored. Why You Should Or Shouldn’t Read It You should. It’s still a nice Sunday morning read when you want to escape the doldrums, stresses and constant need for the pesky need for elevated thought Themes Nothing lofty here. Just a good ol’ fashioned thriller without much thematic richness. One Thing I’ll walk away with A strong hope that Mercer makes a triumphant return in the next book

The most exciting aspect of this read is a hurricane named Leo and a student named Nick! A ‘cozy’ style mystery that gets no-where fast. It is trying so hard to be quirky it misses on all fronts. If it did not have Grisham’s name on the cover I’m pretty sure the ratings would be lower. I enjoyed ‘Camino Island, but can’t with any honesty recommend Book #2.

Not one of Grisham’s best work, but overall, not bad. I thought the story in Camino Island was better & its plots were more fun to read… The first half of this novel was really slow reading. However, the second half really picks up the pace. The ending of this book felt like a let down & was disappointing… Hopefully, the third book of the series, Camino Ghost, will be better.

For my detailed review of this book please visit - https://rb.gy/kwm4yq This happens to be a rather average book from John Grisham, though only when compared to his legal thrillers. As a standalone novel, this is good enough..

Not bad, but not up to Grisham's standard

*2.5 stars rounded up. I enjoyed Camino Island with its theme of rare book theft and writers, but this sequel was a disappointment. It starts out well enough with the same cast of characters from the previous book, including Mercer Mann who now has a bestselling book, but then Hurricane Leo blows it all away. Grisham's description of the storm and its aftermath are excellent. If you've ever survived a natural a disaster, you'll appreciate that. But then he sets up a rather lame murder mystery with Bruce Cable and his friends dithering around to figure out what happened. Lots of extraneous detail follows with no dramatic tension whatsoever. Sorry to say, I think I'll pass on any future books in this series.

Not a very thrilling thriller... interesting premise tho. No one: Them every 10 pages:

Not a fan of legal thrillers - or Grisham - but the idea of a former whistle-blowing lawyer turned writer, murdered during a hurricane seemed too good to pass up. As Hurricane Leo bears down on the mythical Camino Island off the Florida coast, most residents and visitors evacuate to Jacksonville on the mainland and points beyond to sit out the storm’s fury. Those opting to remain include the owner of Bay Books, Bruce Cable and friends Nick - a perennial college student and crime thriller reader, and Bob, a one-time felon turned writer (entranced by a well-preserved beauty named Ingrid) – members of the literary circle attracted by the island’s lifestyle. Passing through, writer Mercer Mann on the tail-end of a 30-plus day book tour. The hurricane scenes and aftermath are well-done: the ‘locals’ picking through the rubble, salvaging food and essential items that would otherwise go to waste, while the authorities move in, almost overwhelmed by the scale of the destruction. Mercifully only a few fatalities and it is only by chance that Cable et al, finding the ex-whistle-blower novelist Nelson Kerr dead outside his condo, arouse suspicions of foul play, crime-buff Nick photographing the evidence. With the island in recovery mode it soon becomes clear that the investigation into Kerr’s death is stalled at local and state level; the novelist’s sister as executrix of the estate aware that he was working on a book, and wants the release of his hard drive. But who would want him killed? Leaving the island, Bruce contacts a shady investigation mob out of Washington DC, crossing state borders in pursuit of shonky nursing homes, (view spoiler). By this stage, my attention had drifted. Nice interludes of Bruce and “the wife” Noelle in Italy, France, the Napa Valley. Endless feasts of buckets of cooked shrimps, washed down with pitchers of beer – none of which added to the story. Key witnesses die, but the final confrontation hurries through 25 pages, leaving me to wonder what was left out. On the bright side: I liked the MC and literary circle, and will look out for the earlier book, Camino Island.

Ugh..... I love John Grisham, but some of his books are hit or miss. This one was okay. I felt the pace was alot slower than he normally writes. And I didn't care for the ending.... maybe this is a hint he will write another book in this series? Overall I thought the storyline was good. It was just a little slow and somewhat choppy, not as polished as I'm used to his books being.

Camino Winds is an unassuming and simple story. It is not very challenging, but honestly it is not really striving to be. In many ways Camino Winds is like Sid, your 22 year old son who is still living downstairs in your basement. Could he try harder? You betcha. If Sid really applied himself we all know he could raise his GPA, maybe get into MIT. Possibly even figure out an affordable and environmentally sound new soybean-based energy source that would revolutionize the world and end hunger. But no, Sid is perfectly happy smoking pot, listening to bootleg recordings of Phish concerts, munching on microwavable Hot Pockets, working the graveyard shift at Wawa, bragging about the 40% off discount he gets on hoagies and slowly achieving a degree in exercise science at the community college. I mean really, Sid, who on Earth decided that exercise was a science!!? Like Sid, Camino Winds is also happy to just cruise on by and go with the flow. The story is breezy and easy-going. In the novel, a hurricane is set to batter the scenic Camino Island. This is the home where bookstore owner Bruce Cable and his posse of authors eat, drink, and generally enjoy life. In no time at all there is much destruction and bedlam. Discovered in the wreckage is the dead body of one of Bruce’s writer pals. He’s been beaten about the melon. Is this the result of flying storm debris or perhaps…murder?!!!! It’s a pretty solid set-up. Bruce and his pals rally the troops and start digging into the facts of his death as the local police are too overwhelmed to mount much of an investigation. There is a devious drug being used by some really bad characters. But low aspirations bog down the story. Again, I am reminded of when I paid your son Sid to take care of my lawn last summer. What started with cleanly mowed grass to the optimal 2 ½ inches in length quickly deteriorated into unwatered petunias, rampant dandelions, crushed Coors Light cans, and several poorly pruned topiary elephants. C’mon Sid! You are better than this! Like most Grisham books the pieces in the third act fall into place surprisingly easy with little conflict. Still the characters are fun. The plot was interesting. The pages flew by and the end result was a fun (if not too demanding) read.

I enjoyed this one but just like the Camino Island, it just fell a bit short of his other books I have read. I went into this and read a few reviews and they one which struck me said that this book was predictable and went exactly where you thought it would. Unfortunately this was the case, but to elaborate, it went where you thought because it told you where it would go. The story was exciting as it ended up being a murder mystery. I enjoyed returning to the characters of Camino Island who made brief appearances, particularly at the start. Once it began to reveal itself as a murder mystery, the characters managed to guess the murderer, the motive and how the murder took place instantly. It just felt a bit flat and that there was not much mystery, it felt lazy and that Grisham just created a plan and didn’t take time to create a mystery. I am looking forward to the next book in the Camino Island series, but I do hope it is an improvement on the first two. Overall, it was a good read just felt it could have used a bit more development and thought to create more mystery.

Just okay. There was a lot going on here and it didn’t all hang together that well, but it passed the time.

Kept me entertained on a crowded flight. Not as intrigue-filled or suspenseful as Grisham's earlier legal thrillers. The story is basically a murder mystery tied in with the business of book selling, book collecting and the sometimes murky provenance of antique collectible books. The insider view of bookselling that Grisham brought into the story was interesting, but he didn't go far enough with the intrigue, the greed, the deceptions...whatever it was about the former legal thrillers that made them so thrilling. In the end, the murder mystery is solved and not only do the characters not seem to care, I didn't much care one way or another as the reader. Also, the 20 year old college student who has fairly large role in the book - he was not depicted as being on his phone, online, involved in socials, nearly enough to come across as a believable character. There are some younger authors who write this age group well, weaving in the split attention of youth to the person in front of them and what's going on via their phone. This aspect of social life for the generation needs to be accurately captured for the characters to feel authentic.

In Camino Island the bookstore is located between 2nd and 3rd street, one block from the Marina. In Camino Winds they walk 6 blocks to the Marina from the bookstore. Did it move? Also, there is so much alcohol being consumed throughout the novel - kind of boring...

Who wrote this? I have read everything Mr. Connelly has written, other than his news reporting as a journalist. I have seen every episode of the Bosch archive . Connelly and Douglas Preston are my favorite authors of all time. I like procedurals done well. Having said this, I don't think Nighhtshade was written by Michael Connelly.There is no emotional life in the characters as there always was in his characters. No depth. It's as if he said to an AI chat to write a mystery like Michaael Connelly. Much information. Is revealed in a lifeless way. The facts are there but not Michael Connelly. I have developed relationships to his other protagonists but not this sheriff detective whose name I can't remember. It's sort of like a need to get something finished by deadline so there is no depth. I dont write reviews but this novel is not of the quality I could overlook .I would appreciate any comments from others and the publisher, if not Michael himself.

NIGHTSHADE is an uneven novel. The plot is good, as one would expect from Michael Connelly, but characterization is poor—definitely unusual for a Connelly story. I felt like I was reading a movie script rather than a book. Consequently, I can't give it more that a 3.5 rating, and I've spent the last few days pondering whether to move the half point up or down. It has a very boring (and almost unintelligible) beginning. Description has never been one of Connelly's strengths, and generally he integrates the description of a place with action to make the scene come alive, but the first few chapters, setting up the background of Catalina Island, were so difficult for me to understand that I was forced to check Wikipedia to understand exactly what was taking place, and why the massacred buffalo was so important (and indeed why there was a buffalo on an island at all). The primary character is Sergeant Stilwell, a new introduction to the Bosch universe. Except that Bosch isn't mentioned in this novel—doesn't exist as far as we know. But then we don't know much about Stilwell, except that the reason he's been stationed on Catalina is that he's had a run-in with another Los Angeles county investigator, Detective Ahearn. Stilwell doesn't even have a first name, or at least it's never mentioned in the book. There are a few subtle hints that he may be a Native American, or at least have some Native blood, but I might be reading these hints incorrectly. We know he likes blues music, and that surprises an African American character. (Buddy Guy is one of my all-time favourites too; I even saw him in concert here in Victoria.) Stilwell has received training in deep sea diving, but there's no mention regarding how or when he received this training—maybe from an armed forces enlistment. Maybe. We aren't told anything about his background. We only learn his basic philosophy: (1) Stilwell viewed the system as not yet broken but getting close to it. His opinion was that when you've involved a revolving door at the entrance to the jailhouse, you were inviting the system's downfall. (2) Stilwell had to concentrate on the case and not on their "betrayal of the sacred bond between a victim and those charged with finding justice." It's hard to empathize with a character who has a philosophy but no background. What are the origins of his philosophy? I found Stilwell's romance with Tish uninspiring, maybe because I didn't like Tish. She seemed like a cardboard character to me—one introduced to serve the plot, not someone we were supposed to understand. In the beginning, there appears to be three separate cases—an unidentified body found in the harbour attached to an anchor, a massacred buffalo, and an assault on one of Stilwell's deputies. As Stilwell continues his investigations, and these cases converge, the action steps up, and I was turning pages quickly. Then, in the middle of the excitement, Stilwell and Tish quarrel, breaking up the intensity. I found this interruption disturbing; Connelly seldom makes such a narrative error. After the quarrel, the action continues, but it isn't as intense as it was. Yes, the ending is good, the cases are satisfactorily solved, but it was still only a 3.5 star novel. A rare misstep for Connelly who consistently puts out four-and five-star ones. Plot: 5 stars Characterization: 1 star Description of setting: 1 star Thanks to the Greater Victoria Public Library for providing the ebook I read.

‘Nightshade’ by Michael Connelly is the first book in a new series featuring Detective Sergeant Stilwell. Stilwell got into a kerfuffle with another detective in Los Angeles, and as a result he has been transferred to Catalina Island. It is a posting considered a place to put problematic police officers. Normally, Catalina only deals with entitled wealthy vacationers with expensive yachts and day tourists. Stilwell’s day is mostly taken up with dealing with drunks and overdoses, burglaries and fistfights. But the mutilated buffalo definitely surprised the small police department. Catalina was not that kind of place. People drove around the island in electric golf carts. Stilwell had a feeling killing the buffalo was more than just an awful prank. But a little while later, a second more awful killing happens. A body of a woman is discovered thirty feet below in the waters of the Catalina Harbor. Stilwell soon discovers that investigating the unusual murder will put his career on the line! I have copied the book blurb: ”#1 New York Times bestselling author Michael Connelly introduces a new cop relentlessly following his mission in the seemingly idyllic setting of Catalina island. Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Detective Stilwell has been “exiled” to a low-key post policing rustic Catalina Island, after department politics drove him off a homicide desk on the mainland. But while following up the usual drunk-and-disorderlies and petty thefts that come with his new territory, Detective Stilwell gets a report of a body found weighed down at the bottom of the harbor—a Jane Doe identifiable at first only by a streak of purple dye in her hair. At the same time, a report of poaching on a protected reserve turns into a case fraught with violence and danger as Stilwell digs into the shady past of an island bigwig. Crossing all lines of protocol and jurisdiction, Stilwell doggedly works both cases. Though hampered by an old beef with an ex-colleague determined to thwart him at every turn, he is convinced he is the only one who can bring justice to the woman known as “Nightshade.” Soon, his investigation uncovers closely guarded secrets and a dark heart to the serene island that was meant to be his escape from the evils of the big city. Propulsive and atmospheric, Nightshade launches a brand new character into the Connelly universe, and proves without question that Michael Connelly is “the undisputed master of the modern crime novel” (Real Book Spy).” The book is very much a police procedural, which for me lowers the emotional temperature of the book, but nonetheless this is a fun beach read, if murders and political corruption and police misconduct are of interest to you!

Ehhh I wanted to like this more 🤨 I had a difficult time connecting to the characters. The setting of Catalina Island is interesting. I will read the next one because.. Michael Connelly.

NIGHTSHADE By Michael Connelly (Detective Stilwell #1) Narrated by Will Damron 3.5 Stars This book introduces a new character, Detective Stilwell, who’s been exiled to Catalina Island after a scandal on the mainland. When a mutilated buffalo turns up, he’s pulled into a case that unearths deeper secrets threatening the island’s seemingly peaceful vibe. Stilwell is your typical lone-wolf detective — good at his job, bad with authority, and always pushing the limits to get to the truth. I liked the Catalina setting and the overall premise, but the story didn’t quite hit the usual Michael Connelly level of storytelling. The characters felt a bit flat, and Stilwell’s girlfriend didn’t add much (hoping she doesn’t return in future books). Will Damron did a good job with the narration. I’ve liked his work in other books, and he delivered here as well. Overall, this was a decent read/listen — not bad, just not especially memorable. I’d still be curious to see where the series goes next.

Nightshade is an okay read, but it doesn’t quite live up to the high bar Connelly has set with his other work. Detective Stilwell’s move from mainland L.A. to sleepy Catalina Island had potential, but the setting ends up limiting more than it adds. The mystery itself is fine wrapped body at the bottom of the harbor kind of stuff but it never really takes off. Stilwell is an interesting character, but this story didn’t feel like it needed to launch a whole new series. Catalina is small, and unless Stilwell gets off the island in future books, it’s hard to imagine the scope of the series growing in a satisfying way. As a standalone, this might have worked better. Not bad, but not memorable either.

3 stars for a reliable and entertaining Michael Bennett detective story. No kudos for writing, style, or character development, but it meets the average rating for a Patterson co-author piece. The series is a feel-good one, and this 13th instalment is no different. The detective works in New York City but finally branches out to other locations to catch serial killer and IT technician Daniel Ott (not a spoiler, this is revealed in the first few chapters). Bennet's home life verges on the usual chaos. Still, this one did seem more Evanovich-like with the 10 adopted children, his grandfather, Seamus and looming marriage to Mary Catherine all coalescing in this book. I went in with lowered expectations, and it was pretty enjoyable reading for the most part. I miss the co-authoring with Howard Roughan (first nine books); however, the change is growing. With so many co-authorships linked to Patterson, wouldn't one with Michael Bennett, The Woman's Murder Club and Alex Cross be a winner?

I like the Michael Bennett series - but this wasn’t my favorite. Frankly, the way serial killer part ended was a little stupid.

Ending sucked

Standard fare ... kinda like cornflakes — ordinary, but not a bad thing because of that.

Average. Easy reading.

Typical James Patterson book. Fast paced and interesting.

Is there another book by this name? The description does not match the book I read. No one crashed a wedding.

A crisp undemanding fast-moving airport novel; very light (and quick) reading. I liked the development of the new young sidekick detective, who is initially presented as if he is going to be an obvious liability, but shows maturity. The protagonist has TEN children and yet no wife, but it is eventually explained that he and his wife had adopted them all before he was widowed (presumably well-known to regular readers in this series). He also has a young fiancée who is a collection of Irish stereotypes - but a keen and competitive cyclist who takes him out for rides, which is unexpected! The identity of the murderer is revealed early on, so it is not so much a detective story as a thriller... especially as the actual arrest seems weirdly easy (the culprit is only too eager to confess, or rather boast) up until the unexpected twist, where a lot of things that were hinted at in his backstory suddenly make sense. I've never actually read a Patterson book before, despite seeing dozens of them on the bookshelves; this is pretty much what I was expecting from an author this prolific, although presumably the co-authors do most of the actual work at this point. I shan't be urgently seeking out another one, but it was competently average and not unpleasant, though it didn't impress me nearly so much as Robert Harris's Pompeii, which turned out to be far better than I was expecting.

Not as good as the first three More philosophical and less crime and mayhem at Cooper’s Chase. Not near the humor which I look for in this series. Also, the crime plot was not as fully developed and satisfying as the previous novels in the series.

“This was the fourth Thursday Murder Club book, and I promise it won’t be the last. But I will be making you wait for a little while…” That’s what Richard Osman says in the comments and, to this, I will say: 1. I will read his next book, whatever it is. 2. I will read the fifth TMC book, should there be one. 3. As comforting as this particular read was, it was weakest of the four. It was a strong run, but making the same magic four years in a row… unlikely. With this chapter of TMC, you get the sense that maybe the author is fatigued. (Who wouldn’t be?) There’s still great dialogue, but the characters (our faves!) just seem tired - maybe even tired of each other, given how little time they spend together. The plot is thinner than it’s ever been, which is disappointing. There was a small and mildly amusing segue, but no real twist. Everything was fairly obvious from the start and there was only ever one real suspect. Although missing the almost-cozy-but-for-the-bodies and fast plot, this book contains plenty of musings on life, death, love, and time. It’s not what I came for, at least not in this quantity, but there were more than few tears jerked out of my eyeballs. I definitely felt an overarching sense of loss, as opposed to hope, which TMC usually brings out in me, and which I used to enjoy. Lastly, the list of characters to keep track of are growing - with two chapters dedicated (imo) pointlessly to two characters we didn’t really need to follow. I think it’s unwieldy and, if I hadn’t read it in around 24 hours, I’d have been more lost. In fact, I had to do searches for two characters that I came across because I couldn’t remember if I’d met them and, if I did, where. So, as comforting as this read was, it fell short on thrills. But I still love Joyce, Elizabeth, Ebrahim, Ron, Donna, and Bogdan (and that is more than enough!) and Stephen, precious, always - so 2.5* rounded up. If there is a fifth instalment, I hope it goes back to what made the first one so great: the relationships between the TMC core four and the reminder that life can be thrilling, no matter how old you are.

It’s been a couple of weeks since I finished this and all I can remember is being a bit disappointed and feeling sad about a fox with white ear tips. Probably there was a mystery solved by our octogenarians as well… something about a drug deal gone wrong. Ugh, I hate drug themes so much! Even if this one came with a twist.

My second Thursday Murder Club book to read. And like the first one, I just couldn’t get into the story. I see that a lot of readers love this series. Just not my type of lead characters I think.

This may be my last visit to Coopers Chase Retirement Village. Not that it wasn’t enjoyable, however I feel I’ve got a pretty good idea of how things work there. Murder, with all kinds of twists (sadly in this book I knew the murderer relatively quickly and guessed a few of the big reveals). Some very dangerous and very successful bad guys who severely under estimate our Thursday Murder Club. A new love interest for Joyce… what else? Honestly it felt “same old, same old”. What did stand out to me in the book was the exploration into dementia. I have dealt with a variety of patients and their families struggling with this diagnosis. Robbing the mind of its memory and identity is a very scary thing. The uncertainty of the progression. The inevitable burnout of family members. With advanced dementia, a very common look on the patient’s face is fear. Who is this stranger walking into the room, where am I, where are my parents, what am I doing here? Perpetual estrangement from reality. There is no real reassurance and it can be very difficult to try and offer peace to that person. I felt these issues deeply in this book through a few of our main characters. Euthanasia, although morally I disagree with it, is discussed so well I can’t help but see, understand and emphasis with those on the other side. I know for myself when I face my own mortality, if my heart is weakened, if my legs fail me or if my sight is gone, I believe I will be able to handle any physical ailment if my mind can remain intact. Don’t rob me of my grandchildren, don’t rob me of the love of my wife, don’t take my dreams, regrets and stories from me.

When Caitlyn Sullivan was ten years old, she was kidnapped from her family's home in Big Sur. Due to her scrappy and tenacious nature, she was able to escape and was found by Dillon and Callan Cooper in their kitchen. From that day on, it became clear who loved her and who was willing to use her for financial gain. Even after being whisked away to Ireland, she returns to the states to resume her acting career. Have things changed since she was last in California? Will her return be met with happiness or something else? Love, Family and Vengeance are the themes of this book. I enjoyed this book and found it to be a fast yet predictable read. This is labeled as suspense, but the reader is told early on who the bad guys are so for me this wasn't suspenseful at all. A strong point is the closeness of the Sullivan family and their love for one another. The romance element is nice but again predictable. This is a book that I would label a good airplane or relax by the beach type of book. It doesn't require much thought but is enjoyable. I received a copy of this book from Piatkus and Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own.

2.5 stars rounded up. I went into this book with high hopes and I was happy and I stayed that way for maybe the first 1/4 of the book. The crime itself was clever and the reason's for it, well, cliched but they are cliches for a good reason sometimes! After that Hideaway became an over-cliched mess of repetition, oh poor me's, underdeveloped characters and overstuffed with useless descriptions (of land, house, clothes, etc.) that didn't help the story along one little bit -it was just filler. And did I mention the repetition in this book? I felt this was used to pad the book as I felt this book was dragged out to the nth degree. I feel like the book would have been wonderful had they cut it by about 100 pages. I did learn a lot about voice acting though and that was interesting. *ARC supplied by the publisher.

I received this book as a goodreads giveaway. My opinions are my own. While all the cast of main characters were immanently likable in this story, it failed to ever reach a point of true depth. The main character, from her childhood at the beginning of the book, through her teen years, and into the adulthood at the end of the book, maintained the same maturity, the same tone, and voice. I never felt like she had much of a growth arch at all. In fact, the entire Sullivan clan "spoke" with much the same "voice", as did Dillion, the love-interest in the story. This happened to such a degree that I sometimes had difficulty sorting out who was speaking, because there was often very little difference in tone from one character to the next, at least within this core of characters. I really appreciated the way this story showed how family is not bound by blood and marital status, that those aspects mean little if you don't ACT like family. In this aspect, the "family" featured in this story was a broad array of characters, and they supported and loved each other through some very tough times. Not the best of NR's books, but a good "beach read" that never gets too heavy.

Happy book birthday to Hideaway, the latest novel from Nora Roberts. She wastes no time introducing us to the Sullivan family, known to be Hollywood royalty. The family has gathered at their home in Big Sur, California, for the funeral of Liam Sullivan, the patriarch of the family, and during the celebration of his life, 10-year-old Caitlyn (Cate) sneaks off for a game of hide-and-go seek and promptly gets herself kidnapped. She's a scrappy, determined young girl and manages to break free from her captors, running off into the woods until she finds safety at the Cooper home, who help reunite her with her loved ones. The whole ordeal is supposed to be over but even after reuniting with her family, she's still in danger from other forces at play. We follow Cate from when she is a young girl all the way up to adulthood, looking for herself. I started reading Nora Roberts back in junior high so I've had a long relationship with her novels. The Chesapeake Bay Saga, the MacGregor trilogy, the books she writes under her pseudonym J.D. Robb, I really enjoyed all of them. After taking a few years off from reading her novels, I recently got back into them. I was excited to obtain an advanced reading copy of Under Currents last year and a Netgalley ARC of this one. I don't know; I felt a little disappointed by both of them. First, this is not a suspense novel because we know who the villains are right from the start. The story is very black-and-white. Cate and her family, the good guys. Kind, thoughtful, caring people. The kidnappers, terrible, awful people. It was boring and her descriptions of how terrible the kidnappers were to harm such a family, well, it was boring. In addition, there is never a moment where you're left wondering how things are going to play out. As a result, the end feels pretty anti-climatic and ends on a strange note. That said, Nora Roberts has always been very good at establishing familial relationships and that much is evident here among the members of the Sullivan family. Love and family are at the heart of the book while the secondary elements (greed, revenge, hate) aren't enough to keep the tension afloat. As for the romance, I simply didn't buy the fact that Dillon pined after Cate for nearly two decades and that she was the woman he measured all women against. Dude, she was 10-years-old when you first met and you rarely kept in touch. The book is long, with a lot of repetition and drawn out dialogue and scenes. Also, on a final note, I get it. Nora Roberts writes lily-white characters. But the two POC characters she included in this novel, well, they didn't fare very well. There was an attack on Cate's boyfriend. The attack was coordinated by one of the villains in the novel and to throw the police off the scent, the attackers used racial slurs. It was cheap and should not have been included. Second, the inclusion of the stereotypical housekeeper that pointedly had a Spanish name and couldn't speak "proper" English to get across her thoughts. Like c'mon. Thank you to NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for the advanced reading copy.

More suspense than romance--although it's a satisfying romance--and more of a family story than either. Cate Sullivan's life changed when she was kidnapped as a child. Her mother's continuing betrayal shapes her life, as does her remaining, close-knit family, and the good friends who helped her. After a number of false starts, she finds her place--and true love. Recommended.

Cate is haunted by her past. An actress and an intimate part of the Hollywood royalty, Cate was kidnapped as a child by her own mother. If you've read anything by the author, you know what happens next. I sometimes think, it's my stubbornness that makes me keep going back to the author's new releases but Roberts has the capability to surprise us. Her romantic thrillers are atmospheric and gritty, the romance refreshing. But Hideaway was a different kind of disappointment. The plot was predictable at best and a copy of her previous work at worst. The odd couple was a surprise but that's not much in a 800 page story. I really hope Roberts does better in future. No pressure though, I'll need a lifetime to finish all the books she has already published.

2.5 stars To say that this story was tedious would be like saying 2020 has been a weird year. It's so understated that it can barely be considered fact anymore. This story was mind-numbing. When I read the first part - the part that focuses entirely on the kidnapping, the rescue, and the crime solving - I wondered multiple times if I was just dead inside because I was feeling absolutely nothing while reading about a poor child being terrorized and bravely fighting to save herself... through the betrayal, the drama, I felt NOTHING. It didn't seem dramatic, more like a dry and overly long transcript with no emotion tied to it. I couldn't connect with any of the characters, who are all Mary Sues aside from the bad guys. I love Mary Sues. But there was zero connection here. The MC has a little bit of character development, but it is slow and boring and I didn't care. It's just "this is this whole girl's day to day life" and god just put me to sleep already. At one point, there's a line that's like "she was the human equivalent of beige" and that is this book. It's beige. It's not bad. The bones of the story - the kidnapping, recovery, coming of age, adulthood and romance and mystery part - are great, just like a lovely pair of beige high heels are a must-have staple for any woman's closet. But the whole fucking book felt like filler. It's boring. Nothing happens quickly, there's no mystery. What little does happen is uninteresting because there are no surprises. You know exactly what the threat is, where it's coming from, and when. The reader is entirely omniscient and that's boring. Zero tension. Then there's a quick climax and you have no idea what happens to one of the bad guys in the end, the final confrontation doesn't happen before the end. This author is really bad about ending the story in a way that makes you expect an epilogue when you turn the page, but it's not there. She punks us every time. So I'm incredibly frustrated with this book, which is my fault, because I expected the finale to be fucking epic. If this was gonna drag on for 900 pages and be the driest, most uninteresting thing I'd ever read from this author, surely the ending was going to make it all worth it. Surely the ending would leave me so blown away that I'd be rushing to GR to give it 5 stars. But no. It ended with a whimper. I set myself up for disappointment. Surely I will have learned my lesson from this, right? I spent two nights on this book and I feel like I've gained nothing from it but the mild insult of calling somebody the personification of beige. I love Nora Roberts and I recommend almost all of her books, but this one was not for me and I can't bring myself to recommend a book so boring to anyone else.

I said I wanted to pick up one of those paperbacks you always see at Meijer and think to yourself “who reads these”, and dammit I did it! This was a fun popcorn read. I’ve never read La Nora and you could probably say I’m not her average reader but I like to stay looking around and shit. Parts of this really worked — the mystery/suspense elements were intriguing, and the characters while being cookie cutter were relatable and human. Other parts didn’t work so well. It was corny, which is fine, but I was surprised to discover the romance didn’t really work. I am receptive to romance in books, in fact I was reading Robin Hobb last night and there was a love scene that I thought was so compelling and sweet. The romance here did not work. It was so rote, unearned and clumsy in a way. I was surprised to see that what Nora Roberts is arguably best known for was the weakest element of her book. La Nora’s readers also crack me up. I was reading Google reviews of this book and one of the 1-star reviews said: “This book has FOUL language and it is so unrealistic and cruel that the MOTHER is the villain!!!!!” Oh honey! I found the IRL mother villain! Bffr. All in all, I see why Nora Roberts has dedicated readers. Hideaway was not a great book but it was entertaining and affable. I’m going to pick up one of Nora’s JD Robb books at some point, because those seem like they might center the parts of her writing that worked really well for me.

Look, no one is more surprised than me at this rating. I am an avid fan of Fredrik Backman’s work. I even read his Instagram captions and chuckle occasionally. All the same, I have ambivalent feelings about this one. My Friends is a story about art and belonging. It's about a young girl, Louisa, and her adoration of a famous painting. The story of this famous painting, and its famous painter, are told in this book, along with Louisa's experiences in the present. The stream-of-consciousness prose is immersive and easy to read, and the plot unfolds slowly and intentionally. Sadly, I couldn't deeply connect with any of these characters, nor the plot, so the book fell a little flat for me. Backman's typical life-affirming style is present throughout this novel, but this is him at his most verbose, meandering, and saccharine. Some chapters, some characters, and some ideas were beautiful, so I did enjoy those. This novel hinges on the nostalgia of childhood friendships, and that does feel like a warm hug in this form of words. I chuckled at some jokes and cringed at others. 2.5 stars rounded up. That said, I would still recommend this to Fredrik Backman fans, and literary fiction enthusiasts. I suspect this will end up being an outlier review. ————————————————————————— The book gods over at Netgalley (and Atria Books, of course) have blessed me with an ARC 😭 I cannot overstate my excitement and I am going to find it very hard to be objective about a new Fredrik Backman book!!

3.75! “Her laughter adjusts the spin of his atoms.” Mate, where do I even start 🧍 This was a very enjoyable book, and I'm glad that I am finally starting to enjoy her books again because I really missed that feeling. It was the perfect amount of cringe, the perfect amount of quirky, and what you would expect from an omegaverse, but that is also where my issues lie 😭 and honestly I had only three problems with this book, two was the issue with the book itself and one was the issue with me, but I know that it affected my reading experience a lot. Hence, the rating. I just love how easy her books are to read. The world is exactly what you would want in a paranormal romance, and it had me in the perfect vibes. Also, it was the perfect weather to read this book 😭 I would say that I liked the balance between the plot and the romance. At first, it didn't feel that way at the start, but as we progressed through the book more, I started to see the plot build and develop more. I enjoyed the writing as well; it was easy to read and relatively smooth to fly past, which I always love in a book. I can also see that this book can't be for everyone because it catered to a very specific audience, which is also the reason why I kind of enjoyed Bride more than Mate. Serena, was so pleasant to read about, different from Misery but I loved how similar their humor was and that is why I was able to enjoy her pov, I liked that she challenged Koen and fought for answers, everything surrounding her was kept very mysterious which kind of helped me like her and be invested in her character more to know what was happening. Koen, I love how sarcastic he was 😭😭 and I also loved how broody he was, but what I loved the most was how his thoughts were presented to us through small text poised as chapter headers. They give him and their relationship a much-needed depth. They were a bunch of cuties ❤️‍🩹 Misery and Lowen, just elevated this whole book. Esp because of the bond that Misery and Serena had. Now, lets talk about the romance and the problems that I had with this book: - The romance, I felt like it was more based on them needing each other because of their mating bond, and not because they felt something between them. I don't know if it makes sense 😭 but I just needed more depth from their romance, it just felt okay, very surface level, I wanted mooooreee. -Also, this is more of a me issue, which is that the smut was disgusting for me in this one 😭 it was too much and I think I do have only myself to blame solely because I thought that since I read Bride and liked the smut while so many hated it. I would like this one as well, but I failed to factor in that here, both of them were werewolves, and the dynamic was vastly different. -The third problem that I had was the length of this book; it was 100 or 2 pages longer than it should have been. As soon as part 2 hit, the book just started dragging more and more, and I sort of started to lose interest in the book, and the pacing, which was being managed very well, started slipping, but that was all. Overall, a very enjoyable book! __ I'm ready! Give me all the cringe you can, Miss Hazelwood 😋 __ Is Ali Hazelwood the Freida McFadden of the romance genre?!?

These books read like little paranormal romcom parodies to me, which is what I love about them. Poking fun of the vampire/werewolf obsessions that we had in our teenage years is so entertaining - and I love the silliness of these books, and this one was no exception. My biggest issue with this one was how our main conflict in the romance was resolved in such a “nothing” way. It just so easily became a non-issue, and whenever this happens - I always just think…. then why did we go through all that? Anyways, aside from my slight annoyance at the end, this was a highly entertaining read (especially when I need a brain break from one of my dark fantasies haha) I have to admit though, I did skim the spice at 80-85% of the book. Just too much werewolf anatomy for me personally 😂🐺

╰┈➤ 𝟹.𝟸𝟻 ★ ꜱᴛᴀʀꜱ ❝hᥱ ᥱᥲsiᥣყ rᥱsigᥒᥱd himsᥱᥣf to ᥲ ᥣifᥱtimᥱ withoυt hᥱr, bυt… simρᥣყ ρυt, hᥱ is υᥒwiᥣᥣiᥒg to ᥴoᥒtᥱmρᥣᥲtᥱ ᥲ υᥒivᥱrsᥱ iᥒ whiᥴh shᥱ ᥒo ᥣoᥒgᥱr ᥱxists.❞ 📚┆𝐌𝐚𝐭𝐞 𝐛𝐲 𝐀𝐥𝐢 𝐇𝐚𝐳𝐞𝐥𝐰𝐨𝐨𝐝 ⤷ buddy read with Michelle ♡ check out her review! 📱┆𝐅𝐨𝐫𝐦𝐚𝐭: 𝙺𝚒𝚗𝚍𝚕𝚎 🏷️┆𝐆𝐞𝐧𝐫𝐞: 𝙿𝚊𝚛𝚊𝚗𝚘𝚛𝚖𝚊𝚕 𝚁𝚘𝚖𝚊𝚗𝚌𝚎 📆┆𝐃𝐚𝐭𝐞𝐬 𝐑𝐞𝐚𝐝: 𝟷𝟷/𝟷/𝟸𝟻 - 𝟷𝟷/𝟽/𝟸𝟻 📃┆𝐒𝐲𝐧𝐨𝐩𝐬𝐢𝐬 「 “Serena Paris is orphaned, pack-less, and one of a kind. Coming forward as the first Human-Were hybrid was supposed to heal a centuries long rift between species. Instead, it made her a target. As Alpha of the Northwest pack, Koen Alexander’s authority is so absolute, only a fool would threaten his mate. It doesn't matter if Serena doesn't reciprocate his feelings, nothing will stop him from keeping her safe.”」 ❝whᥱᥒ two ρᥱoρᥣᥱ fᥲᥣᥣ iᥒ ᥣovᥱ, how mᥲᥒყ ᥒights do thᥱყ sρᥱᥒd togᥱthᥱr, doiᥒg ᥲbsoᥣυtᥱᥣყ ᥒothiᥒg, bᥱforᥱ thᥱყ’vᥱ hᥲd thᥱir fiᥣᥣ? how mᥲᥒყ siᥣᥱᥒᥴᥱs ᥲᥒd ᥴrosswords ᥲᥒd mυgs of tᥱᥲ do thᥱყ shᥲrᥱ?❞ ⋆⁺｡˚⋆˙‧₊☽ ◯ ☾₊‧˙⋆˚｡⁺⋆ ᴍʏ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: ★★★.25 ɢᴏᴏᴅʀᴇᴀᴅꜱ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: 𝟺.𝟸𝟶 ☆ ꜱᴛᴀʀꜱ ꜱᴘɪᴄᴇ: 🌶️🌶️🌶️ ᴡᴇᴀᴛʜᴇʀ: 🍂🌧️ ᴘᴀɪʀ ᴡɪᴛʜ: ᴜɴɪᴄᴏʀɴ ᴡᴀꜰꜰʟᴇꜱ 🧇 ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ɪ ʀᴇᴄᴏᴍᴍᴇɴᴅ?: 👎🏼👍🏼 yes if you read bride ɴᴏᴡ ᴘʟᴀʏɪɴɢ: 🎶 ʙʟᴜᴇ ᴍᴏᴏɴ — ᴢᴀʀᴀ ʟᴀʀꜱꜱᴏɴ *(tysm to Michelle for collaborating) 1:35 ———♡——— 3:02 ⇄ ◃◃ ⅠⅠ ▹▹ ↻ ╭─── ┆ ╰⪼ ❛it's an endless honeymoon phase and the fire never goes out. I’m in heat when I feel you. you got me blushing, I'm in full bloom. you say they don't make 'em like me no more; maybe once in a blue moon.❜ ⊱ ────── {⋆ ‧₊˚♪𝄞 ⋆} ────── ⊰ ʀᴇᴀᴅ ɪꜰ ʏᴏᴜ ʟɪᴋᴇ: 🐺 ʙʀɪᴅᴇ 💚 ꜱʟᴏᴡ ʙᴜʀɴ 🐺 ꜰᴀᴛᴇᴅ ᴍᴀᴛᴇꜱ 💚 ᴀʟᴘʜᴀ ᴍᴀʟᴇꜱ 🐺 ᴡᴇʀᴇᴡᴏʟᴠᴇꜱ 💚 ᴛᴏᴜᴄʜ ʜᴇʀ ᴀɴᴅ ᴅɪᴇ ❝ “if somᥱoᥒᥱ hᥲd givᥱᥒ mᥱ ᥲ ρiᥱᥴᥱ of ρᥲρᥱr ᥲᥒd ᥲskᥱd mᥱ to ᥣist ᥱvᥱrყthiᥒg i ᥣikᥱd, ᥱvᥱrყthiᥒg i drᥱᥲmᥱd of, ᥱvᥱrყthiᥒg thᥲt i wᥲs sυrᥱ woυᥣd mᥲkᥱ mᥱ hᥲρρყ, ყoυ woυᥣd hᥲvᥱ bᥱᥱᥒ thᥱ fiᥒᥲᥣ ρrodυᥴt of it.” ❞ ⋆⁺｡˚⋆˙‧₊☽ ◯ ☾₊‧˙⋆˚｡⁺⋆ 💬┆𝐓𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐬 ⟢ Ali.. girlfriend… I say this with love: maybe it’s time to go outside, touch some grass, go on a vacation, stop writing for a bit/pumping out new books left & right because your new ones aren’t hitting like they used to, babe. 😕 This is my second AH book where I’ve been disappointed & this never used to be the case with Ali. I loved all of her STEM romances, I even enjoyed Bride, but Mate just did KNOT do it for me. ꪜ What I Liked: ➳ Koen. He was giving big Cassian energy. I can’t dislike a MMC with a man bun & touch her and die vibes. ➳ Serena (for the most part). ➳ The Pacific Northwest setting. Very much gave Twilight “it’s LA push, baby” ➳ Serena & Misery’s friendship. True ride or dies. ✘ What I Didn’t Like: ↬ Knotting. It gave me the ick in Bride & it gave me the ick in this book too. I’m just not an omegaverse girlie. ↬ The plot got lost somewhere along the way when Serena went into heat, then that became the new conflict which I couldn’t care less about. ↬ Two male physicians telling Serena she is dying meanwhile, it’s just her about to start her cycle. See, even hybrid females deal with this BS! ↬ All the plot holes. What happened to the bounty on Serena? Why did we never find out who was actually behind it? What happened to the political part of the story? I don’t want to learn about Were biology, let’s get back to the main conflict please. I found that much more interesting. ↬ I usually like AH’s humor in her books, but for some reason, the humor in this one reminded me of middle school boys. It was so immature & had me cringing a lot. For example, did Koen have to continuously call people twatwaffles & other stupid insults that became progressively stupider. ⟢ If you read Bride, you might love this, hate this, or feel indifference like me. I will still continue to be an Ali Hazelwood fan, but my girl better get it together because I don’t know how much longer I can keep defending her when she’s putting out mediocre books. The big question is… will I read the next book in the series if there’s another? *sighs* Yes. Yes I will, damnit. ⋆⁺｡˚⋆˙‧₊☽ ◯ ☾₊‧˙⋆˚｡⁺⋆ ⋆⁺｡˚⋆˙‧₊☽ ◯ ☾₊‧˙⋆˚｡⁺⋆ ⋆⁺｡˚⋆˙‧₊☽ ◯ ☾₊‧˙⋆˚｡⁺⋆ ❝hᥱ woυᥣd diᥱ for hᥱr, ᥲᥒd hᥱ woυᥣd kiᥣᥣ for hᥱr. morᥱ imρortᥲᥒtᥣყ, hᥱ wiᥣᥣ ᥣivᥱ for hᥱr. shᥱ'ᥣᥣ bᥱ thᥱ ρυrρosᥱ driviᥒg ᥱvᥱrყ sᥱᥴoᥒd of his ᥱvᥱrყ dᥲყ.❞ 𝐒𝐞𝐫𝐢𝐞𝐬 🩸 𝙱𝚛𝚒𝚍𝚎 (#𝟷) 𝟺★ 🐺 𝙼𝚊𝚝𝚎 (#𝟸) 𝟹.𝟸𝟻★

Blog | Instagram Rating: 3 stars While the banter and character dynamics were fun, the disjointed storyline and heavy spice kept me from loving 'Mate'. Cover: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Writing: 🌟🌟🌟 Storyline: 🌟🌟🌟 Main character(s): 🌟🌟🌟 Secondary characters: 🌟🌟🌟 Romance: 🌟🌟🌟 Narration & Audio:🌟🌟🌟🌟 "the truths we seek are often not the ones we find." After loving the first book in this series, Bride, I was disappointed by how underwhelming this sequel felt. Sure, it was a fun and easy read overall, but the storyline felt thin and uneven, with many developments happening off-page. I also craved more depth in the political aspect of the story rather than the heavy focus on spice. "Her laughter adjusts the spin of his atoms." The character dynamics were the highlight for me, thanks to the adorable found-family trope and witty banter. Serena and Koen also had great chemistry, making them easy to root for, even though many of their issues could have been avoided with honest communication. Plus, the dynamic narration by Therese Plummer and Will Damron suited Serena and Koen perfectly. See my other review for Ali Hazelwood: Bride Series: 1. Bride You can also find more of my thoughts and discussion questions on my blog! - I'd love to hear your thoughts!

Sorry, but any book that contains the words "fuckwaffle" and "jizzmuffin" automatically loses a star.

3.5⭐️ I didn’t love this as much as Bride but still had fun with it nonetheless

oh we are so back😋

Well, I am going to be That Person. That Person who does not rate the book everyone is raving about 5 stars. I just can’t. And here’s why… First of all, I do want to say that I very much appreciate that Kristin Hannah chose to write a novel about something other than World War 2. It was refreshing to read about the Vietnam War, a war about which very few novels have been written. Furthermore, I appreciate that she focused on the women. Women’s contributions and experiences in history are often overlooked and probably more so in regards to the Vietnam War. I, for one, honestly never thought about it. Secondly, Hannah does capture the setting very vividly. There are a lot of gory war scenes, you can feel the heat of the jungle, the stress, the exhaustion, etc. Similarly, she captured the experience of PTSD well (as far as I know, not having experienced it myself). I think it’s important to have this experience vividly exposed both for the sake of empathy as well as for those who have gone through it to feel heard and seen. She clearly did a ton of research on PTSD as well as on the war and the time period. So why not the raving 5 stars? Quite simply, because Kristin Hannah likes to jerk people around emotionally and because the romance in this is obnoxiously awful. First things first - and I don’t have anything else to say about this - I despise the title. Moving on… **A few spoilers ahead.** Emotionally, this book is seriously “everything but the kitchen sink”. Just throw in every tragic thing you can think of, it’s there. Just when you think something good might happen, nope. The tragedy gets almost repetitive and boring. Like, how many times do I want to read about wanting her father’s approval or about how cold her mother is? How many times do I want to read about her bloody clothes and the mud and men’s gaping wounds? How many times do I want to read about her drunken pill popping à la Valley of the Dolls? In a few cases, tragedy conveniently disposed of some plot points and characters which I found annoying. For instance, rather than Frankie having an honest conversation with another character, something traumatic occurs so she doesn’t have to. Do I get that the war trauma (both during and at home)was unending? Absolutely. That’s not really my issue. Kristin Hannah likes to pile on the tragedy and trauma in many of her books; it’s her formula and it gets tiresome after awhile. And the romance. Ugh, don’t get me started. I predicted basically what would happen every single time a love interest was introduced and I was right. She falls in love suddenly with no real reason other than feelings like “he brought her back to life”. Gag me. That’s not real, especially not after a 5 minute conversation. Why do any of these men deserve to be adored? I can’t see it. None of them were particularly stellar specimens. You can tell me these relationships were realistic all you want but I’m not obligated to like these guys or just gloss over the repeated adultery (that continues after the war). Hannah’s presentation of the romances is sentimental, cheesy and predictable. She does this in her books a lot. And I’m sorry but nothing will compel me to be ok with not one but two men coming back from the dead. This is a highly readable book and you’ll be turning the pages fast. I hope that we continue to hear more about underappreciated women in history (and this book did make me want to know more). However, I would have preferred less piled on tragedy and fewer contrived, sentimental plotlines. Pub date: Feb 6, 2024

Kristin Hannah's upcoming release, The Women, left me in a severe love-hate conundrum. I can only give it three stars, an average of the five stars it deserves for the parts set in Vietnam and the one star it deserves for the backstories and romances. I loved the section of the book set in Vietnam. This part of the book was well-researched, action-packed, and took me as close as I wanted to be to a combat medical evacuation unit. Vietnam War literature has not covered the nurse's perspective much, so I especially valued this content. The Vietnam writing was gritty and sometimes challenging to read but written very well (trigger warnings for some readers, though, so be forewarned). However, the book chapters preceding Frankie's tour in Vietnam were slow and plodding. Frankie seemed devoid of personality - a cardboard caricature of "the good girl." I came close to DNFing the book before it even took off. The last half of this overly long book covered Frankie's return home and her struggles with PTSD. Aspects of these sections had decent content, covering the abysmal treatment of returning vets, the complete dismissal of women serving in combat zones, and the range of issues Vietnam Vets had adapting to life back home. All good, but then there were the intertwined romances and backstories, and these were, in my opinion, just horrible. I've watched soap operas with more feasible plot lines. I don't want to include spoilers, but there were way too many times I rolled my eyes in dismay. It wasn't even that the romance aspect was too swoony (people familiar with my reviews know I have a low tolerance for swooniness), but the plot devolved into the ludicrous. The ridiculousness of some of the events in Frankie's relationships detracted from the seriousness of the rest of the story. Given the book was almost 500 pages long, much of this could have (should have) been edited out. Some details in the book's second half would have benefitted from better research. As written, they detracted from the good parts of the story and came off as just plain lazy. It's small stuff, but it piled up and was sometimes so frustrating I wanted to give up reading. Here are a few of my issues (that won't give away the plot). First, one nurse friend wants to be a veterinarian. OK, good for her, but in the late 1960s, few women were getting into vet school and, indeed, were mostly blocked from becoming large animal vets as this woman aspired to (I am a veterinarian, and vet school did not open broadly to women until the early 1980s). So this friend comes home from her tour in, I think, March and enrolls in vet school during the middle of the school year because, of course, a nurse can just do that without taking any prerequisites or entrance exams or even applying. Then this same friend, more than once, drops everything, including vet school, to fly out at the last minute and spend weeks helping Frankie, who is dealing with one melodramatic romantic crisis after another. Because you can do that in the middle of vet school with no apparent repercussions. This isn't the vet school I remember. And what regular folks just flew around the country on a whim in the 1960s? Flying was a big deal then, not done on a day's notice. Later in the book, a character living in rural Montana decides to become a clinical psychologist and does so while living in rural Montana because they have so many clinical psychology programs (yes, this is sarcasm). I understand I am an outlier here, but I'm also not alone in my criticisms of the non-Vietnam aspects of the novel. You'll enjoy the book if melodrama, lack of historical accuracy, and telenovela-level romances don't bother you. Thanks to NetGalley for providing me with an eBook version of the novel in return for a review.

Okay, where do I begin? I have to admit first that I am going to be an outlier here. You probably could tell by my 3 star rating, right? But you have a right to know why. So, I appreciate you giving me the opportunity to tell you why. I didn’t include this book in my “currently reading” when I received it several weeks ago. Probably because I wasn’t convinced, I wanted to read it. I felt some level of excitement about receiving it as a donation to my Little Free Library Shed, because I knew my neighbors would be thrilled about having it available to them because this book is on the “hotlist” at our local public library. Which means if you are interested in reading this book, you are probably #467 on the list before the book will be available for you to check out from our library. That is how popular this book is right now. Also, every time I receive a donation of a Kristin Hannah book, it comes and goes almost as fast as any Petersen, Connelly, Grisham, Picoult, or Baldacci book. But I am not always a Kristin Hannah fan. And, the subject matter of this book, is not my favorite, so I wasn’t particularly anxious about reading this book. So, when it was donated, I wasn’t all happy hooray ready about entering the pages. Which leads me back to again why it wasn’t on my “currently reading” list of books here. Thus, it took me awhile to make a decision to read it. Are you still wondering if I am going to offer a review? Thank you, if you are still reading this! When I finally did begin to read, it wasn’t a nostalgia I was necessarily happy to return home to, as this book is filled with… despair – addiction – war – disrespect to soldiers – inadequate training for them – snipers – PTSD – Agent Orange. Yes, the author does a somewhat convincing job of creating the historical scenery descriptions by taking us back to Viet Nam. But her writing wasn’t connecting me to her story. It wasn’t capturing me. It wasn’t holding me. I didn’t feel emotionally vested. I felt as a reader we were awkwardly stumbling a long trying to keep up. The plot twists seemed so strained. I just didn’t feel as engaged as I would have liked to have been. The only thing that seemed to feel somewhat genuine was the way Hannah included women in the experience, especially nurses. Through her writing, she tried to show, their conviction and importance to the war story. Women – the real, unsung heroes. And since that was the title of her book, perhaps the author’s passion was met. As she shared in her author’s note, she was honored to tell their story. It just didn’t work for me.

Although "The Women" was not for this woman, I applaud the author for penning a book that showcases the role that female combat nurses played in the Vietnam War. WHY WAS "THE WOMEN" NOT FOR THIS WOMAN? 1) The book's pacing (especially in the beginning) was slow and the book was waaaaaay too long. IMHO, this 15-hour audiobook (471 pages!) easily could have been 10 hours. 2) I had trouble relating to the female protagonist. Every single guy she met fell in love with her. (Huh?) Yes, I realize that there were few American females in Vietnam but I still felt that the author's portrayal of the book's protagonist was unrealistic. I listened to the audiobook read by Julia Whelan who did an outstanding job with the narration. Since this is an "outlier review", I urge everyone to read all of the 5-star reviews for this book. Special thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Fifteen years after fleeing Memphis in the dead of night, Mitch and Abby McDeere are finally back in the United States living in Manhattan. After spending some time flitting from island to island, they landed in London where Mitch took a job with the renowned law firm, Scully & Pershing, where he’s now proud to say he’s a fully fledged partner in the New York office. One of the world’s largest international law firms, they represent clients from all over the globe, including a few that take him far from home. So when his boss asks him meet with the head of their Italian division, Mitch is happy to jet off to Rome without a second thought. It is there, however, that a huge request is made. Will Mitch do an old man a favor and take over a case for him based in the perilous deserts of Libya? Eager for a little adventure, Mitch agrees and finds himself in the middle of a land held by an unpredictable regime and warlords who circle like carnivores licking their chops. Not twenty-four hours after entering the country, however, Mitch is in the hospital and his colleague has been kidnapped by a shadowy enemy. Suddenly, and without his knowledge, he’s been caught in the net of a nefarious plot. And much like his time at Bendini, Lambert & Locke, Mitch realizes that he and everyone around him are in very real jeopardy. Of course, he’s been in this position before—but will he be able to outsmart yet another dangerous opponent? Or has he met his match in the ultimate chess game that could leave his life in peril once more? Unlike The Firm, which had ratcheting suspense and an epic climax followed by a near perfect conclusion, The Exchange instead felt more like John Grisham was simply phoning it in. Don’t get me wrong, it had his characteristic flair for building suspense, but that was only found within the first third of the book. From there on out, the plot was one meeting after another where very little seemed to get done. But let me start with the pluses first, though, shall I? First of all, I was swept up right from the start by the international intrigue and overhanging threat of doing business in Libya. Fast-paced and well-written, I kept waiting for the other shoe to drop. When it finally did, I was on the edge of my seat flipping pages faster and faster—for the first third, that is. And the fact that it was told via multiple, omniscient POVs? Well, it couldn’t have been better. Another aspect I thoroughly enjoyed was the inclusion of Mitch’s past in Memphis. Personally, I would’ve preferred for the saga that started in The Firm to continue into this sequel, but then, you can’t get everything you want, can you? Frankly, however, the direction in which the plot was headed was gripping and filled with tension, but, unfortunately, it just didn’t last. Now onto what didn’t quite work, starting with the lack of any big twists or even any kind of resolution to who was behind the abduction plot to begin with. I mean, when I reached the final page, I actually said, “Wait, that’s it?” as it felt as though a final chapter was missing from the book. In all honesty, this one felt much more like a dry version of a crime fiction novel where the internal work is being done than anything like a legal thriller at all. All said and done, this Grisham novel just didn’t do it for me. There were so many opportunities for a thoroughly epic game of cat-and-mouse, yet instead it all felt sadly anticlimactic and underwhelming. At the same time, parts of the plot were entirely plausible as individuals attempted to raise monies from unwilling sources. However, with little action and almost no character development, my disappointment was palpable. That being said, if you’re a lover of Grisham’s prior novels, I would still give this one a go, just don’t expect a heart-pounding, hair-raising journey around the globe. Rating of 3 stars (due in large part to the first one hundred pages). Thank you to John Grisham and Doubleday Books for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own. PUB DATE: October 17, 2023 👉 Be sure to head to my Amazon Storefront to order. I get a small commission and would love your support! Trigger warning: potential suicide, cancer, kidnapping abroad, forced captivity, mention of: stalking, arson

Oops noticed I referred to ‘The Client.’ It was’’The Firm.’ But Tom Cruise was in it😉 Sad to say first Grisham I didn’t warm to. This was the follow up to ‘The Client’ and the great Tom Cruise film. But unfortunately this was nowhere near as good. Started off a bit like my last read ‘The Chamber.’ With Mitch McDeere about to represent a man on death row. Then a kidnapping in Libya. Couldn’t get engaged or feel for Mitch or the victim and wanted to finish the book quickly…to get it out of the way. The good news is I have many Grisham’s to read and will continue to do so. I suppose a poor Grisham is better than some other Authors😉

In a follow up to his 1991 thriller The Firm, Grisham returns with a second adventure starring lawyer Mitch McDeere and his wife, Abby. The troubles they got into years ago, back in Memphis, are long behind them and Mitch is now based in Manhattan, a partner in the biggest law firm in the world. I suppose I’d assumed that this story would involve Mitch taking on a big base, one in which the stakes are sky high, and I’d be treated to a tale detailing the legal shenanigans we’re used to from this master of the courtroom drama. But that’s now how this book plays out. Without getting into the detail of the plot, Mitch and Abby become embroiled in the kidnap of one of his firm’s employees – a daughter of a partner of the firm, based in Rome. The kidnappers are a ruthless bunch, based in North Africa, and they routinely murder adversaries in the most gruesome way imaginable, often releasing videos of the killings via the dark web. While Mitch tries to round up funds to pay the huge ransom they’ve demanded, Abbey has been chosen by the kidnappers as their communication link. There’s not a courtroom in sight. In all honesty, I found the whole thing somewhat repetitive. There’s only so much you can do when you don’t know precisely who has the victim and you’ve no idea where she’s being held. As a result, most of the effort goes into trying to round up the cash to pay for the victim’s release. There’s politics and greed at play too, but quite honestly it felt like Grisham had painted himself into corner. To be fair, there is some redemption as we near the finishing line, as at last some momentum is developed allowing it all to build to a surprisingly exciting climax. I don’t consider this to be Grisham's best work – his courtroom conjuring tricks do it for me – but neither is it his worst (Grey Mountain takes that dubious prize). I consider this book to be a very uneven offering. Three stars it is.

The Exchange, the newest release from John Grisham, is the long-awaited, not expected follow-up to The Firm. The Firm was impactful for it’s revitalizing the legal thriller genre and maxing it’s popularity. The Exchange is an interesting follow-up with plenty of Firm references. It’s indeed satisfying to see what happened to Mitch and Abby years later after their trauma in Tennessee. However, for most people, it’s been so long since they’ve read compulsive thriller, that the the anticipation isn’t quite there and it’s a stretch to recall more than the general premise. The Exchange starts off fairly well, but loses some momentum as the pages progress. Mitch is a New York lawyer for an international firm and travels far and wide for his career. On an impulsive, not wholly necessary trip to Libya, Mitch’s associate is taken hostage and from there the horrors and plot to ransom and return her begin. The bulk of this story is about gathering money, making meetings, taking trips and negotiating to free the kidnapped associate. It’s mired in politics between various governments and entities, is quite complex keeping track of who is who and why we care, and is sadly, rather dull. The Exchange is a mildly entertaining story, but the conclusion is predictable, the writing is a bit stilted, and though it is nice to see these characters again, it wasn’t quite what I hoped it would be.

I was expecting a spy thriller - international shenanigans, intrigue, chases, etc. - but the start was slow and then after the poisoning/kidnapping scene it turned into just luxury travel and fundraising from stingy rich people. The writing itself was good, I just didn't really understand why he chose to make it such a mundane (?) story given what he's known for and the promise of the premise. I could have still given it 4 stars, but my biggest issue was that it was a given for Mitch from the start that they should get the cash. There was only one throwaway line, after the deal was done, about how dangerous it is to give a terrorist organization 100 MILLION dollars in exchange for one life - yes, I wanted Giovanna to be rescued, but is her one life more valuable than the x,xxx many lives the organization can destroy with that much cash? What if they just funded the next 9/11? Felt like a plot hole.

The Exchange by John Grisham is the follow up book to the Firm. This is an OK, but solid read that follows the Grisham style well. John Grisham fans will devour this and enjoy this thriller. I still was invested enough to turn those pages to a satisfying conclusion.

Huff, puff. Huff, puff. This was a very, very, very long 14.5-hour audiobook. The core plot and premise were ultra-compelling: A deeply flawed small-town lawyer, a mysterious client, and an alleged fortune. When the lawyer's widowed client dies under questionable circumstances, the lawyer becomes the prime suspect in her murder. Who was responsible for the widow's death? Grisham's nuanced portrayal of the widow was brilliant. The widow begins as a seemingly frail, clueless, eccentric old woman shrouded in mystery, only to be gradually revealed as sharp, secretive, and deviously shrewd. While the core plot and the widow's characterization were stellar, the narrative rambled excessively. (Did Grisham have a word count to meet?) From start to finish, the storyline was padded with excessive internal monologues and ruminating thoughts. This unnecessary length stalled the book's momentum, especially during the high-stakes courtroom scenes. And, finally, the book's final reveal was a letdown. 😭☹️😭☹️ The final reveal came completely out of left field, with no real connection to anything foreshadowed in the earlier chapters. I listened to the audiobook, expertly narrated by Michael Beck. Michael Beck's performance was outstanding and helped me reach the finish line.

3.5 rounded down There’s a quaint little lawfirm on the corner of Main and Maple. It deals in run of the mill problems so it’s been 18 years of grind for Simon F. Latch, Attorney and Counsellor at Law and he’s burning out. The current client is a widow. She’s 85 year old Ms Eleanor Barnett, she has no children but her last husband has via his first bad marriage. She’s always considered them to be loathsome boys and indeed, one of them has a rap sheet. She duly arrives for her appointment with Simon looking in pretty good shape for 85. Let’s just say that she has some surprises in store for Simon of the dollar bill variety and about the unethical weasel who drafts her previous will. Is Simon going to be another weasel, I wonder when he’s asked to draft a new one for her? However, even before Eleanor has a serious car accident there are a few off notes that give Simon plenty of pause for thought but after the crash the whole thing starts to unravel and goes well and truly off the rails. There are some intriguing aspects to this latest legal thriller from John Grisham not least concerning Eleanor herself. Can she be trusted? Why is she being so oddly cagey? I do find her fascinating in her elusiveness. The deeper this goes and the truth starts to stare Simon in the face the better the book becomes. As the plot progresses it makes pertinent points about fair trials and trial by journalism/social media. There are some decent courtroom scenes where there’s tension and twists and the inclusion of some interesting characters on the truth trail. However, the overall pace is slow and it’s very slow to get going where we get chapter and verse on Simon‘s life for at least the first third of the book. There’s much about his imploding home life, his financial issues, his betting (much of which goes totally over the top of this little Brit‘s head) and numerous lunches are varying cuisines with Eleanor. Stamina is required and although it does let you see the state of Simon‘s life, I really don’t think you need all of this. The pace is never brisk even in the courtroom which again is very detailed as the prosecution/defence/witnesses go back-and-forth. As for the ending it’s very abrupt and to be honest it doesn’t exactly deliver a wow factor. I haven’t read a John Grisham for a while but have enjoyed a considerable number of his novels but this one is over long, has unnecessary detail which detracts from a good plot and the execution needs more pizzazz. It’s not a bad book by any means but this isn’t one of his best novels in my opinion. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Hodder and Stoughton for the much appreciated early copy in return for an honest review.

In typical three-star fashion, here is a novel that straddles the fence between elements that work and those that don't. Over the years I've picked up a few Grisham novels and been whisked away to high stakes worlds complete with thrills, chills, and plenty of action. However, this time around less would've been more and the abrupt ending out of nowhere wasn't worth the journey to get there. The stellar characterization of down on his luck attorney Simon Latch is what kept me turning pages. I didn't feel any particular warmth toward Latch but therein lies the appeal of good writing because I was still interested. Netty the widow herself was quite the character and added a little flair to the pages. The whodunit aspect was also appealing although the reveal was lackluster. Simon Latch is a small-time attorney, living in small town America, taking on small legal gigs. His practice revolves around bankruptcy filings and drafting wills. His marriage is on the rocks leaving him feeling disconnected and struggling to protect his children from the inevitable fall out. He is prone to gamble which isn't helping his financial situation. Eighty-five-year-old Netty has an appointment to draft a new will, Simon thinks it will be business as usual until she reveals that her estate is worth a whopping 20 million dollars. She has no close relatives or friends and leans into Simon to handle her business, taking on the role of executor. Simon sees green. He realizes this estate could be his golden egg laying goose. He stays within the bounds of the law taking pains to be sure that nothing appears out of sorts. He will make his cash through the legal fees. After the widow's death is ruled a homicide, he is a prime suspect and is soon on trial for his life. There were sections that read quick and ones that were a slog. Every time I thought there's the momentum, it would crawl again. There's a lot of unnecessary passages when the same thing happens on repeat or we are dragging along with no real purpose. There was more time spent on developing red herrings than uncovering the murderer. The ending was so abrupt I felt like it needed another chapter or an epilogue which is rare for me. It felt like the culprit dropped in out of left field which was strange. However, for the large page count not to feel complete says it all. The first third of the book could've been cutdown by at least 50% and the last third needed to be reworked. I'm an Outlier (again) so please check out the many glowing reviews this book has if it has caught your eye. Thank you to Doubleday Books for providing an ARC via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. All thoughts and opinions are my own.

Grisham normally keeps me riveted and holding on for dear life, but not so with The Widow. I listened to it on audiobook and it wasn't until after listening for 6 hours that some action started to happen. It is a 14-hour audiobook narrated by Michael Beck. Netty Barnett is an 85-year-old widow who wanders into an attorney's office to update her will. She doesn't have any family members, and she claims to have a boatload of money due to Coca-Cola and Walmart stock. The attorney, Simon, has increasing debt and marriage issues. Voila! Grisham's famous fiction novels include A Time to Kill, The Pelican Brief, and many others. I really enjoyed his nonfiction book, Framed: Astonishing True Stories of Wrongful Convictions. I hope that he continues to write nonfiction. Disappointed with The Widow but will still continue reading Grisham.

I think my time with court dramas may be over. Love me some Grisham! this one didn't hit. It just felt like it wouldn't end! In my humble opinion its longer than it needed to be. So a Greedy lawyer gets finessed and is left holding the proverbial murder weapon when his client ends up dead! With a failing marriage and a career going no where he has to fight for the only thing worth anything; his LIFE!! Thanks to NetGalley and Double day book for this arc!!! Beyond humbled and grateful!! 🙏🏾 Solid 3.5 Stars!!! THE WIDOW out Oct 21st 2025!!!

Wow, this is remarkably underwhelming. I mean, it's a fine enough book I guess. Our main character is a bit of a weasel. Did I think he should pay for a crime he didn't commit? No. Did I think he deserved to suffer a bit for being such a dumbass? Absolutely. I did, however, want to know what would happen. The court case drags. While I recognize that most court cases, even criminal ones, are not exciting in the actuality, this is a book...for entertainment. I was not entertained by the court case at all. When the who and why are revealed, it comes out of left field. It's honestly kind of cheating because it doesn't give the reader a fair shot at guessing it. It's lazy and unsatisfying. I will give it three stars because I stuck it out until the end and didn't want to throw virtual book at virtual wall, but it was definitely inching toward a 2 star read. * ARC via Publisher

Oh, no … my review disappeared. 👻 Maybe that’s what I should have done with this novel …left it alone/not finished it. Oh, well. Below is my review. 3.25 Stars The first third of this book was mostly background information. An extremely slow burn. Next came the trial, of course. Unfortunately, the courtroom drama contained hardly any dialogue. I would have liked to hear testimony from the individuals involved in the trial. Then, the long, long wait…. Only to have a rushed ending. I wanted to enjoy and love this story. Unfortunately, I feel sad and disappointed. If you read this book, I hope you have a better experience than I did.

3.5 stars Thank you Doubleday Books and Netgalley for providing a free advance copy! Back when I was in junior high, John Grisham books were all the rage. Instant bestsellers that were adapted into movies with A list stars. I binge read THE FIRM one weekend because everyone was talking about it. I can actually credit the author for helping me transition from my kid and teen reads into adult fiction. His latest book is a combo mystery/legal thriller involving Simon, a down on his luck lawyer, and his elderly client Eleanor. Simon finds himself in the middle of a messy situation. Some decent twists and turns but there’s some unnecessary filler and the story clocks in at over 400 pages. Somewhere in the 300-350 range would have packed more of a punch. I did enjoy this one though and appreciate the author exploring an issue that he has also covered in his nonfiction books.

I really like John Grisham’s legal thrillers, but this one was too slow for me. I thought the story itself was very good, but it kind of just dragged on and the ending was very anticlimactic for me. Thank you to NetGalley for the arc!

Solid legal procedural missing the “thriller” aspect. Positives- it’s Grisham and I got an expert legal case. The writing is good and the characters have depth and detail. The trial is pure Grisham enjoyment. Negatives - it’s very, very slow and feels only “lightly” edited. I could almost recommend skipping the first third. The lack of investigation and obvious issues where other suspects should be included are completely missing. I felt like I was being small-brained by this approach. There are glaring holes left by the supposed herrings (I’d love to list the characters but then I’ll have to tap Spoilers - but they are ones as a reader I’d want to have included in the resolution). Overall - a nice Christmas gift if you can get the book on a special deal.

It's 1949 and alpha male, ex-army, ex convict, smart Aloysius Archer is seeking some sort of worthwhile life in California; he gains employment with a reputable PI in the very corrupt Bay Town, his first case is to investigate what appears to be a concerted effort to prevent the front-runner winning the mayoral election. With fast cars, and faster women and even faster fists to fly this formulaic modern thriller transposed to 1949 California works well accompanied by the plotting skills of Baldacci. 6 out of 12, Three Star read. 2024 read

This novel is a historical PI story set in the 1950s after Archer came back from the war and out of prison (book 1). You don’t have to read Book 1, to get in to Book 2, but it is always nice, if you can. Here, he heads to California via Reno from Oklahoma with a female companion, an aspiring actress, who he met in Reno. There is quite a bit of plot and intriguing characters to take you along this journey – if you are up for the 400 plus pages. Baldacci makes you feel like you have stepped back in time with his descriptions of the fashions, the attitudes and the atmosphere of the places in this book. Archer the PI seemed to be more grounded, but he still suffered from being a standard cliché that is often found in this particular genre. But even though he still seemed like walking perfection with the King Midas touch and the women are all falling at his feet, he was much more likable this time around. Still...I am not sure I want to follow this character beyond this book...the jury is still out for me. Will I or won't I? Update: I won't.

The book unfortunately starts off with the author trying to convince us that Mr. Archer really has serious noir chops but he presents him as not so much a Humphrey Bogart type as just an asshole. Thankfully, he settles into the main storyline and things improve as the story develops. The plot is pretty basic and does drag a bit at times, but Baldacci keeps it rolling along nicely. Not his best by a long shot but you could do worse.

Too slow. Not as good as his other books. The smoking and dialogue is too deliberate that feel fake, like actors rehearsal in theatre. The story is about a murder, but no one died in the first half of the book. The character is too fake to be likeable.

the 2nd in the Archer series, thankfully quite a bit better than the first was, in terms of pace and story that is. David Baldacci has never really let us down with any of his books; writing style and characters, until now. I'm not taken with Archer at all, perhaps it's the 1949 setting, all smoking, whisky and hats and in this particular book the writing (or perhaps the editing) was shocking in places. There was a whole section in the book that felt like it had been written in another language and then poorly translated back to English. There were odd incidences of this throughout the book, e.g. use of lighted instead of lit when referring to lighting a cigarette. It made it such that it interrupted the flow of reading.

Super prolific Mr. Baldacci is unlikely to have any time for the research required to do justice to historic fiction. Rather, he uses 1950s to create relatively simple murder mysteries. He uses the period to keep the characters uncomplicated, set-ups out of movies of the time, and mystery resolution through chance factors, simple logic, and even simpler fight scenes. A Gambling Man is a combination of two stories. They are sequential rather than intermingled. The first story that occupies a third of the book is extremely weak and has little purpose other than making the book of decent length. The second story is gripping in the way it develops, but the suspense is more in details than in the identities of the criminals. There is nothing super-smart or super-exciting even though the second story is a good, easy read. The characters are caricatures of the era's biggest actors like James Stewart, Marlon Brando, Elizabeth Taylor, Marilyn Monroe, etc. And it is fun imagining them speaking the author-crafted 2020s' language in their then typical twangs!

I love Baldacci and think I have read all of his books, but something is wrong with this series. Makes you wonder if someone else is writing them. This book (and One Good Deed) were too long by at least a third. These are supposed to be thrillers or mysteries, not Architectural Digest or a fashion magazine. I don't remember all this "fluff" in the Camel Club or King and Maxwell books. It drives me nuts that he continually reminds us that people wear their shoes on their feet. If they had them on their hands or their heads, it might be worth mentioning, but give me a break! "Scuffed boots rode on his long feet" "He had sandals on his feet" Or that they have their hats on their heads. "His straw hat was on his head" Or that they have their gloves on their hands. This guy either has extra long hands or his gloves also cover his wrists and maybe his forearms. "Long, white gloves covered his hands" Please get back to giving us real thrillers!

okay i actually didn’t mind this. the story was good, long but interesting the whole way through. it was the perfect amount of thrill but more mystery aswell. archer working as a pi for a willie dash, trying to navigate through a case of blackmail and small town politics. i’ll definitely be reading more of david’s novels, i liked his style of writing

Disappointing for a book by David Baldacci. Last 100 pages were good, but took a long while getting there.

Humphrey Bogart would fit right in with David Baldacci's "A Gambling Man," his second novel set in the late 1940s and featuring Aloysius Archer as a newbie private investigator. This novel features several gentlemen's clubs, gambling and murder . . . lots and lots of murder, as it turns out. You would think the vintage storytelling would get old, but Baldacci employed plenty of gimmicks to keep me interested, including introducing a fancy French car that I just had to Google to learn more about. The story was fine, although the ending seemed to come in a rush. Readers who relish law and order might not appreciate the loosey-goosey resolution. Bad guys, apparently, do not always get what they deserve.

I can already feel how unpopular of an opinion this is going to be (not my coworker literally staring at me with glowing embers for eyes)…..but I will speak my truth gosh darnit. This book was ALL fan service. Don’t get me wrong, I ate it up like 300 pages of Lucy the Antichrist?! Say less brother. But what made House in the Cerulean Sea so unique and special just doesn’t hit the same here. It does make sense because Cerulean Sea was very unique to its time, being the first really inclusive “cozy fantasy” to hit the mainstream, but I don’t think that’s an excuse for this one to not be as good. There was little to no real plot or character development, and while the overall message of “sometimes you can’t change people’s minds and you just have to stand up for yourself and what you know is right” is REALLY good and present - the conflict or resolution to make it hit home just feels inevitable and 2D. I’m not trying to take away from the absolute WHIMSY of it all, and maybe if I just wanted to feel good this would be 5 ⭐️s, but I was promised Arthur’s deep dark past and I got Arthur being an incredible dad to his kids for 300 pages. I’m not complaining I stg I’m just saying 😭 i did love David the yeti, he was fantastic and his dynamic with Lucy was everythinggg. Overall though, I was a little disappointed by the epilogue-esque feeling of it all. Sorry ☹️

oof. this just did not hit or deliver in the same way “the house in the cerulean sea” did for me, unfortunately. that being said, there is still a lot of good in this book. i adore the messaging this series promotes and i think there are a lot of things it does right in terms of representing found families, living authentically, and what it means to be accepting of everyone. i love how very life-affirming the story is and i know it makes a lot of readers feel seen and validated. that being said, while i agree with the message of the story, i just did not enjoy how it was delivered this time around. “the house in the cerulean sea” does a great job at showing a situation and making me empathize with the characters struggles. this does no do that. it tells me how i should feel. with the constant therapy talk and lengthy monologues, this dialogue began to feel unnatural, very preachy, and even self-righteous at times. so i got tired of it after awhile. but im happy other readers could look beyond that and find just as much joy reading this as they did with “the house in the cerulean sea.” if you havent read that, then i highly recommend it! ↠ 3.5 stars

While I am very glad this book and these characters exist, I find myself not loving this book as much as everyone else. It's very longwinded, to the point where I wondered why several scenes were included. And as much as I agree with Klune's intentions and agree with his points, the messaging of this book was heavy handed to the point I felt I was being punched in the face repeatedly. That combined with most of the children speaking and behaving as if they were full grown adults didn't work well for me. I do think books like this are important and as I said, I love the characters in this book. But if you're going to write second book in a series, find a way to expand your story instead of just reiterating everything in the first book over and over again.

࿐ This was hope; the children, love letters to a future that had yet to be decided. ᝰ.ᐟ 3.5 stars I’m not sure if this will end up being an unpopular opinion, but I don't think this sequel was necessary. It pains me to say this because The House in the Cerulean Sea is one of my favourite books, but Somewhere Beyond the Sea feels more like fan-service than a proper sequel. ── .✦ Whatever else he was, David's bravery in the face of seemingly insurmountable odds proved yet again what Arthur had always believed: magic existed in many forms, some extraordinary, some simple acts of goodwill and trust, small though they might be. A part of me loved this book, it's cosy and comforting and it made me happy, I even shed a few tears. The characters are the kindest, loveliest, most precious people ever. Lucy remains my favourite, he's a wonderful boy, but I love them all. Sal made me so proud, he's more confident and not afraid to speak up. Talia, Phee, Theodore, Chauncey, they're all so funny and sweet. David, the new kid, was so easy to love and fit into this beautiful family like it was made for him. Linus and Arthur are the best parents these kids could have and they're just the sweetest. I love their love. So of course it was great to see them again and follow their adventures and feel like I'm part of their everyday life. ── .✦ Whatever else he was, David's bravery in the face of seemingly insurmountable odds proved yet again what Arthur had always believed: magic existed in many forms, some extraordinary, some simple acts of goodwill and trust, small though they might be. Unfortunately, some things didn't work for me.The plot was almost non-existent and it felt like a repeat of the first book, I even got a bit bored at some points because nothing was happening. This book focuses a lot on Arthur and his story, but I think it all felt a bit shallow because his trauma was not explored in depth. And I know this is a cosy, low-stakes fantasy book, but Arthur has spent so long bottling up his emotions and always being everything to other people that I wish this book had focused more on his healing journey and him putting himself first for the first time in his life. I love him, but the truth is there's no character growth in this book. ── .✦ "You've been strong your entire life. You've had to be. Unfairly. Unjustly. But I think you also believe you're still alone at times, that you have to shoulder everything on your own. You don't. You have me. I can help you carry the weight of it. I can be your rock.” At times the book was too political and I had the impression that the author was trying to force his ideals on me. I want to make it clear that I think this story has a beautiful message, I believe in an inclusive world where everyone is free to be who they are, to do what they want, to love who they want. And I agree with the message the author is trying to get across to his audience, but there was no need to repeat the same thing over and over again, it felt forced instead of something natural. Like he was saying "this is right and this is wrong” instead of saying "have you ever thought that maybe this is what the world should look like?”. I like a book that gives me the freedom to think for myself, not one that tells me exactly what to think. The House in the Cerulean Sea had something that I didn't find in the sequel. It wasn't as magical, whimsical and special as the first book. And I didn't like how perfect the ending was, even though it was lovely. I appreciate this book for allowing me to visit characters I treasure so much, but I can't help but feel disappointed. ── .✦ Hope is the thing with feathers, yes, and hope is the thing with fire.

This is tough for me. I have loved every TJ Klune book I've ever read, and the House in the Cerulaen Sea is one of my all-time favorites. The setting, the characters, the feels - that book was so important to me during the pandemic and probably deserves much of the credit for setting me on a cozier reading path. So it is safe to say my expectations were sky-high for this sequel. Don't get me wrong, this book has a lot of things to love. All of our favorite characters are back and just as adorable and lovable and hilarious as ever, with new friends to boot. I still found so much joy in the siblings' interactions and their wild adventures. But. I just couldn't connect with this story in the same way as the first. The pacing and plot were uneven and I don't think the story came together as a whole in the same way. I mean, the first ~100 pages are about Arthur baring his soul in a testimony before congress and the story doesn't even really start until after that. Surprisingly, though it took me midway through the book to realize, Arthur really didn't work for me as a POV character. His language and communication are quite stiff and I read some lines that really took me out of the story because no one would ever say some of his words out loud, let alone to children. My one humble suggestion is that this actually should have been Zoe's story, not Arthur's. Finally, my big (sad) complaint. I really, deeply appreciate what TJ Klune is trying to do here. There is no greater aspiration for a writer than to be the anti-JK Rowling. But reaching into your back pocket for a cartoon-sized mallet to bang us over the head with a message over and over again did not make me feel all warm and fuzzy. It really took me out of the story and made me sigh each time. Upon reflection, this could definitely be a me problem. I look to TJ Klune for an escape that will make me cry and laugh and break my heart (gently) and then put it back together again. But this book was way too real. It was not an escape, instead it was an overt exploration of our society and the many ways we hurt and target the most vulnerable among us. That is a very important story to be told and I applaud him for doing it. I just think there is a book somewhere in here that accomplishes all of those things rather more delicately. This one unfortunately, devastatingly, wasn't it for me :(

2.5 ⭐️ I'm afraid I am underwhelmed by this. I think the magic from the first book was in getting to know the characters and the island. Now it is just forcing obvious messages at the reader. The kids are still my favorite part.

When I say that this PAINS me, I’m not kidding. The House in the Cerulean Sea is one of my all time favorite books. I just reread it to prepare for this one and it’s still a favorite. This one just didn’t live up for me. There were quite a few times where I felt it dragged and the dialogue was more like a monologue and it felt a bit preachy. I just wanted Arthur to stop talking. I didn’t like that there was no character growth with the government officials when there was an opportunity for it. And by the end I was skimming and just reading the dialogue to finish it up. What I DID like were the characters I know and love and the addition of David. They were the same sweeties that I fell in love with. I love their banter and their dynamics with each other. And the sinister twist of the role the government played was good. I’m just so sad I didn’t enjoy this more as it was my most anticipated book of the entire year. I loved the first one so much more.

“Somewhere Beyond The Sea” by TJ Klune is charming, and I agree with the basic agenda the book is trying to present. The magic community is an obvious metaphor for the LGBTQ+ community. TJ Klune himself is gay, and he includes in his author biography that he writes stories to present the queer characters in a more positive light. It is true that while there are straight characters in his books, the main relationships presented in a TJ Klune book are gay and lesbian couples, and I have zero problem with that. “Somewhere Beyond The Sea” is the sequel to Klune’s bestselling “The House On The Cerulean Sea” and follows up with our main characters, Arthur and Linus. I suggest you read the first book to enjoy the second. Linus was originally an inspector in the last book, looking into Linus’s orphanage on the island of Marsyas. While the first book had it's metaphors for prejudices and people not understanding differences, the book didn’t say it outright. Klune in this sequel is much more forthright in his politics, having characters directly address it in the dialogue, which while relevant to the plot, can feel a bit awkward. Lines about generational trauma and racism stick out a bit like a sore thumb, as most people don’t talk this directly about these issues like these characters do. This is more awkward with the young characters because I don’t think children this age would say these lines. Maybe I’m wrong? I don’t know. While that is a criticism, these lines about social justice did take me out of the book’s story. However much I did agree with the general ideas. Things get more political as Linus and Arthur travel outside of the island in this book to stand in front of a government hearing about abuse Arthur had at the hands of the Department for Management of Magical Youth. A conservative congress woman grills him during the hearing. After the hearing which is broadcast on the radio and covered by all the newspapers, a bigger problem is afoot as the federal government sends a new inspector to look into the orphanage’s handling of the magical youth. However, the hearing isn’t the only reason Linus and Arthur leave the island. They also want to take in a new child, David, a young Yati. Miss Marblemaw, comes to the island to inspect the orphanage, and while at first, the magic orphans and Linus and Arthur try to make the best of it, things quickly go south. Miss Marblemaw is an obvious stereotype of conservatives, and to be honest, it isn’t that far off base. At one point, she even says she has God on her side. Her main target is Lucy, a young boy she believes is the antiChrist, and because this is a world where magical kids exist, this actually could be the case. However, Lucy is only a 10 year old boy and Arthur and Linus see him as simply a kid. At one point, Lucy even calls Arthur dad which touches him greatly. This is an interesting flip on classic horror novels like “The Omen” or “Rosemary’s Baby” where in this case, it’s a misunderstood child. TJ Klune does a good job presenting fantasy elements in a world we can recognize. It’s not overpowering, and Klune’s version of fantasy is more cozy than epic. However, towards the end of the book, which I won’t spoil, things do get epic with one of the inhabitants of the island revealing a supernatural twist. Klune is still a wonderfully good writer. However, out of all the books I’ve read by him, this was probably the weakest. Like the last review I wrote of a Stephen King book, I will say the same about Klune. None of the books I’ve read by him are truly bad. In some ways, though, I feel Klune is trying to also make up for the controversy surrounding the first book in this series. Klune said in an interview that his book was inspired by the indigenous scoop by the Canadian government. From the 1950s to the 1980s, the Canadian government took indigenous children and placed them for adoption to white families. That interview caused some problems among his readers, asking the question: is TJ Klune using a terrible injustice by a government to make a cute fantasy novel? I’m not really sure. His writing is still really charming, but the inspiration can be troubling. People accused him of cultural asportation, despite the fact the book was a straight metaphor for misplaced communities. Magical children, of course, don’t exist. It’s like if Harry Potter was placed in a foster home instead of Hogwarts. It does make me wonder if a novel about magical children adopted by humans in a positive light would be an interesting take, but I digress. TJ Klune has said his new book was inspired as an answer to J.K. Rowling’s anti trans activism, which I can see. Rowling becoming a right wing bigot was a twist I didn’t see coming years ago. I liked this book, but I felt it was a bit all over the place, and often felt like it was spending more time with these characters without a real direct reason why. The first book was better, but this one wasn’t bad.

** spoiler alert ** The “House in the Cerulean Sea” was my everything. I couldn’t wait for the sequel. All the wonderful characters were back, including a new boy, David who won me over completely. There were charming scenes as only Klune could create, and I wibbled at Lucy’s insights. Just, “Cerulean” was a DEI message wrapped in whimsy, while “Somewhere” had a political message that was like a bitter pill disguised in a cat treat. Here are samples from light to dark: 🦩 Linus helped the children with their life jackets, including attaching a pink floatie around Theodore’s neck—at his request—to keep him from sinking should he end up in the water. He could swim quite well, but for some reason, he loved the floatie. 😈 Lucy nodded. “And I’ll open up a dimensional doorway in the fabric of reality and send her to a place where even demons fear to tread. What is this evil place, you might be asking? Great question!” He spread his hands wide in a practiced display of showmanship. “It’s called … Florida.” 😂 nevertheless a light political jab. 🚨 “Before the interruption, we were discussing the negative effects of a totalitarian government, and the dangers language poses, especially when weaponized as propaganda.” […] “So, my question is this: If certain language knowingly causes harm, why would a politician use said language in any part of their governance? Does it have a purpose, or is it that they just don’t care?” …“Because they know exactly what they’re doing,” Phee said. “They know that fear is a powerful motivator, and that many people will believe whatever they’re told.”

I was disappointed by Book Lovers, here's a review in point form: • My biggest issue with this book is that I simply didn't feel strongly about any of it. When I read a romance novel, I need to feel strongly about said romance--it can be a fun, lighthearted romance, or an angsty, hardhitting romance, but regardless of tone, all I want at the end of the day is to feel deeply invested in the characters' relationship. Needless to say, I didn't feel that way about Nora and Charlie. I didn't feel one way or the other about them, really. Their interactions were fine--and frankly, the worst thing aside from outright hating a romance is to think that it was fine. Fine is boring; it's lukewarm; it's forgettable. (Unsurprisingly enough, I've already started to forget this book even though I literally finished it yesterday.) • As to why I thought the romance was mediocre, there are a lot of reasons. Namely, it wasn't developed slowly enough. There wasn't enough of a buildup, and the buildup is the best part of the romance: the tentativeness, the second-guessing yourself, the realization that you actually like this person, the tension--all of that was missing here. With the exception of their first encounter, Nora and Charlie pretty much immediately hit it off, and, like, good for them, but it's not very interesting for me as a reader to just have all that fun buildup stuff almost entirely skipped over. • Emily Henry writes some really great banter in this (it's one of the few things I truly loved about this book), but banter does not a good story make, and the overarching structure of the romantic plotline was lacking. It was too vanilla in that it just wasn't dramatic enough: there was very little conflict, or a sense of there being narrative ups and downs. There were inconveniences and half-truths and little misunderstandings, sure, but there was just no underlying sense of actually significant highs and lows in the story (at least with regard to the romantic plotline). • I feel like the whole time I was reading this, I was waiting for something to impress me--some "wow" moment that would stop me in my tracks--but it just never came. Part of that is the hype--a third Emily Henry romance!!!--and part of that was just my own expectations: I wasn't especially taken with Beach Read, but I loved People We Meet on Vacation--structurally, it's one of the most well executed romances I've ever read--and I thought (or hoped) that Henry's stories were on an upward trajectory. Sadly, this was a major step down for me. It wasn't bad, but it was underwhelming, which ultimately means give it a couple of weeks and I will pretty much have completely forgotten about this book. • Some additional little gripes: first, the writing is overly sentimental sometimes, especially when Nora is waxing poetic about how much she loves New York and how much of a City Person she is. Like okay, we get it, you love the bodegas and trains or whatever, no need to tell us about it for the umpteenth time. • Second, as with Beach Read, the fictional novel that Henry makes up for this book--a novel that Nora's author client, Dusty, is in the process of writing--sounds awful. Like it truly sounds so bad, and the fact that the characters talk about it like it's a literary masterpiece that they simply have to get their hands on boggled my mind. • And third, I found it really annoying how Nora constantly had to babysit Dusty. Nora's workaholic tendencies are a big part of the book, so it was surprising to me that this was never addressed in any way. Nora is fielding phone calls from this lady left and right to coddle her and give her pep talks and make sure she's doing okay and like!!! Sure it's your job to make sure your client feels supported and all, but the way that it's written here makes it sound like Nora is just there to manage Dusty's emotions 24/7. That's not part of your job, Nora !!!!!

⭐3.5 The beginning was reading like a possible 4 star. No hope for a 5. Then, out of nowhere, I was hit with the 5 star feeling. I was sure this would be the best Emily Henry I'd read. And then........Alas, it peetered out pretty quickly. It did the classic romance killer which is to have the couple get together too soon and fill the last half the book with plot that has nothing to do with the romance. I swear, Charlie is barely on page after the 57% mark. Which is unfortunate because, let me remind you, this is ROMANCE novel. I will say that I adore Nora and Charlie. The witty banter is on POINT. But that all happens in the first half. Then it becomes just about the sister relationship. While that was fine, that's not what the book is supposed to be about. I wanted more skinny dipping smut. But what I was served was Hallmark coziness.

Your boy will start his PhD in October and I just found out so I'm celebrating and writing this tipsy while I'm waiting for my pizza, so bear with me. Wuuu, the room is spinning so funny. Thank my phone for the proper capitalisation, cause that's definitely not on me. I barely managed to type in my password to post this. Do I think this is Emily Henry's best book? Absolutely! Yes! And yet, do I also think it's a three star read at best, maybe a four if I have a good day which I'm having but let's be real it's probably not a four even then. Also yes. Which is a problem because I rated all her other books five stars but I think this one is better than the rest of them. So what do we get from this? Don't trust my old five star ratings. Unless it's A Little Life. I think that one's safe. I mean this book was really fun and I enjoyed it a lot and I did love Charlie and would marry him if asked but also I think I was sold something entirely different? Like... What's her name... Nora was constantly described as this cold hearted bitch that eats babies for breakfast. Like where? WHERE???? Literally the nicest person I've ever read about. Same thing about Charlie. Those two were supposed to be this power couple that like skins you alive not even if you look at them wrong but just for fun. And yet. Where?????? Those two were like cute domesticated kittens. Also, idk if it's because all EH books are narrated by the same person but if you listen to them (which I did for every single one) they literally all feel the same. I don't think there's a difference between Alex and Charlie - but there should be. Maybe that's different if you read but I'm illiterate so we will never find out This book starts with this quote that just completely summarises how I feel about reading and gave me unrealistic expectations about what's to come: "When books are your life—or in my case, your job—you get pretty good at guessing where a story is going. The tropes, the archetypes, the common plot twists all start to organize themselves into a catalogue inside your brain, divided by category and genre. The husband is the killer. The nerd gets a makeover, and without her glasses, she’s smoking hot. The guy gets the girl—or the other girl does. Someone explains a complicated scientific concept, and someone else says, “Um, in English, please?” The details may change from book to book, but there’s nothing truly new under the sun." Accurate. And this one was also exactly the same as all the others lol. TL;DR: my pizza is ready!!!!

Expectations can be bad for a reader, certainly this one. I’m an outlier here, in finding “Book Lovers” average, although admittedly sweet and charming. So many had their socks knocked off. My leg garments remain fully functional without a minor wrinkle in slippage. This is a lovely story of a workaholic book agent from NYC who takes weeks off to accompany her pregnant sister to a tiny town in North Carolina. Nora has always felt responsible for her younger sister, Libby, after their mother died when they were young. Now Libby is happily married and expecting her third child. Libby wants a “break” from motherhood and found a perfect place for the sisters to vacation; it happens to be the small town in which Nora’s author centers her novels around. Libby makes a list that they must accomplish in the time they are there. Of course, following the rom/com formula, at this town is Nora’s nemesis, Charlie. One can guess where the story leads. It was cute, but I slogged towards the end of the novel. I was happy when I finished. That said, this sort of chick-lit is not my genre. I am NOT a romance fan. I recommend this to those who love romance stories with strong female characters.

first read: in a plot twist absolutely nobody saw coming… i thoroughly and utterly adored this reread: i should not have revisited this as it made clear my initial five star moment was likely a product of mood, needing something easy to end a slump, and being shocked at relatively enjoying an emily henry book 3 some cute moments and we’re thankful for those!

I wish I could give ‘The Five-Star Weekend’, a five-star review… Although the premise was exciting, I think I’ve just unfortunately read too many Elin Hilderbrand novels. At this point, every book just seems the same - same story, different cast. This book centers around Hollis Shaw. Hollis is recently widowed and grieving. So Hollis decides to have a five-star weekend at her summer home in Nantucket. For this weekend, Hollis invites four friends from all different stages in her life (which I actually love this idea). We have Tatum- her childhood best friend. Dru-Ann, her best friend from college. Brooke- her friend from when their children were growing up together. And Gigi- who was her favorite internet friend (Gigi follows Hollis’s blog). All these women have problems of their own, even though they put on a happy face to the rest of the world. There’s also some “friendship rivalry” going on, as some of them think they should be Hollis’s best friend. Hollis has her daughter Caroline, interview and film each of the women and tell their stories of how they all know Hollis. The five-star weekend ends up being so much more than what each woman thought it would be. So yes, there were some pretty good parts in this book. But, I found myself getting bored quite often as well. Once again, as with the past few books of Hilderbrand, I found that her books are nothing more than a walking (in this case writing) advertisement for Nantucket Island. Hilderbrand writes about all the hot spots to go to, which stores to shop at for all the latest fashion designers, and also which independent bookstore to shop at to purchase your books (I mean, there is no harm in being loyal). Hilderbrand also puts too much emphasis on what each character is wearing, and what designer handbag they’re carrying. We also have to hear about what each character ate for breakfast, lunch, and dinner!! If this was my first Hilderbrand novel that I read, it certainly wouldn’t be an issue, but at this point it’s just too redundant. Hilderbrand is always good for a nice summer, beach read 🏖️ However, for me personally I think it’s time to move on. I want a good story, less advertisements. I have heard that Hilderbrand is retiring from writing novels next year, in 2024. I will be sad to see her quit writing, but I wouldn’t be surprised if she comes out with a cookbook or two. She goes into great detail with her food descriptions in this book and some of her previous ones. That’s just my opinion…

Let's face it—it isn't a proper summer without the quintessential beach read. And Elin Hilderbrand's books have become a go-to for me in recent years. But unfortunately, The Five-Star Weekend didn't quite end up scratching that summertime itch. Hollis is grieving for her dead husband. She gets the idea to host a weekend get-together for her best friends, inviting one from each phase of her life, in the hopes that being surrounded by friends will help her heal and move on. But each of these women is battling her own issues and the weekend doesn't really turn out the way Hollis expects. Elin Hilderbrand's books always feel light and fun, and this one's no different. It's the sort of story I pick up when I need a distraction. It's easy to get sucked into the island of Nantucket, with all of its water, sunshine, and delicious food. But at the end of the day, something about this story just didn't click for me. Maybe it's because this feels more like a disjointed collection of stories about the different women rather than a cohesive whole. They're each having their own issues, and for the most part, they don't overlap. Hilderbrand could very well have written separate stories for each of them, and it would've still made sense. Or maybe I just don't buy into the premise. I can't imagine a former friend dropping everything to fly out and spend a weekend with me and a few others they don't know, just to comfort me. But perhaps that's me being cynical and this sort of thing really does happen. Or maybe it's because while the women's issues are real, the resolutions somehow end up feeling a bit shallow. Everything is wrapped up too neatly by the end of the book, whether the issue was medical, spousal, or work. Like the proverbial happily ever after, everyone gets one, even if the circumstances are too convenient or magical to be believable. Whatever the reason, this story just didn't quite rise to the level of beachy magic I usually associate with Elin Hilderbrand. Don't get me wrong, I still had fun with it. But I always hope for a memorable reading experience, and this one was all too forgettable. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: The Perfect Couple The Hotel Nantucket Swan Song ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧ ✧ This was a pick for my BOTM box. Get your first book for $5 here.

DNF. Once, just once, I want Hilderbrand to sit down and write a story about the characters right from page one. Not the fancy bread in their fridge or the hydrangea under their kitchen window or the boat shoes on their feet, or their best friend’s sister from college - THE MAIN CHARACTERS, right from the start. Tell a story, because when she does it’s delightful. But for crying out loud, if anyone has read even one or two of her books already we know what Nantucket looks, smells, and sounds like. We know the middle, last, and nicknames of every person on the island. This. Reader. Wants. A. Story.

3⭐️ "The thing I love best about reading fiction is that it gives you a way to connect the experiences of your own life to the larger world." THE PLOT Hollis Shaw's life seems perfect. She has the perfect husband who is a heart surgeon, a beautiful, bright daughter, and a successful food blog. But one morning, when Hollis and her husband get into an argument, he leaves for the airport and is killed in a car accident. The cracks in Hollis's life begin to grow deeper. Then, she hears of an idea called the Five-Star Weekend, a weekend where she invites one best friend from each stage in her life to come together. As great of an idea this seems to be, it doesn't turn out rather ideal. All of her friends hold secrets that threaten to shatter the magic of this weekend, and may even change the way they are perceived all together. What was it like? It was like being suspended over a deep, dark endless hole knowing you were going to fall in and never get out. MY THOUGHTS I ended up having a good time reading this!! People weren't kidding when they said Elin Hilderbrand does a beautiful job of writing books that'd be perfect to read by the beach. The world of Nantucket is just described so beautifully and in so much detail. I could actually picture myself there on the island myself. This book is beyond beautiful and magical in it's descriptions and it's wording. I was captivated from the very start. I did find some parts of this book to be very slow, and I found myself reading slower in this just to take in the plot, characters, and world. I'm not saying this is a bad thing by any means! While I did have a good time reading this, something just didn't click for me. I didn't find myself wanting to pick this up constantly or obsess over reading this. It was fun and it was magical, but I just felt some connection...missing. Maybe it could have been that I couldn't fully relate to the characters and their dilemmas, but I just did not feel the urge to binge this. I found that once I put it down, it took a bit of effort to pick it back up. The characters themselves were so beautifully written as well. There was SO much character depth and backstory; the characters felt real. I could picture these characters as real people. These characters all had their own secrets and they were on a very wide scale from self-discovery to completely life-altering. I found it very easy to follow along with everyone and I didn't get overwhelmed by the amount of character information there was to know and remember. The journey of these characters just felt so raw and real, and I really liked it. Overall, this book was really fun to read, but also got deep and a little heavy at times. This book would mainly be about self-discovery after a traumatic loss, rekindling relationships, and finding love again. It had so many amazing, beautiful moments that I'd absolutely recommend you read, particularly a good summer read. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I am living for these summer reads lately they're hitting different 🤭

🎶”I got that summertime, summertime sadness” 🎶 Let’s see if this book is summery and sad like I’ve been told…. 🫡💖

its a 2.5. certainly not my favourite elin hilderbrand but not my least favourite. one of the growing patterns i have noticed in her more recent books is how much she shoves down “young people” slang and what she thinks is popular with the younger generations. i wish she would cut it out and just focus on the plot. its just cringe

Summer wasn't over for me until I read one of the two Elin Hilderbrand books on my shelves. It is definitely a light summer read. It was Real Housewives level drama and Real Housewives level wealth and luxury. I liked the Nantucket setting, and the scenes she set were done quite well. So well, in fact, that I felt like I knew more about the house, what they were eating, what song they were listening to, and what everyone was wearing than I did any one of the single characters. And there were a lot of characters, too many. It is told in third person omniscient, so you know all the thoughts of all the characters, even down to the minor side characters present in one scene that don't ever have another role within the story. My last gripe is that there were way, way too many pop culture references. I don't know how many name brands and celebrities were mentioned, but this will not age well. I still will give it a 3⭐ for overall enjoyment and atmosphere. It is like sitting down and watching some real rich people drama on reality TV.

Thank you to Elin Hilderbrand, Little, Brown and Company and Netgalley for the ARC of The Five Star Weekend. I rate this book 3.5. It had its perfect charm that Elin Hilderbrand books always do. You know exactly what you are going to get, and I love that. I always really enjoy the way Hilderbrand describes the settings so well, and this book had a lot of food in it, which was also described very well! I liked the characters for the most part, some were a bit annoying and I liked some more than others, but overall it was a fun novel with an interesting plot line. The reason I didn’t rate it higher was because I found the end a bit of a let down. Everything was wrapped up very neatly in a nice bow. For a book that built itself on setting up drama, nothing really major seemed to happen. The whole Electra plot line was kind of pointless and Brooke’s big reveal seemed to come out of left field. Overall this was a fun summer read and fun to escape to Nantucket again, it just wasn’t my favourite of Hilderbrand’s books,

Rounding up from 2.5 ⭐️ Audio: bland narration Nothing happened? I tried giving EH another chance after taking a 4 year hiatus from her books, but she’s still the same author. Characters, story, affairs, juvenile writing and youth slang usage, and an overall lukewarm feeling. I actually didn’t mind the story idea or development, but after the 60% point when I couldn’t keep the characters straight and nothing really happened, my rating just kept dropping.

3 stars - actually 2.5 rounded up! ⭐️⭐️⭐️ Well that plummeted quickly. Other than one of Elin Hilderbrand’s series that I’ve read, I have yet to find a stand-alone book of hers that I really enjoy. The cover (like all of her fun, summery covers) and the title really caught my eye. The blurb sounded awesome. However, once again the book didn’t live up to my expectations. The first half was really good. Towards the middle it started boring me. The last few chapters ruined it for me - for many reasons. I’ve read that this may be a Hilderbrand’s last book due to her retirement. I wish it would’ve gone out on a better note for me, but I doubt I’ll read any of her others.

3.5 stars. This is why I love the GR choice awards. Every year I see an Elin Hilderbrand title in the fiction category, so this year I finally decided to give one of her novels a try, and I'm so glad I did. I love reading "lighter" books in between more literary ones. This normally means grabbing a whodunit or sometimes a romance, but what I enjoyed most about The Five-Star Weekend is that it may have some elements of these genres, but mostly it was an entertaining, uplifting story about 6 women and their backstories. The Story: The Five-Star Weekend is a lighthearted, engaging tale that takes you into the life of Hollis Shaw, a middle-aged successful food blogger who, after returning to her hometown of Nantucket, invites four friends, one from each stage of her life, to spend a weekend at her home on the island to help her come to grips with the recent loss of her husband and the strained relationship with her daughter she’s struggling to repair.

not my favourite Nantucket book but it was fun for an audiobook even if it had too much sugar for my taste.

This book was actually a super cute beach read. We read it for my book club and it brough great discussion. We discussed which characters we related to most, which ones we felt the most sympathy for, etc. Interestingly, many of my book club members didn’t relate as much to Hollis, the main character.

Was this so underwhelming or am I just depressed? I was so thoroughly bored while reading this one.

— (♟️) 3.5 stars ⊹ xavier castillo is a cunt princess and i love him. in conclusion:

*𝐭𝐚𝐤𝐞𝐬 𝐚 𝐝𝐞𝐞𝐩 𝐛𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐭𝐡* I'm still stuck on my rating since it's between a 3 and 3.5 🌟. This was one of my most highly anticipated reads since KOG wasn't a good read and let's just say this book was underwhelming and disappointing to say the least. Even since this book was announced I was so excited and couldn't wait to read the book. I didn't go in expecting 5 stars,but I thought I would have a good time reading the book😭. This book had a good plot and so much potential but it wasn't executed right. I don't know if it's me whose the problem,the book or me going into a book slump, but this book was mid🥲💔. I wasn't invested and bored in the first half of the book but the second half was interesting. Xavier's character development was good and he's such a sweetheart and some of the things he said had me swooning😩🧎🏻‍♀️♥️. I liked Sloane and her sassy comebacks😂💅. But Sloane and Xavier as a couple weren't giving. I wasn't feeling the chemistry between them and I wasn't rooting for them as a couple😭😭😭. I would like to re-read this book in the future and give it a second chance.🤍 10/5/2024- RTC!!!💕

Kings of Sin book four: So the final book of the King of Sin series, tells the romantically minded story of the final couple of the privileged friend group, PR guru and trust fund heir Sloane Kensington currently not on talking terms with her dynasty; and the 'King of Sloth' her client billionaire-to-be (inheritance) Xavier Castillo, playboy and perfect example of the idle rich as they go through the will-they won't-they dilemmas of this genre. Normally I loathe bad-boy turned good by a woman stories, but as ever with Huang I was interested in the secondary arc of the fight for Xavier's inheritance. This four-book series is already destined for my local charity shop, but this volume still got a 6 out of 12, Three Stars from me. 2024 read

“To every woman who’s ever been told to “smile more.” Fuck that. Do what you want.” I will be honest... it doesn't look good. I think the author “needs” a break. The characters were good, but Sloane and Xavier lacked spark as a couple.

this was a good book with an interesting plot but i just felt like the characters lacked a lot of chemistry

2.7˖⁺‧✮ they both have issues and need to sign for therapy, like yesterday. they have money, so no problem… “Nothing brightened my day more than riling Sloane up. She was so predictable in her responses and so spectacular in her anger, and I loved seeing her ice-queen façade melt long enough to reveal a glimpse of the real person underneath. It didn’t happen often, but when it did, I added it to the mental drawer where I collected all things Sloane.” “On anyone else, her simple black gown would’ve been boring, but Sloane could wear a grocery bag and still blow everyone else out of the water.” “Luna is short for mi luna. My moon. Because no matter how dark the nights got, you were always there, shining so brightly that I always found my way through.” “Beautiful, brilliant, and so damn caring beneath that mask you present to the world. You can try to hide it, but it’s too late. I’ve seen the real you, with all its perfect and broken pieces, and I love every single one of them.” “I cared. More than cared. He made me feel everything when I’d thought I could feel nothing, and that realization led to an undeniable truth: I loved him, so much so that I couldn’t breathe, and I’d pushed him away because I knew love would only end in heartbreak.” “Penny for your thoughts”

My thanks to Putnam Group, John Sandford and Netgalley. I love the characters. I've finally developed a soft spot for Letty, and if course Lucas is my main man! But, I hated the whole entire plot. Everything about it just was very bland. I know it was supposed to be scary, but? Also, I've always been very firmly in the camp of the idjits who were behind this whole plot! I have no issue with killing off humanity.

"Society as it exists is untenable." In Toxic Prey, Lucas Davenport partners with his daughter, Letty, to locate a scientist who plans to launch a globally devastating terrorist attack. Dr. Lionel Scott and his followers believe that thanks to humanity, Earth is dying and the only way to save it is to release a virus that will kill half of the world's population. It MUST be done if our planet Earth is to be saved. It was an interesting premise but the pacing seemed so slow, drawn out, and repetitious, to me. Toxic Prey just wasn't one of my favorite John Sandford books. Many thanks to both #GPPutnamsSons and #NetGalley for the opportunity to read and review an early copy of #ToxicPrey. This book is #34 in the #LucasDavenport series, with an expected publication date of April 16, 2024. #LettyDavenport

Could happen! Dr. Lionel Scott has a radical belief: Gaia, our planet, is dying, and the only way to save it is through a drastic reduction in the human population. His method? A deadly virus, spread rapidly among unsuspecting victims. When Dr. Scott vanishes and the threat of a new epidemic looms large, Letty Davenport is tasked with finding him. It becomes clear that Scott is preparing to unleash the virus, prompting an urgent call for Lucas Davenport to join the manhunt. Time is of the essence, and the odds are stacked against humanity. Can Letty and Lucas stop this madman in time? "Toxic Prey" is packed with tension. The only thing missing that would have made it more compelling would have been the inclusion of Virgil Flowers in the investigation. Lucas and Letty's relationship shines through, showcasing a strong bond and formidable teamwork. Bad guys should definitely beware! Cliffhanger: No 3.5/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Rounded up to 3.5 ⭐️ I’m a BIG fan of John Sandford…I’ve read about a dozen or so of his Lucas Davenport novels. Unfortunately this wasn’t one of my favorites (but still enjoyable!) it’s been a few years since reading anything in the “prey” collection so I’m not sure how the stories have evolved but this was very different from previous reads. It took a little under halfway through to fully grasp the plot line and start to get into it BUT once it got rolling I was hooked. All in all a good read!! THANK YOU to the author (one of my favorites!), Netgalley and Penguin Group Putnam for this ARC in exchange for my honest review

As a fan of John Sandford’s work, I was looking forward to reading his latest novel. The book has a very frightening premise loosely inspired by the recent Covid pandemic. The story begins with Letty Davenport meeting a man in London and the repartee and sexual tension between the two is tremendous! Some of the language used is terrific and extremely descriptive — for example, “……tasted like beer that had been recycled through somebody’s kidneys.” Another quote about halfway through the book is “Nothing happened fast enough.” That is precisely what this reader felt — the book was very slow reading and even somewhat boring before the predictable conclusion. I thank NetGalley and Penguin Group Putnam for the opportunity to read and review this book prior to publication.

Let's not bullshit, this is NOT a part of the "Prey" series, it's very much the 3rd Letty Davenport novel. The plot was just okay enough to keep my attention but Letty is a generic, dull and badly written hero and I can see myself starting to skip books in the series if she remains the focus. Other than to guarantee sales, I've got no idea why this was released with Prey in the title as Lucas is barely a peripheral character and he's lacking in every aspect of the personality that's made this series so good.

I’ve never read John Sanford before and this is #34 in a series. So, yeah, it felt like I was walking into a movie that was already halfway through. First of all, who writes over 34 books in a series?! Cool story idea - super smart guy decides Earth is dying and humans are the disease, so let’s get rid off have of them and save Gaia. In swoops the U.S. Marshalls to hunt him down and try to stop him before he gets the chance to see his plan through. Pros: the plot was engaging and easy to follow. Cons: there were waaaay too many side characters that they all just sort of melted together for me. I only really paid attention to about five of them and everyone else was background noise. Also there was a lot of narration but not a lot of dialogue. That gets a little annoying. Because this was the thirty-fourth book in the Lucas and Lettie series, I didn’t get any background information on the characters. As in zero. That’s on me though. Sort of like watching a cop procedural show five seasons in and you don’t get all in inside jokes or references to past cases. Hmm. I learned a few new words, a few new science terms, and a few new British colloquial slangs.

Solidly in the bottom 5 of the series. I just don’t like where he’s taken Lucas career-wise, now he’s an international, save the world, crime fighter?? I’m not a fan of Letty yet, I’m really not very interested in her. I also find that the way a male author writes the morality of a woman protagonist is often very cringey and this is no exception.

Summer is here when Elin Hilderbrand has a new book out! 28 Summers is a different story and not my favorite one of hers. Unpopular opinion here--> SPOILERS! SPOILERS! I've some very mixed feelings about Jake McCloud. I got mad at him a lot of times. Why did he marry Ursula DeGournsey? More than half the time they had nothing in common. To me, he married a memory of a girl that at some point was nice. Jake didn't respect his marriage or Ursula enough to tell her the truth and leave her or divorce her. I hated how glorified cheating was portrayed in this book. Jake cheats, Mallory cheats, Ursula cheats, Bear cheats. How would you feel if you realized your partner has cheated every year since you have been together with someone else? Ursula didn't care except for Jake's actions affecting her career and the possibility of him becoming the next President of the USA. It nagged me that Jake and Mallory never felt guilty of what they were doing. They just waited to see each other "Same Time Next Year" and family be damned. Their affair goes on so perfectly that Jake's daughter never learns her father is a cheater. In addition, Jake and Mallory have a pact. A phone call telling the other one that a wedding or a child was coming. But, Mallory had to find out about Jake's wedding and child, not by Jake calling her or did I miss it? I hated that Mallory was portrayed as flaky, commitment-phobic and insecure. Although, as a teacher she was great. I can see how the kids would love her. I liked that she loved her Nantucket home. She was happy with what she had. Me, not her, wanted more for her. She deserved so much more. Now, why did I say I had mixed feelings about Jake at the beginning of my review? Because I really liked him during those first phone calls with Mallory. I like his fight for his sister's disease. I like that he came to see Mallory in the end (although, he waited one day instead of flying right that second). I do love Elin's writing. I get to experience Nantucket through her eyes and summer through her words. I hope her next book is a winner for me. Cliffhanger: No 3/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

28 Summers is beautifully written, totally engaging, and emotionally painful. Readers will love it! I loved it for the first 10 years of the story . . . tolerated it for 5 more years . . . and then remembered that you know the ending from the beginning so reality slapped me in the face. I took a break from reading it that lasted two weeks and then picked it up to finish. I've taken another 2 week break before reviewing it to sort out my feelings, but they haven't changed. As I said, this is a beautiful, brilliantly written story, but I could not get past the basic premise. I couldn't get out of my head that Jake had the power in his hands to change this situation anytime he chose, especially in the first ten to fifteen years of their affair. For me, a fated love doesn't work this way. It's the whole concept and plot of the book, I get that. I just couldn't live with it. The narrator is fantastic! I highly advise the audio version of 28 Summers. And I highly recommend that you give this one a shot. It's going to be a best seller, no doubt. *Thanks to Hatchette Audio for an arc of this book. #libro.fm #alcinfluencer

** spoiler alert ** "+" septynmyliais žingsniais, su vėjeliu praskrido ištisi 20 knygos metų. Vaizdžiai, paprastai ir jautriai papasakota istorija.. "-" praskrido, o man norėjosi, kad praslinktų, kai kur net vėžlio žingsniu. Norėjau pagrindinę heroję atrasti kaip draugę, su jos galimai ryškiomis vaivorykštėm ir ašarų potvyniais,o deja ji taip ir liko tik Melore iš "28 vasarų"...neatradau, nepatyriau Džeiko ir Melorės vadinamos amžinos meilės įrodymų, vis dėlto kodėl vyko susitikimai? Lygiai taip pat jie galėjo ir nevykti..prėska, neįtikinama. ************************************************* "+" in seven-mile steps, 20 years of the book flew by... Visually, simply and sensitively told story. "-" flew by, while I wanted it to pass! Sometimes even with a turtle's step. I wanted to discover the main character as a friend, with her possibly bright rainbows and floods of tears, and unfortunately she only remained Mellorry from "28 summers"...I did not discover, I did not experience the evidence of Jake and Mellory's so-called eternal love, why did they meet all these years? In the same way, they could not ... Unconvincing, superficial..

Another book set on Nantucket, which I read mainly to feed my Martha's Vineyard nostalgia (even though this one, unlike Summer of '69 and The Identicals, barely mentions MV - I'll take what I can get!) It was definitely more emotional and bittersweet than the other two (mentioned previously) that I've read from her. 28 Summers is well written and has a good pace, and even though chick lit isn't exactly my genre, I did enjoy it and I appreciate its merits. As it is stated in the book itself, the story is a variation of the 'Same Time, Next Year' idea, so it doesn't earn many points for originality, but I enjoyed the characters and the ending made me tear up a little bit.

Curious, tense, & full of twists I couldn’t fully buy! I was immediately interested, curious about where the story would go, but the book never fully hooked me. The pacing is tight, full of tension and mystery, in classic Coben style, with Reese Witherspoon coauthoring to help keep the story moving. That said, a few parts felt uneven, and some moments didn’t fully resonate with me, which left me feeling a little off balance. 📌 A few thoughts while reading 🌀 The suspense and pacing are solid, keeping the story moving even if I never felt completely absorbed. 👤 The main character is relatable and well-drawn, even if some choices felt inconsistent. 🌿 Certain elements felt underdeveloped or didn’t fully land, which was a bit frustrating but still made me think. ⏳ The tension and mystery were enough to keep me turning pages. 🌫 The atmosphere is gripping, giving the story a quietly unsettling edge that kept me interested. Overall, this was a solid, enjoyable read, even if it didn’t fully satisfy me. I’m giving it 3.5 stars, rounded down to 3, which for me means it’s good and worth reading, just not a standout. 📕 Physical copy purchased by me at my local bookstore.

Okay! i didn't hate this, but i just couldn't put my finger on what i wasn't keen on. Love Coben. so ill just blame Reese for this. 😏🤣🤣. Not to talk of the subject so outside of what i thought Witherspoon's first novel would be. The king of twists delivers as usual and so did not see that end coming! When a disgraced surgeon is hired for a secret job, she comes to discover that her dead husband may be her saving grace, when things start to go left!!! Solid 3.5 stars!!!

Okay, so I DID enjoy this. It was a bit over the top for me, but it was a page turner. Harlan Coben is a personal favorite of mine and I can kind of see how he fleshed out the story for this and helped Reese get from point A to point B… but like I said, it’s a little over the top. Maggie McCabe is a beyond talented surgeon… she specializes in plastic surgery, but can basically do anything. With that being said, she’s lost everything after her life fell apart when her husband (another brilliant surgeon) is murdered overseas, her mothers passing, and her partner and friend (yet another brilliant surgeon) has gone missing. With all her grief, she loses her medical license when a surgery goes horribly wrong. Flash forward and Maggie is recruited (for a ridiculous amount of money) to perform some surgeries in Russia for some Uber Billionaires… and basically all hell breaks loose. This is fast paced and entertaining, just not really believable. And that’s okay for me honestly, but it was just… A LOT. Glad I read it, it was fun, but wasn’t one of my favorites of the year.

The book was well written and informative, great medical terms and names of procedures. A novel about big money payed to do a procedure on some patients.. Russian hierarchy in the spotlight. Medical professionals in war torn areas and places around the world and the good work they do. Thriller thrown in..,

3.5 rounded down The first 70 pages of this book I wasn’t sure how much more I could read, but it did pick up after that. The middle portion of the book kept me hooked, though the POV switch ups were at times jarring. The last 15% of the book somewhat lost me again, with the wrap up dragging at times and characters being repetitive. (Side note: a word counter should’ve been used on Porkchop because I swear it had to be in the thousands. Porkchop. Porkchop. Porkchop. I get it, his name is Porkchop.) This book didn’t feel like much of a thriller to me, but it had its moments. Thank you to the publisher for the gifted ARC

3.25 Stars Very slow start. Too many descriptions/adjectives. Explained too many things, as if the reader is stupid. Book seemed to encompass too much. It needs a huge edit. Good premise.

*** 11/12/25 *** Just finished this Reese/Harlan Coben collab, and I'm really not sure I understand the ending?! I re-read it and I don't get it?! I read dozens of thriller every year, but I feel like I'm missing a key plot element involving PorkChop at the conclusion, plus the mystery surgeon working with Main Character Dr. Maggie. Can anyone help me out and explain it to me very simply? This book started off interesting enough, with an altruistic trio of doctors helping people in war torn regions, until a fateful day when Maggie's world is turned upside down. She gets pulled into a weird global conspiracy involving a Russian oligarch who wants to live a veryyyy long time, and his girlfriend who gets a boob job. The issues with this book are that it feels like it was written by a man, the theme of Russian rich people partying in Dubai is tone-deaf atm, there are copious discussions of boob jobs (who has ever heard the saying repeated at least 2 times in the book that men referring to women as 'too skinny' translates to 'get a boob job' - really?), and it features at least 3-4 slimy playboy men as characters who objectify women (or give them boob jobs), not to mention the absurd name of Maggie's father-in-law (PorkChop, which is repeated about a thousand times in the book), making the final product feel over-engineered and trying too hard. I think Witherspoon grabbed this writing deal with the expectation that it will become a Netflix movie by 2027 that she will co-produce and possibly star in, but she missed an opportunity to pick a female thriller writer to align with her book club mission to support women writers. Judging by other reviews, her female readers feel a bit surprised. At 345-pgs, this was a good length, but I didn't love it and wouldn't read another if they serialize it. Maybe I'd watch the movie??? 3-stars.

This book with 3 new short stories was, in my opinion, underwhelming, and I can’t even say that it was entertaining. The first story, with Jake Brigance, one of my favourite characters created by Grisham, started so well and it was so promising, but then it felt like the author lost direction or ran out of creativity. The second story, which had everything to be touching or heartbreaking, was very repetitive and the dialogues were a bit cheesy. The third story, which is the title of this book, also started very well, but everything happened too fast, with too many characters and an unsatisfying conclusion. Quite unremarkable. Each story felt like a draft for a possible novel. Yet, I have not lost hope and I will still rush to the store (or public library) to obtain his books.

Having written a positive review of 'Sooley' Grisham's most recent book, I was contacted by Doubleday offering a 'bound, pre-release galley" in exchange for use of it. Flattered, I was eager to read it once it arrived. Broken into three novellas, the first one brings Jake Brigance back in "Homecoming"; unfortunately it was disappointing due to predictability and lackluster characters. Rather than belabor the topic and fill in the details, suffice it to say it falls short of 'A Time To Kill', the best of all stories involving Jake. Moving to the next one, its a feeble attempt at "Just Mercy" with a death row convict on edge as his execution nears. Hail Mary passes by his attorney and efforts for re-trials and pardons fail. Once again, it was predictable from start to finish. And now the good news! In the final story, its hard not to think that Grisham pulled the plot from Trump and his henchmen who as you know were all pardoned. With this story we meet the imprisoned father of a successful family law firm who was convicted of involvement with the death of his wife. While in prison, his two disjointed sons do their best to win litigation trials and both lack the devious nature of Dad. Hatred for one another increases over time until they learn of their father's scheme. Having kept a tobacco case settlement secret from them, he'd funneled the annual $3M to offshore accounts. Eager to get out of prison, he contrives yet another scheme and shares it with the firm's disgruntled manager. It's the old 'little does he know' thing that catches him. All in all its not a complete failure since Grisham is a master of pacing, suspense and the legal arena. That said, I honestly cannot recommend this unless you're one of the millions of Grisham fans. I found 'Sooley' far more to my liking due to it NOT being another legal thriller.

This is John Grisham’s latest book. It’s actually 3 novellas in one book. Story #1 was about Mack, a former lawyer who left the country and left his wife and kids behind. He comes back but everyone’s looking for him. Story #2 is about a 14 year old boy named Cody who was serving a life sentence for murder. He’s only 3 hours from execution and a 80 year old comes to visit him and come to find out, she’s the only person who has come to visit him the whole time he was in jail. Story #3 is about two brothers who hate each other and their dad is in prison for murdering their mother. I found myself easily confused in story #3 due to all the legal words. Overall, I give this book 3 stars.

John Grisham has taking to publishing two novels a year lately. His usual legal thriller in the fall and some kind of change-up in the spring time. Those change-up books have included two involving Camino Island bookstore owner, Mercer Mann, and last year’s story of Sudanese basketball player, Samuel “Sooley” Sooleymon. This year, his spring-pushed-into -a-summer-release is “Sparring Partners”, a book of three novella’s that are focused on Jake Brigance and Ford County, the last hours on death row, and the fight between a father and two sons to control the future of their family law firm. “Homecoming” – our favorite small-town lawyer, Jake Brigance, from Ford County, gets a call from an old friend. Unfortunately, it is a notorious friend. A fellow lawyer, Mark Stafford, divorced his wife and ran away three years ago under mysterious circumstances. Word is that he stole money from his clients and left his family in bad shape. His former wife is now dying and his two daughters are in high school, and it appears that Mark wants to come home while trying to avoid any legal issues… “Strawberry Moon” - Cody Wallace is a young death row inmate is scheduled to be executed that evening for participating in murder with his brother when he was fourteen years old. His lawyer is working his last-minute appeals while the governor does not appear willing to grant clemency. Cody is facing his final requests… “Sparring Partners” – The once every successful Malloy family law firm, once run by a father now serving time in prison for killing his wife, is now led by competitive brothers – Rusty and Kirk – who are trying to keep it afloat. The problem is Rusty and Kirk despise each other, to the point that they avoid each other at all costs. Who will come out on top when the family war becomes a fight for the survival of the firm itself? For me, all three stories are an interesting dichotomy in why I liked them and yet was left feeling a bit empty. Let me explain why. What I liked – Let’s face it. John Grisham is one heck of a story teller. He can probably write a cookbook and make it come across as interesting and full of conflict. Even though I am going to provide some constructive complaints, I was still pulled in to each of the stories immediately and they kept my full attention throughout. Three’s no wasted words, just meat and story. For that I would give these stories 4 stars. What I didn’t like – This is a rare comment to make about a John Grisham book. There have only been two or three of his books (out of many) that I felt were too depressing. For me, “The Reckoning” was the one that I absolutely enjoyed the least. As a matter of fact, I will not read it again because nothing positive happened in the entire book. That was similar in several ways to these three novellas. All three of them were stories about bad people doing bad things and hurting the lives of others in significantly hurtful ways. Examples include a man who stole money and ran away from his wife and wo daughters. A man on death row who as been jailed since he was fifteen years-old and had a horrible upbringing. A family law firm, in which the father is in prison for killing his wife, while his two sons try to figure out how to take control of the business. The challenge I have is two-fold. Each story is sad and depressing (although, yes, I already said they were interesting- and they can both that and sad at the same time), and they ended incomplete. “Homecoming” set-up several sub-stories and then really kind of left things hanging. I could see another future novella to find out what happens next, because after some serious drama and conflict, mostly with selfish and uncaring characters, it felt like the story ended after act two than act three. “Strawberry Moon” ended okay for the most part, but it was awfully dang sad and depressing. That’s all I will say about that one. “Sparring Partners” was like a twisted version of “Dynasty” vs. “Dallas” with really unlikeable, superficial, and selfish-to-the-heart characters. Although, it was like watching a car wreck and you couldn’t turn away, the ending was so self-destructive and yet incomplete from a closure perspective, that I felt a bit frustrated and disappointed. As interesting as the novella’s were, they left a sad taste in my mouth. For that I would give them two to two-and-a-half stars. Overall, the three novellas were interesting and provocative, but came with a bad aftertaste. Still, John Grisham holds my attention and I give “Sparring Partners” three stars. I am sure that others will rate this higher than me and that’s okay. I may be in the minority when it comes to rating this one. That’s why “beauty is in the eye of the beholder”.

Sparring Partners is a collection of three novellas from John Grisham. In the first - Homecoming - A former attorney who had disappeared from Clanton, MS asked Jake Brigance to help him reconnect with his daughters. This is after the attorney had run off with clients' money and abandoned his family. And there may be an indictment. In Strawberry Moon, an inmate on Death Row reminisces about what got him there, In Sparring Partners, two brothers, who are partners in their father's law firm, try to find a way to keep their father in jail, while spending his recurring settlement. None of these characters are likable and they're all comitted some crime. Grisham tries to make them sympathetic but you just want to yell at them - "See what bad choices get you!" Maybe you feel for the man on Death Row, because it seems like he never got a chance at life. The stories are easy to read - like an old-school Grisham narrative. But they don't really end as much as drift away. Good pick if you want a shorter narrative. Grisham fans should enjoy these stories.

3.5 stars. This book is made up of 3 short stories or novellas that are not connected. I didn't know this going in so it was an unpleasant surprise. All were decent but none were exciting.

I just saw this morning in the paper that this book was rated #1 on best seller list. Yikes!! I really did not think this book was "Grisham" quality. I think these were drafts of potential possible books that never got off the ground. Very light on every count you can think of. Talk about a summer read. This is the first time I have ever disliked any of his works. Too bad.

Was I entertained, yep. Were the stories great, nope. Were the stories satisfying, well that depends. I like John Grisham, but writing endings is not his strong suit and in this case, het gets three chances to improve. Did he? Nope. Did I feel like I wasted 9 hours, hell no. In reading a few reviews, most folks thought the last story, Sparring Partners was the best and the middle story, Strawberry Moon was the least of the three. I disagree, I thought Strawberry Moon was the best, mainly because it had the best ending. There is no doubt where Mr Grisham stands in the Death Sentence debate, and this story picks a completely ridiculous storyline to try and annul the death sentence. It is doubtful that in 1991 or so, that someone so young would be on death row, much less that a 14 year old would be convicted and sentenced to death under the events described by Mr Grisham. Never-the-less, the story was good and compelling and there is always hope.....

3.5 stars. I enjoy Bennett as a writer, but I felt like this book didn't come all the way together. I wanted it to either be a more focused book with half the plot or to really go big and have more about all the characters. At first it feels like this book is going to be entirely about colorism and the strange town of Mallard, Louisiana where light-skinned Black people have effectively segregated themselves. The story begins here, with the story of twins Stella and Desiree, who grow up and then escape the town. Desiree returns after leaving her abusive husband with her dark-skinned daughter Jude. And at this point I thought this may be the real focus of the book. But then we seem to jump so quickly through time, which threw me somewhat off kilter. Desiree doesn't want to stay, but she does. And it is hard to understand why she stays knowing how unwelcome the town is for her daughter, but we gloss over it and start jumping ahead to when Jude finally leaves, moving into the other part of the story, set mostly in Southern California where Jude goes to college and then encounters long-lost Stella, who has cut off communication with her family and now passes for white. Then we have another section of the story, filling out those years of Stella's life, and this was much of the best of the book. Stella, always so afraid of being found out, develops a strange and complicated friendship with a Black family that moves in across the street in their wealthy subdivision. We get to see why Stella passes but all the ways in which it has complicated her life and her own identity. But then we push forward again, leaving just as a plot is really diving into what's interesting. The sections between cousins-but-also-strangers Kennedy and Jude are not as interesting as I wanted them to be, and didn't really dive very far into how different these women's lives are, race matters somewhat, but it's not clear what the daughters are here to tell us. I also have to note that I was frustrated and concerned by Jude's plot, which mostly centers around her relationship with Reese, a trans man. Almost all of the elements around Reese and queerness felt vague and fuzzy when many other things were given to us in such detail. Reese passes as a cis man so easily that after several years everyone wonders why Reese and Jude are still unmarried. Equating passing as a trans person with racial passing makes me feel very uncomfortable. They are not things that can and should be compared. So I had my hackles up almost immediately when Reese entered the story. And for much of Jude's first section, we get the typical kind of Trans 101 you expect when the cis character is the focus of the story and the trans character is a kind of window dressing. I was also confused by many of the details around Jude and Reese's social life, where they are out with groups of gay men and going to drag shows in the 70's. It isn't impossible, but spaces for gay men haven't exactly been open and friendly to trans men, and it would be unusual for a trans man with a girlfriend to be in that kind of space. (Yes, queer people have often been terrible and exclusionary and sexist and racist and plenty of other things.) The drag, again, seems to hammer in this idea of taking on a new identity as recurring theme, but again I am not sure that it really works. It is nice that Jude is so accepting but she's so accepting and they face no real repercussions to their relationship that sometimes it seems to almost invalidate the difficulties a trans man and his partner would have faced at the time. Without the queer issues, this would have still been a solid 4 stars for me, but I really couldn't get past it. Trans rep in fiction is certainly up, but there is so often this feeling that they aren't quite as fully real as other characters, that their trans-ness is there for some kind of message, and it really bothers me. I did this book on audio and it probably didn't help that I didn't like the reader.

3.5 Two Black twins, so “light” they could “pass” for White. And, this story exploring “ PASSING” - a term I was not familiar with. One of the twins will choose to do just that-live life as a White woman. Her husband will never know the truth. She will not get to celebrate milestones with her twin sister or mother. She will not be able to share her heritage with her own daughter. I found this book to be profoundly SAD. IMAGINE believing that it would be worth LOSING all of that, to be WHITE? I enjoyed the first half of this book, when I learned about “Passing” and the story focused on the twin sisters..Desiree and Stella. The second half was not as strong for me, when the story shifted to their daughters, Jude and Kennedy, and the focus of race and “passing” became diluted with another theme, regarding a character named Reese. I understand it was another way to explore “Identity”. But, the book would’ve been more powerful for ME if the narratives had remained with the sisters-I wanted to spend more time with Desiree after she returned home- So we could see both her struggles and also the riches that she DID have- by having Adele, Jude, Early and the community of Mallard in her life. So that we could compare, and contrast, their two choices in more depth. To fully explore “PASSING”. I needed to feel more of the PAIN (of EACH sister) that resulted from Stella’s choice.. As I wondered how many women who chose to PASS, would choose that path again? Relevant Timely. Available now!! Thank you to the publisher for providing a digital ARC through Edelweiss in exchange for a candid review!

not going to lie - it took me awhile to really warm up to this story. and honestly, im not sure i really did. i could immediately appreciate the heart of it, but goodness me. nonlinear narratives and 25+ page chapters are the bane of my existence. so i was worried that i might not be able to push through this, even with the lovely writing and important content. like i said, there are so many great themes throughout this book and its honestly no surprise why so many readers have connected with this story. i just wish personal writing preferences hadnt prevented me from enjoying this more. definitely a case of “its me, not you.” ↠ 3.5 stars

3 stars You know when you read a book that everyone loved and it was just okay for you and you feel like a weirdo? That was The Vanishing Half for me. My local library had a holds list of over 500 (yes, 500) people waiting to read this book, so I purchased my own copy to skip the line. All I can say is, it felt like I was reading a different book from everyone else. The Vanishing Half has a very interesting premise, twin sisters born and raised in a small town in the middle of nowhere, not even on a map. Both girls are light skinned black girls, and once they grow up they go on two very separate paths. One deciding to pass as a white woman for most of her life, and the other marries the darkest man she ever met. This story spans about thirty years, covering their lives and that of their daughters. I think this book was written incredibly well, the language of it was beautiful. My personal reading tastes, I need more than just beautiful writing. I need characters I can root for. And to be completely honest, there wasn’t a character in this book that I really liked. I don’t understand how both sisters could just leave their mother like that, and on top of that, one twin completely abandoned the other without a trace. I couldn’t wrap my mind around it. I also had trouble with the jumping perspectives, because just when I got invested in one character, that was that and onto the next one. I think Brit Bennett is very talented and I would absolutely continue to read her books. The Vanishing Half, while obviously a very important and beautifully written book, wasn’t a book that I loved.

it seems like this is the year of being disappointed by new books in a series - the blackbird oracle was good, but didn’t measure up to the standards of the previous books. it read more like a novella that wasn’t trim enough than a standalone book - maybe because nothing felt resolved at the end, but maybe too because it was all a little one note. at no point did i really feel the stakes were high - i was told they were, sure, but ultimately it all felt a little stale. i think the real issue is that despite it having been several years since the last books, diana, matthew, and others seemed to have not only not grown, but maybe even regressed. i can’t even get started on the character assassination of sarah - except to note that once again it felt like there was no resolution. as if diana of books1-3 would ever have let that slide? please. part of the issue is that diana is no longer the most interesting characters. nearly anyone else’s story, from chris & miriam to baldwin to wherever the hell marcus was would have been a welcome lens for this one, and it was disappointing that diana remains firmly the narrator and center of attention. overall, though, there were moments of fun. i enjoyed the brief glimpses of ysabeau and gwyneth was beyond lovely. the twins were a delight, baldwin remains a star, and the idea of a house like the old place is nothing less than charming. overall - okay. i’ll hold full judgement until the next, when hopefully some of this is resolved.

** spoiler alert ** It is painful to give this a three as I truly love the series. I was really looking forward to the release of this book, but I don’t think that there was enough conflict, honestly. It was a bit muddled and caught up in detail and ultimately, it felt like "Diana Bishop learns how to read tarot cards for 400 pages with some sassy elders while her husband supports her completely and only pauses to say “mon couer” or “ma lionne” from time to time."

THE BLACKBIRD ORACLE by Deborah Harkness A thrilling and triumphant return to the All Souls Universe about facing the darkness inside yourself—and embracing it. Four years after the events of TIME’S CONVERT, Diana and Matthew are living in Connecticut with their seven-year-old twins preparing for a summer holiday in England. Their plans are thrown into disarray, however, when the Congregation notifies Diana that her children are scheduled to have their magic tested this autumn, bringing back painful memories of her own assessment and the chain of events it set in motion. The mail also brings a letter telling her it’s time to come home to Ravenswood—the family farm— and fulfill the prophecy the Proctors call The Blackbird Oracle. The letter is signed by Gwyneth Proctor—a great-aunt Diana didn’t know existed from a side of her family she thought dead. Concerned for their children and curious to meet any family that remains, Diana and Matthew travel to the marshes of Ipswich, Massachusetts to meet Gwyneth. She shows Diana the higher magic that runs through her veins— and through her children’s, too—and Diana finds herself conflicted between her lifelong fear of darker magic and the tantalizing powers she could have. Diana also discovers a collection of dusty old bottles filled with family memories captured through higher magic, including those of her mother’s. But her family’s memories aren’t just stored in Ravenswood; the Congregation holds some of the Proctor and Bishop memories along with those of other powerful witches as a means of control. As Diana learns how higher magic operates and how the Congregation withholds it for their own purposes, she’ll have to decide whether or not to embrace the darkness within her to protect her family. And whether to give her own children the chance to learn higher magic—a chance she never had—even if it means exposing them to the Congregation and their own dark sides.

I was super excited to go back to Diana and Matthew and find out more about the twins, but even though the writing was impeccable, the story fell flat. Diana and Matthew didn’t have the same spark from the original trilogy and Diana was no longer the most powerful witch? After everything that happened in the trilogy, this one seems like an entire new tale and pretty much nothing got resolved anyway. I’m disappointed ☹️

This didn’t live up to the original 3 for me. There wasn’t a through line from how the last books ended and this one began, and I noticed some inconsistencies. It was almost like the characters and relationships had regressed, and the new conflicts between the characters felt petty and shallow. The first half was slow and too pleasant, like Harkness was warming up. Then there was too much plot in the last fourth that didn’t totally makes sense. There was so much build up to the twins being tested, and that ended up being tame. There was a worry of danger, but then no real danger arrives. Meg was positioned to be an antagonist but never showed enough ability for me to really worry Diana couldn’t best her. The world building in this one was all over the place. All of a sudden there are wands and faeries?!?!?!? There was higher magic on display in previous books but not one wand. And I thought the world was made up of four types of creatures, but the faeries make five. Are there more? Not only does the world as we know it get blown apart, but the new magical elements felt hokey, too bibbity bobbity boop. I wish the editor had reeled this one in. This was so disappointing and I’m not excited for where it seems like the next book will lead.

This took me waaay too long to finish, especially considering how much I loved the first three books. :/ Diana's and Matthew's twins are 7 years old now so there was a bit of a time-jump from the 4th book to this one. The Congregation insists on testing the twins for their abilities (not least because they are a vamp/witch mix). For obvious reasons, Diana and Matthew aren't thrilled. Then, a message is delivered to Diana and her daughter, Rebecca, by an unkindness of ravens. I turns out, Diana has more surviving relatives than she knew and they are quite powerful, too! Thus, we're taken to Ravenswood, their ancestral home complete with an actual wood (forest) where Diana learns skills such as divination and more. To be perfectly honest, nothing much happens here. One minute we're in England, the next in the US. There are a bunch of witches, many of them horrible people, and the many things we're supposed to learn of Diana's family's past aren't actually all that numerous and could have been addressed way faster. People just couldn't get to the point, it seemed. Just like some characters just couldn't get over themselves (anxious Matthew about his "madness", hysterial Diana about anything that could be seen as "dark"). It was all rather ridiculous and needlessly, excessively angsty. Moreover, what was done to some characters ... I was just not OK with it. I'm talking about Diana's father, her aunt Sarah - but also the others in general. They were all somehow diminished! Yes, I've been an absolute fan of the first three. No, I don't mind calmer stories - not everyting has to be choke-full with action and relentless pacing. However, if you do write a slow-burn story, it needs to nevertheless draw the readers in and hold their interest. And that is exactly where this book so often failed. We didn't get (too much) history and there were many chapters that seemed to have been written or at least insisted upon by someone other than the author, which was an absolute shame. Best of all the elements of this book were the lessons, the tarot and the crossroads trial but they were too few and far in between. The rest was various family gatherings, sex, artificial drama, blablabla - and all of it waaay too drawn out. I suppose the author was so successful that she and/or the publisher wanted more income so this is the start to a new trilogy? One can only hope the next installments won't be as long-winded. Add to that some truly cringeworthy moments and an equal number of eyeroll-inducing ones and you understand why I'm so disappointed by this installment while still having liked it well enough (and having wanted to like it way more). I'll try and decide whether to be able to round up from 3.5 stars on account of the potential. For now, it doesn't get more than 3 for all the disappointment.

Disappointing Too much time spent on Proctor family Also i didn't like the way Diana was written She comes across as selfish saying she wants to protect the twins but leaving them and Mathew to chase higher magic glory Also the scenes in the forest between Diana and Mathew were embarrassing and unsettling spoiling my view of their relationship which doesn't seem loving anymore. I realise their is probably another book or two to take the story forward and hope that the story and characters get back to the magical versions we know love and respect

Where to start with this? Harkness' skill in sensory writing is her strength and her general voice is warm and relatable as is her character depth. But there were far too many cups of tea described even for a Brit. Was pretty excited to see this published and looked forward to listening. But plot and pacing is more of a struggle for Harkness. Previous books had so much plot and drama it got a bit much but this is slow and clunky. Not quite sure of the reason for this book. There is a serious lack of continuity with characters, plot and story with the previous books. Not sure if Harkness should have left the series and moved onto something else. But she feels too invested and attached to the characters. It felt more like an indulgence than a cracking plot. Diana's precious magical talents, book of life and development vanish as does Matthew and the children and the relationship between demons, witches and vampires. She also becomes naive and reckless and not at all mature. The creatures powers do not solve the problems where they easily could. The oracle just becomes annoying and doesn't help the plot and just leads to inconsistentcy. And seriously does anyone have pockets big enough to constantly and respectfully carry an oracle deck around without it getting damaged?! The book in some way is a feminist stance on maintaining independence after motherhood. But the reality of family life isn't grasped or realistic, it's too Enid Bylton. Especially as the main issues of finance and child care are automatically solved. The kids should have been the drivers in the plot and in one way they were but also were a complete side garnish - over idealised and under developed. Matthews story arc was also a book crime, he became a vapid pot washer. It's ok to subsume him in favour of a feminine lead but again it just didn't work. This could have been no problem but the book doesn't have the grit and weight to hold it. Again plot holes and the issue of first person narrator become problematic with plot devices that don't fit the story and create clunkyness. The memory bottles and constant going back to the past for poor reasons sucks. What Harkness does to Stephen and Sarah should be up for a book crime and is just totally unrealistic. There's too many developments based on plot needs that just don't hold integrity. That a huge and lovely family get totally shut out is weird. The Naomi reason again is underdeveloped. The book feels divided into three sections and not all connected. The antagonist, Meg, again isn't developed and her motives are not deep and seems again a plot driver of convenience. Any good antiheroine one has to relate to and you don't with her. Much of Diana's problems comes because she breaks the rules and acts entitled but when this becomes obstacles this doesn't reflect well on her character or plot. So, did finish the book. But it was a disappointment and the ending was seriously a non ending that didn't really connect with the establishment of the plot that could have really developed as a family theme. Nearly felt like crying at the end of this and in despair. It's a three as I can't quite bring myself to give the series a two.

There's this eerie almost haunting tone running through the whole thing like you’re being watched while reading this...

Another easy read. Crisp sentences and chapters. Far fetched in the extreme but entertaining. Michael Bennett should be the spokesman for Gillette he has so many close shaves. Pure escapism and formulaic but so addictive. Ten adopted kids, West side apartment near Central Park and a fiancé who is basically a Saint doing all the housework and cooking. Estonia was a twist, cybercrime the motive as well as Henry the megalomaniac with a Napoleon complex and very incompetent professional killers. Against my better instincts I enjoyed the mind candy read. So ridiculous, no mention of Interpol and so many narrow escapes that Houdini could take lessons.

James Patterson has several bestselling series, each carrying different levels of readership popularity. Detective Alex Cross is his coveted franchise and most successful series, followed by the Women’s Murder Club, Detective Michael Bennett, and the Private novels. The Detective Michael Bennett series is one of Patterson’s better feel-good characters. Bennett is a successful Detective working special crimes in New York City. His home life and (very large) family are really the center of his world and provide the primary reason for the readers to cheer him on. Bennett’s first wife, Maeve, died after fighting a losing battle with cancer, leaving him with their 10 adopted children to raise, along with his sour grandfather and catholic priest, Seamus. During most of the books, Bennett has moved on by falling in love and becoming engaged to his wonderful housekeeper, Mary Catherine. The good news is that most of the books in this series have been pretty dang good and worth reading for the most part. The first nine books in the series were co-authored by Howard Roughan and built up a nice consistency and rhythm in the plotting and overall character development. However, there was a change. The last three books have a new co-author - James O. Born - working with Patterson. With that has come change. Change in style and change in plotting. To be honest, I personally found the first two books co-written with Born to be less than pleasing due to weak plotting and characters acting out of character. They were definitely my least liked Bennett books in the series. I felt like the new co-author was struggling in his understanding of the characters, especially after having Bennett’s son arrested for selling drugs. That just made no sense at all and was so completely out of character, I am still trying to figure out how this move was consistent to any of the character’s previous history. This year’s book, the third with Born, - “Ambush” has some improvements in plotting and characterization; however. The adventure kicks off with Bennett being called to late night double murder scene, which ends up finding him being involved in a shooting with two street thugs who force him to defend himself. Killing a civilian, although clearly being forced to, causes bad press and the NYPD leadership to have Bennett removed from the public eye. Which ends up being timing when the New York mayor brings Bennett in for a private meeting. The mayor has a daughter who’s gone missing and he’s sure that she’s in danger. Since Bennett has a son in prison, the mayor is hoping the detective will help find her, and in return, the mayor will seek to shorten Bennett’s son’s service time. The mayor knows how important family is to Bennett and it pays when the detective agrees to help. As Bennett begins his search for the mayor’s daughter, Natalie, he discovers the twenty-year old college student dropout is a computer prodigy, and she has become involved in a very international based sophisticated hacking operation. His investigation to find out whether she is intentionally involved or unwillingly been taken raises the attention of multiple serial assassins who are being paid to remove him. Their orders come from cyber genius and psycho leader of the hacker team, Endrik “Henry” Laar, whose operations are monitoring Bennett’s every move. But Michael Bennett won’t give up even though he finds himself trying to escape murderous killers, traveling without protections to the country of Estonia, and becoming the center of international security involving the NYPD, FBI, and an extremely dangerous international criminal organization. Protecting family may be his last stand… There were definitely some improvements in this book over the last one. I found the Amsterdam assassins, Chrispoh and Ollie, interesting and a decent challenge for Bennett, as well as testosterone-filled Henry, a decent villain. For the most part, the plotting developed pretty well, providing some good moments of tension and drama. I especially liked the characters of Agent Fiore and Father Marty. They brought a refreshing sense of personality to the storylines. I also appreciated two things about the ending, which was an improvement over the last two books. First, I liked how it wrapped up the three different plots and sub-plots, providing closure to the storylines in ways that made sense and didn’t short-change the reader. Second, at the same time, the ending still left opportunities for the return of one or two characters which could prove interesting in future books. Overall, this book took away some of the bitterness left from the prior books in the Detective Michael Bennett series. It was starting to wane, but this one was a nice step forward. Michael Bennett and his family deserve better storyline development and quality challenges. And Michael needs to marry Catherine. Their wedding is just being dragged out too long. Still, “Blindside” provided some decent mind-candy escapism reading and got us back to a three-and-a-half-star outing. Here’s hoping for more continued improvement moving forward…

The James Patterson co authored books are very hit and miss for me but there are a few pairings I really enjoy. I so enjoy the Michael Bennett series of books that James Patterson had co authored with Michael Ledwidge. This is the first Michael Bennett I have read written with James O Born. It was well done. The wonderful Bennett family dynamics are still intact and while there are not a lot of levels to Michael Bennett , he is a pretty neat cop. As with all Patterson books, this one was a very quick read packed with loads of dialogue. The plot was good , the ending very satisfying. All and all , a good read on this snowy weekend.

#Blindside #PenguinRandomHouseSA #Pasellabook This book is number 12 in the author’s well-known Michael Bennett - series, but can easily be read as a stand-alone. For those not familiar with the series: Michael Bennett is a 6 foot, Irish American detective in New York, trained in hostage negotiations, terrorism, homicide and organized crime. He was married to Maeve, a nurse on the Bronx, who died after losing a battle with cancer, leaving Michael and his grandfather, Seamus, to care for their 10 adopted children. After Maeve’s death a relationship has developed between Michael and the children’s nanny, Mary Catherine. In this novel Michael finds himself suspended after a shooting incident. When the mayor of New York requests him to find his missing daughter, Natalie, in exchange for a favour regarding one of Michael’s children, Brian, Michael agrees, not realizing that his task will put him in conflict with a cybercrime kingpin and his hired assassins. As is typical of Patterson’s recent thrillers, this novel is also a combined author effort, fast paced, action filled and not necessarily very realistic. It is an easy read - in line with the author’s public desire to promote reading and literacy, and will provide escapism to readers wishing to forget the real world for a while. I do have a bit of a moral problem with the ‘favour’ by the mayor, since Bennett has always been portrayed as an honest man with integrity and this twist is inconsistent with the aforesaid image. It was, otherwise, a relaxed, easy read, worthy of 3 stars. #Uitdieperdsebek

A mostly enjoyable novel provided you are able to suspend belief in a big way. Fans of Patterson will no doubt enjoy the return of Michael Bennett and his overly large family. "Blindside" is heavy on action and very light on just about everything else. Most of the time the protagonist is in grave peril as he faces a suitably cartoonish evil villain in both New York and Estonia. This was a good light read that is perfect for passing the time. Whilst it is better than what is on television (which does not take much), it is not exactly high impact. It is also very forgettable.

It's been a long time since I read a James Patterson book, but I was in the mood for something fast-paced and this book was available for checkout right away. The book was an easy read, and I liked the main character. The story moves fast and reveals some pretty scary characters. I had a hard time understanding what made these characters the evil people they were and parts of the story were not really believable. But, overall, I enjoyed the book and was able to finish it quickly over the long weekend.

If I could give 3.75 i would…just 3 stars is much too low. Another book in the Michael Bennett series…and I love this book as much as the others i have read. His adventures go a little beyond his normal jurisdiction this time, but he faces adversity head on in his typical fashion. I love reading this series as much for the stories themselves, but also as an update on how all his kids are doing as well!!

3.5! Good thriller for a person with a cold

I like the characters in this particular series of books by James Patterson. The stories are good and a quick read.

Decent Patterson novel

Usually I enjoy the Michael Bennett series but this one felt kind of flat. The story line was interesting except it felt that dragged out sections to the point where I started loosing interest and just walked away for awhile. Normally, with a Jame Patterson book, the story is what holds everything together. In this instance it was marginal because of the dead spots. Overall it was an interesting concept and pulled Michael Bennett into more of an international scene while he searched for the missing computer whiz daughter of the New York mayor. The journey to find her and her criminal computer genius boy friend is neither a simple journey or an obvious one. As always, Michael's family have a significant presence in the story and it underlies the urgency he feels in his search and journey to find the mayors daughter. One thing about the story there are some interesting characters that we meet on the journey that do help keep the story halfway interesting. Overall, like all James Patterson's books, it is very acceptable mind candy for those of us addicted and in need to something light to read.

I like Michael Bennett - he's no Harry Bosch - but he's witty and a good detective. Easy to read quickly - which I like.

Lots to love, lots to meh. In the end it's a solid feel-good novel in the vein of Shawshank Redemption, Stand By Me and Elevation. Just not as good as any of those. The major issue is that it takes far too long to reach a premise. Half the book must drudge by before we understand what we're reading—the story of an unlikely pairing, the hitman who only kills bad guys and a young girl who was left for dead. Their partnering is the highlight of the novel, allowing both characters to emerge as charismatic figures. It's too little too late by that point, however. Many readers will give up before the girl even appears and those of us who trust King enough to march on aren't given a dynamic enough character study to justify the slow chunks. We cheer on their pursuit to punish the world's "real" bad guys, but their methods are cheesy and without an ounce of suspense. Everything falls into place exactly as we expect. No twist, no surprise. However, Billy Summers is a surprising spin on the "last job gone wrong" genre and hitman fiction in general. Certainly it is unexpected for a noir protagonist to spend most of his time penning a memoir instead of dodging kingpins and outrunning the law. Pairing him up with a girl whose situation mirrors his own experiences is a clever way to add humanity to the situation. There just isn't enough evidence that this quiet take on the genre is effective. Ultimately it's not King's best effort, but still a decent adventure with engaging characters and lovely concluding message. Given the choice of King screwing up the beginning or the ending, I would much prefer him to falter at the start. Since it does end so well, I can forgive much of the opening bloat. PS: Fans will enjoy a number of references to the Overlook Hotel as the characters pass through Colorado country. There are enough mentions of the hotel, and Alice's desire to live in Colorado, that I wonder if King is setting groundwork for another sequel to The Shining.

2.5 stars. I’m a big fan of Stephen King and I’ve been reading his works since my teens. I’m now 57 years old and I still enjoy his books and I confess that my expectations were too high, especially after reading amazing reviews, such as this one by Tom Nolan on The Wall Street news: “…Its pleasures are numerous, and it touches the mind, heart and nervous system in equal measure…” Seriously? Well… I’m the outlier. How I struggled with this one. Throughout the book. This one did not work for me. Not at all. It offered me zero surprises, except that twist at the end, but by then I was more than late to throw the towel in. There is nothing extraordinary here. The writing is excellent, as expected, but the storyline was, in my opinion (gasp!), very boring. I did not get the thrill. I did find everything very predictable and the characters too hollow. I found hard to believe in the relationship between Billy and Alice. As I’m clearly in the minority, I won’t go over the details of my disappointment. For the prospective readers, I truly hope that you will enjoy this book like so many did. Happy reading!

This book is about an assassin who has agreed to do one last job before he gets out. He knows about the trope of the one last job and how it goes all awry. It does and we follow him as he tries to resolve the situation. This is a thriller book and not a horror book which this author is known for. I have seen many reviews on this website where readers loved this book. I liked it but not nearly as much as those readers. I liked the main character and the cast of characters we see along the way. I did think it took a little too long to get to know the main character. The first third of the book was to establish him as an antihero and I thought this journey could have been cut back a little. I guess it wouldn't be a Stephen King book if it wasn't long to get to a point. lol. I liked the path of the story but I did think it wasn't heart racing thrilling. In fact the only thrilling part for me was the conclusion to the awry situation. The ending of this novel was excellent and the twist and how the author penned it did catch me off guard. It was easily the highlight of the book. This book was a nice look into characters as they struggle to overcome their situation. It was a nice duality between two characters. I just wish it had a little more thrill to it throughout the novel. The final pages were terrific but it took a little too long to get there. I liked the book throughout but never got to the point that I could not put it down. I believe die hard fans of this author will devour this book. If you are a casual fan like me I believe you will like it but not be blown away from it.

⭐ ⭐ ⭐ .5/5 - As this was my first Stephen King novel… I had to really take some time to think about whether I liked this or not. As a whole, this book is incredibly well written… but is this book something I liked/want to read more of? Honestly, probably not. I think, as a whole, I can only read so many dark books as an introvert who tends towards self-isolation. I need books that have a lighter message, whimsical hope, and passionate romances. Of course, I do read other things.. but this just isn’t my thing. I’m still rating this a 3.5-star book because, as I said, I can respect great writing when I read it. It’s the same thing as being able to identify objectively attractive people without being attracted to them myself for one reason or another. Just not my type. If you love deep-diving character studies, somewhat slow-developing plots, and having to dissect your own morality… Billy Summers is the book for you. A SHORT PREVIEW: Billy Summers is a hitman for hire looking to complete that one last job and retire. But there’s a catch - he only kills bad people. When the job takes an unexpected turn and Billy comes in contact with a young woman named Alice who needs his help.. the pair will form an unlikely duo on a journey of revenge, murder, and a little mayhem. MUSINGS: - Billy Summers is truly one of the better character-development-based novels I’ve ever read. Watching him contemplate morality and what constitutes good and evil in a person… and the difference between bad actions and truly evil people. - I also loved that Billy was truly a master at showing one face to the world and having a whole other inner self. I multiple times have compared Billy to Ben Affleck’s character Christian in The Accountant? But only his outer ‘dumb self’ that lured people into a false sense of intellectual superiority. It’s interesting that in life people who underestimate you are usually the ones who should fear you the most. CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT: - NICK MAJARION - I love the allegorical ‘slimy guy’ character of Nick Majarion. He’s your quintessential slimy almost businessman/criminal. He’s on the edge of splendor and - BILLY - I don’t think I’ve ever read a character’s inner monologue like Billy’s. The way he calculates and back calculates the cost of every move is pretty spectacular. - ALICE - Felt very much like Dana from The Accountant... Anna Kendricks's character. (I can't get the similarities between this book and that movie out of my head and I'm not sure that was the intended point of the book lol...) THINGS I DIDN’T LIKE: - This whole book felt beige to me and I can’t explain why. Maybe it’s the little rented house Billy Summers stayed in.. maybe it’s the way he interacted with his faux professional building mates… but something about this whole book was a study in beige. FAVORITE QUOTE(S): “Billy likes people, and he likes to keep them at arms’ length. It sounds like a contradiction, but it’s not.” - I think if I were to try and explain what it’s like to be an introvert, it would be this. It’s the most we, the introverts, can do most of the time. We need you to be there, but not right there? NOTES: - Slow read - A somewhat anti-climactic ending that I really didn’t want as a reader. I like satisfying endings. - The real question though… does it make me want to read another Stephen King novel….? I think if someone asked me that before I read Billy Summers, I would have immediately said no. I would think of all the horror genre movies associated with this prolific writer’s name and automatically assume that they weren’t for a woman like me. I can safely say now though that will careful reading book blurbs and a general perusal of a few book reviews, I could get behind being a Stephen King fan - but only for his non-horror books. (I'm thinking Fairy Tale could be another one I'll try?)

3.5 stars “He thinks writing is also a kind of war, one you fight with yourself. The story is what you carry and every time you add to it, it gets heavier.” Billy Summers is the story of a hit man who decides to do one last job. Two million dollars to take out a bad man? Not a problem. But for Billy, it’s a long job with lots of undercover time. And his cover story is that he’s a writer, working on a book. As the time passes, Billy does indeed start writing his book. But it becomes clear there’s something a little off with this job and then when all hell breaks loose, Billy needs to find out what happened. “God doesn’t have a plan, He throws pickup sticks.” This book is strongly in the I enjoyed it but didn’t love it category. People said the book took about 1/3 of the way to pick up, it was more like halfway through the book before things really took off. And it’s not to say the first half is boring, it isn’t. But it’s a lot of detail that really didn’t have to be there, at least in my opinion. Definitely an interesting character study, as King is very good at. The hit man that’s also a “good guy” is a trope that people love and it worked in this book. I have to say, I was pleasantly surprised that King did a lot of bashing of white supremacists instead of using the “n” word frequently, so I’m glad he’s grown in his writing in that regard. “Writing is good. He’s always wanted to do it, and now he is. That’s good. Only who knew it hurt so much?”

Hmmm… you see the alarming bell which warns you there is an unpopular review is about to come and of course I never expected it’s happening because I just finished a compelling novel of one of my all-time favorite authors. And as soon as I read the blurb about second chances, the Sliding Door/what ifs theme and amazing journey to learn more about Ancient Egyptian culture, I started to whistle Bangles’ song and getting so excited about this promising adventure. I already found amazing two reading buddies to share my excitement: But as soon as I started flipping pages after the mind blowing start reminded of us Lost series’ beginning, Dawn Edelstein’ thankfully survives from the plane crash, my excitement hit to the roof! I wanted to see what was gonna happen next: After the imminent shock and her entire life flashed before her eyes, Dawn realizes there are things holding her back to have fulfilled life. And there are two paths appear in front of her: she may go back to her family life: husband she’s been married for 15 years and her 14 years old teenage girl. And of course her work at hospice as death doula is waiting for her. (Interesting choice of profession) Or she goes to Egypt and finishes her project she’s started 15 years ago when she has been working as an archaeologist but that means she has to meet with her first love of her life: Wyatt. So we read her two paths and we also learn more about Dawn’s story starting 15 years ago in Egypt by flashbacks. And interestingly two paths successfully intertwine. I have no problem about the promising premise of the book about taking your chances, learning from your mistakes and leaving no place for your regrets. BUT… Yes the problematic thing about this book: there is so much information bombardment exhaust your brain cells. Quantum psychics, philosophical approach to life and death, reincarnation, superstition , Egyptology, marriage, fat-shaming etc. It seem like the author juggled way too much plot balls at the same time and all of them start to fall down from her hands one by one. Especially I truly got lost at the Egyptology parts with all those hieroglyphs, symbolism, secret language hidden at the tombs, digital mapping, nope I’m stopping there. After reading those parts and scientific explanations Brian’s husband gave her about quantum psychics (couldn’t she marry with a man who has regular job?) I thought my mind was so close to explode. There are so many materials in this book were hard to absorb and all those details made you feel like this a study book you have to read by drawing its lines to pass your exam instead a regular, gripping contemporary fiction. The author may write at least 4 different books with those materials. But instead of that she chose to insert them into one story and I truly got so exhausted and needed more grey cells transplant because I truly fried most of them by over usage. I loved the family parts, impossible and meanest love-triangle of the story ( it’s so mean because any choice Dawn makes may end with unhappiness!) mother-daughter relationship and of course her profession as “death doula” at hospice was one of the most heartfelt, eerie but also interesting part that attracted my full attention. But I think those Egypt parts, symbolism, quantum psychics just killed the essence of this meaningful story. When you add too much scientific information into the equation, it affects the intensity of meaningful messages and emotional warmth of the story. But this is my opinion. There is nothing missing about this story. In fact there are too many things to absorb, understand, discover, feel, learn, and search so eventually they overwhelmed me. Overall: I loved the characters. I loved the idea of second chances, choosing different paths. I loved the devoted love between mother and daughter. But those scientific parts of the book failed me. I love Jodi Picoult’s brave writing style and play with our emotions to shake us to the core. But this time I decided to give only three stars. That’s a first for me, too. It doesn’t mean I didn’t enjoy the book. The emotional parts of the story completely worked with my needs but the informational parts were exhausting and confusing. They were still impeccably written but in my opinion, they didn’t fit so well with the main plot. Special thanks to NetGalley and Random House Publishing/Ballentine Books for sharing this ARC with me in exchange my honest opinions and review. medium blog instagram facebook twitter

A book about love and loss, life and death...oh, and Egypt. A whole lot about Egyptology. Dawn lives in Boston with her husband, Brian, and her teenaged daughter, Merit. She is a death doula, someone who is there to support a dying person any way necessary. After the plane taking her home to Boston crashes unexpectedly, Dawn (one of only 36 survivors) can’t help but thinking about how close she just came to death, and the unfinished business she has with the love of her life. His name is Wyatt Armstrong, and he is in Egypt, where she left and never returned 15 years ago. What would her life be like if she got on a plane and went to Egypt to see Wyatt, now an archaeologist who unearths ancient burial sites? What if she were able to complete her research on The Book of Two Ways (a map of the afterlife)? What if she goes back home to Brian and Merit, and tries to forget about Wyatt and Egypt all over again? This was a very difficult book to rate. I’ve heard so many things about this, and how it is overflowing with information on Egypt and everything it encompasses. I have to admit I was pleasantly surprised by how much I ended up enjoying it. The first 20% was almost too much, but I soldiered on and found a wonderful story with complex characters, some mystery, and that general “Jodi Picoult vibe” that make her books so amazing! I became attached to the characters and their dynamics, and I was surprised by some unexpected twists. Anyone who reads a Jodi Picoult book knows they’re going to learn things they probably didn’t know before. Throughout the years, I’ve learned about elephants, whales, a deeper look at the Amish, and much more. I’ve enjoyed learning these things and seeing how they tied into the main storylines. The downside to THE BOOK OF TWO WAYS is that it is a bit overwhelming. Picoult certainly did her research, but while I found some aspects of Egyptology interesting (the reasons Egyptians were mummified, the process of preparing a body for mummification), there was a lot that I just couldn’t grasp. I found myself skimming some long passages until the story went back to the main plot. There were also some discussions about quantum physics that went completely over my head. I consider myself smart, and I always enjoy learning new things (well...if they interest me), but it was all just a bit much at times. What I did grasp makes sense to the storyline, but I also don’t think the book would have suffered for cutting some of that out. This could have been an easy 4 or 5-star read if it weren’t for two things: The information overload, and the ending (which I think needed one more chapter). 3.5 stars. Thank you Ballantine Books, Jodi Picoult, and NetGalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Jodi Picoult is one of my favorite authors. Some of her books have been some of my all-time favorites. I finished this book about a month ago and I’ve sat on this review because I’m not quite sure what I think. I had just finished another book that had referenced the multi-verse so I thought that it was interesting when it was brought up in this book as well. I thought the concept of how every different choice impacts our lives however big or small. Also to think that there could possibly be another multi-verse where your life is going on simultaneously but different is intriguing. I also found the idea of a death Doula to be so compassionate and thoughtful. Dawn is on an airplane headed home when it crashes. She is grateful to have survive the crash but when they ask her where she needs to get to she hesitates. Why does Wyatt a man she was involved with years ago come to mind rather than her loving husband at home? What choices will Dawn make and what impact will that have on her life? Dawn is a complicated character and as the book progressed I began to like her less and less. The overall story focused way too much on Egyptology for my liking. I could tell that Jodi Picoult did a lot of research, but quite frankly I don’t have much interest in ancient Egyptian culture. Perhaps if it had been woven into the story a bit more rather than presented like a textbook I would have appreciated it more? I really don’t know and I really wanted to like this more. I would love to read a book about a character who is a death Doula in a future book without all the Egypt stuff. *** Big thank you to Random House for my gifted copy of this book. All opinions are my own. ***

The Book of Two Ways is an ancient Egyptian text and belief depicting the path a soul can take to the Afterlife. Dawn Edelstein lives in Boston, she’s a death doula preparing terminally ill patients and their families for the inevitable. She’s been married to Brian, a physicist, for fifteen years and they have a daughter, Meret. Dawn experiences a dramatic and life changing event which leads to a choice and she has to make a decision about which path or two ways her life should take. Should she seize the opportunity of a flight to Egypt to finish the work she started with Yale Egyptologist Wyatt Anderson years ago or take the obvious path and return home to Brian and Meret? First of all, the books starts well and I like the premise of the novel, it’s assessment of life’s path, the routes we take and through Dawn and her patients there’s reflection of what a life well lived might look like. There’s a good message too, about grabbing opportunities when they present themselves or live with regrets. The relationships in the book are good and I like the character of Dawn. The author has clearly done a mass of extensive research in preparing for the book. However, in between the good there’s a massive overload of information which almost bombards you and it feels like swallowing an encyclopaedia whole! If quantum physics can give you brain freeze that’s what I get when Brian enthusiastically lectures on the topic. I apologise Brian for not sharing your evident joy in the subject! I love Egyptology but again there’s way too much of it to take it in and I have to reread sections because my poor brain is saturated. This stops the story from flowing well in two ways (sorry!) - because as a reader the facts get in the way of the story and secondly you get lost in the morass. Some of the paragraphs are so long they feel like chapters. Overall, it’s a frustrating read with factual overburdening interrupting a good premise of love, loss and life changing moments. With thanks to NetGalley and Hodder and Stoughton for the ARC.

Jodi Picoult has been one of my favorite authors for over twenty years. I am ALWAYS thrilled when she releases a new book. Jodi Picoult often writes about complicated family dynamics, love, and relationships. Her characters are interesting and relatable and they frequently have to make heart-wrenching moral choices. She certainly doesn’t shy away from controversial issues like stem cell research, racism, and reproductive rights. Her novels are not only entertaining but educating. It’s clear she does a massive amount of research. Normally I LOVE learning about the issues and subjects in her novels. “The Book of Two Ways” tackles Egyptology, quantum physics, the duties of a death doula and more. I was interested in all the subjects, but in my opinion, there was just too much. The two timelines and settings Water/Boston and Land/Egypt take place concurrently. At times I was confused and wasn’t always sure which timeline I was reading. I don’t think I’ve ever skimmed through a Jodi Picoult novel, but I did find myself doing so this time. Although I did skim over a good chunk, I couldn’t stop reading it altogether. I was still interested in finding out how things would come together in the end. Overall, this was a good story but there was just a lot of extra information that I personally could have done without. So while I didn’t love this novel as much as I had anticipated I would, I’m still glad I read it. I’ll never regret reading her novels. I am still very excited to see what this talented author writes next. I'd like to thank the publisher for providing me with a copy of this novel. All opinions are my own.

The story starts with Dawn suddenly face to face with her own mortality when the plane she is traveling on plunges out of the sky. Then the tale turns backwards to Egypt and the life Dawn initially thought would always be hers, as an Egyptologist. But fate or circumstances had other plans for her. Dawn ends up getting a phone call that sends her home to care for her mother and young brother, Kieran. During this time she meets and come to love Brian. She ends up with a daughter Meret and married to Brian. She has forged life for herself as a death doula, one who helps other people who are dying. Now 15 years later, when the world turns upside down there is only one person she can think of and it is not her husband. It is Wyatt, the one she left in Egypt years before at the archaeological site. Dawn begins to wonder about the life she could have lived with him as they searched for, researched and wrote about the ancient Egyptian Book of Two Ways. Dawn is faced with choices. What will she do? I have read and loved many of Jodi Picoult’s book and was so looking forward to reading this one. My thanks go to Allen & Unwin for my ACR to read and review. I started it with great excitement only to find it didn’t initially grab me and suck me in the way her books usually do. Actually finding it hard to write this review and think to say about this book. While I appreciate the amount of research Jodi Picoult puts into her work, I struggled a bit with this one. Now, it could be that’s me and I am not clever enough to understand all that I read about Egypt, hieroglyphics scattered throughout, archaeology, quantum physics and such. What I really did like in the area of research though was the couple of paragraphs about the intrinsic differences between tears, onion tears, tears of change, laughing tear and tears of grief. Who knew? Anyway, I found that fascinating. I have to say that the longer the story went on the more I felt for Brian and for Meret and the less I could understand, relate to or like Dawn. And one stage Brian calls her selfish and I absolutely agreed. She showed more care for her dying clients than she did for those she professed to love. So, while there were good aspects to this book, it was not one that compelled me to want to pick it up all the time. As a result, it took me a four days to get through it. Probably a first ever for me and a Jodi Picoult book as I usually power through them. There are going to be people who will love it but for me I liked parts, and did not like others. And I did not like the ending at all. For me, this ended up being very much a mixed reaction to this book.

*www.onewomansbbr.wordpress.com *www.facebook.com/onewomansbbr The Book of Two Ways by Jodi Picoult. (2020). Dawn knows everything there is to know about dying. As a death doula she specialises in helping her clients make peace with the end of their lives. But she is forced to confront her own mortality when a plane trip goes wrong. And instead of seeing her brilliant quantum physicist husband Brian and their beloved daughter Meret flash before her eyes, only one face is clear: Wyatt. Safely on the ground, Dawn now faces a decision: go home to her family in Boston or journey back to an Egyptian archaeological site she left 15 years ago, reconnect with Wyatt, and finish her abandoned magnum opus, ' The Book of Two Ways'? I went into this one hoping I would really enjoy it as I loved quite a few of the author's previous books. Alas, it was fairly average for me. I've seen a lot of reviews mention that the storyline involved too many technical details around Egyptology and quantum physics (which is actually quite an odd combination of topics in my humble opinion), and I'd have to say that I agree with that. It was extremely well researched for sure, but also too technical for the average person in my opinion. I found the chapters involving Dawn's death doula work intriguing, that was definite food for thought. The form of the narrative is like a 'Sliding Doors' kind of style as well as alluding to the titular 'Book of Two Ways'; it seems like in one path Dawn has gone home to her family, and in the other path she has taken off to Egypt to reconnect with Wyatt and assist in a tomb dig site. However there is a lot of discussion about parallel universes so it seems to also be alluding to that? Overall, this one is likable enough but I think a lot of readers will find the almost textbook like level of detail of Egyptology and quantum physics off-putting and distracting from the story itself.

An interesting premise whose story is somewhat lost in the (many) details When Dawn Edelstein survives a horrifying plane crash, it causes her to rethink her life and her marriage. She sees two paths she could have taken: her current one, married to her scientist husband, Brian, and mother to their daughter, Meret. In this life, she is a death doula, helping her clients at the end of their lives. She and Brian are also struggling, dealing with the unhappiness and infidelity in their marriage. In the other path, she's back in Egypt, picking up on a life she could have led, if her mother had not fallen ill when she was in graduate school: working as an Egyptologist and uncovering artifacts with Wyatt, an archaeologist, and the first love of her life. As the two paths unfold, Dawn's various choices and long-buried secrets do as well. "For someone who makes a living through death, I haven't given a lot of thought to my own." I love Jodi Picoult and her books, and I count many of them among my favorites. I was intrigued by this story, but overall, this book wasn't for me. I always appreciate when an author does their research for a book, but there was so very much Egypt (from Dawn) and various scientific concepts (via Brian) in this book. Some will really enjoy this and if these were topics I was more interested in, I probably would have too. But I read this book while was I was working endless days, and I just wanted to lose myself in a story and not read pages upon pages about ancient Egypt or so much scientific theory about multiverses. It was a lot. When the novel focused on the characters, I was more in. Dawn is an intriguing protagonist--she's not always going to make choices that the rest of us might agree with. She takes a long hard long at her life--her regrets, her past love, her marriage, and more. I don't want to give too much away, but the various paths concept is an interesting one, for sure. I enjoyed both of them--especially Dawn's work as a death doula in her Boston life and then her relationship with Wyatt (who seemed very enigmatic--I could see why she was drawn to him) in Egypt. No matter what, Picoult does what she does best--give us a fascinating look at love, marriage, and loss. She makes us think and question what we might do in Dawn's position. There are some twists and surprises thrown in along the way. I skimmed some of the Egypt stuff (I'm sorry!) and might have forgiven it all together, except then she gave me an up-in-the-air ending. After all that reading and reading! Sigh. No resolution endings seem to be a theme lately. And not one I'm a fan of, either. So, with that, a 3-star read for me. But I'll read Picoult's next book eagerly, as always. I received a copy of this book from Random House/Ballantine and Netgalley in return for an unbiased review. Blog ~ Twitter ~ Facebook ~ Instagram ~ PaperBackSwap ~ Smashbomb

*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.com 3.5 stars 'Brian would roll his eyes at that and say it’s just the laws of physics splitting you into many different versions of yourself, each of which thinks that the path you’re on is unique and providential. In one world, I’m in Boston. In another world, I am with Wyatt when he opens that coffin and sees the Book of Two Ways.’ With almost thirty titles to her name, international bestselling author Jodi Picoult needs no introduction. The Book of Two Ways is Picoult’s latest and it is a grand piece of fiction. Tackling issues of life, love, death, destiny and choice, The Book of Two Ways is a rich piece of speculative fiction from an ambitious storyteller. A story of the paths and decisions we make in life, The Book of Two Ways is a book that will stretch your mind and imagination. At the front and centre of this new story from Jodi Picoult is a woman named Dawn Edelstein. As a death doula, Dawn assists people in their last moments in this world, granting their personal wishes and helping them as they say goodbye. It is a confronting job, as Dawn consistently confronts issues of mortality. During the passage home after assisting one of her clients, Dawn is faced with a fast and harsh reality in relation to her own existence. As she plunges to possible death, Dawn sees a very different face to her husband and daughter flash before her, a lover named Wyatt. When Dawn returns home following this near death experience, her life is changed. Dawn must weigh up her options, either to remain in her old life in Boston, or travel back to Egypt to rekindle her student days with Wyatt. These prove to be tough life decisions and Dawn is faced with a difficult quest to reconcile her past movements with her future happiness. A new Jodi Picoult novel is always a welcome sight to see. I was very keen to delve into Picoult’s latest, after reading plenty of teasers about this book in the author’s newsletter communications. I went into this book with plenty of gusto and high interest. However, I think I feel very conflicted with my response to The Book of Two Ways. Opening with a dramatic plane crash ordeal, where our lead is faced with imminent death, was an eye opening approach to begin a novel. This shocking opener certainly reeled me in from the get-go. My heat raced as I read through these pivotal early sequences of The Book of Two Ways. I felt a great deal of fear for Dawn, the central protagonist of this tale. Immediately Jodi Picoult ignited a barrage of feelings around life and death. The plane based sequences were definitely the novel’s high points, it certainly moved me emotionally and allowed me to contemplate what I would envision if I was placed in Dawn’s shoes. A significant portion of The Book of Two Ways is linked to Egypt, which follows some flashbacks to the past, as we backtrack to Dawn’s time as a student. This area of the novel was heavily researched, which is evidenced in the three page bibliography at the close of the book. While I appreciated the lengths Picoult went to in this area of her novel, aided by a first-hand trip to Egypt and consultation with specialists, I really felt bogged down in these areas of the book. However, if you have an appreciation for ancient Egypt, The Book of Two Ways will draw appeal, especially with the drawings that are inserted within the text. Picoult travels down some ambitious terrain in her new novel, pulling in ideas related to physics and philosophy. Although informative, I found this area of the novel to be weighty. Love and relationship decisions seem to guide the way in The Book of Two Ways. We witness a passionate affair that flourishes in the past sequences involving the young Dawn and Wyatt in Egypt. On the flip side, we witness a very functional relationship between Dawn and her physicist husband Brian. With the interplay of Dawn’s daughter and family members, Picoult presents a complex relationship based drama. Picoult’s approach to her characters is filled with clarity and vision. I could not fault her approach in this area of her novel. However, I disagreed with Dawn’s choices and morals in regards to her relationship with Wyatt. Most fascinating is the focus on death, brought about by Dawn’s unusual occupation as a death doula. I feel a bit ignorant not knowing about the existence of these workers. I have a great deal of respect for Dawn’s occupational choice. Assisting those to make informed personal choices and granting the wishes of palliative care patients would be incredibly hard. I know I wouldn’t have the strength to confront death and morality in the way that Dawn performs her work as a death doula. It was an interesting angle to take and it really showcases Picoult’s ability to think outside the box in regards to the direction of her writing. Startling, unique and stimulating, but heavy on research, The Book of Two Ways is an insightful novel from a bold storyteller. *I wish to thank Allen & Unwin for providing me with a free copy of this book for review purposes.

This didn’t wow me like most of Picoult’s books. I thought the parts about her being a death doula were more interesting than the Egyptology portions which felt like a history book at times.

The Book of Two Ways by Jodi Picoult. Was so looking forward to a new Jodi Picoult book. Reading the first part I developed an acute case of spring fever. I kept looking out the window wanting to be outside wishing the bell would ring so the lecture would end. It was well researched as with all Ms Picoult's books. The story had an interesting premise but there was too much technical information and not enough on the characters. Guess this is a book of two ways, either you going to like it or not. Thank you to the publisher, author, and NetGalley for the opportunity to preview the book.

I am generally a fan of Picoult’s writing, but my favorite part of this book was when I got to close it and put it away. My thanks go, nevertheless, to Net Galley and Ballantine Books for the review copy. Dawn is the sole survivor of a plane wreck, and as it goes down, she is assaulted by regret about the road not taken. (My apologies to Frost.) On land once again, she decides to go back to the life she abandoned when she married and had her daughter, to see what might have been; the life she was preparing for was that of an Egyptologist. There have been times when a novel features some area of history or science that I’ve never studied, and I find it so mesmerizing that it becomes my new favorite area to explore. This was not one of those times. In fact, it took me four tries to get through this thing, and even then, I skimmed much of the story from the fifty to seventy percentiles. I tried the audio version; no joy there, either. I grew bored and my mind wandered; then I didn’t understand what I was reading, so I had to go back over it to pick up the part I’d daydreamed through. In my defense, however, I have to say that the organization and frequently shifting points of view and time periods is enough to confuse the best of us, or at least give us whiplash. Picoult’s strength is creating strong, resonant female protagonists that are easy to bond with, but I didn’t ever warm up to Dawn. Let’s take, for example, the notion of simply walking away, not only from your husband that loves you and with whom, till now, you’ve had a loving and solid relationship; there’s the matter of walking away from a child, or considering doing so. No, no, no. No. NO. But mostly, this story just bored the living snot out of me. I have provided three stars, because some readers will enjoy the lessons in Egyptology; if you’ve always wanted to know more within this realm, perhaps this book will work for you. If you go there, get it free or cheap; don’t sink full cover price into this turkey.

if you get this book thinking it'll be like the first then you will definitely be disappointed like so many. reading it for myself i was super confused at first like wtf is this?????? lol i can't say i loved it. i dont even know if i liked it but i appreciate the journey.

While this story was wild and not at all what I expected, it was definitely intriguing and thought provoking. I love SS and I’ve purchased every last single book of hers, and will continue to do so. She gave me my first ever book bae, Midnight!! I love learning about different religions and I respect other's beliefs... so, the one thing that I absolutely did not like, was the message that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is not real. I believe in standing by your beliefs, but never degrade or knock someone else's. And it was stressed, quite emphatically, that the Holy Trinity is not real in this book. But overall a very different read! And I'll be preordering whatever she has coming next, just as I did this one.

Review to follow. Have to digest a lot here. Upfront, I will have spoilers when I write this. So be aware. Ok. I've heard the good bad and ugly but it is NOT the book you expected. The book opens with Winter leaving jail and about to break into a reality show of her own, along with a business for her and her girls. But here she walks out the jail and gets shot(unknowingly) by one of her girls who had an axe to grind. Ending up in a place called Last stop before the drop off, she encounters those who warn and try to hip her to what's up, but she ends up hooking up with this one dude That Nigga, who after she has sex with him, she turns into an animal. Rat once snake another. Cat yet another. The one she considers competition, tries to hip her to what's up, and on she goes on yet another adventure. She ends up in a convent followed by a club called One Night Only( a ultimate last stop before going to hell). She even tried to start her business there, but I'll stop here. What Winter was on was a spiritual quest. She didn't get the memo and why many kicked the book to the curb.

I’m not going to lie after the reading all the bad reviews I still wanted to read it for myself. So I did read and I can honestly say I was intrigued at the beginning and the more I read I didn’t feel as though it was a horrible read but I felt anxious to know how it was going to play out. Throughout the book I genuinely felt bad for Winter. It was 19 year old Winter that never grew up and still had some very hard lessons to learn. I definitely don’t agree with everything was written but I got the message they were trying to portray even though I felt it could have been presented in a better way because most things came off to me as pretty offensive as I’m sure a lot of people felt as well. Definitely not an normal sequel by far but an very interesting read. I don’t know if the author will be writing more books but I would still give an honest chance at any new works

Jokes 5/5, Storytelling 2/5, Editing 1/5 Stan and Joy have been married FOREVER and have recently retired from their Tennis School. As boredom sets in, they hear a knock on the door late one night. A mysterious girl is on their porch. Then, Joy goes missing. What happened to Joy? Is she alive or dead? And who is responsible? This book was quite funny; however, it was really, really long. Additionally, as a mystery, it could have been formatted in a much more compelling way. There was so much backstory on this that I even forgot that Joy was missing for a good portion of the book. Applies Never Fall tried to touch on way too many things all at once: the pandemic, all different kinds of relationships, Troy's views, Polly Perkins, migraines, depression, and more. It tried to cover everything and the kitchen sink. Truthfully, I would have enjoyed this book more if it was edited down to half of its length. Overall, a book which is funny at times but too long. 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango

Book = 467 pages totalling 144k words. Number of times a word appears: Mother = 494 Father = 271 Dad = 253 Tennis = 244 Girl = 237 Love = 217 Parents = 176 Mum = 152 Body = 65 Migraine = 57 Hate= 51 Apple = 44 Crumble = 27… 71 chapters. Average reading time: 11 to 12 hours (less than 8 for me). Audiobook: 18.1 hours (at normal speed) I know that I’m bored when I start counting words. Anyways… this book started very well and I thought that I was in for a good ride. Although I enjoyed the writing, the humour and the book structure, I did find it a bit boring and pointless. I did not even feel that entertained. I do think that it could have been reduced by 150 pages. I like reading stories around dysfunctional families, but here I thought that everything was too shallow. The fact that I wasn’t connected with any of the characters was not a problem, but I wish that I was able to feel something instead of numbness. I also tried the audiobook (borrowed from the public library) narrated by Caroline Lee, but unfortunately her voice is too squeaky for my ears and I couldn’t stand it. As for the conclusion, the author added a small section that includes the current pandemic, perhaps to make this book more current, but I don’t think that it was necessary, as it added nothing to the drama. Then we have the solution of the mystery, which wasn’t what I expected. So, why 3 stars? Because of her writing. There is a quality that I can’t ignore and it’s also so unpretentious, just the way I like.

3.5★ “She would say, Here is one possible motive and here is another, because any marriage of that many years has multiple motives for murder. Every police officer and hairdresser knows that.” There used to be an ad for hair colouring that said “only her hairdresser knows for sure”. Well, this is what Joy’s hairdresser said after Joy went missing. Moriarty is great at putting together an ensemble of players with identifiable voices and characteristics. The Delaneys are a family of six, parents Joy and Stan with their two sons and two daughters, all independent adults. The parents met playing tennis and have only just retired from their successful tennis coaching business. The kids played at different levels, and if you’re a tennis fan, you’ll probably appreciate the background. Another character, Savannah, is introduced early in the piece, and she is something else again. She arrives on a rainy night, out of the blue, knocks on the senior Delaneys’ front door, and with an empty nest, Joy welcomes her in. Joy has been worried about her memory and wonders if she's supposed to know this girl and has forgotten her. “She was only familiar in the way everyone seemed familiar these days. They’d just let a stranger into the house. She checked for signs of criminal tendencies and found none, although she wasn’t exactly sure how those tendencies would manifest themselves. The nose stud was really quite pretty.” Joy dives right in, cleans her up with a special bubble bath, finds some of Amy’s old clothes for her, and settles her in “Amy’s” room. “Amy, their eldest, their ‘free spirit’ as Joy liked to call her, their ‘problem child’ as Stan liked to call her, was turning forty next year, and she hadn’t officially lived at home for two decades, but she still used her old bedroom as a kind of permanent storage unit, because she never seemed to settle at one address long enough to properly relocate her possessions.” Amy also has blue hair and lives in a share house. Sister Brooke is a physiotherapist who goes to sports days secretly hoping for injured players she can recruit for treatment. Their brothers, Troy (financially successful trader in NYC) and Logan (fit, always employed locally), gather together with their sisters to try to figure out where their mother has gone. And who is this Savannah person who seems to have been living with their parents, doing all the cooking? The parents obviously loved having her there for a long time, but she's gone, too. We hear about Amy’s alternative lifestyle, Brooke’s migraines (and physio work), Troy’s expensive tastes and flashy cars and life in New York, and a bit about Logan’s rather quiet life in their hometown. He’s a decent man, often wearing rough work clothes. “He was a big, solid guy and he knew he should dress more respectably because women sometimes crossed to the other side of the street if they saw him walking behind them at night. He always wanted to shout out his apologies.” I do feel for these fellows who seem scary for no fault of their own. But as much as I enjoyed the individual characters and the last 25% or so of the story, the first three-quarters was so slow and (I hate to say it) boring that if it hadn’t been Liane Moriarty writing, I’d have abandoned it before the story picked up. I kept thinking (hoping, hoping!) something would happen that would explain why the beginning was so uninspiring. Having said that, I can see this easily being the basis for another mini-series. The cast possibilities are endless, and I reckon a good script with more suspense and bite could easily be developed from this. The premise is good and the ending is good. It's just way too slow getting there. Thanks to NetGalley and Pan Macmillan for the copy for review. I’ll still look forward to her next one.

kind of makes me laugh that i was bitching about middle aged couples and their portrayal in thrillers and then this book comes along

3 stars This was my first book by this author, and I think I chose wrong. It’s not at all a mystery like it’s marketed to be, but a contemporary fiction novel with mystery elements to the plot. This book is more of a character study of an entire family, two elderly parents with four full grown children. Their lives are thrown out of whack when a young woman appears on their doorstep and claims she needs a place to stay. There’s nothing really wrong with this book except the fact that it’s too long. I think Moriarty has gained such fame and acclaim from her other novels that editors no longer feel the need to edit the book because this was way longer than necessary and repetitive. I enjoyed the different perspective from the characters and the twists while sometimes obvious were well done. But overall I was thinking to myself “why is there three hours left in this audiobook when we already found out what happened?” and it was just okay for me.

I am beginning to think that Liane Moriarty truly hates people, or maybe she only hates the people she puts into her novels. Perhaps she comes up with all the traits she hates about the people she has to deal with in life and gets to write them into messed-up situations of despicability. Moriarty is one of the few in the contemporary genre who can pull a story with a large cast of leading narrators. However, in this case, I had too many voices and repeated events. Amy was my favorite of all of the Delaneys. The Tennis element was, of course, a fun addition. None of the family members seemed to care much that Joy was missing, and the constant story behind with the majority taking place in the present, WITH Joy being active in it, made me not care either. Overall it was good but not great. Liane still does an excellent contemporary novel, but this wasn't one of her shining gems for me. Solid 3-star.

POST READ: read this back in January, going to give the new series a watch and see how it compares…hopefully more promising than the book! 🤲🏼 This was my libraries book of the month and it’s been ages since I have read one of Liane’s books so I thought I give this rather long mystery a go… The first few chapters had me really intrigued. I genuinely thought I was in for an engaging page turner. However, sadly this wasn’t the case… I did read it pretty quickly but that’s because I wanted to get to the end sooner. Despite no being particularly drawn in by the plot of any of the characters, I was still curious as to what happened. Furthermore, in parts, it was actually quite funny. The only character I was slightly curious about was Savannah…and what was the purpose of her entering the story… Simply put it is a book about family, marriage and most of all SECRETS I certainly don’t understand the hype around it but I feel like if it has been about 150-200 pages (it was 484 pages) shorter it could have been a really good book.

3.5 ⭐️(rnd down⬇️ — I wound-up reading this one — against the odds really — for two reasons; 1) My Mother wanted to know if it was any good to see if she should invest her rare TV time in the show 2) acid I happened to have a copy I’d picked-up at a bargain for $4 as part of one of my customary yet continually absolutely ridiculously sized book-hauls a year or so ago. In any event I’m glad I did, as not only do I cherish every bit of Australian-Fiction I am able to read, but also because there were numerous moments and passages where LM landed a jab to the jugular — to the father of 4 in me — that gave me pause. In her 2021 Family-focused mystery "Apples Never Fall," Liane Moriarty delves into the complex & somewhat clouded weave of familial relationships with her — apparent, or so I’ve read — trademark verve and a keen psychological eye. The narrative orbits around the Delaneys—Joy and Stan, a couple united by their past as tennis coaches, and their four adult children. The sudden disappearance of Joy serves as the catalyst that unravels the tightly knit family fabric, revealing fissures that time and outward appearances have masked. LM also manages to throw in some quite unusual humour that I found enjoyable and this felt worth throwing in. Moriarty deftly alternates between past and present, weaving a rich tapestry of the Delaneys' collective and individual histories. This dual timeline is not merely a structural choice but a strategic one, illuminating the profound impact of long-held secrets and familial bonds on one's identity and choices. The narrative architecture she employs allows for a deep exploration of the characters' psyches, with each chapter peeling back layers to reveal deeper truths. Her portrayal of Joy and Stan captures the complexity of a long marriage, highlighting both the tenderness and the resentments that can accumulate over decades. The children, characterized by their distinct personalities and life choices, reflect the varied ways individuals carry and reshape family legacies. Moriarty's skill in character development shines here, presenting characters that are flawed, relatable, and deeply human. The insertion of Savannah, a mysterious figure with a troubled past, into the Delaney household introduces an element of suspense and serves as a mirror reflecting the family’s hidden fractures. While her role is pivotal, it occasionally feels contrived, as though her primary function is to propel the plot rather than to exist as a fully fleshed out entity within the story. Moriarty’s prose is imbued with a sharp wit and a clear, resonant voice that captures the nuances of Australian suburban life. The dialogues crackle with authenticity, weaving humor and pathos seamlessly. However, the resolution of the narrative, while providing closure, seems overly tidy. The intricate setup promises a denouement that could potentially unsettle yet ultimately veers towards the conventional, slightly diminishing the novel’s otherwise acute questioning of the idealized family unit. This novel really excels in its vivid and honest portrayal of modern life’s complexities, rendered with both precision & a genuinely adroit level of empathy. Moriarty offers not just a mystery but a profound commentary on the dynamics of love, rivalry, and redemption within a family. The novel is a compelling blend of suspense and deep emotional truth, confirming Moriarty's place as a masterful storyteller in contemporary fiction. Though its conclusion might not satisfy all, the journey there is richly rewarding, a testament to Moriarty’s prowess in dissecting the intricacies of the ordinary. So, yes — I told my mother to invest her soaring but dedicated TV time to the Sam Neill effort & suggested she stream it in good chunks, but with numerous sessions to ensure she soak-up what I hope to be a true to the novel portrayal that hits hard where it counts! I may round this up to 4 ⭐️ — but I’ll have to review my marginalia, which ergo is very minimal in comparison to anything else I’ve read this year.. hmmm — but it is 3.5 rounded down for now (which is basically a 3.49, I’m annoying I know). Definitely one to read for anyone whom enjoys a family drama that’s got a hefty-mystery element.

Part of me wants to give this a 2.5 Stars Part of me wants to give this 4 stars. I'll settle for 3.5 Stars. I'll very briefly explain. As far as a mystery goes, it wasn't enthralling. I spent most of the book wondering when the missing person storyline was really going to kick in. Don't get me wrong. I was not bored or disinterested because the story was really about people. People in all their complicated, contradictory, contrary, competitive, insecure, manipulative glory. There was a turning point when the missing person storyline finally turned up a notch when I realised I was fully absorbed with this bat-shit crazy family and the nosey people in their lives. This is a major slow burn. Like glacial. Ditch the expectation of mystery and just enjoy this character driven story.

I’ve read or listened to a good deal of Moriarty’s output, maybe all of it. My ratings have ranged from 2 stars (two books) to 5 stars (one book), with the average settling on 4 stars. So, I do like her books, but I also find the quality, or perhaps just the impact on me, to be variable. So what about this one? Well, there are good and bad elements to it, with my final judgement settling firmly in the middle. The Good: The setup is strong enough, featuring a tennis mad family living in Sydney, Australia. The mum and dad were strong players and eventually turned to running a tennis school. All of their children played tennis to a good standard, but none quite made it to the top level. The children are now grown up and have their own lives and separate challenges. One day, an inscrutable girl turns up at the house of the parents and, in a rather odd way, makes a temporary home there. There is a mystery to be unpicked here. I listened to an audio version narrated by Caroline Lee, who features on all of Moriarty’s audiobooks. Lee is brilliant, invoking both mood and personality in all of the characters. Her narration is, as always, peerless. There is a lot going on, with each member of the family facing challenges of their own and the lives of parents, in particular, are scrutinised ruthlessly in the split now and then narrative. For the most part, I enjoyed how the tale was set out and found myself interested in the story relating to each of the characters. Moriarty is strong on how people relate to each other, and the dialogue is, as always, well structured and believable. The Bad: It's is way too long. The audiobook plays for over 18 hours and includes too much filler, particularly the many tennis related anecdotes. I think it could/should have been trimmed to around half this length. Towards the end, I began to start wishing the whole thing would be quickly wrapped up – I was constantly checking how many hours were left to play. Although there are many interesting elements to the various strands, I thought that the ultimate outcomes (if not the detail of how we got there) were entirely predictable. This meant that though the components of the story were in their own way interesting and engaging, the ultimate experience became one of frustration and (dare I say) boredom. The author has written better. My tip (if you haven't already done so) is to try Little Lies which is excellent, and in my view by far her best, but avoid Nine Perfect Strangers and The Hypnotist's Love Story which I found to be the weakest. The others are all pretty good.

I have followed this FBI series by Catherine Coulter that features Savich and Sherlock in one way or another. Over the years, Savich's team have grown and changed and each new book usually introduces a couple of new characters. This time, it's new FBI agent Pippa who was sent undercover to her old hometown to investigate a series of ominous puzzles sent to Savich. There, she works with the chief of police Wilde, especially after she was knocked unconscious and tied up by an assailant as she investigates. There is also another plotline with a Congressman's young wife whose late grandfather is supposed to have come talk to her through a medium. The mystery there is a hidden treasure that this grandfather may or may not have stolen years before. Both story lines don't really mesh though, so it's like reading 2 short stories in one book. Pippa is a nice enough character. I wish there's more of Chief Wilde and we learn about his back story more. Overall, for those who have read this series before, it's a good enough book. It's like we're checking in on Savich and company and finding out how they're doing.

Great start. Predictable ending.

Deadlock is the 24th installment in an FBI series. As usual, I haven’t read the other books in this series so I can’t compare this novel to the rest. Suffice to say 24 novels would suggest the others have been good. My only complaint was the book was fairly long; I checked it out of the library three or four times as a result. Complicated plot. It worked as a standalone. Rebekah’s grandfather was a Congressman and now she’s married to an older Rep who knew him. She gets a bizarre call from a psychic, Zoltan, who tells her that her grandfather is trying to reach her from the great beyond. Her grandmother believes in that stuff but she doesn’t; she decides to go with her new husband’s encouragement. Zoltan feeds her a bunch of baloney and Rebekah tells her to stuff it. Basically, her dead grandfather is supposedly trying to get her to cash in a fortune he and his bestie stole. They have long called it the Big Take and Rebekah always thought it was a silly story her grandpa made up. The next day, Rebekah is nearly kidnapped but an FBI agent happens to see it and rescues her. This begins this 24th book in the series, including an FBI Agent named Savich and his wife Agent Sherlock. I read a lot of suspense and thrillers so I feel qualified to say this was 100% adequate but it’s not going to be your new favorite book. Under no circumstances will I be going back to read the previous 23 installments. That said, a lot of the action took place in DC and had to do with politics so I became fairly homesick as I read. It captured the essence of our nation’s capital. Given current events, it’s hard to recognize that Washington, DC these days.

This is my first Catherine Coulter novel. I decided to stop reading Jack Reacher novels after two of them crossed my comfort threshold. I wanted to read something different. My initial impression was that this novel was far removed from the confrontational style of Lee Child's novels. It was more cerebral and less physical. It felt odd that I found myself missing some of that in your face confrontational style. Here, the pace was more measured and methodical. The plot line did have some interesting twists which I appreciated. However, it did not hold my interest as much as had hoped. I have no intention of returning to Lee Child's novels at this point. But I think I am looking for story lines somewhere in between Lee Child's work and Catherine Coulter.

This was my first book I've read in the FBI Thriller series. There were a lot of character and subplots to keep straight in 465 pages. There was a medium who received messages from the dead, corrupt, rich, controlling politicians, arson, boxes delivered with jigsaw puzzle pieces, kidnaping, attacks, stealing millions from a foreign country, several old cases overlapping, hidden money, undercover agent, families hiding secrets, psychopath, FBI, local small town police, murder cover ups, blackmail, all of it urgent. Toooo many subplots to sort through. If I had read the 23 FBI thrillers before this I would have recognized Special FBI Agents Dillon Savich, Sherlock, and Griffin.

Not up to par Hope this book is a fluke, because this was one of my favorite series. Annoys me the unrealistic work dynamics. Senior person babysitting. A non experienced person getting moved to a department after a week for not stellar work, and approval by top FBI, when her study is accounting. There may be a path, but it's always just magic. Savich is a manager, but he's the one running to save Pippa, but shes already saved. I did like the Wilde and Pippa connection. Somewhat dull, Lot's of unrealistic, lots of expected. Glad I borrowed from library.

I have read all of the books and I am a fan but this may be my last for two reasons. First it was very complicated and confusing especially at the end. And second, and I have made this compaint before, the appeal of this book besides the mystery is the wonderful Three Pines residents. I don't know why they are not included in the novels more. I think that is the reason the tv series wasn't successful. There is a phrase - don't mess with success and think Louise Penny has sadly done that. In short, too many red herrings and not enough Three Pines.

I’m so sad… After waiting the longest amount of time for this book it was by far my least favorite. Nearly no Three Pines or the people who live there. A plot that was more Robert Ludlum than Louise Penny. A huge crime thought up and solved by Superman Gamache and his hunches. So many characters - many of whom didn’t need to be there at all. I hated the part where his kids, who are raising young families, hand over thousands of dollars of credit card debt on yet another hunch. Reine Marie as a babysitter. So very flowery and wordy. I pre-ordered this one because I loved #18 so much. I’ll read #20, but I’ll wait until it’s available at the library.

I adore Penny but this book just didn’t deliver the usual punch. I listened and maybe she’s an author I prefer reading via a physical book? But the story just felt flat and contrived. And we miss out on our favorite Three Pines characters (and time in the town itself) who are barely mentioned in this story. I’ll always read her but this wasn’t my favorite.

The Grey Wolf By Louise Penny I have read five of the early books in this series over the past few years, and while I appreciate the wonderful sense of place that Penny has created in her fictional village of Three Pines, I never fully succumbed to the famous charms of it's people, finding them quite flat and unnuanced, falling into either the goodie or baddie stereotypes. One bear bug has been the tone deafness of this author over certain things that would just not wash these days, and so I was willing to read a recent book having been informed that her sensitivities have evolved over the past few years. Apart from one character calling another a fag at the 2% mark, it's fair to say that slurs, fat shaming and derogatory language are notably absent, which left me free to enjoy the story. I have missed quite a lot, 13 episodes to be exact, but the early chapters have a lovely familiarity to them, which kind of surprised me, familiarity is not something I seek in reading, nonetheless, I found myself coming over all warm and fuzzy. It's not a spoiler to mention that the action soon moves away from Three Pines, so I didn't have long with the old reliables. Maybe that's the trick for me? A quick hello, then onwards and upwards. How to describe this mystery: completely baffling. If Inspector Clouseau was called in to solve a Dan Brown case, coded messages, hit and runs, mad monks, cloistered communities, eco terrorism, but nothing gets solved by skill or forensics, rather by accident via faulty reasoning and bungled theories. Several early chapters are devoted to the case of the missing/ returned jacket, and I can't be the only one who was wondering what the point was, pages upon pages of claptrap, repetition, banality. Having been assured that the action really kicks off at the 79% mark, I ploughed through the silliness, and actually, it's true. If you can buy into the preposterous storyline, manage expectations regarding a sensible outcome and let yourself go, there's a decent amount of compelling plot to enjoy. I'm not sure what Penny fans are going to think of the cliff hanger ending. Did Penny intrigue me enough to continue with the series, or even go back to the ones I skipped? Probably not. Publication date: 31st October 2024 Thanks to #NetGalley and #HodderStoughton for the eGalley

** spoiler alert ** I don't know. Did I read this in just a couple of days? Yes. At the end did I discard the audiobook for the ebook because I can read faster than even the narrator at 1.75 speed and I very much wanted to know what happened next? Yes. But set your suspension of disbelief to "high" to get through this one. I actually thought I missed a chapter or at least a few paragraphs when they went full throttle into the "domestic terrorism to poison the water supply" direction. They must have uncovered evidence that I missed somehow? No, I hadn't missed anything. They just jumped to that conclusion faster than the characters in The Phantom Tollbooth got to their island. But of course it's Armand Gamache and he can't be wrong. Oh, one of his most trusted colleagues is in on the conspiracy? Of course he is. And that blogger subplot, was that going somewhere? No, it was not. But maybe it will? It appears this is part one of a two parter, because it ends on a cliff hanger and the final few pages indicated a "Black Wolf" book would be forthcoming next year. Will I read it, even though I thought the Grey Wolf was kind of ludicrous? Yes, I will.

Did someone else write this? Did she have a ghost writer! The story was slow, contrived, confusing, full of holes and disappointing. And Gamache often said things that were not Gamache like. 2 stars is harsh and pains me to give to Louise Penny. I will give the sequel a chance… but I feel like I’m owed a Gamache book. And it’s not the setting, I think sometimes having a bread from the Olivier/Ruth fag/hag routine and hearing “as ducks often do” and about the food in Clara’s hair is a good break. Too much flying about, Gamache agonizing about not telling people about the situation, which he’s always understood before, odd instances of Gamache yelling, not acting the gentlemen he usually is. Reine-Marie whining where she’s never questioned him before. Is this the most corrupt police department? Why is Gamache always beset by huge conspiracies?

Not bad, but not great. Too many characters in too many places. A sort of unbelievable plot line. I know it’s fiction, but still…Too many things going on and very difficult to follow. The part with the blogger that had it in for Gamache was pointless and went nowhere. Not her best work. And it seems it will be continued.

(Audiobook @ 1.5 speed) I’ve listened to all of the series for the first time over the last few months, some of my favorite books I’ve read in a long time, so impressive as a series, I’ve looked forward to each one more than I ever did with Poirot, who was my first detective love. After listening to one after another I was devastated to reach the end of the series and desperate for this to come out. Perhaps I put too much pressure on it because the last several of the series were 5 stars for me. This was almost DNF!!! I gave I 3 stars because I don’t want to skew the ratings too much because it’s more of a personal preference rating than a deficit of Penny’s writing, or even the new narrator on the audiobook who I thought was wonderful. Of the whole series there were 2 maybe 3 that I just didn’t enjoy, but pushed through for the sake of the series - 2 that stand out were similar in some ways to this one - not largely taking place in 3 Pines, with all those characters that we love so much, and not being a murder investigation for the large part, but more of solving organized crime, which is just too large scale and I just don’t enjoy it. Mostly characters that I just don’t really care about (please don’t judge me heartless, I care about the problem, the potential outcome, but it’s fiction and all the characters are underwhelming, this just isn’t her specialty and I need to be in the right frame of mind to get into stories like this. I come to Penny for her intimate and cultured investigative style). I did love The Devils are all Here, for the record, one of my favorites. I half heartedly finished, just for the sake of knowing what’s going on in the next book we get, I personally would have rated this a 1 star, it was just so boring to me. The first few chapters were so promising and engaging, and the ending tied everything up nicely, like the last 2 chapters, but everything in the middle was treacherous :( All of it.

I have loved the Gamache series - I’ve listened to all of them on audiobook. This one I listened to twice. And I’m still not totally sure what happened. On the first listen I was frustrated by knowing I was being given clues but absolutely no way to arrange them to even make a guess at what was happening. And when listening, it’s hard to keep all these little pebbles straight and remember them all. I listened a second time with the belief that if I knew the end game, the clues along the way would make sense and I’d understand the ending. While it did help a little, I’m still mostly confused. Louise Penny is such a gifted writer; frequently I was struck by a turn of phrase. This book was vastly better than “The Madness of Crowds” (book #17) which was so jumbled and politicized it wasn’t enjoyable. This book was a good ride but, like “A World of Curiosities” (book #18), has so many story lines the ending is not satisfyingly wrapped up. I’d rather finish and say, “Ohhhh!! I get it! Clever!” Instead, the last few books leave me asking, “What happened? I don’t get it.” And the ending sets up a part 2 leaving the end even more unresolved.

I miss the times when the books were all about Three Pines, the people who lived there and Gamache's investigative skills. In the most recent books from the series, Penny has Gamache fighting terrorist groups, uncovering international crime rings, flying to Vatican and dealing with drug cartels - I just don't like these implausible plots. If I wanted to read about Robert Langdon and his adventures in Vatican, I would. It's a shame that what was once so unique and comforting about the books is no longer there.

Well, fuck me. This was about the most lackluster astronaut book I've ever read. You have to understand, I'm a huge space nerd. I've read countless books on NASA, space exploration, astronauts, the shuttle program; you name it, I've read it. In fact, if we were to stack rank random topics, all my top spots would be taken up by everything space. So when I heard one of my favorite authors was writing a book about one of my favorite topics, I about fainted. But right off the bat, I could tell something was off. We open with the most climactic, pivotal scene of the story. It should've grabbed me with the force of a thousand suns, but it didn't. It somehow was both too detailed and also not enough, throwing what seemed like twenty new characters at me in the span of two pages while lacking the technical details that would've convinced me we really were in the midst of a space mission. It left me feeling more confused than anything else. Since this is a dual timeline, we then proceed to alternate between this climactic scene and the seven years leading up to it as Joan becomes a full-fledged astronaut. And while I did enjoy Joan's journey of finding herself and growing through her relationships, I can't help but feel that something was lacking here too. There was so little time spent on her actual astronaut training and so much time spent on her personal life, that it felt like I was reading generic women's lit instead of the singular, exciting story I was promised. I zoned out constantly. There were so many characters (all introduced around the same time and none of whom stood out) that I had trouble keeping everyone straight in my head. And what should've been the exciting, technical, space portions of the book were replaced by seemingly endless discussions about constellations (my love for space does not extend to star configurations, it seems) and pseudo-philosophical chitchats about the meaning of life. I was worn down. But even the lack of an astronaut story aside, this still had the feeling of being aggressively bland while also being overly emotional. Every scene in this book—from the contents of the pivotal scene, to the intercutting of it throughout the book, to Joan's relationships with Vanessa and Frances, to all the meaning of life chats—felt like it was set up for maximum emotional hit, almost superficially so. And while I'm not opposed to being emotionally manipulated, this book did it so openly and so obviously that I can't help but cry foul. Looking back, I should've known my expectations were too high and I was bound for disappointment. It says right there on the cover that this is "a love story" after all. But the heart wants what it wants, and mine wanted an astronaut story, damn it. In my defense though, what was I supposed to think? Andy Weir blurbed for this book, for crying out loud! And after Carrie Soto, in which TJR managed to take the complex, technical game of tennis and make it absolutely mesmerizing to us plebs who know nothing about the game, I thought she could write anything. After all, Carrie Soto was amazing because TJR didn't shy away from including all of its technical intricacies, not in spite of it. So of course I thought lightning would strike twice, and TJR would do so again here. I thought I would get the perfect symbiosis of astronaut and woman, technical and emotional, science and love. But instead, the astronaut part of the story was so watered down that it felt almost like an afterthought and we'd have pretty much the same story if Joan had chosen some other career. Clearly, I wasn't the right audience for this book. My thoughts are decidedly in the minority, and I'm pretty sure my issues here are exactly why so many other readers loved it. So don't let me dissuade you. But do set your expectations correctly before going in—this is a love story, not an astronaut story. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo Carrie Soto Is Back Daisy Jones & The Six Malibu Rising After I Do ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

One of my most anticipated reads of the year turned out to be underwhelming ☹️ I preordered this book months ago, but it wasn't until my preorder showed up that I saw the book had a subtitle: "A Love Story." Romance isn't really my genre, but I reread the blurb and figured that maybe it was meant symbolically-- like a love for the universe, or for Earth. Something like that. That's what this sounds like to me: As the new astronauts prepare for their first flights, Joan finds a passion and a love she never imagined and begins to question everything she believes about her place in the observable universe. It wasn't. Atmosphere is maybe 20% about a woman in the 1980s space shuttle program and 80% romance. And you know what? If you're looking for a romance with a bit of a space backdrop, then it's quite good. Very sweet. I liked both characters. Definitely cheesy sometimes, but it's hard to find vegan romance. The beginning is the most arresting part of the whole book, and it certainly got my attention. Disaster strikes very dramatically, then we jump back in time to learn about the years leading up to this mission. The middle of the book is where it had lots of ups and downs in terms of keeping my interest. I would become interested, but then it would get repetitive and I would just be reading to make it through that chapter. The subplot with Frances and that POS Barb had me invested-- more so than the love story, if I'm being honest. In fact, I think my interest in how this would resolve is what took the book up to 3 stars. Burning fury always speaks to me more than sweet romance, but, hey, that's enough about my issues. The ending I won't spoil, but I will say I found it almost annoyingly predictable how everything played out. So... written well enough, if you enjoy Reid's writing, and with a decent cast of characters. But I wanted more about Joan as one of the first female astronauts at NASA, and less about Joan as a girlfriend. I know we were warned-- it clearly says "A Love Story" on the front page of the book --but reading the blurb once again, I don't really think we were warned enough.

"by taylor jenkins reid" is all i need to know. it's not only why i read this book — it's also why i finished it. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... i think space is scary and gross, and science was my least favorite subject in school, so this synopsis never jumped out to me. even when i was reading it, i never particularly wanted to get back to it. but i did enjoy it when i did. by the end, i cared about the relationships here — joan and vanessa, joan and frances — even when didn't care about the characters. or space. that's the tjr effect. bottom line: readable and enjoyable always. 3.5

And in this book, we’ll learn that Mick Riva was responsible for the Challenger explosion.

TJR is one of the best writers of our generation. That ending was a total knockout. But other than that, this just wasn’t my book.

Houston, I have a problem. It’s 1984. Joan Goodwin has worked her way up in a man’s world at the Houston space centre. She’s navigating a team of astronauts on a mission who are headed for disaster. One of them being someone whom she cares for. The story dips back into the depths of that relationship. TJR tackled many themes. Workplace and sexual discrimination; identity challenges; family dysfunction; sacrifices women make to position themselves in the corporate world. All with a cool backdrop of space exploration and some intense moments. Yet, at times, the writing was overly gushy and repetitive. This was very much a sapphic romance. I wanted more space training! As for that ending, TJR? Why did you take that detour? That was an atmospheric bust. Overall 3.5⭐️

oooo this shit was thiiiiiis close to pissing me off at the end there. turned out ok in the end though.

Full Disclosure. I was a fan of Jenkins Reid earlier books. Which means as I started to read more of her, I found myself not as attracted to the storytelling, as I was before. So, when this one hit the bestseller list, as most of hers typically do, I wasn’t in line to read it. Good Morning America even had it as their book club pick, for June, 2025. Shouldn’t that change my mind? At that time…No. Then it was donated to my Little Free Library Shed. Regardless of how I felt about it, I knew it would be ‘checked out’ immediately. So, was I willing to give this author and me another chance? Yes. But. Well, before the but, let’s discuss what the story has. A forbidden love. Plot twists. Women as astronauts. LGBTQ+ challenges. Historical perspective of the space program and training. Women empowerment. The legacy left behind. Lots of characters. What stood out for me…. Jenkins Reid showcases complex characters and a deeply emotional and moving love story not just centered on the feelings of ‘first love’ but how love plays out with our connection to the universe. Especially as the author takes readers to space. There was so much about this aspect of space and training, and women’s challenges navigating a typical man’s world that could be considered a worthy read. But. And, there is that ‘but’ again. At times the story fell flat in its telling. And, unfortunately it started at the beginning, where readers could easily become bored, frustrated and restless with all the characters and timelines to keep track of. Thus, making it hard to become invested in the story, overall. And, sometimes the pacing of the story felt rushed and areas that needed more input were lacking. The dialog also didn’t always flow naturally. And, the plot tended to come across as over-emotional at times, with a predictable pretentious ending. I am most likely an outlier, so I recommend reading other reviews.

Thanks to the publisher Piatkus for sending me a copy of this book. This book had me in a grip with the first sentence. I was so curious and also it has been a while since I read a Nora Roberts book. Harry started stealing when he was nine to protect his dying mother, robbing the rich because it was a way for him to hold unto his mother. It was beautiful reading his relationship with his mother and sister and people around him growing up. He has a different persona depending on who he wants to present himself as, what he wants to hige or get and where he is not just geographically but his head space. This book running over a long period of time (a life span) let's us get a lot more about Harry, his motivations and justification for his actions. Sometimes, you can tell what he plans to do because you have grown up with him. So even when he falls on Carter LaPorte's radar, you can already anticipate Harry's (Silas/Booth/Sebastian) complex reaction and need to escape. I really enjoyed the way the book was structure, Harry is such an amazing character and to see him grow. Also, I loved how vivid the locations were (that is something that Nora does so well), it immerses you. Yes, there is also romance. It was very very very slow paced, so definitely know that going in. It does pick up at about 50% in.

Oh Emily… what are we doing here?? Got my hands on a pre-release (!!!), was fully prepped to be obsessed, and instead I was sitting there like—hello?? romance? anyone home?? First of all: STOP. MISGENRING. BOOKS. I don’t care how beautiful the prose is (and yes, the writing was gorgeous)—this book is being sold as a romance. It is not a romance. This was women’s fiction with mystery sprinkles and a dry slow-burn subplot that didn’t even simmer. And I say this as someone who eats up slow burns like it’s my full-time job. THE PREMISE? 10/10. Two writers competing to write a juicy biography about a missing heiress with an NDA and some forced proximity? HELLO, SIGN ME UP. THE EXECUTION? 3/10. It got so bogged down in Margaret Ives and her family’s drama that the entire romance thread between Alice and Hayden became background noise. Beige. Blurry. Basically invisible. Alice was the classic “sunshine with big dreams” type, but with all the sparkle of a soggy saltine. Hayden, the grumpy Pulitzer-winning grump, had the emotional depth of a half-written poem. Did I want to love them? YES. Did I ever really see them fall in love? NOPE. Not even a little. One minute it’s “Who even is this man?” and the next it’s “I love him.” Girl, where? WHEN? Did I blink and miss the entire emotional arc??? Margaret’s story… whew. Boring. Predictable. At one point I swear the book forgot who the main characters were supposed to be. We spent 80% of the book digging through Margaret’s lineage like it was an ancestry.com deep dive and somehow forgot to make her interesting?? I needed glamour, secrets, drama. All I got was a slow drip of exposition and one ridiculous twist that made me want to fling the book across the beach. The romance. Forced proximity with zero actual chemistry? Check. Sexual tension that felt like two magnets trying to repel each other? Check. Cringe spice scenes I literally skipped because I couldn’t handle secondhand embarrassment? Unfortunately, check. Hayden went from stone cold silence to trauma dumping in monologues that felt like rejected Oscar speeches. And Alice just stood there being quirky and mildly confused. Girl SAME. And the ending? OH THE ENDING. It tried to become a full-on mystery novel with plot twists flying in from left field like it was auditioning for a new genre entirely. I was so confused I had to reread pages just to make sure I hadn’t missed anything. Spoiler: I hadn’t. It was just That. Random. BUT LISTEN. I didn’t hate it. I flew through the book. Emily’s writing is undeniably magnetic. Some lines had me gasping, others had me giggling, and there were a few moments of pure ✨magic✨. The small-town beach setting? A vibe. Hayden’s grumpiness? Initially attractive. The potential? THROUGH THE ROOF. But ultimately? This wasn’t a romance. This wasn’t emotionally satisfying. This wasn’t the Emily Henry book I waited all year for. If this had been marketed as a women’s fiction novel with literary ambitions and a dash of romance, I’d be like “cool cool, let’s unpack.” But calling this a romance is misleading, and for me, that disconnect colored the entire experience. I wanted swoony Emily Henry banter and high-stakes tension. I got family trees and trauma. Give me Hayden and Alice as enemies-to-lovers, cooped up in a cottage, battling for biographer glory with banter and kisses and “oh no there’s only one bed”—THAT’S the book I thought I was reading. Instead, I got chapters on generational guilt, a dead romance, and a biographer battle that had no real stakes. FINAL THOUGHTS: 3 stars. A gorgeous mess with a broken heart and a beautiful typewriter. Loved the vibe. Hated the bait and switch. Still a fan. Just… sad. EmHen, you’re still my girl. I just miss the kissing, yearning, and banter that made me scream into my pillow—in the best way.

first and foremost, i respect Emily Henry for doing something new (for her). this was less rom-com than one would typically expect from her, which will be great for some and a big disappointment for others. to be honest, i went into this with relatively low expectations. as someone who didn’t love either of EH’s last two releases (funny story + happy place) and rated them more generously than i actually felt, i didn’t expect much. overall, this was fine. let’s break it down, shall we? ╔════what to expect════╗ ➺ grumpy x sunshine ➺ two competing writers ➺ 70/30 split of fiction to romance ➺ very plot-driven, less fluff (once again… not as rom-com as one may expect) ➺ lots of focus on a third character, Margaret — someone the FMC & MMC are both writing about/for ➺ Georgia setting ➺ familial problems, generational drama, celebrity POV – very reminiscent of Evelyn Hugo in some ways ➺ meshing of multiple genres… romance, fiction, mystery? ➺ decent banter, per usual ╔════what i loved════╗ ➺ i love Em Hen’s writing even if i don’t always love her stories ➺ the name Hayden is top tier ➺ Margaret’s plot line (until about the last 10%) ➺ a tall FMC (i’m a 5’9 girlie myself, though i’ve never had trouble sitting across from anyone) ➺ i always love occupational or academic rivalries… makes for good banter and a healthy amount of competition ➺ little acts of service like leaving croissants or coffee/tea for each other ➺ the sunshine’s personality wasn’t over the top annoying like it can easily be in so many romances (i’m grumpy, ok?) ╔════a side note about feeling oddly neutral════╗ ➺ um… somehow i felt neutral towards this book THE ENTIRE TIME? i read 400-ish pages of this and never formed a solid opinion about anything (the romance, the plot, the characters, Margaret, the twists + reveals) until writing this review. if anyone saw my reading updates for this, you'd understand. ╔════what didn’t work for me════╗ ➺ SO MANY EYEBROW MOVEMENTS – arching, raising, pinching, curving, flinching, furrowing, leaping, tilting, creasing, and flicking (at least they don’t have Botox, i guess) ➺ the ‘chortles’ are back, albeit not as many as previous books (i mentioned this in my review for funny story) ➺ an abundant and obsessive use of italics on nearly every page in seemingly unnecessary spots ➺ no FMC description besides having bangs that always stick to her forehead and short-ish hair. i personally need a visual while reading and i wasn’t able to picture our FMC. ➺ i wasn’t shocked by or very invested in any of the reveals. the last 10% of this book was a bit anticlimactic & disappointing for me ☹️ ➺ didn’t feel a lot of chemistry between the two main characters. Hayden has a great name, but isn’t really book boyfriend worthy as always, 3 stars is not a bad rating, but merely an okay one.

I say this as an Emily Henry enthusiast: Emily.... slow down!!!! We don't need a book every single year if that means sacrificing the quality!!!!! This feels like a first draft that needed another look, because the structure honestly doesn't work. Premise? Fantastic. Execution? A great big mess! Great BBL blends three genres: literary fiction, romance, and a little bit of mystery. Howeverrrr, I'm not sure it will fully satisfy fans of any of those genres, because it doesn't succeed particularly well in any of them. The mystery aspect is flimsy at best. It's not well-paced and, frankly, a bit gimmicky. It's tacked on at the end and doesn't really add much texture (view spoiler) The romance doesn't really make sense, because the FMC falls in love almost overnight and yet -- aside from being tall? -- the MMC doesn't really have any defining character traits. It's classic grumpy x sunshine but all of a sudden he stops "glowering" and she's in love with him. I'm not really sure what their attraction is based on, aside from being the only young people within a 10-mile radius. The literary fiction comes in the form of Margaret: a socialite who disappeared from the public eye but wants to tell her story. If that sounds like Evelyn Hugo............ that's because it kind of is. EmHen tried to re-heat Taylor Jenkins Reid's nachos and they were... a little stale. It's been done! And it's been done better. The first half of Margaret's interviews are really really boring, and seem to just interrupt the original story in pointless ways. We should've skipped most of Margaret's lineage and backstory, and I feel like a good editor would've got rid of that immediately. Why the fuck were we learning about her grandparents!!!! Entire chapters could've easily been reduced to a few sentences. To me, this reads like a screenplay. It would probably work on screen, but as a novel it's just a bit underwhelming. I can't help but feel that Great BBL was rushed, and that the mammoth edits required would've set back the release so much that she just pushed through. I fear her publishers are so committed to rinsing Emily Henry dry that they're sacrificing the quality writing we have come to love (and expect) from her. In this press run for this book, she's ALREADY teasing a new (snowy) novel that she's writing. I'm not saying she shouldn't be writing something new yet, but I think her team should be advising her to let people focus on one book at a time. I'd rather wait longer for something consistently good. The premise of Great BBL was brilliant, but this is clumsy handling of a delicate thing. A bit more time to work on it, and it could've been salvaged. I'm frustrated because I know this author can do so much better. This iteration is disappointing. 2.75 rounded up ⭐️⭐️⭐️

The concept of a story within a story & having an em hen book that’s not solely focused on our two main characters, but rather having a 3rd pretty prevalent one seemed so new and fun and refreshing to me! Seeing how Hayden & Alice met/started hanging out/their dynamic at first I was really into! On the other hand, Margaret’s story actually bored me to bed. & then the romance pacing went from 0-100 I was so confused!!! Where’s the yearning???? The emily Henry banter???? The witty MMC???? (The two stories just didn’t feel cohesive to me) Anyway, I put my trust into her to deliver an interesting story with Margaret’s life, but I feel like we just got a family tree with no DRAMA or SCANDAL. I was waiting and waiting …. and it was not as dramatic as I’d hoped This isn’t my favorite emily Henry (could actually be my least favorite) & that’s okay. I still enjoyed my reading experience, there were some beautiful quotes & moments, the setting was really cute, but overall it just felt a bit meh most of the time

Oh nooo… not this day! I truly never thought this moment would come — the bloody day I’d give an Emily Henry book less than five stars. Not even four... but a gut-wrenching, soul-sinking 2.5 stars! 😩 Now, before you throw your bookmarks at me, let me clarify — I’m not heartless enough to slap a cold two-star rating on anything written by my favorite romance queen. (Seriously, I’d proudly strut around in a T-shirt plastered with her book covers!) So, out of sheer loyalty, I’m begrudgingly rounding up to three stars, because... well, it’s Emily Henry. I know I’m not alone here — many readers have voiced their concerns, and even though we try not to let our biases creep in, especially as loyal fans of both Emily and Taylor Jenkins Reid, the plot parallels with The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo are hard to ignore. And let’s be honest: Margaret Ives just didn’t cut it as a compelling, layered character. I never fully connected with her, and her backstory simply didn’t grab me. Every time the narrative veered into Margaret’s storyline, I swear I started yawning, snoozing like a nine-month-old after a bottle — complete with puffing baby sounds. 🙄 I found myself constantly taking “breaks” — to rewatch You (which, let’s be real, wasn’t even that exciting), to have long brunches that turned into existential lunch crises, followed by therapeutic five o’clock teas. Was the book stressing me out? Possibly. I even wondered if I was swelling from the narrative drag. But somehow, I kept crawling back just to savor the slightly better parts between Alice and Hayden. If not for their subplot, I would’ve confidently dropped this to a flat two stars — no regrets. I so desperately wish their story had been told through a more classic trope — maybe rivals-to-lovers or forced proximity — something with heat and tension! But alas, Margaret was part of the package deal, and she couldn’t just be erased like Pedro Pascal’s name in The Last of Us Episode 3 credits (don’t get me started on that emotional damage…). Maybe I’m just in a weird reading slump. Maybe I’m not emotionally available for a book like this right now. Maybe it’s the strawberry matcha almond milk latte I regret ordering instead of my usual cold brew. Whatever the reason, this story just wasn’t for me — at least not today. So, I’m going to take a deep breath, go for a walk, maybe binge something uplifting on Apple TV (Studio or Pitt on Max, anyone?), and give this one another shot in a few weeks with a fresh mindset. Emily Henry is still my favorite, and she deserves a second chance… but for now? Three reluctant stars. And a hug to my reader heart. 💔📚 medium blog instagram facebook twitter

this is one of those plots that’s great in hindsight but not on paper. like i wanna see this as a movie, limited series, but reading it felt like a drag. which is why i switched to the audiobook half way through. it made it 10X better i can’t lie. love emily henry but this felt like all the right ingredients but the wrong execution. the romance was cute for the most part but not that believable. the “story” was ehh?? every time we would jump back into the past of Margret’s story it was a snooze fest until the last few chapters when things started adding up. i will say the mystery aspect of this was my favorite, surprisingly. jaw dropped may i add. i just wanted to see how it all came together in the end, and i enjoyed the turn of events. but as a romance girly, the romance was a sub sub plot. i would like a little more push and pull with these characters. it seems like they got together on a whim. and i’m here thinking “yall barely know each other” but whatever the ending felt rushed. i think i needed 1 chapter of just them. would i recommend? maybe but it’s nothing to write home about 🫣

OUTLIER REVIEW: Opening sentence: “There’s an old saying about stories and how there are always three versions of them, yours, mine and the truth.” Alice Scott is a coffee drinking, “happy go lucky” staff writer for “The Scratch”. Hayden Anderson is a sullen, Pulitzer-prize winning-Iced Green Tea drinking-music journalist and biographer. And they are both on balmy Little Crescent Island for the same reason-competing to write the biography of a woman no one has seen in years-Margaret Ives. She is the tragic heiress of one of the most famous (and scandalous) families of the 20th Century, and also the wife to the late rock and roll legend, Cosmo Sinclair. And, Margaret has invited them both for a one-month trial period, after which she’ll choose the person who will win the right to tell her story. The book will include THEIR VERSION (the Press) and HER VERSION-(Margaret’s) but will it actually include the TRUTH? We will hear about her story as Alice interviews her. Many reviewers are comparing this to TJR’s books-and I would agree. And, although I enjoyed TJR’s early work-I am an OUTLIER for the books that put her on the map-the ones that explore messy celebrity lifestyles…they just don’t interest me. So, if you enjoy her work-you will probably enjoy this book too. But, since I wasn’t enamored by Margaret’s story-I didn’t find the “reveal” surprising-and I couldn’t buy into the ROMANCE between Alice and Hayden which almost INSTANTLY developed- this was just an AVERAGE read for me. Had we ALSO been privy to Hayden’s interviews with Margaret, and been able to see the “competition” in play-I might have found this story more unique and compelling. AVAILABLE NOW Thank You to the Chandler Public Library for the loan of this copy.

First Abby Jimenez’s new release was disappointing and now this one?? Maybe I’m the problem 😔✋

3.5 rounded down to 3 for GR. this just… didn’t feel like the usual EmHen magic of a book 😭😩 she’s 0 for 2 on her last two releases for me and that hurts to write. 👀 note my updated EmHen author ranking at the bottom! early reviews compared this to THE SEVEN HUSBANDS OF EVELYN HUGO and i can see it, but also think that comparison isn’t fair bc TJR did a better job. EmHen focused more on a historical/women’s fiction take on the mysterious history of Margaret Ives and her wealthy, messy Hollywood family but to be honest, i couldn’t get into that part of the plot at ALL. Miss Margaret was boring 🥲🤣 🎧 i did a combo of audio + physical of this one and almost wish i kept with the audio. the first 60% ish was audio with the perfect narration of Julia Whalen and she set the tone right for me. i was digging the first half but the back fizzled out. (felt the same on FUNNY STORY tbh) the romance is deff more of a “B” plot in this one (similar to Abby Jimenez’s new one actually) but i was liking it. usually forced proximity and workplace tropes are not my fave but EmHen did it well. i wish this was more of the focus, but i will say i was shook when the L word dropped lol. the small town beach town setting was also a vibe and one of my fave parts as i was reading this beachside in a similar setting so i felt ~immersed~ proud of her for trying something new and this will still be a bestseller bc she’s made such a name for herself (well deserved and is an autobuy for me!), but this was lacking the typical swoony banter and strong love story we all know and love from her. if you told me another author’s name was on the cover and it wasn’t an EmHen book, i woulda never known any better 🥹 my updated ranking (and the top 2 are SUPERIORLY higher than the bottom 4 btw): HAPPY PLACE BOOK LOVERS …. … .. BEACH READ GREAT BIG BEAUTIFUL LIFE FUNNY STORY PEOPLE WE MEET ON VACATION thanks to Berkley for gifted early copy & Libro FL for the early ALC!

✩ 3 stars ✩ “Love isn’t something you can cup in your hands, and I have to believe that means it’s something that can’t ever be lost.” What to Expect: ➼ Grumpy vs. Sunshine ➼ Forced Proximity ➼ Rivals-to-Lovers ➼ Opposites Attract ➼ Small Town ➼ Workplace Romance ➼ Slow Burn ➼ Former Celebrity BTS/Tell All ➼ Narrated by Julia Whelan ➼ First Person Single POV Emily Henry writes beautifully, Julia Whelan is unmatched as a narrator, and I adored Alice and Hayden, so why didn’t I love this book? I knew going in that this was going to be a little less romance forward than most of her previous books, so I was braced for that and I think I could have still been on board. The main issue was that I was just completely uninterested in Margaret’s story and I didn’t enjoy the reporter style narration of those portions of the book. Unfortunately, this was about 50% of the book and every time the focus shifted back to Margaret, I felt my eyes glazing over. There is a bit of a twist at the end that rejuvenated my interest, but I can’t claim to have fully enjoyed this book. I think Emily Henry is so popular because her writing style is kind of a crossover for those who love romance AND those who prefer contemporary fiction (such as Taylor Jenkins Reid). Up until now, she has toed the line and managed to appease both camps, but I think she lost the interest of some of her romance readers with this one. I’m sure she can win us back with her next book, but I think this one will rank low for most of us romance lovers (even those who rate it high). This is her third 3 star for me though, so I may just not be her biggest fan. 🤷🏼‍♀️ Thank you to Libro.FM for the ALC in exchange for an honest review. ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ Pre-read: I got the ALC and have been meaning to get to this all month! I’ve heard this one is less romance leaning than most of her books so I’m trying to go in with that in mind and hoping it will help me enjoy it more… I’m already seeing some less than glowing reviews. 🫣 ≪ ◦ ❖ ◦ ≫ Connect with me on Instagram

2.5? 3? Idk. I sadly didn’t jive with this. Started off feeling like an Evelyn Hugo/rivals-to-lovers romance crossover which I was super pumped about but the entire middle of this book fell so flat for me 😭 sweet ending though! P.s. I think I read “chortle” enough for a lifetime in these 416 pages. If I never hear or see that word again, I will be a happy happy camper

3.5⭐️ I didn't end up loving this book, but I did really like it! When I tell you that this is such a beautiful story, I mean it. However, some things just didn't click for me. The characters in this book were okay, but they weren't up there with my favorites of Emily Henry. Alice had her sweet moments and I always enjoy EH's ability to write happy and bubbly characters that you just can't help but be drawn to. The only thing that I struggled with was connecting to her. I think she was very likable but there was just some disconnect. I thought Hayden was meh; I didn't like the way he would treat Alice throughout the book and I found him to be very contradictory and confusing. Their relationship felt very insta-lovey/lusty and I think it just missed the mark with this book. Margaret was also okay but I didn't really like her from the beginning. Something about her personality turned me off and even throughout the book there was no redeeming her character. It's safe to say that the main characters were not a highlight for me. THE PLOT THOUGH????? Best part of this book. I will say that this plot line is much different than EH's normal writing style. This is written as interviews in a story format. So some chapters were Margaret's story and the others were the present day life of Alice's POV. While this started off a bit slow, I really enjoyed the process of finding out the bits and pieces of Margaret's life and how it ties into the present day timeline. I don't know what I was expecting, but SO many people were being blown away by the plot twists and I was over here thinking, "It couldn't be that crazy." IT WAS. The ending of this book was beautiful. I mean, the entire thing was, but the ending is what made me rate this higher cause it was so unexpected yet such a beautiful wrap-up to this book. Just when you thought you had it all figured out...BOOM! Nothing could have prepared me for that ending. Overall, this wasn't my favorite Emily Henry book but there were parts that I really did enjoy. While the characters weren't the greatest, the plot felt so unique and different for Emily Henry's style and if she released another like this, I'd read it. Would I recommend it? I would for someone looking for more of a deep plot and story line rather than just a romance. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ New Emily Henry book? LET'S GO 🙂‍↕️🩷 (if I end up hating this I'm going to crash out and no ones going to be able to stop me)

⭐️⭐️⭐️.5 so much tension in this but no chemistry (until it suddenly clicked 60% through for me) I LOVED the protagonists as individuals, their own motivations and considerations for one another and their careers but I feel like I've already read this plot before (*cough* if you know you know *cough*) so I couldn't appreciate it as much as I had hoped. I still of course adore Emily Henry and will endlessly read every book she writes but this one unfortunately felt middle of the road for me

God gave me the power of losing interest in 0.1 seconds.

For a full spoiler version of this review, please check out my book review blog here: https://spoiledbooks.blogspot.com/ Great Big Beautiful Life by Emily Henry had me in a weird push-pull the whole time. I was interested enough to keep reading… but wow, this book dragged. I mean really dragged. For the first half, I kept wondering if it was ever going to go anywhere. The good news? It does — eventually — and when it does, it almost makes the wait worth it. The story centers on Alice, a journalist chasing a big mystery tied to the glamorous, secretive Ives family. Along the way there’s rivalry, romance, and a slow build toward some long-buried family revelations. The setup is solid — there’s ambition, tension, and a touch of Henry’s trademark humor — but the pacing nearly sinks it. The romance is sweet but predictable. The mystery is interesting but not jaw-dropping. I still found myself invested by the end, and the emotional payoff (while mild) hit the right notes. Overall: a beautifully written but overly slow read. Not my favorite Emily Henry, but not a bad one either. 3 stars — mediocre, but memorable. Check out my review on Beach Read Check out my review on Funny Story

This was an easy read, focussing on the tragic events of a Royal family in World War II. Sent away from her family a young princess is staying incognito, with only the head of the household knowing her true heritage, to ensure her safety. What occurs is a big requirement to suspend belief upon a huge amount of misfortune that surrounds everyone around this princess, and the unknown baby she eventually goes on to have. I listened to this for easy reading among heavier reads and as always it hit the spot for easy listening purposes. I listened to this via the Libby app and my public library.

Well, well, well, this pains me to say, but as perhaps Danielle Steel's biggest fan, not even I can pretend this was her finest work. The book starts off strong with Princess Charlotte being sent to live out the remainder of the war with a suitable family and really held my interest. Soon, though, almost every major character we've been introduced to meets an unfortunate end. This was rather frustrating having to learn all new characters roughly every 20% of the book because they're all killed off. It made it harder to follow and the sweeping saga element was stilted. Princess Annie was rather fun and full of life and I quite enjoyed her story, despite the mid-book setbacks. I will no doubt read more Danielle Steel books in the future, but can only hope they'll be a better fit for me than this one.

** spoiler alert ** I received a complimentary copy of this book from Netgalley and Random House. These are my thoughts. I am in the minority here because I was not totally enthralled with the story. I would probably give it 2.5 stars but I will round up. I understand that this is fiction and we need to use our imagination and extend our belief but this goes beyond that. Princess Charlotte is sent to the country to live with a family during the war to keep her safe. Her identity is only known by the owners of the estate. During her stay she falls in love with their son, Henry, and they marry before he goes to war. She is widowed at 17 and dies shortly after giving birth to their daughter, Anne Louise. All in the space of a year. During all this time no one tells the King and Queen what is going on and then the people she is staying with die too. A housemaid, Lucy, who loved Henry takes Annie and raises her as her own and when she dies 20 years later she tells her husband, Jonathan, the whole story. He approaches the queen and they verify that Annie is Charlotte's daughter and she is assimilated into the royal family. There was a lot of repetition. Without the repetition the book would be a lot shorter. I liked Annie. I thought she was very down to earth and knew what she wanted in life and didn't let the fact that she was a princess really change her much. I had no sympathy for Lucy. She was hateful to Charlotte because she felt she stole Henry from her and felt it was her right to take the baby. I wasn't feeling the great love she had with her husband, Jonathan. I did like Jonathan. He was very loving and was a true father to Annie. The bottom line is I think fans of Danielle Steele will love this book. It was a quick read but just not my cup of tea.

*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.com Following recent bestsellers, The Numbers Game and Daddy’s Girls, Danielle Steel gifts her loyal fans with Royal. A story of the war, a love like no other, tragedy, long held secrets, family and the monarchy forms the latest historical romance release from the worldwide sensation. Billed as a spellbinding new tale, Royal is the story of a princess in hiding, the impact of war and love on this member of the British monarchy. We meet Princess Charlotte in the year 1943, just as the war is tearing apart Britain. The King and the Queen are concerned for their offspring, so they decide to make the heartbreaking choice to send their youngest daughter away to a safe house in the north of England. Protecting both their royal line and the health of the young heir, Charlotte departs war damaged London for life in the Yorkshire countryside. Going by an alias, Charlotte soon takes to her new life in home of her chaperones. There are only two people who know about Charlotte’s true identity and they have promised to keep her lineage under wraps. Charlotte seems to take to the Yorkshire countryside, she takes long rides on her horse and she begins to form a strong relationship with the son of the household. But this forbidden romance takes a tragic turn that leaves behind a trail of deaths and a young child with no parents. A shocking but essential choice is made, leading this child to grow up in a very different environment than the one she hails from. As this child grows into a woman, she has no idea of her true bloodline. As time goes on, a life changing secret is revealed on the deathbed of her guardian, which urges this lost princess to retrace her royal lineage. Danielle Steel seems to a garnered a huge fan base across the globe. These loyal readers are always hungry for a new title from this bestselling author, which Steel dutifully provides in quick succession. Royal represents the latest release from this prolific and popular author. It is a story seeped in history, war time experiences, the aristocracy, romance and charm. It is typical Danielle Steel fodder, escapist, predictable, quick, undemanding and formulaic. I tend to find the more recent Danielle Steel novels I have read seem to capture my attention early with an intriguing premise. This was definitely the case with Royal. My interest was also heightened in the opening sequences of the novel as Steel did a good job of recreating the stirring atmosphere of war torn London during the height of the Blitz. I could sympathise with the King and Queen’s choice to send their youngest daughter who displayed health problems to the relative safety of the Yorkshire countryside. It was a wise and understandable move. However, as soon it was mentioned that the family charged with protecting Princess Charlotte during her stay had a son the same age, I was able to predict what was going to happen! I watched on as the forbidden style romance developed between the Princess in hiding and the son of the household destined for war. There were definitely no surprises and it seemed to progress quite quickly. I would have liked this segment of the storyline to be a little more drawn out, rather than it end in tragedy after tragedy so quickly! The character of Lucy, a young woman who holds the secret to the lost Princess was unlikeable for the duration for me. I didn’t appreciate her decisions, jealous nature and actions. However, towards the latter stages of this woman’s life she redeems herself, but I did feel this was too little too late. Lucy’s husband was a decent character, with some sense of duty, responsibility and morals. The infant who blossoms into an unknown princess, Annie, was a well-drawn character. There is a strong link to horses and horse racing in this novel, which is connected to the ties this protagonist has to the royal family. For fans of horses and the racing world, this element of the novel will draw appeal. Likewise, if you are a fan of stately homes, Downton Abbey style, Royal will definitely strike a chord. This fairytale like story often requires the reader to suspend belief. Royal is defined by moments happiness, but also pure tragedy. This is a rags to riches style coming of age tale, with a good depiction of war time setbacks, combined with a glimpse into the world of royalty and the life of those who serve in aristocratic homes. Overall, Steel provides a rather brushed over historical focus on a number of story elements, as Royal races to a happy ever after style close. Perfect for the romanticist at heart and those who enjoy escaping into the world of the aristocracy, Royal takes the reader on a journey through three decades of sacrifice, adventure, love, family, secrets and inheritance. *Thanks extended to Pan Macmillan for providing a free copy of this book for review purposes.

This was a typical Danielle Steel novel. Even though occasionally I do read some historical fiction, this was slightly different. The story of a lost princess along with some elements of romance and sacrifice was quite enjoyable. I think it was a pure story with not much drama involved. Also, all the characters including those whom we should actually detest because of their actions, are very well written that you can’t bring yourself to hate them. Even though the ending is quite predictable, it was interesting to read Annie’s, i.e. the lost princess, journey as she deals with the tragedies, secrets and other obstacles along her way as she pursues her dreams.

You all probably wonder why I continue to read Danielle Steel and the quick answer is it’s an addiction I just can’t quite give up. A tale of duty, love, courage, truth, tragedy, triumph and the discovery of your true identity. 1943 and during the peak time of war the King and Queen of England decide their youngest daughter Princess Charlotte is to be placed in the care of a trusted noble family in the English countryside. To remain safe she takes on an alias and begins to enjoy life far away from her royal duties. But no one can predict that Charlotte will fall in love with the family’s eldest son and set of a chain of events that change everything. The replacement royal history that Danielle created was a great idea and the premise was interesting and the way it ended up on paper reads like a first draft that needs to be checked for mistakes. The story is quite rushed, it’s very repetitive and there’s a couple of plot flaws but it has a decent storyline and in this current climate an escape for a few hours is a good thing. A nice quick read with no real surprises.

I am usually charmed by Steel’s books, so I was excited about reading this. Honestly, I felt like I got Barbara Cartland, not prime Steel. This was a totally trite tale about a princess....not worth retelling. I have been loving her recent books, so this was a disappointment. Thank you Netgalley for for allowing me to read this ARC.

I've never read a Danielle Steel novel before, so I can't compare this novel to any of her others. What struck me the most about the writing style is that it reads like a first draft. Steel has never met a comma she didn’t want to put into a sentence, making sentences long and difficult to follow. There are often sentences that reveal information, and the same information is repeated a few paragraphs later. This may be because I read a galley and final edits had not yet been completed. The repetitive passages seem to wane further into the novel, so hopefully the beginning will be fixed before release. Steel explains facts without going into the characters' motives, which makes the story feel more like a book report than a novel. The plot is intriguing and would have benefitted from a more refined writing style. There are many twists and turns in this story. The reader is told (several times) in the opening chapter about Charlotte's petite size, like her great-great-grandmother Queen Victoria. Her asthma contributes to her poor health, which is the reason the fresh air and lack of bombings in the country are appealing to Charlotte's parents. Her size and frailty make her seem younger than her seventeen years, although her mental abilities and hobbies make her soar beyond the average teenager. Upon arrival in Yorkshire, Charlotte is immediately appealing to the son of the aristocratic couple housing her. This creates tension with the other girl living in the home, who also fancies the boy. The residents of the country home experience several tragedies and keep several secrets that change their lives forever. The characters' lives are very similar to their real-world counterparts. King Frederick reluctantly takes the throne after his brother abdicates, like King George VI. Queen Anne is much like Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon. Alexandra is Princess Elizabeth, married to a blonde foreigner (although in this book he is German, not Greek), and with a love for horses and corgis. Victoria is the wild, fashionable Princess Margaret. Readers who love stories of WWII and the British monarchy will appreciate this novel despite its writing flaws. Danielle Steel's legion of fans and fans of happily ever after romances will also enjoy this novel. I received an electronic galley copy of this title from the publisher through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. Read the review and get readalikes here: https://guenevol.wixsite.com/novelmav...

It had been years that I read a Danielle steel book ! A friend lent me this book . The main reason I read it because it was my genre; Historical! Though it was not my favourite I still liked it . I liked Annie the Princess who does not know she is a princess at the beginning. I liked it also because there was not too many characters. Annie wants to be a Jockey but cannot at the beginning because female jockeys were not allowed! But a couple years later she is allowed to race against her boyfriend Anthony’s wishes which puts a huge strain on their relationship but she follows her dreams and races anyway! But as you know Danielle Steel it all comes out good at the end ! Sorry about the not so great review. Pooped out from the holidays and my day at work…..lol !

My first Danielle Steel. Not my typical read but not to bad either.

This was my first Danielle Steel book. I have, of course, seen this author's prolific amount of work (how can you not?) and I finally decided to give her a try. I listened to the digital audiobook of Royal, a story about a princess in hiding, romance and secrets set during and after WWII. Things started off strong. The narration was decent, and I settled into this story that begins with a WWII/London Blitz setting, a forbidden (albeit Insta-Love) romance, tragedies and was loosely based on the current British royal family. I enjoyed seeing the similarities with the Windsor fam and there are even references to their love of corgis and horses (but a bit too much equine love for this non-rider). But as the book progressed to the halfway mark, the story lost its steam and got bogged down with a startling amount of repetitive and redundant writing and shallow characters. Granted, one does not pick up a Danielle Steel book for deep character analysis and intricate plot, but Steel's writing had an almost lazy feel to it, making the story seem like it was from a newbie author, not one that pops out multiple books per year like a literary Pez dispenser. This is an easy, escapist rags-to-riches tale that requires readers to suspend disbelief as the characters go from tragedy to bliss and back again a few times. Enjoyable if you don't mind predictability, this is a quick read that fans of Danielle Steel will devour and a good audiobook if you want a simpler plot to follow.

Honestly, I loved the plot line of it. It kept me interested, and the first few chapters knew how to keep me on my toes. However, I don’t think the writing style is for me. There were times when the details seemed to bore me or it felt redundant. The plot helped ignore most of those moments though!

I was so excited when I saw that she's gonna release a new book and I ordered it immediately , and it wasn't on my TBR list I put my other books just to read this one 🤷🏾‍♂️ it was good at the beginning but I read it to the end hoping it would get better the ending was quite predictable. It is like a middle grade novel or something not a book for a 20 year old 🤦🏾‍♂️, I used to be a fan but time and exposure many other authors have tempered my enthusiasm for her style.

Listened to this while making cards. I like Danielle Steel books when I’m busy cause I don’t have to think much and most of the time they are feel good books. This one was a little dark at the first but ended happy.

My thanks to Canelo Press, John Sandford and Netgalley. I'm not sure if this is going to be the series for me. I've been reading Sandford books since the 1990's and I've always loved them. I know that Lucas will make himself known in these Letty books, but I am completely bummed out about Flowers. I have managed to get my grubby hands on the next Letty book, so we'll see how that goes? The fact that Letty seemed almost superhuman annoyed the crap out of me! Also, way too much information on everything about guns. You know how some men talk about cars or tools? And some women talk about sewing or shopping or make-up? I tend to zone out when that happens. That's what happened here with the gun stuff. I'm seriously hopeful that the next book is less gung-ho. Eh, we'll see.

Letty Davenport is Lucas Davenport’s adopted daughter, yet she feels more like his own than if she were his biological child. Now fully grown, Letty works for the government. She starts with a desk job for U.S. Senator Colles in Washington, but just as she’s about to quit, he offers her a role as an investigator. She’s paired with John Kaiser from the Department of Homeland Security, and together they must uncover what happened to the missing petroleum—and why. As the clues point to a militia plotting to harm people, Letty races to find and stop them before it’s too late. I was thrilled to dive into Letty’s first standalone book. As a fan of Lucas and Virgil from their respective series, I had high hopes, especially since Letty appears in several of Lucas’s stories. Surprisingly, I found the plot dragged at times, and the villains felt too one-dimensional. Typically, John Sandford’s antagonists make you squirm with how bad they are, but not so much in The Investigator. Another big letdown was the humor—while there were a few funny moments, it lacked the sharp wit of the other two series. Still, I’ll keep reading the series since I know it will get better. Cliffhanger: No 3/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

I had an audio version of this book and maybe I didn't like the narration or could be that I didn't like the main character as being unreal strong and experienced at 24, but this book didn't click with me.

Lettie is basically Lucas with tits, which I expected, & there were enough nods to her sex to make her seem enough like a chip off the old block that the resemblance didn't become a burden. In this, I think he did a better job than Connelly has done with Renee, a female version of Harry. (I really like & read Connelly's books as soon as they come out.) The story was really good. I could certainly see the events depicted happening today. Hopefully we'll have a heroine & her trusty side kick available if they do. It's probably a question of when & I probably don't know about several attempts that have been stopped. It's that well done. He also did a good job of working Letty's back story in. That's tough to do. He didn't bore me with it & I've read every book in the series in order, but there's enough meat in the flashbacks & explanations that you'll get a good picture of her even if this is the first book you've picked up. (If it is, I highly recommend reading the rest of his books in order. After book 17, start reading a Virgil Flowers book every other time. A lot of books, but worth it.) Well narrated, as always, but Lettie is too good to be true. The story isn't 'just a little Hollywood', unfortunately.

I read quite a few books early in J Sandfords "Prey Series"debut in the 1980's and quite frankley, was hooked. This is the first since then with the inclusion of Lettie Davenport which induced my curiosity. The Investigator had its pluses but also its minus's Lettie's companion an ex Delta force gent was a plus, but too much repetition on the terrain which was drawn out and a somewhat blunt ending which indicates a sequel on the horizon. Enough of a storyline to contain the outcome, but a 3 star rating was generous.

Another also-ran. I started JUDGMENT PREY with fairly low expectations. About three novels ago, I felt the author had teetered from producing reliable fun-to-read books to boring, plodding ones. But it was a library book that I could dnf at any time, and some Goodreads reviewers had judged it as being back on track in terms of ﻿combining humour with action; so I decided to take a chance. And I didn’t dnf; in fact, almost until the ending was planning to give it a four-star rating. What happened? Short Synopsis: Federal judge Alex Sand and his two sons are murdered by an unknown assailant in St. Paul. The bodies are found by his distraught wife, Margaret Cooper. The murderer could have been someone connected to one of the judge’s current or former cases, his wife (now living with her on-and-off Lesbian lover), or a random acquaintance. After three weeks, the investigation is stymied. Virgil Flowers, the regional agent for the Bureau of Criminal Investigation, is asked to review the case, and he asks Lucas Davenport to accompany him. Much of the humour arises from the banter between the two men as they pursue leads. Often in John Sandford’s novels, the reader knows who did it and why; the thrill is in the chase. Not in this one. We are introduced to several unsavoury characters, villains in terms of other deeds, but not the judge’s killer. (The reader is immediately aware of their innocence in terms of the initial murders, although Virgil and Lucas are not, and they have to investigate various leads to rule out the possibilities.) I found this investigative process engaging—four-stars overall. The Ending The ending—the last few chapters—was a downer. After the killer is revealed, I did not gain a clear understanding of their motivation. Major details are missing that would have provided me with a good understanding of what this killer did, initially, to warrant such a terrible killing spree. Furthermore, the book ends without a clear answer about the fates of several other characters who are guilty of nefarious deeds even though they are not the killer who set off the initial investigation. Concluding Thoughts The ending is poor, the rest of the book held my interest. So 3.0 stars overall. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ My reviews for others in this series: Masked Prey (Lucas Davenport, #30) Ocean Prey (﻿Lucas Davenport, #31) Righteous Prey (Lucas Davenport, #32) Eyes of Prey (Lucas Davenport, #3) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To begin with, I think it is only appropriate that I admit to being a fairly avid reader of John Sandford over the years, especially a fan of his Lucas Davenport “Prey” series. A pretty big fan to be honest, even though honesty requires me to admit the books have been spotty over the last several years. It seems like every other book is a really good one and the other less than stellar. It may be that Sanford is losing some steam when it comes to creating complex and interesting bad guys. Several of his more recent books have really been long-winded chase scenes that lasted for hundreds of pages. In the 33rd “Prey” novel, a Federal Judge living in St. Paul, Alex Sand, is shot and killed in cold blood in his home. And Sand is not the only victim. Both of his young sons are also murdered with him in an unspeakable criminal action. The question is who would have a reason to kill a federal judge like Sands? And his children with him? Besides the list of those that he sent away from prison, Sand is an actively involved part of his community, and preparing to make a large donation to a local charitable organization to create more affordable housing. His new widow, Maggie Cooper, is left distraught and struggling with losing her family. In addition, she is starting to think about finding the killer herself and seeking some personal revenge for her loss. Especially when the local police and FBI investigation is not getting anywhere and public sentiment is building to find the killer, Maggie’s motivation to seek justice grows and she puts her own plan into action. This forces the state and federal authorities to call in Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers to see if they can work their magic one more time. Lucas has been spending the last several months trying to physically recover from his gunshot wounds from their last case in the prior series book, and he’s ready for anything to get him off of his couch, even if he’s still in pain. Before they know it, our two heroes find themselves mixed in several potential plots of criminal behavior that may or may not get them close to finding a killer before he/she strikes again…. As I forewarned, this is not really one of the stronger books in the “Prey” series. I would call it a causal and somewhat entertaining escapist read. Not that it’s bad. The interconnecting branches surrounding the murder mystery were interesting and enjoyable in a mind-candy sort of experience. Most of the characters were flawed, full of weaknesses that made it obvious that they were either going to have a serious meltdown or get caught. Or both. It was just a matter of time like having a car wreck happen right in front of you. What carried the reader through is the pure awesomeness of Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers, two of the most unique fictional detective characters ever written. They are almost perfect opposites, providing a great compare and contrast personalities, as well as approaches to investigative work. For me, the magic in this one their great interactions together throughout the entire book. From beginning to end they constant banter made me laugh out loud in fun and easy enjoyment. It didn’t matter whether it was amongst themselves or while interacting with other characters throughout the book, their thoughts and comments were worth the price of admission. I also enjoyed the continuing storyline of Virgil working on becoming a successful novelist, writing mysteries that could hopefully land him on the bestseller list. It’s nice to see Sanford let us behind the curtain a bit. On the other hand, although the overall storylines were interesting, they were not very compelling, nor provided much tension or suspense. It was a little bit better than a middle-of-the-road “Prey” book. There was another dip in the quality of the plotting again. There was also no real development of any of the primary characters other than Davenport’s physical recovery from his injuries previously sustained and Virgil’s continued development as a writer. Letty made a brief cameo in a phone call. Davenport’s wife, Weather, was there to provide medical support, and Virgil’s wife, Frankie, and the twins make no appearance. Neither do Davenport’s work partners. Although Sandford’s writing is fast-paced, fluid, and full of the sharp sarcastic style he’s known for, his villains are not as captivating and dangerous as they used to be. They drove the story and the action. As usual, Davenport and Flowers were following from behind most of the way. I will add that I found the ending (last chapter) to be an interesting twist (but no spoilers here), but truth be told, I saw it coming. And I am pretty sure most of you will too. Overall, for me the good things about Davenport and Flowers made the book worth reading, but they didn’t fully outweigh the crazy and rather less-worthy adversaries opposing them. As I have mentioned in my review of other recent “Prey” novels, my guess is that most Sanford fans will find this an easy and fun read, and I wouldn’t necessarily disagree with that. But for me, this will not be one of the more memorable ones. It was casual mind-candy that provided two fun nights of reading. I will settle for that and move on…

3.5 Stars 🌟 Well, I guess after 33 books, not every single one is going to be fantastic. For the most part though, this has been a series that I've really enjoyed over the years. I went back and forth between a 3 and a 4 star rating, and decided to split the difference. Mr. Sandford has definitely built up a large amount of hard earned credit with me in establishing a group of characters that over the course of the years we have come to know and like, to root for, to grieve with. You get the idea.... About this book in particular. Without going into spoilers, it just wasn't what I've come to expect from the series. Things I liked: *Having Lucas and Virgil work together on the case. I love both of their characters and it was great to have the two of them team up again. *The funny and sometimes extremely dry sarcastic banter between the two. It seemed to me that we reached a new level of snark and sarcasm between the two. They definitely know how to push each other's buttons, but it was never done in a way that wasn't good natured. *Getting a couple of snippets from other characters - Letty, Weather, and Virgil's baby momma (having a brain freeze trying to remember her name at the moment). Unfortunately, these snippets were TOO brief. It would have been nice to see a little more of some of the secondary characters. Things that weren't so great: *The case itself just wasn't good. There was absolutely NO depth to it. We never knew "why" the killer did what he did. I mean, yes, there were broad strokes of a reason, but not really. It was weak, very, very weak. *The addition of the "other" case felt kind of just thrown in there. It felt forced and not something that was actually organically happening during the same timeframe (in other words, the 2 circumstances were not connected to each other, yet it felt like they were thrown in to add to the plot). It just felt off. *Don't get me started on the main bad guy in that case - seriously? Not only was it a completely unbelievable set of circumstances, but the whole situation felt like a kind of Keystone Cop skit. Definitely not what we've come to expect from Lucas' and Virgil's past experience with their respective agencies. *The behavior of the female MC. That whole scenario just never really worked. Yes, I guess you could KIND OF understand where she was coming from in the beginning, but then the character kept devolving and devolving and the circumstances surrounding her just kept getting weirder and weirder until at the end, it just made me think, "Huh?" *That ending. Really? I honestly thought my ARC was missing the last few pages. Talk about falling off a cliff (I mean that metaphorically - it is not a spoiler) It just ended......suddenly and without much explanation. So, after putting all this down in words, now I'm thinking it was really more like a 2 star read (which is so unusual, it still makes me shake my head), but I'll stick with my initial rating because this series gave us the fantastic character of Lucas Davenport and the other zany character of his sometimes sidekick, Virgil "fu***ng" Flowers - and that definitely counts for something. Will I continue to read the next book in the series when it comes out? Yep, you better believe it. I'm choosing to believe this book was just a blip in the road. Thank you to NetGalley for the opportunity to read and review this ARC. The opinions above are mine and mine alone.

3.5 Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers both overcoming shot wounds from a previous confrontation are drawn into the high profile slaughter of a Judge and his two young sons. After all these books...the chemistry/chat/wisecracks between these two becomes one of the main attractions of the book for me. The plot is intriguing...drifting through various suspects...the Why they did it..not being revealed to quite late.

In JUDGMENT PREY John Sandford Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers are tasked with solving the murder of a federal judge and his two sons who have been brutally killed in their home for seemingly no reason. The Prey books are always interesting, and I still like Lucas Davenport, but he seems to have lost a little something off his fastball. The ending was a disappointment. I feel it did not sufficiently tie up the disparate stories. Thanks to NetGalley for the ARC.

Unfortunately nothing special ! This series has previously been a reliable great read, however this story is a let-down from other Lucas and Virgil stories

Felt like I was watching an episode of CSI. One of the main characters was frustrating to follow, but liked it overall. It is alot of information in every chapter so if you are looking to not have to concentrate this is not the book for you.

I can’t resist reading a Lee Child book, & this one was no exception. However, I was disappointed. I prefer Jack Reacher as a present-day wanderer, not as an Army MP (his previous life). I also prefer 80% (at least) of the story told through Reacher’s point of view. In “The Secret,” Reacher’s POV takes a backseat to close a dozen other characters. Overall, the story was interesting, & a couple intriguing plot twists kept me reading, but #28 in the series is a pale imitation to Reacher books of yore.

The Secret is the 28th installment in the Jack Reacher series. The storyline is intriguing. The pacing is slow as the task force team methodically attempts to solve a mystery. The mystery is a puzzle and the storyline held my interest, although it is a slow burn. While it is a good mystery to read, it is not typical Jack Reacher. A highlight of Reacher’s character is his mental self talk and his statistical calibrations, but they are not evident in this novel. Reacher played a minimal role in the action. He only had one or two brief confrontations. Therefore, The Secret doesn’t have the voice or the feel of a Jack Reacher novel. The Secret is not a chills and thrills, high octane Reacher book. Because it is not typical Reacher, I was disappointed. However, it is an interesting mystery with a surprising twist in the climax! Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an ARC in exchange for an honest and unbiased review. All opinions are my own,

Confusing wordfest Who wrote this confusing mishmash of words and mangled dialogue, certainly not Lee Child. No humour, no romantic interest, it gave me a headache trying to keep track of the characters and jumbled conversations, in a nutshell, boring. One request please, whose idea was it to have the names four of the main characters start with S.

Disappointed I have read Reacher from the beginning and feel that the storyline is not as good as the early novels and I feel disappointed as if I have lost a friend.

“The Secret” is a fast, entertaining read, but not the “gripping thriller” its promotional materials promise. It’s 1992 and Reacher is a Captain in the MPs, having just been busted down from Major. Now, he’s assigned to a task force formed by the Secretary of Defense to solve the whys and wherefores of a string of murders of scientists scattered across the country. Reacher and his fellow agents from the CIA, the FBI, and the Treasury must race against time to stop the perpetrators from killing again, if they can. This tale of adventure and intrigue has its good and not-so-good points. As to the good, it’s well and clearly written, fairly fast-paced, and contains some interesting information, especially about tradecraft. While the plot is a little disjointed (especially considering the first quarter has Reacher investigating a crime that has nothing to do with the rest of the story), for the most part, it held my attention. And it was fun to revisit the technology of the early 1990s when we all relied on faxes, corded telephones, and newspapers to get our information. Also, for those who enjoy Reacher’s pugilism, there are a number of well-described fight scenes. As to the not-so-good, the characters weren’t as interesting as they could have been. This was especially true of Reacher. Because this takes place in 1992, when Reacher’s still an MP, before developing his legendary “hitchhiker-with-a-toothbrush” persona, I’d hoped to learn how and why he became that man. But it seems the authors chose simply to take the character they’ve developed over the last 27 novels and transplant him back to 1992. As for the rest of the characters, they seemed stock and without depth. The villains are heinous. The “good guys” are kind of mundane, even if each does have a flaw to wrestle with. But there’s little exploration of what makes anyone tick. So, it was a challenge to root for or identify with anyone. In addition, I thought the mysteries’ solutions were revealed much too early and that other aspects were very predictable. 75% of the way through, I felt like I had the novel figured out. Nothing after that surprised me (not that anything in the first 75% was all that surprising, either). All in all, the lack of compelling characters and the dearth of surprises combined to make this novel far less gripping or thrilling than it might have been. Still, I found it entertaining enough to give it three stars.

** spoiler alert ** This book to me felt padded with Reacher investigating a gun scam with military personnel and then suddenly involved in an investigation into who is killing several scientists. I liked the plot but the execution left a lot to be desired. I like that it is a historical novel in when he was still in the army but missed that he was not on the road with just his toothbrush. It makes sense to look back on his past exploits and adventures. SPOILERS AHEAD Two female assassins avenging their father. A supposedly crooked Secretary of State and his wife who ultimately is the baddie. The motive money and cover up of a biological weapon accident in India. Still trying to figure out how she gets the drop on the two female assassins and surprisingly Reacher doesn’t kill her.

Forced The writing is not as fluid as one expects from Lee Child. Too much of the plot is 'told', rather than 'shown'...the loose ends all arrayed at the end, rather than put away quietly, one by one.

The last 3 or 4 books haven't been that great for me. I used to really love the Reacher books but this one wad just okay for me. 2.75 🌟

3.5 292p. Pretty much to the point retro Reacher as he is part of a team that tries to find out why a group of scientists from a 1960s India project are dying in questionable circumstances.

Not our Normal Reacher I was pretty disappointed in this book. Somehow, maybe because Lee is having less creative input, Jack has lost his bite. The details of his violent abilities are still there, but our boy has lost his heart—and his humanity. Sad.

(3.5 Stars) I’m a Jack Reacher fan and have read almost all of his full length novels and novellas. This is the 28th full length adventure and it is set in 1992 while Jack is still a MP in the Army. After solving a military case he is sent to represent the Army on a task force, reporting to the Secretary of Defense. A string of suspicious deaths where the victims all have ties to a Chemical company mishap (potential chemical weapons). The case itself is interesting with twists although I guessed early head wrongdoer. Lee Child has passed the writing of these stories to his younger brother Andrew and I’ve enjoyed the books since the transition. But this missed a lot of the core Reacher moments. But there is a lot of story told from other POVs. I missed Reacher’s mental calculations of the physics involved during a physical fight, his love of coffee and diners. I don’t mind going back to the MP days as this has happened in other Reacher novels. And I like him better as a lone wolf but he plays nice with the task force. I’m still a Reacher fan and am keeping my fingers crossed the next adventure might match up with the tone and character a little more. I still recommend Reacher for Mystery Thriller readers but you may want to start earlier in the series to get to know this character. Thank you to Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine for the ARC via NetGalley and I am leaving a voluntary review.

** spoiler alert ** It was good but not great, a bit confusing at times but the storyline was good. No plot twist or thrill or any kind of emotional experience. No an easy flow. Eight scientists have been found dead across the US. These deaths look like accidents and don't appear to be connected. Until one body - the victim of a fatal fall from a hospital window - generates some unexpected attention. That attention comes from the Secretary of Defence, who promptly calls for an inter-agency task force to investigate. Jack Reacher is assigned as the Army's representative. Reacher may be an exceptional soldier, but sweeping other people's secrets under the carpet isn't part of his skill set. As he races to discover the link between these victims, and who killed them, he must navigate around the ulterior motives of his new 'partners'. And all while moving into the sight line of some of the most dangerous people he has ever encountered. His mission is to uncover the truth. Two sisters who are seeking for revenge because their father killed themselves after he got blamed for a leak that killed 1000 people, even though it wasn’t his fault, instead it was a woman who stole money, which caused the leak. The two sisters hunt down all scientists to find out the 8th name of the list….

GET OUT YOUR JUMP TO CONCLUSIONS MAT. I think the Child’s have watched Office Space too many times. Reacher and the other investigators make these leaps of logic that are so completely ridiculous to find the next person or clue. Reacher has taken a giant downturn since Andrew started cowriting. This book barely held onto 3 stars. More like a high 2 star. Pacing is bad. Some of the characters do things that make no sense. And most of the conclusions they draw are just impossible to have gotten to based on the information at hand. Please please stop letting Scott Brick read books with dialogue. He never changes his voice. He’s great for books without dialogue, stick to that. He is absolutely horrible for characters talking.

Great to have a throwback book to Reacher in the army. Hints to his ‘difficulties’ in the army and provides good variety after a lower quality novel last time out. High body count with a set of killers/assassins and although main protagonists are kinda predictable, it doesn’t dampen the story any. Reacher wins out, managing internal army/CIA politics, banging heads together when required, and following logic when none appears to exist. Really enjoyed this one. Almost back to form.

The Steele family finds themselves back in St. John for good in “Troubles in Paradise” the final book in the Paradise series by Elin Hilderbrand. Irene, Cash and Baker have all made plans to move to the island in hopes of a fresh start after their lives literally fall apart. What better place to live than St. John with people they have all grown to care for? If only they could leave their troubles behind. Unfortunately for this group, trouble follows them. “Love is messy, complicated and unfair.” This is an attestation that everyone who was impacted by the actions of Russ Steele and Rosie can speak to in one way or another. Then there’s the fact that Russ Steele was involved in some very shady business deals with very bad people. One can hope that the bonds forged by Irene, Baker, Cash, Huck, Maia and Ayers are strong enough to weather even the worst of storms. “Troubles in Paradise” is the last in the “Paradise” series by Elin Hilderbrand. While I liked this book, I didn’t quite love it. The first book in the series “Winter in Paradise was definitely my favorite while I felt that both “What Happened in Paradise” and “Troubles in Paradise,” left a little to be desired. While I felt the strength of a few of the characters storylines throughout the series (such as Irene, Huck and Maia) a few seemed to lose their focus and became wishy washy (i.e. Baker and Ayers) and that was a let down. What I loved about this series however was the friendship between the characters. Specifically, how everyone seemed to look out for each other, regardless of what was going on in their lives. For me, Elin Hilderbrand excels in writing stories about a large cast of characters and weaving everyone stories together and that was evident here. Admittedly, my favorite part of this book was the surprise at the end, when a character from another series appeared, giving us a glimpse as to how my favorite Elin Hilderbrand characters are doing now. Thank you so much for that Ms. Hilderbrand! Could you maybe write another book in that series, for me?! 3.5 Stars Thank you to NetGalley, Little Brown and Company and Elin HIlderbrand for the arc. Published on NetGalley and Goodreads on 8.23.20.

First off, I want to give a shout out to Hilderbrand for changing something that bugged me so much in the first two books of the series. This book has NO drinking and snorkeling, in fact at one point she even says that the people have to wait until after snorkeling to drink alcohol. So props to her for either reading the reviews or doing her research. That out of the way, this was a decent ending to the trilogy, if a bit drawn out. All of the same things about Hilderbrand's books were here: the endless name dropping of places, the weird character names, her penchant for always saying first and last names, the repetition of things over and over (and over) and the (ugh) infidelity. However, the reader can palpably feel the author's love for St John, and as I absolutely love it there too, I got a bit wistful, especially in the end after the hurricane. I know that Irma and Maria just devastated the area in 2017, and so her homage to the loss and the resilience of the residents is touching. Nothing was very surprising, the people ended up with who I thought they would end up with. I disliked Irene's personality change with regards to her husband's betrayal and how she took it out on Huck. It seemed very bizarre and out of character with how she had been portrayed in previous installments. The massive info dump from "Marilyn Monroe" was a lazy way to resolve that storyline and I hate it when writers can't figure out a way to get the information across and resort to having one character tell everything rather than letting it unfold as part of the story. Pure laziness. Overall, fine ending to the series. Hilderbrand and I can part ways amicably now. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

I am now an Elin Hilderbrand stan and I loved this third and final book of the trilogy. I could not put it down and read the last 40% in one sitting.

This book was just okay for me. I absolutely loved books 1 & 2, but this one didn't grab me like the first ones did. The positive is that alot of questions are answered. Ending was a little too predictable.

I really liked the beginning and couldn’t put it down but then I kind of hit a wall at the end. Despite the story unfolding over three novels, the ending felt rushed and disjointed. Elin is still my girl and one of my favorite comfort authors but this series just didn’t do it for me.

Yay I finished the series! This last book was a little disappointing and quite pointless, and I really thought the ending would have turned out differently and more suspenseful, but I still loved the first two books and the characters.

Great ending, but the journey there was a little rough. I'm in this series to see James Reece kick ass and the first two thirds absolutely did not deliver on that front. There might have been a single action scene during that time, but the rest was spent on the author trying to connect his narrative to real world politics. The endless commentary on the state of the world broke my immersion relatively quickly, because it often feels out of place and like the author is talking directly to the reader about his personal beliefs rather than anything serving the story. Things got a lot better in the final third as Carr gears up the action and it is as good as it ever has been. The methodical way the author goes over every combat encounter is always enjoyable to read. It ended up redeeming the novel a bit for me and I don't think it's a bad book overall, but it is definitely still the weakest of the bunch.

I am getting tired of Carr's MAGA-centic point of view being inserted in every book. His character James Reese spends too much time running down the country. Gets in the way of a good story.

Finally I’ve finished Only the Dead novel by Jack Carr. This novel starts with the aftermath of US president getting assassinated by unknown individuals and falsely framed James Reece getting arrested for that. In my opinion this is one of the weakest novels of the author because I always enjoyed his work and constantly recommends to many people who are new to this genre. He knows how to make us readers to get involve with the characters and their plight but at the same time to rip roar to the violence dished by that same character which in normal life we’ll be horrified to even think about it. Me as an avid reader of special operation missions and history always love the way the author used to combine it with his story or sometimes just write a small description about that in middle of the novel just to take that story to the next level but in this novel he kind of mishmashed everything in a single book which becomes tiring and tough to recollect back while reading crucial scenes. As I said as always he combines the history to this story also but this time it’s been tough for me to follow up as he jumps for one conspiracy to another. I know conspiracies are part and parcel of the fiction genre but he always took his time to have believable yet compelling edge of the seat Hollywood action thriller movie kind of novel but not this time. In this novel what I enjoyed most was the way he wrote the dialogues that happens with himself while he was in solitary confinement which you could’ve heard in the preview and the way he carried that mental scar for the whole novel was commendable. Also in this novel the author has given more attention to the Hand to Hand combat scenes that involves bladed weapons more than the Guns and this elevates the combat scenes to the next level and eagerly I’m waiting to see how he’s going to top this of in his upcoming novel. This is one of the most violent, bloody, gory novels written by him and I’m eagerly waiting to see how they going to deliver it's depiction in the TV series. A common joke that I always tends to see in our thriller circles was how the author writes about the gear and knickknacks in a very descriptive way in his each and every novel but personally I always enjoyed it because aside from the brands I came to know what that individual gear gives an edge to the character or how it overall helps in the heat of the combat for the character in that novel or maybe in real life also but In this novel that scene was highly unnatural and totally kind of shoved in our throat in a sudden manner so you’ll be questioning yourself why there is a catalogue in middle of the novel and this time only after the 5 novels I understood some of the frustration behind that joke. Women in thriller genre was always made to play the second fiddle during 90s till early 2000s novels at least in the majority of books I’ve read but it slowly changing right now especially authors like Brad Taylor, Don Bentley, Gregg Horowitz were not only write kickass women characters but the way they write it makes us root for them no matter that they maybe a friend of foe. Even Jack Carr started this series with awesome female characters like Katie and Hastings mother but I think just like one of his favourite authors Tom Clancy he too began to take his female characters for granted like in this novel Katie comes in very few places she was written like a filler character to me rather than an important one as she is . Overall this novel is kind of felt rushed to me in terms of story and character development and definitely a very new take in combat department but this is not the usual kickass novel I expected from the author. I dunno maybe I was expecting too much from him so I give only 3/5 for this novel. As an end note I like to add that above review of mine may offend some of you guys but like you guys I’m also a big fan of his works but this isn’t his best and it’s obvious for me.So tell me your view in the comments if you’re interested and thanks for reading this whole review. Have a nice week ahead.

My mind says 4 stars but I think I’m being overly neutral so I’ll say 3 to give you an idea lol Pretty cool! Not my usual style of book or thing to think about my any means, so a lot of it read like gibberish to me, but some of the fight scenes were quite impressive and some of the ideas relating to Russia, the US… were eye opening to the potential arrogance of the western world And um I guess that’s all I consciously got out of it?? So I now know 0. It’s okay to want to disconnect yourself from society and just live in a cabin with your girlfriend named Katie 1. US kinda bad 2. There are a lot of really intelligent ways to kill people And it was an enjoyable read tbh! Aaand that’s the last time you’ll hear me talk about anything even mildly politic for the next ~20 years

This was a fun diversion of fiction. The author included many current day geopolitical and cultural issues in the story that made it seemed real. Russia, China, the Middle East, financial espionage, and much much more. But it wasn’t real, and the give away is that a real James Reese would have been killed in one of the many fights in the story. The author chose to “boil the ocean” when it came to the fight scenes. Favoring an excruciatingly detailed blow by blow account of each fight and how James Reece sliced up his opponents. Very gory and very strange. But the read was fun and a distraction while I flew to visit my daughter on the west coast.

my first nora roberts how exciting! the beginning was actually very fun and crazy but i lost interest in the middle and it became very hard to keep picking up the book when i had other, much more exciting things to read.

Romantic Suspense, Women's Crime Fiction, Contemporary Fiction Publication date: May 23, 2023 When Morgan Albright met Luke at a bar she worked, she never thought that this meeting will change her life forever... This story grabbed me from the beginning. I enjoyed getting to know Morgan, her family and her friends. It is sad to think that many people can appear kind and solid on the outside but they can have ulterior motive with you. This someone can steal your identity and create a lot of havoc. And if he has a severe mental illness that prompt homicidal thoughts and actions, then the more reason to be worried... “Karma’s not just a bitch, she’s a righteous bitch. And he won’t break you, because you won’t let him.” I didn't quite like that the book's description revealed so much from the plot and the villian was revealed early on. Many things got repetitive and predictible thanks to those villian's chapters which I did not enjoy reading at all. He sounded one-dimensional, weird and stupid. Overall I liked the story and most of the characters. January LaVoy did great job.

Nora Roberts has had over 230 books published. I’ve only read a small fraction of this impressive number and very few of her thrillers, and yet, Identity is so similar to the ones I’ve read that I struggled to differentiate them. It’s probably proof that she does write her own books and doesn’t have a secret conglomerate of ghostwriters pumping out titles for her, but it does defeat the purpose of reading new releases if they barely differ from previous books. I love a good thriller, and Identity started very promising. When we first meet Gavin as Luke, he is very convincing as a travelling IT consultant falling for Morgan. Unfortunately, once his true nature is revealed, the ‘thriller’ aspect of this book is pretty much over. I understand that we’re meeting him pretty far along in his life of crime, and he’s starting to devolve, but the climax of this particular thread of the narrative is more than a little underwhelming. True to form, Roberts did an excellent job writing the rehabilitation of the relationship between Morgan and her mother and grandmother. It may have been incredibly cringey every time Morgan felt the need to call her own family members her ‘ladies’, but the rest of it was very well written. It was nice to see Morgan reevaluating her goals, rebuilding her life, and finding happiness in a way she may not have expected. Overwhelmingly average, there may have been a few enjoyable moments, but nothing very memorable. Identity is just not one of Robert’s more unique endeavours. Review originally posted here on Britt's Book Blurbs. Amazon | Blog | Bookstagram | Reddit | Wishlist

I received this book for free in exchange for an honest review. This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review. After leaving her home twenty years ago with her father missing and older sister now responsible for her care, Arden Maxwell is back in Penton. Pregnant and wanting to fix up her childhood home to start fresh, Arden suddenly loses the baby. With her sister Lisa hounding her to leave Penton and come live with her, two months later Arden is rising out of her grief and deciding that she needs answers to the night her father disappeared. Ledge Burnet knows that Arden is in town and has been trying to keep an eye on her while keeping his distance. He's always been waiting for the truth of that night twenty years ago to come out but he doesn't want Arden to get caught in the crossfire. The past with all its lies and history swirl in the Texas bayou. “Talking about it is the surefire way to get caught.” Thick as Thieves starts with a prologue from twenty years ago as four individuals meet after robbing a large family goods store. From there we jump to present time and interspersed with Arden and Ledge's point-of-view chapters, we get flashbacks to the robbery night from the individuals involved. The main robbery outline is revealed early and instead the finer details of the night are left to be colored in as you read. For the most part, the reader knows more than Arden, which I liked, and we're following along as she discovers what happened and who to trust. “One of these days I'll probably have to kill him.” The leader of the robbery group, Rusty Dyle, had a credible role as villain but while he had the power, sheriff's son and then District Attorney, he lacked a strong motive or a certain je nais sais qoui to his thoughts and actions; he fell a little flat as the bully for the sake of being a bully villain. Ledge as our cool, solid, but shadowed hero that almost had more chemistry with his hate relationship with Dusty than his lusty one with Arden. There's some underlining sizzle between the two but the romance thread felt forced with Ledge instantly lusting after Arden and Arden feeling strong caution but physical attraction seeping through. They lacked an emotional and relationship development closeness and we mostly just get in kisses and “I want you” forced in between the robbery and murder mystery and Arden searching for answers. He lowered his head and focused on the one stair step between them. “Because I would be seeing you every day, but having to keep my hands off you.” He looked up at her from beneath his brows and spoke from the heart. “And I don't think I can do that.” I thought the mystery, thriller aspect of this was paced well, it's gradual with answer reveals but the story pulls you in. As this read more as a mystery/thriller to me, I did like it but anyone reading this for a strong romance plot, I would say lower your expectations as Arden and Ledge's relationship depth isn't there. A big reveal was left to the very end that made me want to go back and read the story to see if there were clues I missed and while there was some surprise to it, I felt more irked deceived than enjoyed deceived because of how late it was left to be revealed. While I enjoyed the easy pace for the vast majority, I did think the ending left too much for the very end and made it feel piled on, especially for the character of Arden, who don't get to really see work through the reveals. “I take to you, Ledge.” She hugged him tighter. This had a strong beginning and middle with a gradual paced mystery that gives a lot of answers but saves big truths until the very end. The romance felt forced for the most part but the overall story will definitely capture your attention and have you contently wandering in the slow mysterious Texas bayou for hours.

Rating: 2.5 stars at best. Having read best selling, highly rated crime and mystery authors, what differentiates them from less known authors is their ability to weave the unexpected into a story. Unfortunately Ms. Brown fails miserably in this area. At a quarter of the way through I saw the writing of the wall which for someone who prefers other genres, is telling. Characters are ordinary, predictable and do little to help. The fact that money heist stories have been told countless times with more appealing characters diminishes THIS reader's engagement further.. I trudged through it hoping for more but was severely disappointed. Authors like Greg Iles, David Baldacci, Dan Brown and countless others are far more enticing using plots and characters that draw us in. I'm sort of surprised this book has received 4 star ratings, though like all art, we're each drawn to something unique. On to better things.

To begin with, I think it is only appropriate that I admit to being a fairly avid reader of John Sandford over the years, especially a fan of his Lucas Davenport “Prey” series. A pretty big fan to be honest, even though honesty requires me to admit the books have been spotty over the last several years. It seems like every other book is a really good one and the other less than stellar. It may be that Sanford is losing some steam when it comes to creating complex and interesting bad guys. Several of his more recent books have really been long-winded chase scenes that lasted for hundreds of pages. With that context in mind, how does “Righteous Prey” rate? Well, I have good news and bad. A bit of both, so to speak. In the 32nd “Prey” novel, our fearless heroes Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers face off against a mysterious group that call themselves “The Five” and are made up of bored Bitcom millionaires who are bored and restless for some real action. They have decided to target bad people like murderers, rapists, and thieves who (in their judgment) deserve to die. Each member of “The Five” select their own targets and get to work, one at a time. Then, following each murder, they release a press statement and donate an untraceable amount of Bitcoin to a related charity to make things better. The first murder takes place in San Francisco. The Second in Houston. But when “The Five” strike for a third time in the Twin Cities, Davenport’s home town, they get his attention, and when he pulls Flowers in to help him investigate, our dynamic duo is off and running, trying to take down the vigilante group before murders take place. However, their hunt for these vigilante killers will not follow any kind of typical investigation and may likely cause them serious or deadly harm. The good news is there are several things to enjoy about this one, but most all of that is due to the awesomeness of Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers, two of the most unique fictional detective characters ever written. They are almost perfect opposites, providing a great compare and contrast personalities, as well as approaches to investigative work. For me, the magic in this one their great interactions together throughout the entire book. From beginning to end they constant banter made me laugh out loud in fun and easy enjoyment. It didn’t matter whether it was amongst themselves or while interacting with others like FBI agents Orish and Mallard, their thoughts and comments were worth the price of admission. I also especially appreciated the storyline around Flowers developing his professional writing career. Sandford pulled to curtain back to incorporate several bits of his own personal writing and publishing experience, even including his own editor and making fun of his own detective series. Watching Virgil try to establish his second career, along with the support of Lucas, was a really nice angle to his character development and growth. That was a really good path for Sanford to explore and I am greatly enjoying the journey and where it could lead. And on a personal note, that scene with Virgil and Letty was also a priceless moment, but you’ll have to read that one for yourself (insert smile...). Now, for the bad news. Although Sandford’s writing is fast-paced, fluid, and full of the sharp sarcastic style he’s known for, his villains are not as captivating and dangerous as they used to be. At least not in this one, anyway. In my opinion, none of the members of “The Five” are on the same level of Davenport and Flowers. They are interesting to some degree and the Bitcoin angle had some potential, although it was rather weakly developed throughout the book. They just weren’t strong enough adversaries to bring any kind of a serious challenge to either Davenport or Flowers. From the first two chapters, I was already trying to figure out how Davenport was going to get his first lead to “The Five”. As soon as the dynamic duo made a connection to the vigilante group, the hunt be on, and it would only be a matter of time before they stopped the bad guys. Just like the more recent novels that followed this same pattern of weak villain strategy, this one also followed strategy number two, by turning it into one long chase down the villain scenes, to only lose the villain at the last moment, and then start another hunt the villain scene. It makes for a fast read, but the trade-off is not having a strong and worthy adversary for the dynamic duo to fight against. Unlike the last book, “Ocean Prey” which had formidable bad guys which made the stakes high risk and intense for the reader, this one had little risk. That is, until the last two chapters in which Sanford suddenly inserted a Davenport/Flowers impression of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid to end things in a surprisingly violent manner. For me, that wasn’t enough to make the bad guys tougher. Overall, for me the good things about Davenport and Flowers made the book worth reading, but they didn’t fully outweigh the weak vigilante team opposing them. My guess is that most Sanford fans will find this an easy and fun read, and I wouldn’t necessarily disagree with that. But for me, this will not be one of the more memorable ones from a mystery perspective. For now, I will just look forward to Virgil’s budding career as a mystery writer, as well as how he and Lucas will physically and emotionally recover from their climax ending experiences from this book. Time to move on and let this one go. Four stars for the good things. Two stars for the bad things. Let’s meet in the middle for a 3-star out of 5-star overall review rating.

RIGHTEOUS PREY, #32 in the Lucas Davenport series, was marginally better than “Ocean Prey”, #31, but it was noticeably uneven, and the ending was a debacle. It started with an interesting plot line. Five bitcoin billionaires have vowed to murder five “scumbags” of their choosing and then donate “blood money” to a worthy cause. The killings and donations are announced over the media. After the first couple of killings, in San Francisco and Houston respectively, the action moves to Minneapolis; Davenport and Virgil Flowers are called in to help the FBI solve the third homicide. This is where it starts to get wobbly, sometimes good, sometimes boring, as Lucas and Virgil walk and talk and eat—and talk about eating far too often. Sometimes the dialogue is comical and sometimes it felt like padding—with Sandford simply trying to meet his page count quota by describing banal conversations and boring actions. There are two endings. The first is acceptable. (I won’t go into spoiler territory here.) But then the story is ruined completely by illogicality. Murderer #5 decides to continue his quest. There was no logical reason for him to do so, especially given how the group’s plans collapsed after murders #3 and #4. The rationale choice would be for #5 to lay low for a several month period. But that would deprive Sandford of his shoot-‘em-up outcome. And also deprive him of his political commentary soapbox. It’s not that I disagree with Sandford’s political stance; I am, in fact, totally in agreement with him. But the posturing is too heavy, too strident. I literally had to stop reading that last section several times because it lacked momentum. It became a lecture. I think that John Sandford is tired of his characters, even Virgil Flowers, who has, until recently, been far more interesting than Davenport. My reviews for others in this series: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Masked Prey (Lucas Davenport #30) Ocean Prey (﻿Lucas Davenport #31) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A ‘how they catch ‘em’ that runs along well enough until it stumbles through its ending.

As a longtime fan of Lucas and Virgil, I enjoyed spending a few hours in their company again, and enjoy their repartee and general take-no-prisoners behaviour. Sandford in his usual style tells the story from both their point of view and also those of the Five, five bitcoin billionaires who decide to have fun by killing people they see as arseholes. Actually it is six, the instigator of the five is a bitter angry Asian-American, who is not rich and really really wants to be. Usually I can accept Sandford baddies as plausibly real and generally interesting. This time I found it difficult to do that. It just seemed unlikely that bitcoin billionnaires would be so angry that they wanted to kill people for thrills and to rid society of people they saw as arseholes. And try to start a political movement through press releases and calling for others to emulate them. Sure, all but one of the five were presented as crazy psychopaths, the other was a Jew whose family was a victim of the holocaust, and who quite reasonably really hated antisemitic fascists. The five were presented as "woke" and supporting some sort of vague unspecified "left" agenda. I didn't really buy this. Most of the rapidly rich billi0naires in the real world seem to be libertarian or right-wing out to exploit the lower classes and fund the right-wing element intent on subverting democratic processes. I would have found the five more plausible if the supposed political agenda of killing largely right-wing arseholes had been dropped and they were just a somewhat unusual bunch of rich psychopathic killers in it for the thrills. Sandford couldn't seem to decide whether they were thrill killers or serious killers motivated by a political philosophy. And oscillated between the two in a way I found unsatisfying. I wondered whether this was because he was attempting some sort of "balance" with his previous publication, The Investigator, in which his daughter Letty investigates (and kills) a bunch of right-wing crazy militia gun-nuts who decide to kill Mexican border crossers. I noticed this generated some quite negative reviews on Amazon from Maga types. Perhaps he decided to restore the balance with this novel by having the bad guys be supposedly anti-right wing and setting out to murder right-wing arseholes. Increasingly over the recent novels, Sandford has relied more and more on lots of guns and firepower, and lots of gun fetishization. The way Americans are destroying themselves and their society over gun fetishization is reflected in his novels quite uncritically, and this one ends with more carnage than any previous one that I can remember. Reading Righteous Prey I kept thinking how can these characters accept that any of this is not completely crazy, bad guys and good guys both. Three stars for the above problems, though I'd like to give it four for enjoying the Virgil-Lucas interactions.

3.5 for a disappointment or two to prevent a solid 4: (1) more words than action in this novel, (2) more politics than I expected because we already hear too much about radicals in each political party. Generally speaking, I've enjoyed author's writing style, using humor and irony. The primary conspiracy irony with The Five is rich people killing other rich people. Most people think "rich" is anyone who has more money than they do. How I choose my ratings: 5 must have original content and/or excellent prose, something that at least stands out in the storytelling -- even clever plot twists. And I like to learn something new -- But not about which gun is better for the kill... and we hear plenty about gun rights without having to read still more opinions from both Right and Left, and presumably in between--from both gun owners and non gun owners. I've read several Sandford novels over the years, so usually enjoy his stories. I've recently read many stories that talk about Bitcoin, which I find amusing in light of the current business news about its plunge from grace. Would it wipe out the Five conspiracy? No likely. Lucas and Virgil are better together for their repartee and attention to details others overlook in investigations, plus their shared willingness to see a case through to the bitter end. LUCAS AND VIRGIL in Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota) "Twin Cities"will trace The Five who are a self-advertised group of vigilantes, bored billionaires who promise the public they will "kill those who need to be killed." They donate untraceable Bitcoin to charities and organizations to help the chosen victim's "community." Lucas reads about The Five's first murder, the recipient of funds, and their manifesto/PR in the newspaper. Victim #1 is a San Francisco homeless drunk rapist and murderer the police haven't found. By the second victim, The Five is national news and Lucas's wife reads about it. Virgil's wife also reads about it and tells Virgil about Victim #3, which is in Minnesota in Lake Minnetonka's wealthy neighborhood during what sounds a record snow year. VIVIAN ZHO is described by the first killer as "sh--house mouse crazy" to whom The Five report their killings -- anonymous to each other; only she knows all their names. This first killer was raised poor with a cruelly abusive father the children wanted to kill but didn't. When he could, he worked to make himself rich with Bitcoin, and he sent money to his siblings to get them away from the man. Is his victim a proxy killing of his father? We expect The Five won't choose to stop killing, but at least Lucas and Virgil will get kudos for the first arrest with the #3 victim -- and half the book to go to get a couple more, dead or alive. All law enforcement, local and Federal, is in action with the national media hounding their investigations.

This is Flowers and Davenport together again, and taking on a case that seems kind of far fetched—billionaires via Bitcoin decide to target jerks and they each kill in their neighborhood, which isn’t great planning. The plot is okay, and I like Virgil and Lucas. This is pretty basic, but if you enjoy Sanford, you will enjoy this.

Always fun. Did kind of feel like Sandford was grasping in this one- but maybe that’s the dynamic of Lucas and Virg being together. I liked Ocean Prey better, but this was a fun book.

Probably more like 3.5 I have never read a Virgil Flowers book or a Lucas Davenport, this is a first for me and it was good. I definitely liked the pace, the story takes place after covid, and the bad guys to me didn't seem that bad but I guess murder is pretty bad so whatever. Basically a group of 6 people calling themselves "The Five" are murdering fascists and others that do not align with their political views. Flowers and Davenport are on the case through some interagency thing, They deal with a lot of bureaucratic BS and some serious dumb dumbs but all in all I really liked how the walking and knocking police investigation was portrayed. The book shows that the seasoned investigators got so much more from the interviews then the agents who thought there was nothing to be gained. Very good. I feel like the message of the book was lost on me, "The Five" are ridiculously rich because they bought bitcoin at the right time and the whole read I was very much coveting the murderers life, that being said if I was a billionaire and chose to murder someone I would damn sure not be caught. Like a billionaire? how do you fuck that up? I would not

It's the same exact poem Amanda Gorman performed at Biden's inauguration, which can be watched here: https://www.pbs.org/newshour/arts/wat... I like the theme of the poem, but I really can't recommend buying it. Borrow it from your library or read a transcript online. I see no reason to own this unless you were really moved by it or if you want to prominently display it next to the unread Jonathan Franzen novels on your coffee table--and you're not supposed to have guests over during a pandemic anyway, so that's still a no, not even as a gift.

This is the second book I’ve read in this series: I read book one a short while ago and this is the latest episode, book fifty! That’s some longevity. For those yet find their way into the pages of J.D. Robb’s books a quick overview is that it’s basically a police procedural based in a future New York City. Eve Dallas is the spunky detective charged with solving the crimes and her romantic interest (now husband) is mega-rich businessman Rourke. Here she’s required to track down a killer who dispatches his or her victims through the delivery of a deadly toxic gas - in a novel way, it has to be said. The first thing I noticed about this book, set in the year 2061, is that time hasn’t moved on very much in this series. Despite the multitude of cases Dallas must have dealt with, only three years have passed since the very first case covered. I was now familiar with the technological advances that surprised me last time around and regular readers must be fully at home with the way people communicate with each other ('links' which seem to be a type of mobile phone with the added benefit of a live visual feed), the scarcity of good coffee and a device that can accurately date time of death to the minute. In truth, the date setting for this story, and consequently the differences in the way certain things work and get done, definitely didn’t feel as intrusive this time around. Rather than discussing the plot – this is a whodunnit and I really don’t want to spoil the fun for future readers – I’ll simply reflect on what I liked about this book and a few things I didn’t like so much: Likes - Eve is a great character. She’s punchy and determined and happy to front up to anyone and though she clearly benefits from living with a very rich man she’s also reasonably unaffected by the surrounding wealth. - The scenes where she questions ‘people of interest’ and/or confronts people who offend her are terrific, she’s astute and spikey and the dialogue is really well constructed. - Eve has a great relationship with her sidekick Peabody, who I also really liked, and many of the scenes featuring the pair together are great fun. - Overall, it’s capably crafted tale and kept me interested throughout, if not entirely gripped. Not so much - The relationship between Eve and Rourke doesn’t work for me, it’s all way too lovey dovey and I didn’t particularly enjoy their interactions. In fact, the story sometimes gave me the sense of watching an episode of Murder They Wrote in the way I felt it was canted towards the whimsical. In truth, I prefer my crime fiction a little more hard boiled than this. - I’d go further and say the character of Rourke rather switches me off. He’s an easy get out when Eve gets stuck, seeming to have a skill set, a list of contacts or a means of resolving pretty much any problem that crops up. And for a guy who runs such a massive empire he appears to be permanently at Eve’s disposal. - This is clearly one of those series that benefits readers who have worked through the books in order: there are many references to previous cases and the re-appearance of characters who have obviously appeared in earlier books but whose context here is insufficiently explained. Overall I’d rate it three stars. Bits of it deserve a better score than this but for me it also provided some one star moments. My thanks to Little, Brown Book Group Ltd and NetGalley for supplying a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

I did note that this is Robb’s fiftieth book in the Death Series and the title is “Golden in Death”. Robb continues to amaze me by not repeating crimes. Each book is different. This time, she outdoes herself with a creative murder. The book is well written and continues the futuristic police procedural. I enjoyed Lt. Eve Dallas and Detective Delia Peabody’s adventure while solving the crime. There is humor, action and interesting characters in the story. I wonder when one of them is going to get a promotion in rank. This is a great get-away-from-it-all book. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book is thirteen hours and fifty minutes. Susan Ericksen does an excellent job narrating the book. Ericksen has been the only narrator of the series. She is a multi-award-winning audiobook narrator.

This was a very meh In Death book. I don’t know if it’s covid, my new job is a bit overwhelming, or that this was just not doing it for me? Maybe a little of each? There is no major character development here. Peabody seems to have gotten dumber at points; talking/acting like she’s a junior Detective. Roarke is boring and McNab is mentioned maybe twice, but no lines I can recall. Then there’s the crime; it’s a weak motive and seems like Robb was reaching too hard. A far cry from the Icove case cleverness. We are now what, 20 books or more since Icove? At least 5 books since the movie which is last one I really remember... and so I’m not sure if this series, at book 50, has just finally run it’s course. I’m sad as it’s been a staple part of my book repertoire each year for over 15 years, as new books came out. But all good things must come to an end I suppose. One more book as meh as this one and I might, just might be done with these quirky folks. That or I’ll keep being disappointed and wishing, hoping for the spark to return one day to our gang.

I think I let my expectations run a little too wild in regards to this book. Because it’s book 50 (which is crazy, right?!) in a series, I was anticipating something mind-blowing for this installment; instead, I got fairly run-of-the-mill. And I’m so disappointed about it. In case you didn’t know, I absolutely adore Nora Roberts. She’s my ultimate comfort read. I’ve read literally everything she’s written, and I can’t think of another author so prolific (she’s written well over 200 books) that I can say that about. There’s something about her books that feels like coming home from the very first page. This is doubly true for the In Death series. Following the same characters through FIFTY books is a wild experience. Eve and Roarke and Peabody and so many others feel like members of my family that I get to catch up with a couple of times a year. If I’m being honest, these characters often feel more real to me than real people in my life. Or at least, they usually do. “Do you know what I mean when a situation or a time can feel like the end of your world, the somehow becomes the making of it, and you?” Golden in Death could have been (and should have been) something really special for readers who have followed the series from its inception. Instead, it felt like an afterthought, a halfhearted offering that cheapened characters I’ve come to love so much. While the sass and camaraderie were still present, they felt stilted and even a bit forced. Eve lacked the dimension she usually brings to this series. Nora simply wasn’t on her A-game here. There was absolutely nothing special about this particular story and it makes me incredibly sad. “Death—but most especially murder—ripped so many lives to shreds. And no matter how they were put back together, they were never, ever the same.” All of that being said, it wasn’t a bad book. It still showcased Nora’s wonderful writing and storytelling style. Even if the characters weren’t as tangibly real and captivating as they usually are, it was still nice to catch up with them. And there were a few heartfelt moments that resonated. But everything about this book, from the plot to the characters to even the romance (which is among my favorite love stories of all time) just felt…tired. The main baddie felt like such a cliché by the time they were caught and arrested. I was literally rolling my eyes throughout the interrogation. And every remotely ethnic character sounded weirdly robotic and stiff during their lines of dialogue. Also, the chapter divides seemed incredibly arbitrary and made no actual sense with the flow of the story. It really threw me. “I can’t change what I did, only what I do.” Will I continue reading literally everything Nora ever publishes? Absolutely. I don’t care what it is, if she writes it, I will be reading it as soon as I can lay my hands on it. But will I be rereading this particular book? Highly unlikely. Here’s to hoping Eve Dallas gets her groove back and packs more of a punch in the next In Death installment. You can find this review and more at Novel Notions.

I have to say the 50th book in the series fell flat for me. It used to be when a Dallas book came out, I was clamoring to read it. Now, not so much. There were a few other books I one click on the same day and I read those first. While the story was okay what made this series great was Eve. But her character which was the shining star is now flat, no real growth. The struggles with living a rich life are eye rolling to me now. I get it’s been a few years for Eve, but it’s been over a decade for me. It’s either time to end the series or shake Eve’s life up. She needs a life altering event to spruce up the series. This event has to happen directly to her and not the side characters to spruce up the series. There are really only two options. The death or Rourke or Eve getting pregnant. I’m not sure the fans would stand for the first. I know the author said the second would never happen. So end the series. Otherwise let it happen. I know women don’t need to have a child to be fulfilled in real life or fiction. But this is fiction and Eve needs something earth shattering to happen to make things interesting again. Anything else, like a brush with death or a pregnancy scare as has happened in this series will only affect one book or two. Eve needs something that will carry the series for a while. And other book series cops have had kids. Working mothers are a thing and certainly would spice up Eve’s character arch.

It’s almost unheard of for me to only give three stars to a book in this wonderful series but Roarke made relatively little appearance in this story which meant the interaction between him and Eve was sadly lacking. The plot, although a good one, seemed very slow moving. Still really looking forward to the next instalment in the Autumn though!

The initial investigation was fairly pointless, in fact I couldn’t help thinking that nobody could seriously follow this line of enquiry. After a second incident the story began to develop into a decent crime thriller. What I missed with this book was Eve's social interaction with her wider group of friends and colleagues, of course Roarke and Peabody have roles in the investigation, but I enjoy the contrast between the extremely competent professional Cop and socially terrified Eve. If possible I would have given 3.5 stars.

Boring Not up to J.D. Robb’s usual - not intense, not fun to read; no real excitement. I actually found it rather boring.

This is the first J D Robb book I've read, or in this case, listened to. This one was not for me. It's not a bad book, it didn't "wow" me though. I love the books she writes under Nora Roberts. This one reads as a typical whodunit. I did get a bad cop drama vibe from it. I will say there were funny parts to it. I may try to read the next book instead of listening to it. That may help. Thank you to NetGalley, MacMillan audio, and JD Robb for the opportunity to listen to this book.

3.5 stars I enjoyed reading this! The beginning really caught my interest, but the rest of the story didn't wow me. The book does have some fun moments.

Robb’s ‘In Death’ series are a favorite of mine for road trips. The narrator is fantastic, the characters are endearing, and Robb continues to come up with interesting cases for Eve Dallas to solve. This one was a pretty straightforward police procedural. It helped to pass the miles on my last trip back home.

I found this novel to be very interesting and an insight into police investigations. The plot revolves around the murder of a woman at her pre wedding celebration with friends. Once Eve Dallas gets involved, the intrigue begins as we learn about the backgrounds of friends and business associates of the deceased. However, I found this process dragged on and on and was just too long and drawn out. I thank NetGalley and St. Martin’s Press for the opportunity to read and review this book prior to publication.

It started good but the ending was a let down. After lots of build up it was all over in just a few pages which felt very rushed.

Not that bad, but not that good either … Patterson books used to be better (or is it just me?)

I've always liked the girls in the women's murder club. That being said, the stories have pretty much gone off thr rails. I realize this is fiction, but come on. It's all getting a little too far fetched, and I feel that ruins the story. I reixr James Patterson isn't really writing the books anymore and sometimes you can really tell. Disappointing.

I loved getting updates about the girls but the plot on this installment left a lot to be desired. The person who killed the first 2 people didn’t make sense. It was revealed almost as an afterthought in the last 30 minutes. The first person killed (someone who’s been part of the series since day 1) deserved a better story! Also Joe’s situation in Mexico added zero to the story line and I’m kind of tired of the same ole cartel story line in every other book in this series. Yuki’s case was the only good part. I was hoping this was the ending to the series. Let’s see what’s next for The Women’s Murder Club.

2 1/2-3 ⭐️’s Storyline was good, but the ending was so rushed and a bit unrealistic. Kind of like, let’s end this and tie everything together on one page. I’ll still read the next one.

love love love this series - i've been reading it since middle school! james patterson never disappoints when it comes to this series. i love how each book has short chapters, contains multiple storylines & has evolving character development. i also enjoyed all the twists & turns this one had!! can't wait for the next one!

This reader has read most of the Woman’s Murder Club and loved them…but this current one does not “hit the mark” for me. A phone call sends Detective Boxer to a murder scene where her mentor, former partner- now retired is dead. Yes, the “other club woman” have a scene or two but mostly a rushed ending to have everyone together hand in hand or in bed…This reader needed more from everyone-including the two authors! Enjoy

I’m an AVID Patterson reader and have read the entirety of both his WMC and Alex Cross series to current. This by far was the most disappointing read to come off the line by Patterson and Paetro to date. The writing felt disjointed and lacked flow while also giving a lot of what seemed like nonsensical and unnecessary dialogue. It indefinitely was not indicative of what I have been used to with these two co-authors works and definitely not the usual gripping words that Patterson puts on the paper. I’ll still be ready for the 26th installment of this series but if it’s a disappointed too then the run for me may be over.

If you haven't read other books in this series, I can see being very lost with the multitude of characters. The book jumps around a lot between different perspectives (which is the 'normal' formula for the series). Overall, it was just ok. I'm just not connecting to these characters anymore and the ending felt really rushed... it's like they got to a point and just said 'let's wrap it up' and that was that. A bit disappointed in the last few books in the series.

Maybe because I didn’t read this in order so it took me some time to figure out who’s who, which didn’t help with my immersion. There were also bits that felt too long (e.g. meeting up at different restaurants to chat on the next steps), and the ending was more of a “oh okay, good that they got the guy” than a “holy shit, I never saw this coming!”

This one was just kind of "eh" for me. There weren't really any "plot twists"... just a Mexican shootout and Helicopter on top of a building. Some things happened (several shots outside Yuki's house) barely got explained away. I feel like Women's Murder Club has gotten pretty standard form.

It had so much potential…ending felt forced and the phony cheese factor was so bad that I almost had to knock it down to 2 stars. One star for old characters who used to make a lot more sense on the page.

Fast read, but a rather abrupt ending!

I enjoyed the first half of the book and then it got a bit ridiculous. No 25 in the series, maybe it is time for it to end. Which saddens me as I always look forward to the next installment.

This wasn’t one of the best in the series. Each story just ended. Then all of a sudden it was another setting. It is going to be hard to keep reading this series if they are like this

Mickey Gibson is a former detective who now works for a global investigation company tracking down and retrieving stolen money. Now a single mother with 2 young children she does the vast majority of her work remotely from home. It’s a job she enjoys, she’s good at it and it allows her to bring in a good income while still spending time with her children. After one successful job that earned the company a significant payday, she receives a call from the office from a woman named Arlene Robinson. There’s a new job assigned to Mickey, this time one out in the field. She’s to inventory the home of an illegal arms dealer who has cheated ProEye’s clients out of many millions and then disappeared. In the process of conducting her inventory she finds a hidden room and, inside the room, also finds a dead body. After the police are called out, she finds out that there’s actually no person named Arlene Robinson working at ProEye. Whoever it was who called her had set her up for reasons, as yet, unknown. It’s at this point that I had a major problem with Simply Lies. Given absolutely no reason to take on the investigation, an investigation presented to her by someone who refuses to reveal her real name, Mickey risks her job, the safety of her children and her own safety to try to find out who might have killed the man she found. There was simply no reason for her to get involved. And even when she became frustrated by the lack of information from Arlene (who later called herself Clarisse), she carried on. Putting that aside, Simply Lies features a pair of strong female characters who have each overcome difficult circumstances, exhibited remarkable deductive reasoning skills and unpicked a particularly convoluted mystery. Although their relationship begins with suspicion, irritation and mistrust, their relationship develops slowly as they make progress in their quest to identify the killer. Things move quickly with a reasonably complicated plot explained in a coherent way that ensures we’re taken along for the ride without much confusion. When I allowed myself to get over the fact that Mickey shouldn’t have been involved in the first place, I appreciated that this is an engaging thriller with some quality twists. Much of the early interaction between Mickey and Clarisse is via phone calls and was largely adversarial in nature. The detective work was approached logically and took us on a convoluted path into inevitable dangerous territory and an exciting finish.

This book did not read like a David Balducci story. It seemed like someone else wrote it. I was disappointed, but it still held my interest.

3⭐ Genre ~ crime thriller Series ~ Mickey Gibson #1 Setting ~ Virginia Publication date ~ April 18, 2023 Page Count ~ 433 (86 chapters) Audio length ~ 11 hours 45 minutes Narrator ~ Lisa Flanagan, Corey Carthew POV ~ single 3rd Featuring ~ single mom, investigator, murder, se*ual assault, child abuse I don't have too much to say about this one. It was pretty typical of what I expect from this author, but not my favorite. There was a good amount of action, but I wouldn't say I was on the edge of my seat or wowed really. Narration notes: Love that it was duet narration!...for the most part, but not every chapter. Husbands review: Book was okay. Some spots I got lost, but I was eventually able to figure it out. I liked the voices. Connect with me ➡ Blog ~ Facebook ~ Twitter

Average! Why did this not read or feel like a true Baldacci? The main reason - the dialogue, suspense and logic were all off. For me, his new protagonist, single mum, ex-Detective, Mickey Gibson was the biggest problem. She continually emphasised the importance of being a stable, protective presence for her children and parents, but then spends the entire novel putting herself in harms way for no apparent reason other than being told she has no choice? There are some interesting angles if you can overcome the protagonist’s illogical behaviour and decision making, but not a series from Baldacci that’s going to race into my TBR list.

Simply Lies ⭐️⭐️⭐️💫 📚 Thriller 🎶 Sister Christian - Night Ranger One sentence synopsis: A single mother and former detective gets bamboozled into helping a con artist find a killer. My review: I was pleasantly surprised by this thriller. I think of David Baldacci as a “dads” author. You know the ones you see on your dads bookshelf (Tom Clancy, John Grisham, James Patterson…) Authors who’ve written like 500 books. I never gave them much thought until my aunt let me borrow this book and told me it was good. She was right! I thought the story was mostly pretty original although it did have some dead parts that kinda dragged. The begging was honestly the best part which felt weird. Usually it’s the other way around. I might look into more books by this author. I have a feeling this might not be his best one which is a good thing because this one isn’t bad.

Definitely not a typical Baldacci book of late. I have to say I spent most of my time while reading this book wondering what the hell is going on and why do people do such these crazy things. Doesn't anyone say NO anymore? I still did enjoy it. Enough effort was put into it I liked a few of the cast.

Was alright. A bit shallow on character development, sorta predictable. Mickey Mouse ending

I'm a Baldacci fan and find most of his tales move along at a pretty rapid pace. This one, however, is a bit of a slog. Slow to get going, a story that is overpopulated, convoluted and improbable. While I have given it a three star average rating, take it as below average for him but most writers would have been happy with the result.

Mickey Gibson gets more than she bargains for when she visits a vacant home, at the behest of her "co-worker," to inventory its contents. She finds a dead body and a whole lot of trouble. A single mother of two toddlers and a former police detective, Mickey finds herself up to her neck in intrigue and danger. The mob? Check. An unknown master of disguises acting as a puppet master? Check. A police detective who might not be Mr. Right? Check. Author David Baldacci relies more on brains than brawn in this novel that focuses primarily on two women who match wits and dodge the occasional whack. This is fairly typical Baldacci. The chapters are short and enjoyable. He tries to build tension and to create an atmosphere in which the stakes are seemingly insurmountable. Of course, the resolution is the kind of thing a child (Granted, a child who would have to be capable with technology and digital currency) would come up with.

Simply Lies are quite stupid. As a fan of David Baldacci, I have to say I don’t enjoy reading this one. Let me explain. The main character Mickey Gibson is simply too naive and keeps making bad decisions. Using her bad decisions as a plot device is a bad idea. The story begins when Mickey gets a phone call from a person she doesn’t know, saying the boss wants her to go to a house in the middle of the night to get information about the assets. She is working as an investigator in ProEye, a PI firm. The first thing anyone working for any company should know is the confirm that this work comes from the boss, or is it some kind of a prank. We all watched the Offices and we know someone claiming to have a request from the boss is not real until proven. This is the first bad decision. She went and then found a body. As a reader, this is the first, I told you so moment. Then we found out the person on the phone was none other than Clarisse. I hate this manipulating bitch from this moment onwards and waiting for her to get killed. Nope. This is not the direction of the book. There are alternative chapters from the point of view of Mickey and Clarisse. I dislike this Clarisse and keep wanting to see her killed by other bad guys in the book. Here is the stupid and frustrating part. The writer wants reader to care about Clarisse through Mickey. And then wanted them to become friends. WTF. Only the most desperate and naive person will want to be friend of a manipulating person who try to either get you arrested, or get you killed. I dislike Clarisse and I don’t trust the judgement of Mickey. So, this is a story about a bad guy who is in the witness protection program. He has hidden treasure that Clarisse wants but cannot get because she is not smart enough. So she manipulated Mickey into helping her to get information so that she can discover the treasure. And the treasure is in NFT. NFT is stupid. Real life stupid that I have a not so friendly conversation with a friend. Of course the friend don’t believe in. My point is, there is no real value in NFT and after it is not trending anymore, the values depreciate so fast that investors are not able to minimize loss. Anyway, more stupid stuff added to the story and then the end. I will give it 3 stars as the writing is okay.

2 1/2 stars. This was... fine. Whenever I review a new King book, I get asked by some people whether this would be a good place to start for newcomers to King. It's usually a difficult question, but here I can answer easily: no. Fairy Tale isn't bad, but it's far from his best. I'd recommend pretty much any of his novels released in the last few years over this one (The Outsider, The Institute, Sleeping Beauties, Billy Summers, for example.) Typical of King, this one is long and it starts with a slow build. I don't mind that so much as long as it's building to something worthwhile. King introduces us to Charlie Reade whose mother is dead and whose father coped with her death with a bottle of gin. Charlie sends up a prayer, hoping for an end to the nightmare he is living and, to his surprise, it seems his prayer is answered. In an effort to pay it back, Charlie ends up becoming a caretaker for an old man and his dog, Howard Bowditch and Radar. But Howard Bowditch is an old man with some dark secrets, as Charlie will eventually find out. This takes up approx. the first third of the book. There are hints of the supernatural in the background (such as scratching noises in a locked shed) but it's a long time before we even begin to get answers. There's a lot of book here for what I found to be very little payoff. When the truth comes to light, Charlie ends up on his own little fantasy adventure story, which is... pretty much like any fantasy adventure ever, complete with giants, undead soldiers, a king, and a Big Bad. Nothing that happens comes as a surprise. I kept thinking that it was all going to tie together into something more clever at the end, have a bigger meaning, be a metaphor for something, but it more or less just petered out. In the end, I actually think the slow beginning was the best part of the story. I am rounding up for some light entertainment, King's trademark characterization, and a fabulous dog, but I'm still inclined to say this one is skippable.

Special thanks to the person who confirmed the dog doesn't die in this. Jesus F*cking Christ this was a long book. Stephen King has written one of my favorite books of all times: IT. There is nothing like that book and those characters out there. I think he truly delivers magic when it comes to coming of age stories and he adds so much soul to mundane characters. This book feels like Stephen, but also doesn't at the same time. It's not quite a horror book, and it's not quite a fantasy book, it's somewhere in between. It was really easy to connect to Charlie during the first half. He is a young man with an alcoholic father. Charlie begged God to help his father sober up, and he did. And because of that Charlie became the most reliable person in the world, because he truly believed that if he broke his part of his deal with God, his dad would go back to the alcohol. He did great in school, at sports and helped his dad with work. Until one day, when walking back home from school, he hears his old neighbor's dog barking like crazy and once he checks it out, he finds the poor old man on the ground with a broken leg. The first half of this entire book had The Old Man and the Sea vibes. The grumpy old man falls in love with Charlie, and so does the dog. Charlie creates the most emotional routine with them, non-romantic love hits SO DIFFERENT. He takes the dog on daily walks, feeds him, and also helps Howard with his meds and keeps him company. It's the perfect recipe to make you bawl your eyes out. And I did cry about five times for the first half of this book. I don't want to drop you any spoilers here, because this book is SO LONG, and it really does carry 3 different stories all at once. 3 different worlds. Stephen was inspired by the old school Grimm tales and this turns into one, it was beautifully crafted, his writing is so so so great and honestly so satisfying to read, but unfortunately, the last 300 pages of this were unbelievably boring and slow. Basically, all you need to know about this book is: this is the story of a young man who fell in love with a dog, the dog is old and about to die, and he is willing to do WHATEVER it takes to make this dog stick around forever. That's where magic comes in, in this urban fantasy Stephen King tale. If you're ok with the slow pace of the book, you might actually love this one, because honestly? I'd also travel to an unknown world, talk to messed up creatures, make deals with the devil and face any kind of dangerous magic to make sure my dog lives forever.

This was a slog to be honest. 2.5-3 stars

Seventeen year old Charlie is sort of in a good place after surviving the death of a loved one when he was a toddler; and surviving another loved winning their battle with addiction, so when he comes across a gnarly old-man in need, Charlie feels that he has to help him, snarky Mr Bowditch. There's something quite not right about Mr Bowditch, although he does have a wonderful, albeit aging and possible sick dog, Rader. As circumstances lead to Charlie getting told more and more of Mr Bowditch's secrets, he finds himself, beyond all reason, caught up in a genuine fairy tale! The problem with this actually interesting and at times compelling dark fantasy is that if you have read Stephen King's The Dark Tower series or say The Talisman you've seen the 'modern person' in a magical/strange environment with a dark history that has tainted it. I would say if you haven't read similar King reads this would be a worthwhile read, but for us Constant Readers, maybe a solid book taking us back to King's superlative creative past, but it neither feels original or innovative. I rated this as a 7 out of 12, strong Three Star read. Really though, I should just advise everyone to read it, it is ultimately a great dark fairy tale-like story, so I'll just keep my mouth shut. 2024 read

I really enjoyed the first half, the part where it was focused more on Charlie, Radar, and Mr. Bowditch. In fact, I enjoyed it so much that I prefer the story to revolve longer around those three. The discovery of the parallel world can wait until the latter part of the book, in my opinion. I loved the suspense in the beginning and I felt like it was such a waste that it was revealed so early considering that this book is kinda long. Stephen King has already built a good reputation in literature so it is no wonder how his writing style captivates me. His description is so vivid it was like I'm with Charlie during his adventure. I adore his character very much, I just love how selfless he is. He is very dependable too. I think he sounded way too mature for his age, though. And, will I even forget Radar? She is so cute and I'm glad that Charlie was willing to go that far to keep this dog by his side. This book is basically a mixture of fairy tales most people are familiar with, hence the title. Sprinkled with dark stuff. Plus Hunger Games.

The first 200 pages are absolutely fantastic, while the next 350 pages are 🥴 Probably my least favourite King book due to the plot structure.

This review and others @Bookerification Rating: 3 stars Cover: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 How pretty is this cover?! The gentle, pastel colours work wonderfully with the simple illustration to create a striking design. I also love that we have Charlie and Radar in the design, even though all we get is their outline. Writing: 🌟🌟🌟 As expected from Stephen King's reputation, his writing style is smooth and easy to follow. The narrative voice is confident and mature as the story is recounted by an older Charlie years later. While I found the world-building intricate and fascinating, the fantasy aspect seemed convoluted. On top of this, various elements within the parallel world are dismissed as part of the magical world. This simplistic explanation was not satisfying and dragged me out of the experience. “You’re only as sick as your secrets” Storyline: 🌟🌟🌟 The story begins with a gentle introduction to Charlie and his sad childhood. Charlie's connection with Mr Bowditch and his dog Radar is then established in a slow-paced, mundane account that takes up about a third of the story. While I was not captivated by this aspect of the story, it did allow me to form an emotional connection with the grumpy older man and his sweet dog. The pace gradually picks up once Charlie enters the parallel world and there is some action. Despite this, I could not bring myself to remain invested in Charlie's grand quest, as it took far too long to see where the story was heading. By the end, most loose ends are nicely tied without seeming too perfect or forced. Main character(s): 🌟🌟🌟 Seventeen-year-old Charlie Reade may seem like a typical good kid, but he also has a dark side because of his tragic childhood. However, besides the initial complexity and depth his character gets from this, Charlie experiences little growth during the story. This made it hard for me to connect and relate with him, even though I liked his character. "There’s a dark well in everyone, I think, and it never goes dry. But you drink from it at your peril. " Secondary characters: 🌟🌟🌟 The grumpy and suspicious Mr Bowditch took some time to grow on me, but he eventually melted my ice-cold heart. Bowditch's love for his dog Radar made him even more endearing, and I was impressed by how much personality King infuses into the dog. The remaining secondary characters are mainly from the parallel world. Sadly, I struggled to keep track of the large cast of characters, especially since most are given little depth and are unmemorable. Romance: 🌟 The little romance in this story caught me by surprise as the characters lacked a clear connection. What begins as Charlie's physical attraction to another character suddenly becomes love with little development shown. I would have preferred not to have this romance, as it adds very little to the story. It is clear that 'Fairy Tale' is not a story I found very gripping or engaging. Only a handful of the characters were memorable, and I struggled with the slow-paced, expansive storyline. However, I understand why other readers may enjoy this story, especially with the homage made to Grimms and Disney fairy tales. I would recommend The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue by V.E. Schwab for those who love this book.

3/5 Yeah, not a huge fan…. The beginning was really good and kept me entertained, and honestly, everything was decent enough but then near the end I just found myself skimming through it. Sorry, I couldn’t do it no more.

3.75 ⭐️ 𖦹ׂ 𓈒 🏰 ⟩ “there’s a dark well in everyone, i think, and it never goes dry. but you drink from it at your peril. that water is poison.” i now hold the mighty “i have read a stephen king book and survived” certificate in my hand 😌😮‍💨 ➴ fairy tale follows charlie reade, a boy who carries an immense amount of family grief with him. when he inherits everything from his grumpy neighbor mr. bowditch, he discovers a mysterious shed in the backyard that leads to a whole new world filled with elements and references to famous childhood fairy tales. charlie enters this new and strange world initially to save bowditch’s elderly dog, radar, but soon becomes entangled in a battle against dark forces threatening the land. this book feels like two different stories: — the first 30% is slow but filled with character development. though i felt it dragged on for far too long, reading charlie’s complex backstory lets me understand the decisions he makes later on in the story and why he does so. but there was several moments where i was thinking to dnf cuz i’d been waiting for a third of the book for the actual plot to start ;-; — the second half was action packed and full of creepy and magical characters. i enjoyed it a lot more and was shocked by all the plot twists and character changes. charlie was like an entirely new character in this part, and i loved seeing him fight his way through this unfamiliar and terrifying world. ALSO THE LAST THREE CHAPTERS WERE INCREDIBLE I WAS LITERALLY SO SHOOK THE ENTIRE TIME !!! 🐕‍🦺 ✶ overall . . . i’m glad this was my first Stephen King book because it was such an adventurous action read!! i loved the audiobook version; i kept it playing in the background while i did other work and it always kept me on my toes, especially during the second half. i just wish this was 300 pages shorter because the book would get so interesting and then it would get boring for another 5 chapters ;-; LMFAO 😭

"Here is something I learned in Empis: good people shine brighter in dark times." pg 250 Charlie is a typical teen- plays sports and helps his father out around the house. But one day, after helping a neighbor after an accident, Charlie enters a world that is not our own. And discovers an adventure that he wasn't looking for. The incomparable Stephen King has written a mammoth fairy tale (600 pages in my digital version!). I thought it was too long. Not that I mind long books. It sort of felt like King started the book thinking it was going to be about something different than it turned into. The reason I feel that way is because the first quarter of the book takes so long to establish Charlie's character and real world connections. I wanted to just get on with it. Then, when we finally made it to Empis, events went too quickly! King uses quite a lot of foreshadowing which was ok at first, but then it started to become too much. I realize he was trying to build tension- it was just over-used. "Remember when I said at the outset that no one would believe my story?" pg 494, ebook I enjoyed any part of the story that had Radar the dog in it. She was my favorite character. King really took his time developing her and her reactions to the world around her, which was fun. King is at his best when he's describing the eerie atmosphere of the other world and its unfortunate denizens. Like I said, those parts went too quickly. Other than my small gripes, this was a well-written story and worthy of its Good Reads nomination. Readers who like Stephen King for his horror should read a different book. This is definitely more fantasy than horror.

This really fell apart for me around 55-60%. The beginning was great but that’s about it. I honestly just found myself not caring about what happened to anyone but the dog. ⋆✴︎˚｡⋆ Connect with me on Instagram ˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹

(2.5) While my rating will probably surprise some of you, my overall opinion is "it wasn't that bad." (the reading vlog: https://youtu.be/LS9W4acXEOk) Don't get me wrong, the writing is not the best, the romance is definitely cringy and too many very convenient moments... but it's very readable and the magic system/dragons were cool. I get why it's getting so popular as it reminds me a bit of Throne of Glass. Heck, I personally enjoyed this one more. Am I in a rush to pick up book 2 when it's out? No. But it also won't make it to my "worst books of 2023". Murakami will though lol

I mostly feel fine about this book. All around just fine. The beginning was pretty solid & it felt very nostalgic & similar to books I've read in the past. The middle part sort of lost me & I could've been fine with the romance-y bits being dialed down a bit, but I get that this is a ~romantasy~ book, so I did my best to overlook it. I found myself in a place where I was ready for the book to end & that's never an enjoyable place to find yourself. I did really love the ending! It was a rush and I completely understand the hype surrounding this book. I'm just not sure that I have the desire to carry on with the series, but this was a fun ride while it lasted.

Everywhere I looked, I saw Fourth Wing. It's a fantasy about a military school that trains young people to become dragon riders. It's very dangerous. Watch out! Because the other cadets are extremely cutthroat (as in, your classmates will cut your throat), the dragons will incinerate you if they think you're weak, and you have a 50/50 chance of falling off a cliff or somesuch during training. Kind of like a mash-up of How to Train Your Dragon and Red Rising. THAT SOUNDS FUCKING COOL AS HELL. And it is. But. And here's the secret: this is a cringy romance. Ahhhhhh. See, I didn't know that when I started reading. And I feel that it's pertinent information. So after listening to it for a bit, I thought oh well, this must be young adult because the heroine (Violet) is a bit annoying. She's not strong, her body is fragile, and yet she's wah wah wah in her attitude towards people helping her. Plus, she's in life and death situations and she's still seemingly ruled by hormones. That's fine. I was a youngster myself back in the day. I had the urges. And I love cringy romance. I'm reading a bodice ripper right now. But what I don't love is stepping into what I think will be a badass fantasy story and then hearing things like he's all sharp lines and barely leashed power or how he's always saying something "harshly" that sends a shiver down her spine. And make no mistake, there are lots of dark & growly things coming from Xaden Riorson (that name! as soon as I heard it I knew what I was in for) over the course of the story. But probably if I hadn't read this same story a million times, I'd be just as enamored as a lot of the other reviewers. Sadly, I've read too many books for this one to hold any surprises for me. Even the shocking twist at the end was something I expected to happen. That's not even something I fault the author for, I just didn't have my expectations lined up in the correct order. And I guess that's what I'm trying to convey. THIS IS A NEW ADULT ROMANCE. Set against a fantasy-lite backdrop. The whole book revolves around Violet and Xaden rolling around in angst while working their way toward each other's panties. It's not Young Adult because they drop the f-bomb and have the dirty sexy times. But New Adult is typically coated in as much relationship cheese as YA, and this one is no exception. So. Strap in for big declarations, reading every encounter with each other wrong, cravings for abs and bottom lips, ridiculous trust issues, and sexual attraction that must. be. fought. at. any. cost. This kind of book really isn't my jam, but for the kind of book that it is, it does its job well. I actually did really enjoy the underlying plot and world-building. Yarros has some excellent ideas and I would love to see what she could come up with in a setting where romance doesn't take center stage. Audiobook review: I listened to Rebecca Soler's reading of this and...no. I think she's supposed to have that generic young girl voice but it sounds like she's holding her nose when she talks or something. I tried listening to the book at all different speeds to see if maybe that would help, but I finally gave up and went back to my normal 1.5 speed. I haven't seen any other complaints, so this may just be a me thing. Recommended for fans of NA/YA fantasy romance.

— 3 stars ☆ Y'ALL LIED TO ME. this was not zodiac academy except even slightly better, not in the least. 🥱 first of all. this was so very formulaic. and by formulaic, i mean YES i wanted more character development, YES i wanted more world-building, YES i wanted more actual depth to literally everything. but overall i did like it, and i did enjoy. i just didn't love it, i wasn't awed by it at all, and i frankly don't get the hype when all violet & xaden were, were two immature idiots who couldn't control their horniness sometimes and just had to be with each other. there was zero background to Xaden and Violet's so called "relationship" (and i don't even get how it started, okay?? even torydarius [from zodiac academy] had more development to them than what this was). the fact that Violet instantly became jealous of some random girl bc she was "friends" with Xaden, and at that point they didn't even know each other even remotely. 😩😵‍💫 I'm in love with Xaden. oh rly? already?? what makes you think that - after fucking one time and talking for what, maybe 10 times max? and being "together" for a week? i could not believe in the timeline of their relationship AT ALL. what about the fact that i still don't get why they "hated" each other? i saw the tension between them, yes. i saw the attraction. WHERE ARE THE FEELINGS? and ngl, the action and actual plot scenes made me wanna skim so much 🥱 following them took me immense amounts of energy that i did not possess (strange how it seemed i did have that energy to binge two fics at that time though 🤔). i thought i'd be so hooked with this and in the middle part, i was. but then it just started dragging so much for some reason. (view spoiler) the portions i actually enjoyed though, were - — TAIRN AND ANDARNA. my beloveds. my dragons. idc, i'm keeping them for myself. they're the more precious adorable lil babies (also is it weird i acc wanted to fuck tairn for some time lol) 🫶💘 also literally all the dragons made the book icl this was boring af otherwise — the banter was top-notch fr. formulaic or not, Xaden was truly a man written by a woman and that's the highest compliment 🥰🥺 rebecca sure knew how to pick them huh jkshjhsadjfgfh HE WAS AMAZINGGG. the way he always knew what Violet needed, at all times? 🥺🥺 — THE ENDING. made my jaw drop. ngl, i actually liked that (view spoiler) bc i knew it was gonna have to have happened one way or another lmao. but also the fact that (view spoiler) died was such a shock?? i did feel something for him 😭 (view spoiler) — all i'm looking forward to in the next book is to see Xaden beg for Violet's hand like the man he is 🥺 plsplspls let that happen so i'd say, this was definitely not life-changing or monumental in any way whatsoever. but, it was a fun romp nonetheless. while it has a unique enough premise, it's also cliche in the sense that there wasn't anything particularly NEW here. yes, the dragons managed to more than sufficiently capture my attention, buuuut... i expected more. and i'll probably still be picking up the sequel, just.. maybe after reading some more spoilery reviews and managing my expectations the next time lol. buddy read with lilyya!

Was this good? No. Was it entertaining? Yes. Will I be reading the next book? Definitely not.

rhysand — temu’s version. which is impressive because rhysand is shein quality.

I would call this one more of a domestic drama with just a bit of suspense. It was slightly addictive in the beginning, but became pretty far-fetched pretty quickly and I wasn't buying into the "predicament" this family got wrapped up in. Their actions didn't seem reasonable or realistic. There was some good character development, but the further I got, the more outlandish it became and not in a good, fun way. I don't mind suspending belief most of the time, I was just expecting a realistic type of suspense story. Lot's of GR friends loved this one, so perhaps I was expecting something a little more fast paced/captivating with a better pay off. Just an okay read for me! Library loan 5/23/2021

Such decent writing. Such a dull, long winded plot. Such an unsatisfying ending for me. This one got me down. I'm rating it a 3.5 out of 5 and reducing it to a 3 because I had just read a hilarious comedy (The Car Share), and was feeling no pain, only to be brought down by this one. Emotional manipulation, a term I'm borrowing from another Goodreads' friend, is not my thing: people will flock to books that make you cry: I'll only read those if there is redemption and a hint of hope to be found. This one just put a big frown on my face, despite the often decent writing style, although the dialogue was sometimes off or just seemed like a time waster/filler. This was not my cup of tea and is the second book by this author that left me feeling emotionally unsatisfied. (A little more effort and a solution could have been found. I thought of a few myself: like cosmetic surgery, for one. You can even alter finger prints these days. Why not be inventive? These saviour complex heroines exhaust me sometimes. Halos are a dime a dozen.) Such a disappointing soap opera!

If you are looking for an edge of your seat thriller that gets that heart rate pumping, this might not be the book for you, IMO. That being said this was still a solid read for me. The main characters were realistic, fleshed out and incredibly likable. This was mostly a story about the relationship between a stepmother and stepdaughter, who at the beginning of this novel have a rocky relationship to say the least. The mystery element unfortunately didn't do a whole lot for me, but it was the exquisite writing that kept me reading. The words just seemed to flow so effortlessly that I soon found myself turning the pages rapidly. This is a sign of great writing to me as I've found that if I'm not completely engaged with the story sometimes it seems like a chore to continue reading, but not the case with this book! I did feel like the climax to the mystery was a tad bit disappointing, but the ending wrapped the characters story lines up nicely, and I appreciated the open-ended part (won't say anymore than that!). I would recommend this, however I would recategorize this as a family drama / mystery more so than a suspense / thriller, as to avoid disappointing some fellow thriller fanatics out there.

A woman's husband disappears - seemingly to go on the run after his tech company is accused of futzing with the stocks. But is that all there is to the story? No. Obviously not or it wouldn't be worth writing a book about, would it? When a stranger hands Hannah a note from her husband with the words Protect her written on them, her life will never be the same. Protect who? Her surly 16 year old stepdaughter, Bailey, that's who. Now, Bailey is not at all interested in sharing her father with his new wife, or making room for Hannah in her life, no matter how hard she tries. But Hannah loves her husband and (more importantly) she loves Bailey, and since these were the cards she was dealt, she fully intends to play them. Alright. I knew nothing about this story except the title going into it and I had an enjoyable time. It didn't blow my mind but it was a fun mysteryish sort of tale. The story is told in the present day and in flashbacks, which is always a cool way to go in my opinion. I thought it had kind of a farty little ending, though. (view spoiler) But I think a lot of people will love it.

3.5 Stars What I enjoyed: • I enjoyed part 1 as the book dived straight into it so I was hooked and interested from the get go. • The characters were likeable and realistic, especially Hannah. I enjoyed the story from her point of view because I was able to connect with her. She's a normal person in an unlikely situation and was so out of her depth. Her thoughts, reactions and actions felt realistic and she didn’t do anything that was so far-fetched or crazy. • The relationship development between Hannah and her step daughter Bailey was wholesome. At the start, Bailey was an annoying and bratty teenager, however I enjoyed how they began to lean on and support each other. And in the end Bailey called her mum. What I didn't enjoy: • After part 1 I felt pretty neutral for the rest of the book. The investigation was boring, it felt like they were trying to find a needle in a haystack. The discoveries felt so forced because they were so random, grasping at the distant past hoping to spark memories and recalling everyday conversations. • There was no real tension or urgency to find Owen. For example, there was no indication that anyone was in immediate trouble, the detectives made an appearance at the start only and were nonexistent for the rest so they didn’t add more pressure. Essentially nothing felt time critical. • The reveal about Owen’s true past was anticlimactic as there was no mystery built around it. There were little to no clues so it could have been anything and I would have felt the same - Neutral rather than surprised. Not what I expected: • The genre. This is not so much a thriller or suspense but more of a slow paced domestic mystery. I was never at the edge of my seat and after part 1 I wasn’t dying to know what happens next. The dual timeline focused more on the relationships and didn’t build up any mystery. I was expecting to see more bread crumbs and clues. Eyebrow raising moments: (view spoiler) You will like this if: You love stories that are more focused on family drama and relationships rather than the thrills or mystery build up. Review Website | Bookstagram

New wife Hannah gets a note from a random child; a note that is in her husband's writing, saying 'protect her', she doesn't initially realise that her life is going to change forever. Hannah and her teenage step-daughter Bailey's least trouble is her husband (Bailey's dad) being implicated in a massive tech start-up fraud; that's because he disappeared without a trace! As Hannah tries to find him, and find out what's really going on, both her and Bailey, begin to realise that he might not be the person they thought they knew and loved! This is an intriguing and hard-to-put-down 'what the Hell is going on" thriller made that even more compelling because the step-daughter Bailey had not got on with Hannah aa all, but the two of them have to try and work together to get to the bottom of this mystery! A strong Three Star, 7 out of 12 for me. 2024 read

This was very boring, not one twist happened in this whole story, and overall I am very disappointed. If this is the Goodreads choice awards winner, I don't even want to know how bad are other books?

This was such a fast read with a bittersweet ending that could’ve been a little bit strong? Idk I just didn’t like how the book ended. After all of that, I expected something stronger and more impactful? I also would’ve loved to see some character development. The idea itself was interesting, but some parts just felt kinda flat and I wasn’t really as emotionally invested as I hoped I’d be. Overall, It was an okay quick read.

As I missed the arc boat I got this one from the library to see what all the fuss was about. It seems to be quite a polarising book. I do agree it was well written but it also required monster disbelief suspenders! Before Owen Michaels disappears for good he manages to get a note delivered to his wife of 2 years, Hannah, that simply says “protect her”. Hannah knows he means his 16 year old daughter, Bailey, who lost her mother at a young age. Unfortunately Bailey wants nothing to do with her step mother - that part is easy to understand! What I struggled with is the decisions and the path that these two took to try and find out where Owen is and why he disappeared. One thing they did know was the company he was working was for being investigated for fraud. Owen also left something else behind which I can’t tell you about but when Hannah and Bailey head on their journey of discovery they just leave this thing under the kitchen sink - despite the fact that they have already been questioned by a US Marshall and a couple of FBI agents! What the actual f*** was Hannah thinking? Their quest takes them to Texas and they soon learn that Owen was not who they thought he was. At which point I would have turned around and moved a long way away. Anyway, they find a whole bunch of unpalatable answers even though Hannah’s faith in the intrinsic goodness of her husband is not shaken and she ends up making a deal with devil. I thought it was an OK story but a bit fantastical.

This book is our online book club’s selection for March. To secure a copy of The Last Thing He Told Me, please check out our catalog or Libby. Happy reading! To join the discussion: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/... 3/5 stars Spoiler warning!! The Last Thing He Told Me is what appears to be a thriller but is also very much a family drama. Hannah lives with her husband, Owen, and Owen’s daughter, Bailey, in a houseboat in small-town Sausalito, California. Owen works for a tech startup doing software engineering, while Hannah’s a wood craftsman who specializes in furniture. It’s a happy marriage, with the only challenge being Hannah trying to win over a wary teenaged Bailey. It’s a normal life, a quaint existence, at first glance. Until it isn’t. One day, Owen doesn’t come home, and Hannah and Bailey find themselves on the run. Owen’s tech startup was doctoring the books before its imminent IPO and top executives are being indicted and arrested one by one. The last thing Owen told Hannah, via a cryptic note, was to “protect her”—Bailey—whom he’d do anything for. Owen has disappeared, appearing to be on the run. “This feels impossible. Every bit of this feels impossible. How do you begin to grapple with the idea that your husband is running from the person he used to be, a person whose real name you don’t even know? You want to argue that someone is getting your story wrong. In your story, the one you know by heart, none of this makes sense. Not where this story began, not where it’s going. And certainly not where it’s threatening to end.” I think this is where I ended up docking my rating of the book from four stars to three-and-a-half stars—because of the whole “your loved one isn’t who they say they are” trope. I almost lost interest in the story there, worried it was going to be a predictable family drama from there, mysteries uncovered that are not actually mysteries. Yet, the author navigated the tightrope of engaging thriller and family story fairly well, preventing either element from bogging down The Last Thing He Told Me too much. Hannah and Bailey end up in Owen’s old haunt of Austin, Texas. As amateur as they were at being detectives—compared with the FBI agents and US Marshals Office on Owen’s case—they uncover family ties to criminal organizations. And I thought they made a great team, even if they seemed to be almost too good at times, picking up on things experienced investigative professionals didn’t (another trope that can be easily mishandled or overused). I suppose I won’t quibble on that too much—since they blundered badly, dare I say, realistically, at times throughout their journey: Bailey goes missing and Hannah puts her life on the line and makes a deal with the devil to get Bailey back and keep her safe, what Owen would want. The Last Thing He Told Me is a family-driven drama/thriller that may tread familiar ground narrative-wise, but manages to, at the end, stand on its own. -Cora Find this book and other titles within our catalog. This book is our book club’s selection for March. To secure a copy of The Last Thing He Told Me, please check out our catalog or Libby. Happy reading!

Okay… I wanted to LOVE this the way I loved Quicksilver, but Brimstone honestly felt like someone shook a snow globe of plot threads and just let them fall wherever. There was so much happening, yet somehow nothing was actually happening, and my brain was doing cartwheels trying to figure out which storyline I was supposed to care about. The vibes between the characters were still good — that tension, that world, that potential. But the pacing? Chaotic. One chapter felt like pure adrenaline, the next felt like filler dressed in fancy clothes pretending to be important. And by the end, I kept thinking: How did the first book feel so tight and addictive, and this one feel like its messy cousin? It wasn’t a bad book — it had moments where I was hooked again — but it never recaptured the magic or clarity of the first. Instead of sinking into the world, I kept getting yanked out of it thinking, Wait, what are we doing again? A decent sequel, just not the sequel it could have been.

I had a lot of fun reading this but a few things made me raise an eyebrow. Firstly, every woman in this book who is not Saeris or a dead/comatose relation to Kingfisher seems to fall into one of three categories: Evil Rival, Hostile or could have been interesting but is an undercooked NPC. Can we also talk about Danya? When the poor love literally got attacked and set on fire by a zombie vampire thing and has just recovered and explains why she looks the way she does to Saeris, Saeris says, “Oh, I thought it was an edgy self-expression thing.” Saeris, mate… read the room. That said, I did enjoy this and had a good time. My 3 stars are for Carrion Swift and Onyx. And a vampire shadow cat idk. And that ending was a straight punch to the solar plexus, mate. If you loved it, I’m here for you, good for you. ﹏﹏﹏﹏ It's the 18th of November in Australia rn. You know what that means. Happy Brimstone day!

3.5⭐️ for now rounding down, but I may change my mind the more I think about it. I have a lot to say, so this one is going to be a bit longer than usual. If you haven’t read this yet, I really recommend reading Quicksilver Bonus Scenes: Kingfisher’s POV first. It not only offers his point of view but also explains what happened at the Ajun gate, which I found really helpful to know beforehand. My thoughts are a little all over the place, much like the plot and pacing of this book. There was so much happening, yet at times it also felt like nothing was happening, if that makes sense, and threads that felt like they went nowhere. I will start with what I loved about Brimstone, which was mostly the characters. The bromance between Fisher and Carrion was pure perfection. Fisher and that mouth of his… sigh 😮‍💨. He is definitely one of my top-tier book boyfriends. Carrion remains an absolute highlight in this series and steals every scene he is in. He constantly makes me laugh, and I enjoyed seeing him take on a more active role, something I think will be even more important in the next book. Onyx the fox and Archer the fire sprite added a lot of charm as well. ❤️ While I enjoyed getting to know some of the new side characters, I was disappointed that a few of my favorites received very little page time (Ren and Lorreth). Even though I enjoyed this book overall, I had quite a few issues with it. Although I liked Saeris more here than I did in Quicksilver, she still comes across as immature and petulant at times. The spicy scenes were very spicy, which I am completely fine with, but outside the bedroom Saeris and Fisher barely communicate and I prefer romances with a bit more emotional depth. She did not even know his mother’s name, which was weird. And yes, Fisher is hot, but Saeris describing how hot he is over and over again started to feel like filler. The biggest issue for me was the overuse of “my mate” and “solar plexus.” It became annoyingly distracting and pulled me out of the story repeatedly. At 660 pages, cutting back on those phrases would have helped tighten the book considerably and made it feel far less repetitive. Overall, the story could have benefited from stronger editing. Even with all my complaints, I did enjoy the book. I just did not enjoy it as much as the first one, and in my opinion, it did not quite live up to what it could have been. I alternated between the physical book and the audiobook. The duet narration was really well done, and once again, Anthony Palmini’s performance as Fisher was absolute perfection. He could read me a menu and I would enjoy every second of it. **FINAL GRIPE IS A SPOILER SO STOP READING HERE IF YOU DON’T WANT TO KNOW.** I am struggling with Fisher’s name change, but what really pulled me out of the story was how Saeris instantly adopted his new name without a single slip. Not once does she call him Fisher or Kingfisher again, and that just does not feel believable.

An Oddly Fascinating… Yet Strangely Unfascinating Ride I’m convinced my experience with this book was a bit… unorthodox. It opened strong, and then suddenly I found myself trapped between endless 13-year-old-level fashion bickering, “high stakes—just kidding lol” moments, and a pacing style that occasionally wandered off for a coffee break… well, it pulled me right out. Here’s the wild part: 🎯 Everything that happened was actually interesting. Some plot threads did go a little poof for the sake of spotlighting two other big arcs, but honestly, that wasn’t the crime. The real crime? I was intrigued yet somehow… not. My brain said “gimme more,” while my heart said “I'm bored...” Make it make sense. 🤷🏻‍♀️ Around the 60% mark, I was firmly aboard the “please let this end soon” ship, waving politely at the plot as it went by. ⚔️ Character Glow-Ups & Half-Baked Moments I did enjoy seeing Saeris and Fisher finally step out of their “reluctant leader” / “professional martyr” personalities from book one. Very satisfying. Turns out having something to lose really tightens up a person’s priorities. And I appreciated the small-but-mighty side characters' contributions to the plot sprinkled throughout. But I’d be lying if I said some scenes didn’t feel like someone wrote half a paragraph, shrugged, and went “period. good enough.” ⚫ 🔄 A Future Reread? Sure... in the future. Even with the bumps, the core of the story is solid. The essence is there, and it's potent. So, I suspect I’ll pick this up again later to see if it hits differently. -- Pre-read: Okay. I am as ready as can be. LET's GO!🏁 -- Also, that new voice-over from Callie? No, it's not Carrion. I say Taladaius, I mean how could he not? But I guess I will see.

The first 1/3 of this book was easily 5 stars - everything was perfection. Kingfishers filthy mouth, the bromance with Carrion + Kingfisher, the intrigue with Tal... I was hooked. Then things hit a slump and it started to feel like a filler book. I lowkey felt like I was reading a different book towards the end (maybe it was the name thing, idk?). Of course the final chapter was shocking and we're left wanting more! I still really enjoyed it and I obviously adore Kingfisher, but it didn’t quite hit five stars for me. "I had no idea what you would mean to me. I had no idea what I would do to keep you safe. When I close my eyes, you are all I fucking see, Saeris Fane. I could be dead in the ground five thousand years and the frosts could have taken my bones and still no other male will ever have loved another female the way I love you"

SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS!!!! Stop reading it you don’t want SPOILERS! (Also includes spoilers for SJM books) Now, I’m not the most articulate reviewer, so I apologize if there is anything I missed while reading that may have been explained in my below cons/pros points. I did in fact read the bonus chapters for Quicksilver, but read them after I read Brimstone. While they were good chapters, and I wish I had read them/known about them before reading Brimstone, I don’t think having read the bonus chapters after held me back at all from enjoying this book. CONS -the fact that Kingfisher’s Mom was an Oracle and created a wardrobe of dresses for her is straight up a rip off of the ACOTAR series. Maybe other authors made this a big thing before SJM, but with her popularity in the romantasy genre, and the fact that ACOMAF was written well before Brimstone, it feels like a huge overall stolen plot point. While other romantasy books have the same tropes over and over again, this was too specific. Gotta take off half a ⭐️ for that alone. -Sigh…the Demon of the Desert, Joshin. So after I stopped laughing at the name (because seriously? Are you Joshin me with this name?), I did my own research, which consisted of like 10 whole minutes of google (so not extensive). The point of the research was to see if she either just made the most ridiculous name for a character, or if it was a demon from other lore, history, etc. the closest thing I came up with was a Naruto fanfic. But it doesn’t seem like she stole that from Naruto, so points for creativity! And if there is a demon out there, I *personally* agree it should be named Josh. (This is a safe place for Josh haters). My other issue with Joshin, is why is a demon that is killed by light in a world with 2 suns and where there is no nighttime? Zilvaren is a desert, so that matches the demons overall name, but he is known about in Yvelia, so why didn’t he just stay there, why did he go to a place that was known for its never ending day? If it was explained, I totally missed it. And why that locksmith guy (not worth remembering his name I guess) was working with Joshin to lure victims doesn’t ever seem to be explained either. If it was, it was so one dimensional I didn’t catch it. In this same scene, we learn about the Devils trap, which feels copied from supernatural, but no points taken from rating of the book for it because of course there is more lore and literature about devil traps. I only mention it since it seems like our girl Callie could be a big fan of things like ACOTAR and possibly Naruto, why wouldn’t she also be a fan of Supernatural? Okay continuing with cons. -I was personally hoping for a love triangle or something of the sort as well as some other readers, which didn’t happen (Kingfisher and Carrion at the same damn time). While that is totally fine it didn’t happen, 660 pages of Kingfisher and Saeris being sooooooooooooo in looooooooveeeeeeeee was such an overkill lol. I get it, they’re in love. I feel like a lot of pages could have better been used to wrap up other plot lines. -we walked away from this book with the ONLY plot line being wrapped up was Hayden being brought to Yvelia. Which is great he’s finally out of Zilvaren! But then we get basically no more information about what he was up to while Saeris was gone, and he and Saeris barely interacted when he got to Yvelia. Walking away with even more questions and plots felt kind of exhausting, but I understand it can pay off. It’s kinda giving me TOG vibes, not that Callie copied anything, but just in the sense of how exhausting of a read it can be and holding off a LONG time for any resolution. The ones who read TOG get it. -I love Archer, but could not open my heart fully to him because we all know how terribly it can go for loveable side characters (especially fire sprites, I’m still not over Lehabah). Of course something does end up happening to him. I won’t totally spoil it if you’re reading this even after the spoiler warnings. -Chapter 48, I cried like a baby. Don’t fuck with the fox. Another half of a ⭐️ gone -of course in the lead up to this book, I saw a lot of stuff on social media about Callie Hart saying “no one is safe in this book” and “book therapy after this”. But…why? We literally didn’t lose a single character except bad guys. And even those bad guys were one dimensional barely memorable. So meh. High stakes, but we lose no one? Idk seems like she overhyped it. Okay I’m done with the cons! PROS -CARRION SWIFT ADMITS HE LOVES SAERIS!!!! But not in love with her, at least not fully because he lost someone long ago? Interested to learn more about that. -Love the Kingfisher and Carrion adventure and banter so much. -Elroy is a fucking G. Love love love him. I hope to get more info than we already did in this book, and I hope he comes back up again in future books. -As we found out in book 1, Saeris was sterilized so she couldn’t have kids. I hope that doesn’t change in future books, I could enjoy a good fantasy series without a MFC pregnancy trope for once. Glad that wasn’t reversed in this book. -“Kingfisher” is DEAD! Yes I thought the name sounded ridiculous as well, I don’t totally love the new name either, but it’s a huge improvement nonetheless to not call him Kingfisher. Also, earlier in Brimstone it is explained that Kingfisher and Saeris cannot marry because he doesn’t know his true name. With this new development of a his true name, do we hear wedding bells??? -We learn Khydans father may be alive and may be a god, making Khydan a half-god by being able to wield shadows? We don’t know for sure since it ended on that cliffhanger. Which was a good cliffhanger, I’ll give it that. -Tal seemed super sketchy, but we got Tal redemption and for that *chefs kiss*. OVERALL THOUGHTS I will be reading the next one, but I’m hoping for a lot more transparency, and more things wrapped up. Although I understand that Callie had to hype up the book in press, it was way overhyped saying we would need therapy and “no one is safe”. A lot of pages spent on them being sooooo in love, could’ve been used on more action scenes, scenes with other characters, or even wrapping up other storylines. I enjoyed the side quests of Kingfisher and Carrion more than the loveeeee scenes. In chapter 32, it is mentioned that the stargazers became pages, then a book with a silver butterfly stamped in foil on the cover. This book was from Kingfisher’s mother, Edina. Love that! For the first book, it was a snowflake, for this one it was Onyx, so I wonder if that will be the cover of the next books special edition, or if it’s just an overall reference to “little osha”. Just my thoughts it’d be cool for the next books special edition! 3.5 ⭐️/5 but I’m going to have to round down to 3 for Goodreads. I really wish I could give it 4, but I just can’t for how a lot of the book was handled. Sorry Callie. I hope to read more of her books and to get even more answers, but this book didn’t give that.

I had a lot of fun with this one. It was definitely long and had a few areas that dragged, but overall it was still a really solid sequel. The stakes were high, the tension was constant, and the whole story felt like a roller coaster that kept me turning the pages 🎢⚔️💨🦊 There are a lot of plot threads and storylines in motion right now, so I’m really interested to see what direction book 3 is going to take. There’s so much unfinished business, and with the way this ended I’m genuinely excited to see how Callie chooses to pull everything together. I need answers immediately 😭 And listen… King Fisher’s name still isn’t doing it for me, but aside from that, I’m locked in for whatever comes next.

I am in this for Carrion Swift, his foul mouth, and Onyx the fluff ball only. I wasn’t even planning on reading Brimstone, but then the library released the audiobook as I was pressing play on my next listen, so I decided to bite the bullet and press borrow before anyone else could jump the queue. What did I think? It wasn’t as fun as book one, but the world building does get more ambitious. The humour was dialled up (I was living for the Carrion moments). The spice was heavier in the first half and then trailed off which seems contrary to how that normally works. I felt a lack of emotional connection because of a plot device that was used that always feels like a way out for me. What could have left an impact instead felt like a cheat and cheesy. The audiobook was even better performed than book one (somehow). This is a strange comparison to make, but I feel similar about this as I do Dungeon Crawler Carl. I enjoy the audiobooks and certain one liners, but I don’t have a huge investment in the characters or plot. Vague minor spoiler: There was a name change I wasn’t a fan of. I think Hart realised readers may be weary and kept reminding us who this person is. Bookstagram Tiktok

3.5⭐️ I’ll be honest, Brimstone felt a little like a filler book. I wasn’t bored the entire time, but it definitely dragged in places, and most of the really interesting stuff didn’t hit until the end. That said, once it did get interesting? Oh, it got interesting. The setup for book 3 is clearly there, and I can already tell it’s going to HIT. I feel it in my bones. Also, look, I know I said some things about Kingfisher’s name in book one, but can we please get that back?? 😭 And Carrion. CARRION. He absolutely stole the show. Every single scene he was in, I knew I was about to have a good time. He carried this book for me, no contest. I need his book immediately. Overall, not my favorite in the series, but still enjoyable—and mostly because of Carrion. (And kingfisher’s dirty mouth🤭.. way more of this please)

໑ ▸ 3.5 stars ౨ৎ my thought๋ ⤿ finished on november 27, 2025 I truly enjoyed the depth of the characters and their growth throughout the story. Saeris has transformed from being merely a survivor into a reluctant queen, burdened with the responsibility of making tough decisions and learning to delegate effectively. Kingfisher remains deeply captivating, with his every word evoking emotion, and this time we finally gain richer insight into his character through his point of view. His remarks in this installment had me screaming with delight. The relationship between these two continues to leave me utterly enthralled. Their chemistry transcends the bond of Companions and the divine connection they share, infusing every moment with palpable significance. The interactions between Kingfisher and Carrion added a delightful element, often bringing a smile to my face, while I thoroughly appreciated the expanded focus on Carrion himself. The worldbuilding unfolds beautifully with this sequel—the evolution of the world becomes clear with the introduction of additional kingdoms, heightened political intrigue, darker magic, graver threats, and multilayered plotting. However, the pacing felt uneven at times, often dragging during certain scenes. While these slower moments served the story, they sometimes weighed it down unnecessarily. The presence of obvious editing mistakes further detracted from the experience and was disappointing for a work of this caliber. Despite these shortcomings, I valued this sequel for its strong storyline progression, well-integrated subplots, dynamic character arcs, the emotionally charged central relationship, and an ending that left me completely stunned. Nevertheless, I sincerely hope these issues are rectified in the third book · ˚ 🔥 ⊹ ⌇ pre-read. ⋆ ⤿ started on november 22, 2025. well well well we are back again romantasy! i adore quicksilver so i can't wait to dive into the 2nd book of the series hopefully it'll be as good as the first my review of Quicksilver : my review here

A decent collection of King’s short fiction. A few standouts (Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream, The Dreamers, The Fifth Step, On Slide Inn Road), others not so much. Two Talented Bastids- considering the title, I expected the first story in this collection to be much darker (or at least somewhat dark). Nope, no darkness here. What do have is a very interesting tale of a young man discovering his father’s long held secret. Thoughtful and intriguing, it will grip you and have you reading straight to the end. Unfortunately, it is dated with references to Trump and Covid, but that is expected with King’s unending obsession with both. The Fifth Step - here we go! This one is short, quick, and dark! This’ll teach ya to talk to strangers. Willie the Weirdo - all families have their secrets. Some are darker than others, this family’s is one of the darkest. This one’ll have you guessing where it’s leading as you learn more and more of the family dynamics. Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream- one of the best so far. Full of tension, mystery and dread. This one sucks you in from the beginning wondering where it’s going to lead and you know it’s going to take you someplace dark. A few Covid mentions throughout seem pointless except to feed King’s obsession. Overall it’s a thoroughly enjoyable read. Finn- a story of a kid with bad luck. Not really sure what the point of this one is but at least it’s short. One Covid reference for those keeping track. :) On Slide Inn Road - a shortcut takes a dark turn for a family road trip. Red Screen - a detective’s interview with a man who killed his wife ends up having dark consequences for his own marriage. One random Covid comment seemingly thrown into the story for no reason. The Turbulence Expert - I’ll be checking out the middle seat off the starboard wing side of the plane next time I’m flying… Laurie - a grieving man receives a dog and has a very dark encounter. Interesting short story but doesn’t really seem to have a point. Rattlesnakes- the sequel to Cujo. Probably the reason so many were interested in this collection. It does have some truly creepy moments. However, the references to Cujo seem to be added after the fact as well as the various mentions of Covid. Neither were needed for the story. Honestly it would have been better without either. The Dreamers - this seemed very reminiscent of those 80’s horror films starring Jeffrey Combs based on Lovecraft tales. Specifically, The Beyond. I wouldn’t doubt that this will soon be optioned for a movie, if not already. The Answer Man - an interesting story. What if you could get answers to any question you asked. What would you ask and why? All in all a very melancholy ending to the collection.

To me this felt like Stephen King's 'I want to read his grocery list analogy' amazing writing but just things that entered his head vibes😂Most not for me X but overall it suited me alright x. There were some 5 🌟stories for me x Shame as I loved his recent short story analogy If It Bleeds x Two Lucky Bastids 3 🌟 The Fifth Step 3🌟 Willie The Weirdo 3 🌟 Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream 3🌟 Finn 3.75 On Slide Inn Road 4 🌟 Red Screen 3 🌟 The Turbulence Expert 5 🌟 Laurie 5 🌟 Rattlesnake 3 🌟 The Dreamers 5 🌟 The Answerman 5 🌟

This collection proves that Stephen King can't really write short stories. The quality varies a lot, but the best ones have the length of short novellas. Top 3: Two Talented Bastids, Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream, and The Answer Man.

Full review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qISec...

I’m going to be honest. I’m always honest with my reviews. 2.90 stars The stories are subpar imho. Are there Easter eggs. Yes. But the book is called You Like It Darker. I guess, I expected Stephen King completely unhinged in this book. I try not to judge a book from what I expected. I just didn’t enjoy it as much as I wanted to. It’s not a bad book. But for a short story book I had to take a lot of breaks in between the stories because I wasn’t enjoying it. I can’t rate the stories individually because if I’m being honest. I have already forgotten most of them.

3.5 stars I will preface this by saying I’m not a huge poetry person, but I try to go out of my comfort zone occasionally and read genres that I don't always read. Some of these poems were great. I’ve heard Amanda Gorman read her poetry live and she does an amazing job, but for some reason, it did not come across well narrating this audiobook. I usually love listening to books narrated by the author but I think that I would have enjoyed this more if I would have read it, the narration threw me off. Audio book source: Libby Story Rating: 3.5 stars Narrators: Amanda Gorman Narration Rating: 2 stars Genre: Poetry Length: 3h 32m

I admire Amanda Gorman's talent and I sincerely hope many young people start writing because of her. Having said that, I have to be honest to myself here and give 2.5 stars to her latest book. I admit that I like traditional poetry better than freeform poetry. That makes it difficult for me to get into contemporary poems. I used to write poems (in Japanese) and loved reading poems both in English and Japanese. What I learned these years was that you describe "beauty" without using a word "beauty" or "beautiful". You have to carefully chose every word. Get rid of every unnecessary word, etc. Every time I read "One Art" by Elizabeth Bishop I become tearful even though I have read it more than 100 times. To me, poems are like that. It just grabs my heart. Amanda's poems in this book are none of above. She wrote so many words such as "death" "love" "pain" but I didn't feel them. They failed to move me. Careless phrases like "The pain pulls us apart, Like lips about to speak" failed to give me a clear picture of what kind of image Amanda wanted to give us. She often states something like "That's what only words can do-- /Prod us toward something new / & in doing so, move us closer → together.", "Lost as we feel, there is no better/ Compass than compassion.", and these made me feel this book quite didactic. I wouldn't mind them if this book was collection of essays rather than poems. There are also so many Covid pandemic poems. We are still in the midst of it, but these poems feel outdated. I regard this book as an experiment of a young talented poet. She will one day look back and tell herself, "Oh I was so young...". My Japanese review: https://youshofanclub.com/2022/01/17/...

A collection of pandemic poetry from the youngest ever US inaugural poet. I’m starting to wonder if maybe I just don’t like contemporary poetry all that much. I appreciate Gorman’s prose poems and her creativity with form, but so many of these poems felt too on the nose, which made them seem a little trite. I most enjoyed the poems grounded in research and science and news.

The last poem literally carried this entire book. She’s also very intelligent, but her poetry style is not for me.

THREE POINT FIVE STARS This was hard for me to rate because I'm not a fan of poetry but I did think Ms. Gorman did a great job. The way Ms. Gorman weaves words together is so beautiful. I'm amazed by her skills. Audiobook source: Libby Narrator: Amanda Gorman Length: 3H 32M

Emotional roller-coaster with adrenalin shots and helplessness. Jennine Cummins got my attention from the first page - she's amazing in describing emotions and psychological state. Her sharp and dark narration with fast-pacing plot produced great triller-like drama. But some moments made the story less realistic and brought soap-opera vibes, i.e. the character of cartel leader and his relationship with Lydia. I found that part too much cliche and sentimental. But the treacherous journey itself along with devastating stories of other migrants is a poignant cry for help and acceptance. In general, very good depiction of a huge humanitarian crisis, at least for people like me who know about it only from the news.

“If you hear something late at night, some kind of trouble some kind of fight, just don’t ask me what it was” I originally ordered this book from the library around the year-end when it was featuring in many (most) 2020 books-you-have-to-read lists. By the time it had arrived of course the book was instead close to being on a books-you-should-not-be-permitted-to-read – something hardly assisted by the crass publicity for the book which rather tipped the balance in most people’s minds in any reasoned debate to be had between representation and censorship (for an example of a rational view here see https://pen.org/press-release/pen-ame...) One of the articles which I read was this one, pointing out the many errors and misrepresentations in the book – its one that has been widely quoted, often by those who as a result no longer wish to read the book: https://thebluenib.com/a-poor-imitati... I decided to read the book anyway – and found it a rather over-the-top thriller about a Mexican woman (Lydia) trying to escape with her son Luka to America on La Bestia train, after the massacre of 16 of their family by the local organised crime cartel. I would very strongly recommend reading Valeria Luiselli’s Tell Me How It Ends: An Essay in Forty Questions well before reading this book – but if you have read and absorbed that, there is something to be said for reading this book, which overall is a not particularly well written thriller but is one with a largely absorbing storyline and will for some readers I think bring the topic to life. I also think the author probably had the correct intentions (although rather like the way the publicity has skewed the debate around representation/censorship, the seven figure advance can make it hard to take this view) I found a number of issues with the book as literature: The plotline involving the platonic relationship between Lydia (wife of a journalist who specialises in uncovering organised crime) and the educated-but-vicsious walking cliché of a local crime boss her husband happens to be investigating, was more than a little far fetched and too convenient a way of justifying the initial massacre and of maintaining tension throughout and ends in a rather silly setpiece which (not in a good way) casts doubts on the rest of the plot. The boy, with his controversial Italian sounding name (which at least gave me the pleasant distraction of humming a Suzanne Vega song) was a particularly unbelievable character. Starting with his Einstein-like ability to suddenly start talking in full sentences at the age of 4 having been hitherto silent, and then his development of a geographical obsession which allows the author to cram in all of her geographical research “naturally” into the action, through to his super-sensitive empathy and understanding. The half Spanish/half English dialogue was annoying – albeit I know from recent discussions on translations of far more literary and deservedly renowned books (e.g. El Llano en llamas) that mixing Spanish/English is more common in US rather than UK books. It is clear from the Author’s Note that one of her main aims was to have the central character as someone both she (and her readers) could identify with – someone middle-classes and privileged. I think however she ends up taking this too far – in having a Mexican character who is thoroughly anglicised (for example fluent in English and reading, loving and selling English language literature) – I wonder if it would have worked much better (and avoided the inconsistencies and inaccuracies that the character still seems to have retained) if she had made the character say the American wife of a journalist who had lost all of her identity papers in her flight. Finally though I have to comment a little on the Blue Nib article – most if it seemed very valid criticism but some possibly closer to misleading? From the article (my emphasis) "Lydia and her son decide to escape Acapulco by riding northward atop the freight train known as La Bestia, described as the one place out of reach of the drug traffickers. In reality, this train is practically controlled by organized crime. Members of the Mara Salvatrucha gang regularly climb aboard, rape female travelers and rob the migrants blind. Those who refuse to cooperate are thrown to their death. These horrific realities are glaringly absent from Cummins’ tale." From the first time La Bestia is mentioned in American Dirt: "The train has earned the name La Bestia because that journey is a mission of terror in every way imaginable. Violence and kidnapping are endemic along the tracks" The second time "Robbery is a foregone conclusion. Mass abductions for ransom are commonplace. Often, kidnappers torture their victims to help persuade the families to pay. Half of the people pretending to be migrants or coyotes or train engineers or police of la migra are working for the cartel .... La Bestia is controlled by the cartels" When she first meets others who have already travelled on La Bestia on previous journeys, they discuss in front of her how many times they have each been raped. On the train itself Lydia and her friends are robbed and two females she is with are repeatedly raped. Glaringly absent? OR a smaller one From the article: Mexico is depicted as a one-dimensional nation, irredeemably corrupt and violent, while the United States of American Dirt is a fantasy land: a country free of gun violence, hate groups and organized crime From the book: The first group of Americans they encounter is a group of armed vigilantes looking to kill migrants

3.5ish stars. This is it? I mean that in two ways: 1) This is the book being endorsed by Oprah and compared to The Grapes of Wrath? It's a commercial popcorn "thriller" tailor-made for book clubs and movie deals. Mind you, it's fine. It isn't boring, the characters are fairly well-written and the story is engaging. But it's never more than good. 2) This is the book that's so damaging to Mexican culture, written by a greedy, exploitative, ignorant gringa? Of all the books for the hit squad to jump on, this one seems relatively harmless. I suppose it's because of the pre-release hype and the money involved. I'm just not woke enough to be a big proponent of cancel culture. It's always interesting for me to observe which books are "banned" from generation to generation, and the irony that the act of banning them encourages readers to buy and, judging from the ratings here on GR, enjoy them. As far as the book itself, there's not a lot to say. Again, it's good, I'm not surprised by its popularity, but that's about it. Posted in Mr. Philip's Library

2.5 ★'s This was a little bit of a mess. It wasn't all bad but it definitely could've been better. Quicksilver technically has the puzzle pieces for a fantasy romance but they feel randomly thrown together. Some things work, other things doesn’t. As a whole it was just jumbled, confusing and spectacularly ordinary. Whilst I see the potential for this book, I feel incredibly frustrated at how it was executed. It's like someone tried to analyse what made other romantasies a success but have no idea on how to actually accomplish that. For example, I recognise that they tried hard to create that badass, sassy, strong fmc in Saeris - which normally is my favourite type of fmc. The end result ended up simply being just that; try-hard. Her comebacks constantly felt weak, forced and ultimately became quite cringe. I don't think I've ever been more unintrigued by a fmc in a long time. The love interest, Kingfisher(I know, the name is absolutely atrocious) was at least a tiny bit more interesting. It's unfortunate the only perspective we got in the book was by the least fascinating character. 🥲 Over to the romance. This author has not heard of slow burn or building tension. They never had enough chemistry for their heated moments, it was always so sudden without any sort of build up. Their "banter" was him smelling how aroused she was around him and him being overly cocky about that. I prefer my fictional men well and truly obsessed, please and thank you - but as we never got his perspective we didn't really get to see that, now did we.👎 I did enjoy some scenes between them, especially in the second half. However, exactly everything felt too rushed when it came to their romance and I think you just have to accept that if you want to enjoy this. Over to the writing. It consisted of run-on sentences, an overuse of the word 'fuck'*, long-ass chapters and plot holes on top of plot holes. One of my favourite thing about reading a fantasy romance is the world building and the magic systems. For me that is where the story truly comes alive. In this book that was an afterthought and doesn't seem particularly thought through. We get no explanation on how their magic works or what powers they have. Based on reading this, it seems as if there are absolutely no limitations to it, which is such a lazy move on the author's part. The writer constantly chose convenience over clarity or logic, and it angered me every time. Trying to end this on a somewhat positive note, this definitely gave me those fae fantasy vibes I've been longing for.🧚 I do think the overall story is interesting enough, even if it's incredibly overhyped in my opinion. For me this book was carried by the side characters; Onyx, Wendy, Carrion, Lorreth & Ren. All my love goes to them. I'd be fine if they kill off Saeris in the next one tbh. *The word fuck(or versions, e.g. fucking) was used 387 times according to my kindle. _________ ⌞pre-read:⌝ I am in desperate need of a real good fantasy rn. I've seen this absolutely everywhere lately, so praying to all the bookgods out there that this lives up to the hype 😩

➼ 3.75★ ”Even the strongest warrior’s heart can break. His soul can still be crushed.” ˚₊· ͟͟͞͞➳❥ read this if you like: ★ enemies to lovers ★ found family ★ forced proximity ★ fated mates ★ banter and tension ★ grumpy mmc ★ spicy scenes ★ unique magic system this book is so hard to explain, so forgive me in advance, but istg i’ll try my best! i’m still confused about my thoughts😭 ➼ plot Saeris lives in the Third, under the reign of the undying queen, stealing and fighting every day for a glass of water in the scorching desert. but she also harbors a secret. when she finds herself face to face with death, she inadvertently reopens a gateway between realms and is transported to the fae realm, and in the middle of a war. there, she meets a handsome shadowy male with pointed ears and silver eyes. Kingfisher has secrets of his own and is willing to do whatever it takes to save his people, even if it means binding himself to a human. the oath is clear: she must work for him in exchange for her freedom once the task is done. but the devil is in the details… ➼ Saeris Fane🦋 she’s the epitome of a survivor, LITERALLY. you’ll know it when you’ll read it🤣 she’s indeed survived all her life, trying to protect those she loves, especially her brother. she’s always up for a challenge and knows her way with a sword. she’s different somehow but doesn’t know what makes her so special. i liked saeris, she’s strong but i wouldn’t say she’s a badass fmc. yes, she always accepts a challenge but that hardly makes her one… i feel like her character is incomplete, it lacks something. that spark that makes her special. ➼ Kingfisher⚔️ first of all, sorry–but what kind of name is Kingfisher😭 i couldn’t take him seriously at first. thank god he goes with fisher i’m still hoping he has another name… he’s shadows and mystery and hotness and half-insane all at once. he has a grumpy side and dirty mouth (and mind… iykyk👀). he has a torturous past and his secrets are a burden on his shoulders. i liked him but–again–the character feels incomplete. ➼ Saeris & Fisher🦋⚔️ i liked them as a couple, somehow they make sense. their banter was entertaining and the tension did its job. they remind me sm of rhys and feyre tbh. tho, the slow burn wasn’t slow burning at all. not that i minded, but you can’t call this a slow burn. yes, there was tension, but it didn’t last for too long. tho, i appreciated the spicy spice🌶️!! sorry let’s take a minute to mention the one and only… ➼ Carrion Swift✨ i bet his back hurts bc he fucking carried the book. dare i say my fav character?💅🏼 he was hilarious and the funniest! every time he had a line, he nailed it. i hope to god i’ll have the chance to read more of him bc i love him!!! overall, i’d say i enjoyed it and liked it but not loved it. this book is good. is it perfect? no, but you can easily enjoy it. the writing is not the best tbh, it’s sometimes confusing but it’s not too hard to read. the pace was kinda slow in the beginning and, i must admit, it took me almost the 50% to truly get into the story. the second half was more fast paced and i loved it. the magic system is unique, i’d never encountered it before. the ending was meh. it happened so much that i really, truly don’t know what could be possibly happening in the next ones. i think i need to read the second one to really understand whether i’d recommend this series or not. if you’ve read it, pls let’s have a chat💅🏼 It was harsh, but sometimes the cruel things we said served the kindest purpose. “Should we, uh... knock?” An arrogant smile curled up at the corner of his mouth. “Sure,” he said, as if this was a charming suggestion made by a single-brain-celled idiot. A second later, he slammed the sole of his boot against the wood, and then the door was on the ground in pieces. “Knock knock.” He stepped to one side, holding his hand out in a mockery of manners, gesturing for me to go ahead of him. “I don't think anyone's home.” I hadn't seen many beautiful things in my short life. But, of all the beautiful things I had seen, Fisher was the most beautiful of all. “I don't hate your kind. I'm just disappointed by how breakable you are. If I held you down and fucked you the way I'm imagining fucking you right now, I doubt that you’d survive it.” This was the kiss to end all kisses. To me, Kingfisher was a surly, foul-mouthed bastard who I wouldn't piss on even if he was on fire. To everyone inside this tavern, he was a living fucking god. “We are nothing alike,” he said quietly. “You nearly died from a scratch that would have been a mild irritation to me. You are soft. You are fragile. You are vulnerable. You are a newborn fawn, stumbling around in the dark, surrounded by predators with very sharp teeth. I am the thing that exists on the other side of the dark. I’m the thing that puts the fear of the gods into the monsters who would eat you bones and all.” Every warrior in Innìr will smell me on you, Fisher's voice rumbled in my mind. I'm going to make you hoarse from screaming my fucking name. I'm going to mark you in every way imaginable, so that everyone knows you're fucking mine. “You’re making a weird face,” Carrion whispered loudly. “Are you talking to it?” “Yes, I'm talking to it. What do you think I'm doing?” “I don't know. You look constipated.” “Then we do as all dying things do. We return to the dirt, and the sea, and the sky. We sleep. We evolve. We change. We transcend.” “I just love it when you disappear into tense conversations with creepy portal metal,” Carrion quipped, hoisting himself up to sit on the bench. “It's fascinating watching you do all of those facial gymnastics.” You're the chink in my armor, Saeris. The soft spot where the knife slides in. “It’s the most beautiful thing a person can experience in this lifetime. They glow blue and pink and silver, with an ethereal light. They have music, though no one knows how. A sweet, soft song that’s capable of healing. The Oshellith mate and lay their eggs, but once that’s done, they fill the air, and they dance. Protecting them while they live is considered a sacred rite that many die in order to perform. That’s what Oshellith means in Old Fae, Saeris. Most Sacred.” “I am selfish, Saeris. I wanted something quiet and small and special for the both of us. Something we could keep.” There were moments that were gifts, meant to be cherished only for as long as you could remember them. “I'll be grateful for every second that I can say that I belong to you, Saeris Fane. Eighty years or eighteen hours. It doesn't matter to me. It'll still be the highest honor of my life.” Carrion held the sword, turning it this way and that. After much consideration, he said, “It looks like a Simon.” ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ “For those who live their nightmares so that others may have their dreams.”

meh, did I enjoy it? sure, but the plot was dragging for so long that as a reader I got frustrated. The romance is what saved me and made me finish this book 🤪. Will I read the second book? Yes, I will! Because my 3-star rating isn’t a bad one.. it’s a “I enjoyed it and can see its potential” type of rating 🌟. I liked how the author created a world where every single magical creature exists and has its own purpose 🧙‍♀️🧝‍♂️🐉. It was confusing at the beginning (I won’t lie 😅) the more you progressed you start to understand the society better as a reader! What irked me the most was how long it took for the FMC to figure out her only task she got assigned to do 😬 (trying to not spoil ANYTHING so sorry if it doesn't make sense) ANDDD it wasn’t until someone made a joke that she went 💡 "OMG, you just made me realize what to do." Like, girl, it only took you falling in love with the MMC 💕 and doing a bunch of unrelated stuff to get there 😮‍💨 whyyyyy As you can see, I’m sensitive about plot pacing lol 😅 BUT THE ROMANCE WAS AMAZING OKAY!!! SO SO GOOD 😍🔥 HIS LINES ARE TO MELT. Anyway if you want a book for the romance then def a book for you!! ⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆.⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆.⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆.⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆. ➳ 𝗽𝗿𝗲-𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱｡ꪆৎ ˚⋅ i heard the audiobook is insane so naturally i'm doing it, let's see if this isn't overhyped 😬

➸ 3.75 stars is it overhyped? in my opinion, yes! did I enjoy it? yes! did it keep me entertained? also yes! — I’m going to start this review by writing down what i didn’t like and getting it out of the way so here we go: overall, I feel like many fantasy elements in this book were a bit confusing to me, just some things that didn’t add up or make sense, but once everything was explained further at the end I did kind of understand more! idk if that’s just me being dumb but yeah… (it also felt REALLY long and I feel like it could’ve definitely been shorter and still a good book) I didn’t really like the mmc. the spice? SO BAD why did it take up full chapters IT WAS SO LONG yeah I didn’t not enjoy reading the spice but it definitely gave me a good laugh! also, why is this book being marketed as enemies to lovers when it’s far from it? authors will call any characters that dislike each other enemies to lovers these days. anyways! this was hate to love. reluctant allies to lovers. they are not enemies! — now onto more positive things! the characters! :) •̩̩͙⊱ saeris fane - honestly I loved her character! I definitely found her very funny and I loved how she took no one’s shit! •̩̩͙⊱ kingfisher - yeah you read that right, his name is kingfisher! im definitely glad he goes by fisher but his name definitely gave me a laugh! now… I did not like mr. fish at the beginning… BUT I will say he was very unserious in a funny way so he gets some points there! there was just a bunch of things fishy here said to saeris that would make me so mad!! I definitely liked him more towards the end tho! •̩̩͙⊱ carrion swift - THIS BOOK WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN AS GOOD IF CARRION WASNT IN IT HE CARRIED THIS BOOK ON HIS BACK! ugh i loved him since the beginning even tho he was a bit of an asshole he just had that charm to him AND I JUST LOVE LOVE LOVE CHARMING AND SHAMELESSLY FLIRTY MEN UGH and he was HILARIOUS too! best character in this book idc. he barely had moments in this book but when he did? ATE THEM UP. •̩̩͙⊱ ren and lorreth - AGH I LOVED THEM SO MUCH they were barely in the book but ugh their characters are just so NICE and FRIENDLY and KIND I love them and would definitely like to see more! — now the ending… I honestly think this book got sooo much better towards the end and the ending itself was one I really loved! my jaw DROPPED so many times and the suspense was everything! I can confidently say I’ll be reading the sequel! :)

I should have DNF’d it

I fear this book was a tad overhyped to me. I do think it’s a case of ‘right book wrong time.’ My reading experience wasn’t the best with this one (adulting problems). This book is everything you’ve know and love about romantasy, but I think I’m entering into my high fantasy era where I need more scheming/political maneuvering over tropes. There’s also something that happens in this book that I’ve grown tired of (you can listen to the podcast episode if you want to know what lol). I will say, the magic system was so unique/cool that I wanted more of it! That and a certain side character were my fav parts of this book! I’m so jealous that so many people love this book, and I wish that was me. I think this is a great romantasy starter book, and you’ll be obsessed with it if you haven’t read a lot of that genre! I do believe I’ll read the next one, because I think I’ll enjoy it a lot more!

“Human, Fae, or Vampire. It doesn’t matter how long you live, Saeris, you will always be most sacred to me.” Rating: ⭐⭐⭐ Spice 🌶️🌶️,5 Was this exactly what I expected it to be? Yes. Were those expectations high? Not really, but I knew I'd have fun! There is little to no difference between this book and any other overhyped romantasy book. Sure, I had some fun reading it, but it's nothing I haven't read before. I have read the same plot (it was so predictable I might as well have written it myself), character arcs, dialogue, and even lore (at least the moving tattoos were kinda cool) a hundred times over. Not to mention that the whole calling women females and men males just because they're fae needs to be put to rest. It's getting really old. Besides, I didn't feel very connected to the characters, not even the protagonists, but I can't say they were entirely unlikable either. My favourite one was obviously Onyx, Saeris's furry sidekick. He gets extra points for being a fox, because foxes are adorable and I love them. While the romance was largely generic and cringe, there were some moments between Saeris and Kingfisher that I really liked. Their banter and enemies-to-lovers relationship was fun, too. No surprises there, it's my favourite trope. As far as the story goes, even though it was mostly predictable, it had some admittedly funny scenes and some pretty solid drama. I was entertained for the most part. I think it helped that I was listening to the audiobook instead of reading it. The dramatisation of the scenes and the voice actors helped the story flow. That being said, two or more voice actors doing eerie double voices sounds really funny to the ear. In spite of what I said, I'm totally reading Brimstone. I'm genuinely curious to see how the story develops.

୭ ˚. 3 stars ⁺ .ᐟ this book started off high-stakes, with so much tension, and had me so enticed. but after 100 pages, it got so slow. nothing really happened other than saeris doing alchemist stuff and i started to get bored. i feel like this book could've been 300 pages if not for the overly descriptive writing. the magic just confused me because there wasn't a clear system. i feel like this book could've made more sense too if it had fisher's pov in it. imo, there were some good parts but the execution made them bland to read about, such as the quicksilver and battle scenes. i felt like we could've gotten some more explanation on the quicksilver as it really added to saeris's pov. it wasn't a book that had special elements or anything. the romance was really good at the start, but i wished for a slow-burn rather than them kissing on the twelfth chapter. i hope brimstone is better <3

𑣲⋆｡˚ 3.5 𝒔𝒕𝒂𝒓𝒔 .✦ ݁˖ ⤷ fomo is my middle name... but thankfully, it's not kingfisher special mention to my favie edie for the buddy read! ily and your GORGEOUS review - see here ⭑.ᐟ ⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔⏔ “𝐅𝐨𝐫 𝐭𝐡𝐨𝐬𝐞 𝐰𝐡𝐨 𝐥𝐢𝐯𝐞 𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐢𝐫 𝐧𝐢𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐦𝐚𝐫𝐞𝐬, 𝐬𝐨 𝐭𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐨𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐫𝐬 𝐦𝐚𝐲 𝐡𝐚𝐯𝐞 𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐢𝐫 𝐝𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐦𝐬.” ⚔️ ｡𖦹°‧୨ৎ 𝒕𝒉𝒐𝒖𝒈𝒉𝒕𝒔: ˎˊ˗ If i'm being honest here, the start of the book was boring af. The world-building was slow, boring and ultimately... confusing . After 200 pages of straight-up descriptions you would think I would know every single thing about the world right? A big no because if you ask me how the quicksilver works, all you're going to get is a blank stare. And holy shit these chapters... I swear me and edie were going to start sobbing every time we saw the fifty page chapters and the tiny handwriting. But to the better side of things, the second half of the book was super fun. Everything sped up, the banter and pacing improved a lot, and we got to meet CASSIAN REINCARNATED, and my bestie edie's dream trio. Sending carrion, renfis and lorreth tied up with ribbons to you via express delivery. 😏 ⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔⏔ ⚔️ ｡𖦹°‧୨ৎ 𝒄𝒉𝒂𝒓𝒂𝒄𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒔: ˎˊ˗ Saeris: She kind of pissed me off for the first half of the book with her stupid personality and her annoying attitude that really grated on my nerves. Why is every romantasy author obsessed with making their character "not like the other girls?" I literally cannot, it's such a big ick for me when fmc's magically are the best warrior in the world, able to scale up the side of buildings and steal things from guards WITH NO TRAINING 😭😭. And of course Saeris is an exact replica. She felt like a hormonal teenager with no common sense for the beginning of the book. Thankfully, she grew a spine and became more tolerable during the end. Kingfisher: I cannot with the name Kingfisher. I wouldn't even name my worst enemy Kingfisher. I swear everytime I hear the name Kingfisher a little part of my soul dies with second-hand embarrassment and the pain in my stomach from laughing. Everyone was like oh mee god he's such a hottie, he's such a badass i love him. BUT IMO he's nothing special. (sorry to my kingfisher obsessed besties 🫣) I felt like he had no personality for some of the book, and went from flirty to blank before I could even flip the page. Hmm but his mouth 🫦🫦🫦 yesss i like that... "𝐼’𝓂 𝒶𝒷𝑜𝓊𝓉 𝓉𝑜 𝒾𝓃𝓉𝓇𝑜𝒹𝓊𝒸𝑒 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓉𝑜 𝒶𝓁𝓁 𝓈𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓃 𝑔𝑜𝒹𝓈. 𝒲𝒽𝑒𝓃 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓂𝑒𝑒𝓉 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓂, 𝒹𝑜𝓃’𝓉 𝒻𝑜𝓇𝑔𝑒𝓉 𝓉𝑜 𝓉𝑒𝓁𝓁 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓂 𝐼’𝓂 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝑜𝓃𝑒 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓌𝑜𝓇𝓈𝒽𝒾𝓅 𝑜𝓃 𝓎𝑜𝓊𝓇 𝓀𝓃𝑒𝑒𝓈." “𝐼’𝑙𝑙 𝑏𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑓𝑢𝑙 𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑦 𝑠𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑑 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝐼 𝑐𝑎𝑛 𝑠𝑎𝑦 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝐼 𝑏𝑒𝑙𝑜𝑛𝑔 𝑡𝑜 𝑦𝑜𝑢, 𝑆𝑎𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑠 𝐹𝑎𝑛𝑒. 𝐸𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑦 𝑦𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑠 𝑜𝑟 𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑒𝑛 ℎ𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠. 𝐼𝑡 𝑑𝑜𝑒𝑠𝑛’𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑒𝑟 𝑡𝑜 𝑚𝑒. 𝐼𝑡’𝑙𝑙 𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑙𝑙 𝑏𝑒 𝑡ℎ𝑒 ℎ𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑒𝑠𝑡 ℎ𝑜𝑛𝑜𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑚𝑦 𝑙𝑖𝑓𝑒." “𝐵𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑢𝑠𝑒 𝑠ℎ𝑒 𝑖𝑠 𝑚𝑜𝑜𝑛𝑙𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡. 𝑇ℎ𝑒 𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑡 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝑠ℎ𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑑𝑠 𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑚𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑠. 𝑇ℎ𝑒 𝑏𝑖𝑡𝑒 𝑜𝑓 𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑡𝑦 𝑖𝑛 𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑎𝑖𝑟 𝑏𝑒𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑒 𝑎 𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑚. 𝑇ℎ𝑒 𝑠𝑚𝑜𝑘𝑒 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑙𝑠 𝑎𝑐𝑟𝑜𝑠𝑠 𝑎 𝑏𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑑 𝑏𝑒𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑒 𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑘𝑖𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑠. 𝑌𝑜𝑢 ℎ𝑎𝑣𝑒 𝑛𝑜 𝑖𝑑𝑒𝑎 𝑤ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝑠ℎ𝑒 𝑖𝑠. 𝑊ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝑠ℎ𝑒 𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑙𝑑 𝑏𝑒. 𝑌𝑜𝑢 𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑢𝑙𝑑 𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙 ℎ𝑒𝑟 𝑀𝑎𝑗𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑦.” SPECIAL MENTION TO CARRION I LOVE HIM SO SO MUCHH GIVE ME HIM OVER KINGFISHER I NEED HIM LIKE AIR 😭😭 ⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔⏔ this was such a messy review, but ignore hehe <3 tysm for reading this far ily ily ilyy, mwah dawn xx ‿︵‿︵୨˚̣̣̣͙୧ - ⚔️ - ୨˚̣̣̣͙୧‿︵‿︵ 𝐏𝐑𝐄𝐑𝐄𝐀𝐃: ౨ৎ 💌I've heard a lot about this book - enemies to lovers, fae, magic and heartbreak (so obviously for me hehe) and I'm SO EXCITED to buddy read this with my gorgeous girl edie 🪽!! ˏˋ°•*⁀➷˗ˏˋ꒰ 💘 ꒱

lol what’s new I forgot to rate this book until now hahaha I really wanted to love this book but I just didn’t love some aspects of it! Lots of thoughts on the podcast

゛☁️ ⤿ 3.5 stars ִ.𓂃 ࣪ ᯓ .ᐟ 𓂃🖇️┆ ❝ he was the first thing i saw. always. my heart and my soul knew exactly where to find him. ❞ short review. i spent almost a MONTH reading this book and i’m finally free 😫. okay, jokes aside, i really enjoyed this book. i have to admit though, i was close to dnf-ing it 50% in because the plotline was too slow for my liking and i already forgot half of it. the last 300 pages though went crazy, i was so hooked and saved it from being a three star. i get why people might rate this a five star but i can’t agree on it being a ‘highlight.’ my highlight was that i got to read this with lilly and jasmine. tysm for making this reading experience so much better. ilysm !! 💘💘 ⸝⸝ started: february 11 ended: march 7 ˎˊ˗ → ༘⋆pre-read˚˖𓍢ִ໋🦢˚ this has been on my shelf for over a year now even though everyone’s raving about it. buddy reading with the two gorgeous girls, jasmine and lilly !! tysm for reading this with me 💌😽

Oh dear what has happened? Andrew Child I presume. Very poor and confusing start to the story and very shallow characters, a lot of pointless narrative. The plot its self was barely explained and quite frustrating. It felt like this book had been written by a child and a bored one at that. Why people are saying things like best Reacher yet or Reachers back better than ever, perhaps they should read a couple of the early books and then they would understand the real Reacher not this half cocked version. Please Lee take back the reigns, Andrew just isn’t up to the task sorry.

“In Too Deep” by Lee Child and Andrew Child (Jack Reacher #29) After taking a break from the Jack Reacher series, I’ve started catching up—and In Too Deep was a compelling return. With Lee Child stepping back from writing duties and longtime narrator Dick Hill having retired, the series has a different feel for me. Still, this installment held my attention. Reacher finds himself in unfamiliar territory—waking up injured, restrained, and with no memory of how he ended up that way. It’s a departure from his usual "take-charge-of-everything" persona, and the shift adds a layer of vulnerability that works well. The story builds tension effectively, with well-placed breaks that make it easy to follow without losing momentum. While the pacing dips slightly in the middle, the overall flow kept me engaged. The authors continue to do a solid job of making the reader care about the characters, and I found myself invested in the outcome. I listened to the audiobook version via Audible, which runs just under ten hours. Scott Brick takes over narration duties and delivers a strong performance. Overall, a satisfying entry in the series—even with the changes behind the scenes.

Jack Reacher is In Too Deep in this latest adventure by Lee Child. I think it was one of the better stories since the author change but I still feel the series has lost something. I enjoyed the story and it's well written as usually. I miss a lot of the humor that was around in the beginning but this story and the characters where good.

I'm so disappointed. I love Reacher so much, but this book felt kind of stale. Where has the charm and actual personality gone from Reacher felt very forced and like any old run of the mill thriller. Will still read future reacher novels, but please more personality I don't want to be disappointed again.

A disappointingly convoluted, slow and un- Reacher like outing. 2.5 rounded up because of brand loyalty.

In Too Deep, written by Lee Child and Andrew Child, is the twenty-ninth installment in the Jack Reacher series. The expected publication date for the book is October 22, 2024. Reacher awakens in the dark, restrained and in pain, with no idea where he is or how he got there. He later learns that he had been a passenger in an automobile accident, but he had no recollection how he came to be in the car to begin with. Reacher finds himself in the midst of a band of criminals, and he needs to quickly figure out what had led to the accident, what the group is planning, and how he can stop their nefarious plans. I have been a longtime fan of Lee Child’s Jack Reacher series. When Andrew Child took over the writing, I was initially appalled; the Reacher portrayed in the co-authored books was not the same character I had followed for so long. I decided to try one more, with In Too Deep, and I am glad that I did. The Reacher found in this latest book is closer to the character I grew to love and continually follow. The writing is certainly different. This book especially feels a bit more confused than usual, and the beginning is different than older Reacher books. While reading In Too Deep, I sort of felt like I had been dropped into the middle of the story, having missed the first part. But I wonder if this is intentional; Reacher received a head injury, leaving him confused and unable to remember the first part of the story himself. So, although In Too Deep is different, I found that it nonetheless works. In Too Deep is not my favorite Reacher book; however, it is probably my favorite Andrew Child Reacher book. I am happy to have the “normal” Reacher back and look forward to his next adventure. RECOMMENDED

Perhaps not as good as the older Reacher books.

3.5 stars. Just not the same Reacher or writing. Something just felt off the whole read.

I haves loved the Reacher series since book one. This one was just meh for me.

Didn't enjoy it as much as some other ones of his books. Too many people trying to keep up with in the book.

A bit of a slog to be honest, though the surprise revealed at the end is something very interesting and worth further inquiry by either curious readers or enterprising authors or journalists. The plot is many layered, with twists and turns, and numerous and often extraneous characters strewn about (literally, as this is a Reacher novel after all).

Close to giving this one a 2. Most Reacher novels are a stretch to get him into these situations, they didn’t even try in this book. Started out choppy story telling and never smoothed out. And I’ve said for years, Scott Brick is the absolute worst audiobook narrator. Please use anyone else. He is only okay for monotone readings. Awful at character dialogue.

My thanks to Penguin Group/Putnam, John Sandford and Netgalley. It's an odd thing, but in all the years of reading Davenport and Flowers I've never been bored. Yet, this damned book was toothless. I kept waiting for someone "Virgil or Lucas" to kill these arseholes. That did not happen. The laughs? A few, but really? Also, can we just get some Johnson Johnson? He and Virgil are a hoot! I've been reading Sandford since the 1990's and this book is the one and only book that was very, very bland and kind of "dare I say?" boring. I know you're getting old, as are we all, but shit or get off the pot. This story was not up to its usual standards.

This was just ok. The first third was really good, I was really looking forward to the rest of the book. Then it just fizzled. Not that exciting. Lots of slow moments. And the end is just weird.

3.5⭐️ This was a mixed thoughts read for me. I always enjoy the friendship between Lucas and Virgil, though I did miss some of the side characters we used to have in their individual books. He does a great job of mixing in new technology and real world variables, such as the true crime community, while still matching the series overall vibe. This was focused on a cold case, so there was a lot of backstory which made for a slow build up. There also seemed to be a lot of filler about food, character descriptions (including overly detailed body descriptions for female characters) and locations. Flowers whines about not want to do his job anymore and talking about writing his book. In other words it was familiar but watered down compared to earlier books in the series. There were some strange phrases that stood out. Everyone rang off or clicked off a phone call instead of hanging up or ending it. Also everyone from the police, to politicians, to the true crime community talked about making movies instead of videos or content. Once things get moving finally in the actual mystery part of the plot, I did enjoy watching it all come together. It’s a fun balance of old characters with new locations, and the true crime community and cold case aspect made for a fun mix. Unfortunately, it had a super abrupt cliffhanger style ending with no real resolution which was very unsatisfying. I’m not sure if this is something he intends to pick up in the next book or if it’s just done as-is, but I was extremely frustrated with the way it ends. Thanks Putnam and NetGalley for the DRC!

Happy publication day 🎧🎉🥳 Book number 35 is probably not the best place to start a series, but I didn’t notice this fact when I downloaded it. I don’t know if fans of the series would agree, but I’m pleased to say that while there were a few moments that I was aware I’d missed some back story it really didn’t seem to impact my enjoyment of the title, and it worked for me as a stand alone. I really enjoyed the fact that this instalment really brought us to the present day, when the sister of a cold case murder opens up a 5 million dollar reward for information to find her twins murderer, Lucas and Virgil are enlisted, but with support thin in the ground they actually provide the true crime buffs with information to help. It doesn’t take long for a piece of evidence to be found and the case is well underway. I really enjoyed this. I’d be keen to read more of the series, and the narration was great. Huge thanks to W.F Howes Ltd and NetGalley for the opportunity to review this ALC 🎧

3.5 Basically a fun read but that ending !?!?!

I've been a devoted fan of John Sandford's crime novels ever since I first discovered his Virgil Flowers series in college. Sandford’s signature blend of sharp humor and breakneck plotting instantly hooked me, making Flowers one of my favorite protagonists in the genre. Back then, he was releasing a Virgil Flowers novel annually, alongside a new installment in his more famous, and arguably more popular, Prey series, featuring Lucas Davenport. In recent years, as Sandford continues writing into his 80s, he’s shifted to a single yearly release that brings both heroes together in the same book. After taking a break from this approach last year, Lethal Prey marks the return of Davenport and Flowers as a duo, so I was eager to get my hands on it. Fortunately, Sandford’s publisher sent me a copy, meaning I didn’t have to wait long to dive in. In an age obsessed with internet sleuthing and true crime, Lara Grandfelt is wagering $5 million that someone can finally solve her twin sister Doris’s decades-old murder. Brutally stabbed over 20 years ago, Doris’s body was found in a dense thicket at the edge of an urban park, but her killer was never caught. Now, facing her own mortality after a cancer diagnosis, Lara is determined to uncover the truth, offering a fortune to anyone who can bring the murderer to justice. Lara knows the flood of online sleuths chasing her $5 million reward will need oversight. Enter Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers, reluctantly called in to verify leads as a favor to a politician Lara generously supports. Skeptical of crowdsourced crime-solving, they dismiss the frenzy as internet noise. That is until a blogger uncovers the murder weapon. As real clues emerge, so does a chilling truth: the killer is watching, adapting, and staying one step ahead. With every new revelation broadcast online, Lucas and Virgil must race to solve the case before the killer claims more victims—including themselves. I've come to take great comfort in the familiarity of John Sandford's writing, and Lethal Prey, the 35th installment in his longest-running series, delivers plenty of what I love. Once again, Sandford pairs his best characters to solve a decades-old case, using his signature approach—giving readers insight into the killer’s perspective while letting his heroes race to uncover the truth. It’s a formula he’s mastered and one I always enjoy. That said, this installment didn’t hit quite as hard as previous ones. The sharp, witty banter between Davenport and Flowers felt sparser, and the investigation's momentum stalled in places. But what really lessened the impact for me was the abrupt ending. The story simply stopped, leaving a major cliffhanger rather than a satisfying resolution. Even so, I’ll be first in line for the next book. Sandford has a proven track record in crime fiction, and a few missteps won’t keep me from diving into whatever he writes next.

Very disappointing. I’ve been reading this series from the beginning and this one did not match the quality of the others. It was slow and boring.

Not what I expected. I usually love the books with Lucas and Virgil and the was the first one that I didn’t. The last part of the book seemed rushed and definitely didn’t have a good flow to it. Hoping the next one is better

Started slow. Picked up a bit in the middle. Ended disastrous! Could have been so much better. A forgiving 3.0…barely.

Being a big fan of this series, I was quite disappointed in this read. Thought it was very slow at times and I found myself skimming though too may needless descriptions of places and things not related to the storyline. Very lacking in excitement and why so many characters and their backstories that seemed unnecessary to the overall plot? Sadly and IMO, this is a big comedown from previous novels. Still love the team of Davenport and Flowers and one disappointing read out of the many I’ve loved will not keep me from reading the books as Sandford writes them. I am hopeful that there are no more abrupt endings without the usual wrap-up as in previous novels. Weak 3 stars.

Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for a complimentary ARC in exchange for an honest review. The latest Prey installment from John Sandford is another entertaining read. While the series has become rather formulaic in its execution, I continue to appreciate the chemistry of the core characters. Any time that Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers get to work a case together, you know that there will be plenty of sarcasm and snarkiness. This book deals with a serial killer of sorts who has managed to get away with a murder for twenty years until the victim's twin sister puts up an $5 million reward and all of the true crime enthusiasts come out of the woodwork to solve the case. Davenport and Flowers are put in charge of weeding through the findings of the group and follow up on solid leads. In the typical cat and mouse fashion that happens, they are able to deduce who the killer is. I will say that I wonder whether the end in the ARC is really the end as it wasn't really an ending. It was abrupt and left things a bit unsure as to what happens which isn't the usual closure for these books. I'll be curious to check when the book is released as to whether it was intentionally ended the way that it was. Overall, this was a solid book in the series, and I'd recommend it.

John Sandford is back on the case with Lethal Prey, the 35th installment in the long-running Prey series. This outing sees Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers pulled into a case enfriado por el tiempo (new phrase for me, so I couldn’t help but use it) —a twenty-one-year-old murder that explodes back into the headlines when the victim's determined twin sister puts up a multi-million dollar reward. It’s a setup that promises a high-stakes dive into the past, and for a good portion of the book, it really delivers. For a while, I was convinced this was shaping up to be one of the strongest Prey novels to date. Sandford has Lucas and Virgil navigate the ensuing media frenzy with their characteristic blend of weary competence and sharp observation. I particularly enjoyed how they wrangled the swarm of true crime enthusiasts, essentially turning a potential investigative headache into a crowdsourced research department—a clever modern touch. It made me chuckle when Virgil pondered how the killer found a secluded park two decades ago without a smartphone app! (This becomes important later in the book.) That said, with the sheer volume of data and old leads being sifted, I did think Sandford missed a trick by not having someone suggest unleashing a little AI to find patterns in the digital haystacks. Revealed within the first couple of chapters, the investigation unearths a truly chilling antagonist, Amanda Fisk, whose cunning and cold-blooded nature are laid bare for the reader as the story progresses. Lucas and Virgil meticulously piece together a disturbing history, connecting old crimes to new, as Fisk herself takes increasingly desperate measures to keep her past buried. The tension builds effectively, and you find yourself rooting for the team to finally corner this particularly intelligent perpetrator, especially as the evidence, though often circumstantial, paints a damning picture of a serial killer hiding in plain sight. You're on the edge of your seat, anticipating that moment of long-awaited justice. And then, we hit the final chapter. After a narrative that moved with purpose and kept me thoroughly engaged, the ending felt like hitting a brick wall. This abrupt ending is, unfortunately, what knocks this from a potential five-star read down to a 3 out of 5 for me. It was so close to being a new favorite. Maybe I’ll change my mind if this specific story continues in another novel. –This review was partially drafted by A.I. (Gemini) with a fairly lengthy prompt containing my opinions and the notes I took while reading. Much of the review is rewording of the prompt I entered and my notes. –

I read this book because I have read most of Sanford’s books. It is nice to see Lucas Davenport, US Marshall, and Virgil Flowers, BCA agent, working together again. They are investigating a complicated twenty-year-old murder case, and because they have no clues, they enlist several groups of true crime bloggers. Although the book gets a bit more interesting at the end, I did not find the story particularly compelling. You can tell the action takes place in middle America because available food comes from Dairy Queen, Subway and McDonald’s. In one instance Flowers is describing the area they are driving through, and Davenport’s response is “Tell me some more rural sh*t, i’m deeply interested.” It’s a good thing they are long-time friends.

Rounded up to 3.5. I have read every Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers book and eagerly anticipate a new one each time I finish a book, but this one was very slow and didn’t pick up till more than half way through. 20 years earlier a young woman, Doris Grandfelt’s murdered and the murderer is never caught. Now her sister, Lara, wants to reopen the case officially and offers 5 million for anyone who assists in the investigation. Lucas and Virgil are part of the official team, but once the reward is mentioned true crime and mystery podcasters show up to assist. They do turn up some leads but also more murders occur as they begin to rattle the murder. I felt at some times Lucas and Virgil had changed personalities and didn’t really get invested in the case until it turned personal.

I enjoyed this book and I love it when Virgil and Lucas are together. I also appreciate that Sandford didn't mention the dollars Virgil would earn from his book(s) -- in an earlier book he mentioned $250,000 which is totally ridiculous for any author starting out and even most big-name authors (let alone lesser big name, where an advance might be $1,000). So, kudos there. But as much as it was fast-paced, there came a time about 3/4 of the way through where it felt like Sandford thought "I better wrap this up" and so I almost had whiplash connecting the dots from clueless police to having it all figured out. Didn't love the ending. Hope there is NOT going to be a sequel. Don't get me wrong. It's entertaining. I just expect more from Sandford. This time I didn't quite get it.

** spoiler alert ** I hate to say this because I really enjoy this series! It DIDN’T END! Just as the trial for a serial killer was to start, the next page was a preview of the next book in the series! No resolution for Lucas, Virgil or the killer! What happened and why? Does anyone know why this happened? All that reading and no ending! Just weird. I thought maybe my Kindle was broken. But no! I’d love an explanation. It doesn’t seem like the next book in the series would solve it !

when this book was first announced — before it had a title, or a cover, or a synopsis, or anything other than a weird beige placeholder and the words BY EMILY HENRY stamped on it — i made a solemn vow. that vow was this: i would trade my firstborn to read this book. i'll locate a baby just to exchange it for this. after i read it twice, i declared it worth it. after the third read, i have good news and i have bad news. the bad news is this might be my least favorite emily henry book. but the good news is that having a least favorite emily henry book is like having a bad slice of pizza, or seeing a just-okay movie in theaters with a big bucket of popcorn and a slushie the size of your head. in other words, even the disappointing experiences are better than most things in this earthly plane. emily henry books are always trying to balance a series of incredible things: a consuming romance; a bantery cast of characters; a charming setting; and an extremely daunting character arc that usually encapsulates a deep dark secret, a fatal flaw, daddy and/or mommy issues, and a shifting career path. this had all of those, like the creation from god it was. (tough way to reveal i'm starting an emily henry-based house of worship.) it just didn't nail the balance. or the happily ever after. we have a cast of four friends who suck up all the character awesomeness quota, leaving none for our two main characters. we have a very soul-sucking (i'm using the word suck too much for a book that is good) career / parent / self-esteem drama subplot that becomes the whole plot, leaving very little joy or yearning for the love story we may have thought we were in for. it also leaves some moments of frustration. how could these two people who love each other so much they need no other relationships or dreams or pastimes fail so hard to communicate? like as in never even consider it, let alone try it? how could pottery be a career path when its whole plot-based purpose is that its career-less-ness is what makes it nice? how many times can we have a patch of dialogue that culminates in one millennial joke before a scene change, leaving you like wait, that's it, we're just going to pretend the word "kardashian" is funny like this is a youtube video from 2013? most emily henry books give you a concerningly relatable protagonist (like, show-up-to-therapy-with-a-romance-novel-a-diagnosis-suggestion-and-a-dream level relatable), a hot love interest, their gooey steamy romance, and a dream job for your girl. it gives you, in other words, a fictional person you can see yourself in and the ability to believe that she-slash-you can have it all. this one doesn't quite get there. we still have more good things in between than most books can aspire to — maine! friendship! jokes! — but if you, say, decide to read this in a not at all ill advised cry for help emily henry binge reread, you're going to come away noticing this doesn't have the same magic as the others. but it is still a slice of pizza. bottom line: oops. 3.5 --------------------- reread update emily henry books are a precious and nonrenewable resource, to me. that's why i'm rereading all of them like a test before i can read the new one. --------------------- original review (view spoiler)

Even though I'm not a romance reader, I really liked Book Lovers and Beach Read because the characters were emotionally mature and the plot didn't rely on miscommunication... This book is the opposite. I still love her banter but didn't care for the rest. Not her best...

i really wanted this to be a book i would feel so connected to, and would always stay with me, but it’s not one of those books. don’t get me wrong, the book was painful at times. the writing was absolutely beautiful and some quotes hit me very hard, but i have many issues with the book that ultimately made it fall a bit short for me. the writing was my favourite thing about this. it was absolutely breathtaking. and i did not feel this way when it came to book lovers. but in this book it knocked me out a couple times. i felt like she went in my head and articulated my thoughts about certain life experiences and emotions so well. harriet: ”I feel like I’m finally there, that place I’ve always wanted to be, the other side of the lit kitchen windows I could see from my childhood street, where rooms are filled with love and noise and squabbling.” i truly feel connected to harriet. she was such a fleshed out character. beautifully written. she is me and i am her. her love towards her friends, her thoughts about herself, her conflicting emotions towards her family, even down to her thoughts about her job made me feel so seen. wyn: ”I think I love you, Harriet.” “I know I love you, Wyn.” to me, wyn was very absent from the book. especially in the “real life” chapters. he’s harriet’s fixation, but i don’t really feel like i know him. despite seeing how they got together, i still didn’t feel connected to his character. i wanted more from him. i enjoyed him more at the beginning when they were younger and everything was fresh between them, but this didn’t translate the whole way through. i get what he was going through at the end, but his character still felt very one dimensional to me. wyn is a sexy lamp. friendships: ”The most important friendships in my life all came down to a decision made by strangers, chance.” the only friend i remotely related to was sabrina. the way she was the “problem solver” and the one that always tries to bring everyone together and has this desperate need to keep everything the same. felt. so hard. but that’s it. i didn’t like what she did at the end at all. and the rest of the friends were not it for me. i just didn’t enjoy them. the friend group felt a little bit detached from each other in a way. i was hoping the friendships would feel more real, but something about them didn’t hit the way they were meant to. they felt very disconnected from one another. i know this was kind of the point, but i didn’t like how it was portrayed at all. i think what was missing in the friendships could have been the humour/comedic connection. for me, i love when found families and friend groups in books make me laugh with them, it helps me see their bond. but they felt like a group of strangers to me. and when they were meant to come back together, it didn’t feel like that much of a reward because i just don’t see the connection between them. romance: ”You are in all of my happiest places. You are where my mind goes when it needs to be soothed.” everything harriet felt towards wyn was described so eloquently. her love for wyn was such a real thing. it was pouring out of the pages. i can so confidently tell you that harriet loves wyn. however, i could not say the same for wyn. i shouldn’t need a second pov to feel the love radiating from that character. but wyn felt like he was a wall in this. whenever we got a glimpse into how wyn felt about harry, it almost always felt very generic and there wasn’t anything that special or swoon worthy about it. he was a huge missing piece of the puzzle for me. it felt like this was an unrequited love trope or one person falling out of love, and had it actually been, i would have probably enjoyed it more. conflict: it honestly felt very realistic to me and that’s one thing i loved about it, but it won’t be for everyone. it’s easy to question their decisions and ask “why didn’t they just talk to each other?” but when life gets busy and you get used to this routine, you dismiss a lot of things. you think things are going to get better. you think that if you don’t talk about it, it isn’t real. if you don’t discuss it, maybe, just maybe, everything will go back to normal eventually. this is just a phase. we’ll get back on track. you hold onto that hope. but then it doesn’t. it starts to fall apart. and reading what they went through felt more sad than annoying for me. however, this won’t be the case for everybody. resolution: the ending felt extremely rushed. once we had the full reason for the breakup, i don’t think it was explored enough. things felt so patchy at the end. i think this book had a lot of potential, but i’m not the biggest fan of the way it was executed—hence my conflicting feelings. fav quotes: ”Without even trying, I knew exactly where he was at all times, could likely cover my eyes, get spun around, and still point to him on the first try.” “I hate how entangled we still feel on a quantum level. Like my body will never stop trying to find its way back to his.” “Home, I think. That’s new. But it’s not. It’s been growing there for a while, this new room in my heart, this space just for Wyn that I carry with me everywhere I go.” “When he promised to love me forever, I believed him. That was what made me the angriest, with both of us.” “Everything keeps spinning. But my mind’s always got one hand on you.” “His love is steady, constant. Easier than breathing, because breathing is something you can overthink, to the point that you forget how your lungs work and get yourself into a panic. I could never forget how to love Wyn.” “I’ve memorized the rhythm of his breathing when he sleeps and the smell of his skin when he’s been out in the sun.” “In every universe, it’s you for me. Even if it’s not me for you.” “Stupid, stupid, stupid heart. Don’t you know he hasn’t been yours to cry over for a long time?” “I met you, and I finally belonged somewhere again.” “Before I even see him, my heart starts singing its favourite song. You, you, you.” — in honour of this being second chance (one of the greatest tropes if i do say so myself), i’m going to be nice and give emily henry a second chance to blow me away

"Things change but we stretch and grow and make room for one another. Our love is a place we can always come back to, and it will be waiting, the same as it ever was." 2.5 stars ✨ Her happy place was without a man. Anyway, I thought it was okay. Still doesn't beat Beach Read but better than Book Lovers. Idk what's it with Emily Henry lately wanting her books to mean something more and deeper than what they are, it ends up making her characters look so superficial. Without wasting time I'll just get to it. The book started off really well but that was the case with Book Lovers as well, I ended up hating it. Happy Place started off really well, i was super into it. But the middle dragged. Harriet and Wyn's miscommunication issues dragged and the fact they never fully cared enough to talk about it got to me. I understand it's real that couples drift apart overtime due to a number of issues but if you're promising each other the world and promising to be there for each other, you fight it out. You don't give up, you make it work. Wyn and Harriet's inability to just communicate with each other bothered me so much 😭😭 I liked their chemistry tho. Also, I did not like the supporting characters- I could not care less about what Sabrina, Parth or Cleo did or wanted. Sabrina, Cleo and Harriet made a good trio but again, I couldn't careless about them. "It's not home unless you're there." Some of the dialogue writing is really beautiful, EH does write really well but for some reason it comes across as trying too hard. The thing with Beach Read is, the flow of narration came so naturally. It's such a balanced book. The way I perceive it, EH has been trying to live up to that- which is imo not working for her. There was no deeper meaning to Happy Place- it's as simple as it gets: Just communicate with each other and half of your problems will not exist. Am sorry yall, I really wanted to love it. But it didn't make me happy. I do think am being generous with the rating. ~•~•~ Y'all are scaring me with your reviews. It says Happy Place but it sounds anything but happy 😭😭😭 Can't wait to start with it

I liked this book, but I never really connected with it in the way I thought I would. Most of that had to do with the main character, Harriet. She was SO determined that it was her job to make everyone else happy that she lost herself in the process. Yes, I know that this is something that many people do. We sacrifice our own happiness for that of the ones we love. The book is told in two timelines--the present and working our way to the present from the past, starting when Harriet and her two best friends, Sabrina and Cleo, meet in college and through the years when each of them meet their significant other. Since it's from Harriet's POV, the narrative is mostly focused in the past and present on her relationship with Wyn. I never really got a good sense of when the past timelines were occurring, meaning how much time passed between each one, so I had difficulty orienting myself to where/when we were. I enjoyed the humor and snarky comments the characters made to each other, because that's exactly how I think and act so it was familiar and funny. However so much in the book centers on the fact that none of these characters, supposed best friends, ever actually talk to each other about their true feelings and I just never truly felt what I think I was supposed to be feeling. The strengths of this book are in Wyn and Harriet pretending to be still together, wanting to be together, with all of the heat and chemistry that entails, but unable to be together. However, it's also a really sad book, delving into deeper subjects like death, grief, depression, and changing friendships. Overall, it was a satisfying read for me in the end, but not as wholly engrossing and meaningful as I was hoping it would be. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

**Winner of the 2023 Goodreads Choice Awards for Romance** ‘Love means constantly saying you're sorry, and then doing better.’ Well after several summers of saying “This will be my Emily Henry beach read summer” it has finally happened. Happy Place is the fourth consecutive of Henry’s summer reading domination bestseller rom-coms and it is instantly apparent why she is such a hit. These are sleek little stories that cut right to the main vein of emotional intensity pulsing under the sunny and cute narrative. Sure it is a bit saccharine, but Henry seems to have found the shortcut to maximum rom-com vibes and while it feels overly stylized to the point it feels more like a marketing campaign for the story than a story it also knows how to thrive on its sweet spots and charms. We even get a name-drop-the-title moment with ‘you are in all of my happiest places.’ This is a story about trust-fund best friends who should probably have attended therapy instead of going on a last-hurrah weekend vacation to one friend’s summer home (that will no longer be theirs since his fourth wife is forcing him to sell it) that becomes a surprise wedding and everyone should be happy. Except Harriet has to be there with Wyn, her ex-fiance, and the pair pretend to still be dating in order to not spoil the mood. Something Henry is know for is strong woman characters with plenty of agency working through the messes of life in a productive way, and I'm glad to see that come across here. Harriet is struggling to balance the self with relationships and it's nice to see that addressed in a book like this. A cute story that sometimes struggles to feel like real people but is ultimately endearing, Henry’s ability to be both a rom-com and contemporary novel all at once proves why she is the Queen of summer beach reads. ‘Like even when something beautiful breaks, the making of it still matters.’ This book is able to tap into feelings of insecurity and falling in love quite effortlessly and effectively. Rotating between a present and a past (the "happy place"), Henry stitches together the events that brought us to this fateful and frenzied weekend where Wyn and Harriet are caught up between being sad and pinning for the other. Everything is rather bittersweet and miscommunication seems to rule the day. It's a bit melodramatic and the miscommunications often feel too much like plot devices than authentic communication mishaps, but ultimately this is an enjoyable read. While I enjoyed that Henry let’s this one be sad, the balance between the campy and sad never seems to quite blend. Perhaps everyone just needed a nap and maybe some therapy? And just to actually talk to each other, though Henry does well by having the main “conversation” that needed to happen get built up to quite well. This book and characters remind me a lot of Sally Rooney where there is a frustrating lack of communication which is used as footholds for the plot. Perhaps my trouble was having read Henry’s YA novel A Million Junes before this one which had a lot more depth of character and better dialogue. Or, as Emma put it in our discussion, her YA’s feel much more thoughtful. The biggest hurdle with this book is that the characters do not really talk or act like real people. The quippy dialogue is a bit exhausting and feels like if you are in a room of people all trying to one-up each other with their favorite one-liners from Friends and the whole aspect of the couple having not told anyone when they broke up because it would ruin the perfect sheen of the friend group feels like it would work in a high school setting but amongst late-20-somethings just feels too contrived and weird? The two main characters get pushed along into this and I get it has to happen because it’s the set-up so fine, lets roll with it because it IS fun and the tension is GREAT. It all just sort of seems like there is an element that these characters are quite literally that, characters or perhaps caricatures of themselves in their own lives. What made Alone With You in the Ether so great is that it was a romance that made you go “wait that seems like a mental health issue going on” and then explored that really successfully whereas here it just keeps the plot moving and made me think, wait can we talk about this? These characters feel like they never grew up, and maybe that is the point as they've been so sheltered by privileged lives and lucrative jobs they wear like merit badges, but that is also so much of the underlying problem and I feel like that is more of a story than grown adults being unable to process a scandal-less breakup? We do, however, eventually get to why the break-up occurred and realize Harriet is struggling to be able to be her own person while also wanting to please everyone. I don’t want to come across overly negative here though because Henry has a good grasp on what she’s doing and not only can hit her audience but make them stand up and sing and sit down and cry—this book reads like practiced perfection and honestly good for her. This is an altogether impressive book and what truly makes it work is the ensemble cast. The friend dynamics are great and are honestly more interesting than the relationship (which is mostly just pining and being horny for each other in kind of classic moments like “oops we have to share a bed”). The side characters are kind of a blast too, and I like when Henry sort of leans into her own jokes with a lot of the humor poking fun at the fact that, yea, these are rich kids in a romance book lets make the jokes but also not get too meta about it. While I may have rolled my eyes at some of the dialogue, the meaningful conversations that happen between characters are well done and Henry does an excellent job on building towards things. The end is a bit abrupt and honestly, I wasn’t all that interested in their relationship as they didn’t have much chemistry beyond wanting to have sex and making lofty phrases and besides, the true story it seems like is the survival of this friend group. Which is cool because friend groups very often drift apart and trying to fight against the tide to stay close is a real struggle I think a lot of people feel. Especially when people start getting married or moving away. It’s a decent book, and I’m not blown away but I’m also not disappointed I read it. I really enjoyed that Henry let there be emotions in this and let it get sad in ways I didn’t expect from what is otherwise a fairly breezy beach novel. I think the depth of feelings and the emotional grit is what kept this together and makes it work. On the other hand, the way it is very stylized also makes the characters feel disingenuous when they are supposed to seem emotive but I'm probably just over-thinking that. It would make a good film and probably would have worked better as a graphic novel. Henry attended Hope College, which is right here in my town, and it was hard to get passed realizing every single character felt like people who go to Hope College. Its a vibe, trust me, and its the vibe of this book and she accurately captures that vibe. While a lot of my complaints above are certainly more a “it’s not you it’s me”, I will probably read more by her as I think she is great at what she does. 3.5/5 ‘In every universe, it's you for me. Even if it's not me for you.’

Mixed Feelings Happy Place is a romance about a couple who split after 8 years but continue to fake their relationship with their core friend group. When Harriet arrives in Maine, aka., her “Happy Place," for a week-long get-together with her closest friends, she is surprised to see her ex-fiance Wyn in attendance. Not wanting to break their friends' hearts, Harriet and Wyn decide to fake their relationship rather than tell their friends the truth that they ended their engagement and broke up months ago. Told through Harriet's eyes, the narrative alternates between the past and the present, leading up to the pivotal moment when Harriet and Wyn break up. I liked Harriet. Wyn was a little flat and repetitive. The side characters annoyed me. They felt cartoonish, and I wanted them to shut up. A good portion of this book is spent not talking about core issues. Not only between Wyn and Harriet but also between the friends. Had they spent 5 minutes talking, the plot could have been wrapped up in a few pages. I have more gripes, but I am trying not to overthink, as this is not necessarily a thinking book. On the plus side: some plotlines resonated. At a certain point, it all came together, and I connected with some of the characters. I also loved the setting. Back to the minuses: The ending threw me--really, pottery? Eyerolls once again! Don’t get me wrong--I love Emily Henry’s books. Her characters are well-developed, and she always transports readers with her settings. This one was just not a favorite due to some of the characters and the tropes.

RTC This will be my first Emily Henry book. 💖I have her books collecting dust on my bookshelf, I guess it is time to actually start reading them.

ARC provided by the publisher via Netgalley “One more deal I struck with a disinterested universe: If I’m good enough, I’ll be happy. I’ll be loved. I’ll be safe.” This one is going to be hard to review, but please know I am for sure in the unpopular opinion with this book - so do not let my review deter you! And I did really love a lot of elements of this book! and the set up? 11/10 – a group of college roommates turned best friends, all returning back, summer after summer, to the same cottage where they will spend a magical week away from the realities that are their current lives. This book is told in alternating chapters of present day of the week, to the same day of the week from the past! I thought this was really cool and really added to this book being a fast read! I loved the discussion on how we always will be nostalgic for the past and view those memories through a lens that romanticizes everything. I always do this while thinking about college, so seeing this group of friends talk about this this (and do this) was something that i just think about (and do) a lot. I also really loved the discussion on how friendships change! Sometimes people do grow apart, for so many reasons… time, location, and just because people change and what they like changes too! But it doesn't mean that the friendships have to end negatively, or that they ever have to end - they just are different, and even though that can be scary, different is not bad. Also, not to get too personal, I really did have a lot in common with the main character and wanting nothing more than to make your parents happy and proud. My parents are nothing like the parents in this book! But I still felt a lot while reading how the main character put so much of her worth, and value, into how much she is pleasing the people she loves. I still very much struggle with choosing paths in life completely because of what i want - so it felt impactful reading this additional central theme as well! But if this book was solely about the friendships and all these other elements I connected with, I think this would have been a new favorite book. But sadly, I hated the romances of this. Well, specifically, I really disliked the romantic lead in this. The romance in this is second chance and fake dating, so I had high hopes, but the more I read, the more I just didn’t like this. I also want to say that mental health and not being on medication obviously can impact lives and impacts relationships – and that is a very important discussion in this book, that I am happy was included and discussed! But the present day romance didn’t feel good to me either. And in case you need someone to say this to you: you never need to fight with someone to prove that you love them. Ever. but especially if you are living with childhood trauma that involves constantly seeing people fight. Okay, I don't want to say anymore or get into spoilers, this review is all over the place already, but basically everything in this really worked for me, but the romance. Again, I am the unpopular opinion of this upon release in april 2023, but the friendships, and discussion of friendships and how they can change, were really impactful to me and the reason I am giving this book three stars! trigger + content warnings: anxiety, depression, grief, parent with illness, lots of food mentions, lots of alcohol consumption, drug use, mentions of throwing up, talk of parent divorce, talk of unhappy marriages between parents, mention of loss of loved one in past, claustrophobia, panic attack ♡ mariam's amazing spotify playlist blog | instagram | youtube | kofi | spotify | amazon ➽ Beach Read ★★★★

2.5 ⭐️ Disappointed because I wasn’t expecting a sad, angsty Emily Henry book "Our love is a place we can always come back to, and it will be waiting, the same as it ever was. You belong here." WHAT TO EXPECT: ✨ new england beach house setting ✨ second chance romance ✨ fake dating (ex fiances pretending to still be engaged) ✨ friends to lovers ✨ one-bed ✨ forced proximity ✨ open door romance with minimum spice ✨ flashbacks / dual timeline ✨ single pov ✨ found family ✨ friend group drama ✨ angst, sadness, heartbreak ✨ miscommunication ✨ omissions of feelings ✨ HEA ✨ tw: breakups, mental health, depression, perfectionism, burnout, high expectation parents, sick parent, death of a parent My Thoughts: This is a hard one for me to rate, so I’m settling on 3-stars for now. Let me preface this review by saying I am a HUGE Emily Henry fan! So much so that I own multiple copies of all her books as hardcovers, paperbacks, and Uk editions. I love her stories and I was so excited to get an ARC. But sadly, I didn’t like this one very much. On one hand, this was well written, the storyline about friendship was lovely, and there’s a lot of depth to each character. However, because of the title and fun cover, I went in expecting a fun, heartfelt rom-com. Instead, I got a sad, painful, grief-filled story that feels more like women's fiction than romance. It read more like a depressing Colleen Hoover book but without the sex. Any sort of positive experience I had while reading was fleeting and replaced with angst due to the nature of the story. I only felt reprieve during the flashbacks of the main couple when they were happy together. The rest of the time, I anxiously waited to learn what caused the breakup. But they don’t discuss their breakup (which was due to a lack of communication and the MMC making stupid assumptions) or get back together until the last 10% of the story, and even that isn't fully settled till the last few pages. ⁠ ⁠ Was this a bad story? No. I think Emily Henry is a talented writer, and this one dove deep into mental health, what it means to find yourself, and how friendships change. But this book was marketed incorrectly, which set the wrong expectations and ultimately made this read a disappointment. But now that I know what to expect, I'm going to do a re-read to see if my rating/review changes. Stay tuned. Thank you NetGalley and Berkley Publishing Group for providing an e-ARC copy in exchange for an honest review! As always, all opinions are my own. My ranking of Emily Henry books: 1. Beach Reads x Great Big Beautiful Life 2. Book Lovers 3. People We Meet on Vacation 4. Funny Story 5. Happy Place Favorite Quotes: From now on, dark cliffs, wind racing through hair, cinnamon paired with clove and pine - all of it will only mean Wyn Conner to me. A door has opened, and I know I'll never get it shut again. Regency era or not, in a lot of ways, he ruins me. ----------------------------- "Will we still be friends after this," I'd whispered, and he smiled as he told me, "You've never been just a friend to me." ----------------------------- "I tried so fucking hard to let you go, to let you be happy, and when I see you, I still feel like - like you're mine. Like I'm yours. I got rid of every single piece of you, like that would make a difference, like I could cut you out of me, and instead, I just see everywhere you're supposed to be." ----------------------------- "Love means constantly saying you're sorry, and then doing better." ----------------------------- "I love you," he says into my mouth, and I wish I could swallow it, like that would let me keep that sound forever, this moment forever. My nose burns. My voice crackles. "Don't say that." "Why not?" he whispers. "Because those words don't belong to me anymore." "Of course they do. They belong to you before I ever saw you. They belong to you in every universe we're in, Harriet." ----------------------------- Want is a kind of thief. It's a door in your heart, and once you know it's there, you'll spend your life longing for whatever's behind it." ----------------------------- I'd rather have you five days a year than anyone else all the time I'd rather argue with you than not talk, and whether we're together or we're not, I'm yours, so let's be together, Harriet. -----------------------------

⭐️3.5 The banter is top tier. This had better witticism between the main characters than any of her previous books. Emily Henry is the queen of romantic comedy. I, unfortunately, feel as though each installment of her romances is a bit less than the last. The miscommunication in this book, while very realistic and understandable in it's way, wasn't enjoyable to read. It frustrated me. I enjoyed the characters and their history with each other but I didn't feel like we got enough for their origin to understand their outcome. There was a lot of telling and not showing. Same with the friendships. BOY HOWDY! The friendships took me OUT in this book. First off, it was all telling and not showing. We were just told that a long time ago they were roommates and they were close and so on and so forth. But never actually shown depictions of their friendships. BUT, that one fight when they're adults, where it's brought up that maybe they should just drift apart because it's too difficult to be friends as adults BROKE ME. I rewound that scene multiple times. That is my biggest fear and current depression. I am going through a best friend break-up at the moment and that story really leveled me. I read this in one day and really enjoyed it. But it wasn't as good as I was anticipating.

thank you so much berkley for this ARC 3.75/5 stars happy place brought me to a happy place. this book is very different than any book i have ever read, but it is extremely comforting. there are a lot of elements in the story when it comes to grief and personal growth. there are gritty parts in their parts that make you laugh with glee and chapters that break your heart all over again. yhe friendship at the core of this book is one of the most beautifully written friendships i have read this year. cleo, sabrina and harriet essentially became friends in college, and really found their own family, all of them come from broken homes, and in search of finding a family they found one in one another. i think that’s absolutely beautiful, i love the romantic relationships with in the book as well. parth and sabrina have such an interesting dynamic and seeing how the relationship started versus wear it and it was really beautiful to me, i would absolutely love to read a short story about them if that ever came out. cleo and kimmy are almost complete opposites, but i think they really balance each other out very well. kimmy is one of my favorite personalities. i read in a really long time, and not just because she’s my namesake, but because she is a firecracker, and you never know what to expect with her, and i had so much fun reading every conversation that contain her because you never knew it was coming next. cleo my Black princess, i loved her. wyn, he’s just such a precious soul and he’s someone that took a while to understand, but when everything clicked, i loved him all the more. i think he is a phenomenal in-depth character that just wants to be truly seen and not dismissed and i can 100% relate to that. i’m not going to spoil anything in this book, but i will say that every page had me, and I stretched out reading it, because i never wanted it to end, i absolutely adore this book.

Me and Colleen Hoover just don’t vibe together. Something about her absolute refusal to use trigger warnings due to her belief that they ruin the “integrity” of books, whilst abuse is a frequent plot point in her books will never make sense to me. This criticism is in no way an attempt to invalidate anything Hoover personally has experienced, because I’m aware this book is close to her heart in many ways. Yet, I can’t shake the feeling of how strange it is to hold such a mindset as she does. Feel free to share your thoughts below, I’m interested to see other opinions regarding this. (I also would like to add that I myself am a survivor of abuse, and am diagnosed with PTSD. As such, I will not allow anyone to attempt to invalidate my stance in regards to this.)

This book has many issues. Namely, the writing which never fails to make me cringe, an unnecessary romance subplot, annoying and underdeveloped characters, but I do appreciate its discussion on domestic abuse and the cycle of abuse. As readers, we were able to see the red flags that were there from the get go before the abuse ever happened. Abuse of any kind is an irredeemable act, but breaking out of that cycle is not as easy as some of us think, and this book showcases that. This story is based on the author's mother's story, and everyone's story is going to be different, so I stand firm in my belief that not liking, and even hating this book is valid, but disregarding someone's personal experiences is absolutely not. But I do want to say, that the fact that this book is marketed and recommend as a romance just feels so completely wrong, there is nothing romantic about the subject this book centers.

** spoiler alert ** lowering my rating once again because there are actually many wrong things about this book that i couldn't pinpoint at first because of how emotional i got but that i can now see. please check gloria's review here, she made an amazing job at reviewing this book thoroughly and brought to light some pretty disturbing things : https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... update (spoiler alert?) : i've seen a lot of people on the internet acting like this book is a romance : no it's not. as someone who can relate to this story in a way or another, it's very triggering to see people reducing the plot to a second chance love story when it talks about such an important and rarely discussed topic. just stop. for God's sake, stop. (view spoiler) in conclusion, this book made me cry. a lot. thanks Colleen Hoover for destroying the last bit of mental stability i thought i had 🤡

Minus the sex scenes for which I didn't care, I think this book gives a very important message. One thing I do not understand is why Kyle isn't going to therapy and getting help for his peoblem? He clearly needs it. And he can afford it. What he atempted is some serious complications of trauma and it could easily happen again with another partner in the future.

★★★ "𝗟𝗶𝗻𝗲𝘀 𝘁𝗵𝗮𝘁 𝗮𝗿𝗲 𝗽𝗮𝗿𝗮𝗹𝗹𝗲𝗹 𝗺𝗲𝗲𝘁 𝗮𝘁 𝗜𝗻𝗳𝗶𝗻𝗶𝘁𝘆!’ 𝗘𝘂𝗰𝗹𝗶𝗱 𝗿𝗲𝗽𝗲𝗮𝘁𝗲𝗱𝗹𝘆, 𝗵𝗲𝗮𝘁𝗲𝗱𝗹𝘆, 𝘂𝗿𝗴𝗲𝗱. 𝗨𝗻𝘁𝗶𝗹 𝗵𝗲 𝗱𝗶𝗲𝗱. 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝘀𝗼 𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗰𝗵𝗲𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗮𝘁 𝘃𝗶𝗰𝗶𝗻𝗶𝘁𝘆: 𝗶𝗻 𝗶𝘁 𝗵𝗲 𝗳𝗼𝘂𝗻𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗮𝘁 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗱𝗮𝗺𝗻𝗲𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴𝘀 𝗱𝗶𝘃𝗲𝗿𝗴𝗲𝗱. —𝗣𝗜𝗘𝗧 𝗛𝗘𝗜𝗡, “𝗣𝗔𝗥𝗔𝗟𝗟𝗘𝗟𝗜𝗦𝗠” While I entered Katabasis with high expectations, anticipating a thrilling descent into a magical underworld, I found myself navigating a narrative that, while undeniably ambitious, occasionally lost its footing. R.F. Kuang's premise, a postgraduate in analytic magick, Alice Law, and her fellow Peter Murdoch embarking on a perilous journey through the eight courts of Hell to retrieve Professor Jacob Grims, held immense promise. The initial setup, the chalk-drawn pentagram, and the evocative descriptions of the oppressive weather and the chilling architecture of Hell, painting a vivid and compelling tableau. However, the immersive atmosphere was frequently obscured by an overabundance of descriptive detail. Kuang's prose, while often beautiful, became a dense fog, making it difficult to maintain focus and follow the narrative's thread. The emphasis on Peter Murdoch's backstory, while intriguing, often overshadowed Alice Law's journey in the first helf of the book , leaving her character somewhat underdeveloped. Peter, the aloof yet seemingly empathetic magician, held the reader at arm's length, creating an emotional disconnect that I found frustrating. Alice's attempts to bridge this gap, to truly understand him, were compelling, but often felt thwarted by the narrative's focus on Peter's internal landscape ,It is worth noting that Alice does take a pivotal role in the final chapters, demonstrating her agency and importance within the story. The enemies-to-lovers trope, a point of significant interest, delivered moments of both captivating tension and jarring incongruity. Certain twists were genuinely unpredictable, eliciting a visceral shock that propelled me forward. However, the initial motivation for the descent into Hell remained shrouded in a perplexing ambiguity, leaving me feeling disoriented rather than intrigued. Kuang's integration of philosophical and mathematical concepts, while intellectually stimulating, often felt like a display of academic prowess rather than a seamless narrative element. The author's rapid-fire exposition, jumping between complex ideas without sufficient contextualization, left me feeling intellectually inadequate. While a good book should challenge the reader, Katabasis occasionally veered into didacticism, creating a sense of distance rather than engagement. In conclusion, Katabasis is a work of undeniable ambition and intellectual depth. Kuang's ability to craft a dark and atmospheric world, including the detailed building and oppressive weather, is evident, and the narrative's unexpected twists are genuinely compelling. However, the overreliance on dense description, the uneven pacing, and the occasional feeling of being talked down to ultimately prevented me from fully immersing myself in the story. While I commend Kuang's willingness to tackle complex themes and push the boundaries of genre, I ultimately felt that the narrative's potential was not fully realized. I would recommend this book to readers who appreciate intellectually challenging fantasy and are willing to navigate a dense and sometimes perplexing narrative, but with the caveat that it demands patience and a willingness to grapple with its complexities. 𝙋.𝙎: some quotes I loved : * I wish I were the night, so that I might watch your sleep with a thousand eyes. * You thought the world was one way and then it wasn’t. One could become zero. One could become two. * Everyone else lived in such an ossified world. They simply took the rules given to them. * An unexamined life is not worth living, as Socrates tells us. * Goodbyes were worth the effort only when you meant to see someone again. -Guess who got the arc 🤭

these fools should’ve stayed in hell.

3.5/5 Good, but I’m waiting for you to be GREAT.

RATING BREAKDOWN Characters: 3⭐️ Setting: 4⭐️ Plot: 3.5⭐️ Themes: 4⭐️ Emotional Impact: 2⭐️ Personal Enjoyment: 3⭐️ Total Rounded Average: 3.25⭐️ My favorite aspect of this book was the symbolism. Having never read Dante's Inferno or any of the other source materials referenced in the book, I'm sure it's much richer than I was even able to notice or interpret while reading. That said, the things that stuck out to me, the lay reader, are first, that Hell is laid out as a college campus. It's so on the nose, but I adored it. And I loved that the main characters' names were Alice and Peter. I immediately thought of Alice in Wonderland and Peter Pan. And since we are in a Neverland/Wonderland of sorts, if it wasn't intentional, it was still brilliant. One thing about R.F. Kuang, the woman is BEYOND clever, well-read, obscure, and witty. If you want something smart to ponder and take time with, you'll find it in her books. I'm not always looking for this, but I can certainly appreciate it. Structurally, the book being a quest through the levels of Hell worked well. It made for slower pacing, but it was consistent, and it always felt like we were making progress, either into the characters' traumas and back stories, or towards their goals. The writing style felt a little like the interior of Alice's mind, at times frenzied and over-detailed, but laser-focused on the objective. It worked for me. Possibly, the academic detail will be a deterrent for some readers, but it made sense to me stylistically. I know nothing of calculus, and I could still hang with the story. Compared with Babel, this felt softer, more whimsical, and ultimately sweet. The tone of the book feels more like a healing journey, a quest of the soul, than I was anticipating. And that has left me with warm feelings for the book's messages in general. As for my own taste, some things just don't resonate with me, which is why this isn't a five-star, and it will be tough for me to recommend over other things. A few of these personal preferences have to do with the characters feeling similar to others I've read. Their struggles and behaviors felt obvious, and I lost interest. The setting is brilliant, but also awful. So mission accomplished, since it's Hell. But it didn't make me eager to pick up the book. It took a long time for me to feel invested in the characters or plot, so my emotional experience with the book was just mid. Curiosity and symbolism kept me hooked enough, and ultimately, the payoff was worth it. As for themes, I love the overall message of this story. It's optimistic and simple. The characters grow and change, and ultimately, if this is how Kuang delivers an aspirational story, instead of a cautionary social criticism, I'm here for it! If I could ask for anything, I'd just wish for more subtlety. But this is a recurring mismatch for me with this author. Technically, this is solid. Characters, setting, and plot are all clinically successful. Thematically, it has substance. For me, it's missing an emotional grip, to make me look further, linger, rage, wonder. At the end, it feels complete, but I'm not satiated. Should you read it? Well, Kuang fans will enjoy this. Readers who are hit-and-miss with Kuang's work may like this, as it has a different feel to her other work. Those who find the author's previous writing to be dry, overly academic, or obvious should probably skip this one.

3.5 🪽 katabasis to me was so hard to rate and is so hard to write a proper review for. like all of r.f. kuang’s work, there are so many different elements in the story interwoven together - she combines many complex themes with each other - however, they always tie together to prove the main one. i think most people’s interpretation of the message of this book is how your academic life can literally feel like hell on earth and how corrupt the education system has been, and i completely agree. i think kuang added all these characters and stages of Hell in the story to further emphasize her point. grimes, elspeth’s story, the courts of hell, peter, and dare i say even magnolia & nico. again, as i said, this review was so hard to write, so please bear with me. at first, after reading the reviews, i was confused, because Alice, our protagonist, really didn’t seem like a terrible character - in fact, i even liked her and understood where she was coming from. however, as i got further into the story (maybe the halfway point), i started to realize where people were coming from. the reason i was sympathetic towards her in the beginning was because her reasons for pursuing such academic success - the amount of success that she struggled for - was relatable. honestly, don’t mind the romance reader in me, but sometimes her mindset reminded me ann liang fmcs’ - the constant need for academic validation and consistently being on top. at the halfway point however, she said some things and made some decisions that were, questionable, at best. i will say that my support for her wavered a bit, but thankfully, by the end, she became a likable character once more. i think one aspect that really cemented her character growth to me was obviously, her thought and actions toward grimes, but more so, I think, her behavior and empathy towards Elspeth. the stark contrast her actions showed when she first met elspeth versus the end was astounding. all this to say, i think her character development was truly incredible, especially considering how much she was, i don’t want to say brainwashed, but brainwashed, manipulated, and set on her choices in the beginning. was katabasis a love story? in my opinion, i don’t think so. there was definitely a teensy romance subplot in it, but truly, the romance was so, so, so far from i think, what kuang wanted us to take from this book. yes, peter and Alice ended up together, but i think it was so miniscule in the grand scheme of things. Peter definitely helped alice realize some things and become sympathetic towards others, but i think that was more through their friendship with each other and the time they spent together rather than a romantic connection. don’t let this scare you though - i thoroughly enjoyed their romantic relationship. by the end, it’s impossible to believe that Alice and Peter are anything but perfect for each other - I mean, they literally gave each other a reason to actually live life. that said, i didn’t really connect to peter’s character - (view spoiler) all that to say, i didn’t hate Peter at all and quite liked it when he had screen time. the main critique that people had with this book was that it was “too academic” or that it had too much info dumping. personally, the info dumping definitely was on the heavier side, but it was necessary. r.f. kuang has always been an academic - and I think going into this book expecting anything else is just setting yourself up for failure, ESPECIALLY when babel was one of her releases prior to this book, and ESPECIALLY when this book is in the dark academia genre. the definition of dark academia is literally “dark academia is a literary aesthetic and subculture concerned with higher education, the arts, and literature, or an idealised version thereof”, and i think the book definitely doesn’t stray from it. honestly, for the most part, i was interested in the little rants or tidbits of information that she would write about Kant, Dante, or other famous philosophers, activists, academics, etc. because i really think it added some more flavor to the book and how these famous people connected to kuang’s own idea of the underworld, the meaning of life, or the education system. the pacing of this book was definitely, without a doubt, extremely slow-paced. it felt like nothing was happening for most of the book, but suddenly at the end, everything led up to that climax. Alice & Peter traversing through the courts and experiencing revolutions took my time up in the most delicious way. and i just need to mention that the last 80 pages were SPECTACULAR. another thing that I also loved was the addition of little interludes sprinkled throughout the book. they offered so much more insight to the story and enhanced it overall. the last thing that i wanted to say in terms of the order of things that happened in the book, was the plot twist at the end. if you’re expecting some incredible or mind-blowing plot twist: you’re not going to get it. i predicted the end when I was about 200 pages away from it. another major thing that kuang succeeded in conveying in this story was the idea of the underworld and what happens after death. the amount of existential crises that i experienced throughout this book was wild compared to any other book that i’ve read about paranormal activities or anything related to the afterlife. I was genuinely wondering what our purpose is on earth as humans and as individuals. (view spoiler) it’s finally time for what i think, is the thesis: the corrupt system of education throughout history and how it’s harmed so many people. first off, WOW. in my opinion, kuang really succeeded in developing this idea throughout the book. Alice, our main character, literally embodied this. (view spoiler), and so. much. more. it was genuinely making me sad how our world has shapen into people using the most valuable and best thing in life, knowledge, and weaponized it against others. and although this is a fantasy book, it’s something that is very much a real life thing. professor grimes made me unbelievably angry and upset in this book. how can you, a professor, do these things to your students and manipulate them like this? how can you make them feel and think like this? disgusting. and i think some students are so blinded by their efforts for success, recognition, or money, that they just fall into this trap, again & again, demonstrated by our protagonist. and of course, Alice, as a woman, faced the harsh realities of how women were treated in the 1980s and still, today. the way women are diminished just because we have a vagina is still insanity to me. i don’t know where this idea started and will forever mourn the day that this spread across the globe. because we, as women, are just as intelligent, strong, fearsome, and valuable as men. it PAINED me when i read about how Alice and her peers were treated by male professors when they were just there to get an education just like the men. (view spoiler) so yes, the education system that also includes societal standards was incredibly fucked up then, and might just be as fucked up (maybe a little better) right now. kuang, as an academic, has (presumably) definitely experienced this and it shows throughout this book. her critique of the education system was incredibly saddening but insightful at the same time and i think that katabasis, without a doubt, succeeded (with flying colors) in conveying this complex but necessary message. ⊹ ﹒ ⁺ ﹒ ⊹ ﹒ ⁺ ﹒ ⊹ ﹒ ⁺ ﹒ ⊹ ﹒ ⁺ ﹒ ⊹ ﹒ ⁺ ﹒ ⊹ ﹒ ⁺ ﹒ ⊹ ☆ ── preread ⊹ so excited to finally read one of my most anticipated releases 🧎‍♀️ counting this as a fall book because that's what it gives 🤚🏻 ⌗ fall book #3.

3 stars This was a good book; very well-written, well-researched, with an interesting premise. You can tell that a lot of hard work went into this book. However, I was never gripped by it and just found myself indifferent throughout most of the book. This was largely due to two things: 1. Alice was insufferable. I found her so so unlikable. I don't know if this was done on purpose or not, but for almost 80% of the book, I was praying for her downfall😅😅 Again, maybe Kuang meant for her to be so unlikable? Maybe I'm the problem? I just did not relate to this girl at all. Going to hell to rescue your professor whom you hate because he could open doors for you as far as being a Magician just did not sit right with me for a motive. (there is also another reason but it's a spoiler and even that reason was not enough to convince me) I think this is a me problem though.. maybe other readers will find that motive to be sufficient and I think that would make the reading experience much better! 2. THE MATH. Listen, I knew going into this that it would be educationally heavy and I actually don't mind learning while reading any genre of book; in fact, I prefer it. However, in this book, it felt like the author was trying to smack me upside the head with all the info she knows, from philosophy to theoretical math and physics and everything in between. I don't mind a book challenging me, but I do mind a book boring me😅 It's not like I didn't understand what she was saying; she actually explained them pretty well, but will I retain this HUGE amount of information? Signs point to no😅 I just think this book was too heavy handed with all the theoretical jargon. AGAIN, totally a me problem, and this might be some other readers' cup of tea. The beauty of opinions. My favorite Parts: 1. Achilles the cat was the real mvp of this book. 2. I liked Peter and he deserves better than Alice.✋ 3. The themes touched upon in the novel were interesting (feminism, women in the work field, sexism, ambition, abuse of power, stress on students, existentialism...) However, they were nothing new or revolutionary? Like nothing new was added to the discussion of these topics..at least for me. Just to reiterate, this is a very good book, just not a good or memorable book FOR ME. This maybe due to the fact that books about academia never really grip me. As a teacher, I am up to my ears in academia, so reading about it as well might be subconsciously icking me😅 Also, my buddy reader Ashlyn actually dnfed this one😭 hope we have a better buddy read next 💖

★★★1/2 stars I don’t understand how something can be both boring and interesting at the same time but I guess this wasn’t half as bad as I thought it would be. 📌 Premise Alice Law is a student at Cambridge University, where magic has become a formal area of study. She works under one of the institution’s most renowned advisors, Professor Grimes. During a catastrophic accident, Grimes is blown to pieces, and Alice takes it upon herself to journey to Hell to retrieve his soul. One of her colleagues and greatest rivals, Peter Murdoch, decides to accompany her. Together, they move through a series of trials and quests, encountering monsters, weavers, and shades along the way. The novel draws heavily from Dante’s Inferno as well as myths from multiple cultures, most notably Chinese mythology. 🎭 Characters Alice Alice is anxious, intensely driven, and fiercely competitive. Her singular purpose is to carve out a place for herself in academia. What makes her compelling is that this obsession is not rooted in a desire for recognition or prestige. She genuinely loves academia. It is the only space where she feels at ease, the only place where she truly belongs. While I understood her drive to succeed, I struggled for much of the novel to grasp why she would go so far as to descend into Hell to retrieve Professor Grimes’s soul. I kept thinking that nothing could possibly be that serious. By the end of the book, however, that question is answered. Peter Peter is effortlessly competent, a man who excels without seeming to try. He moves through the world with ease and a kind of perpetual excellence that Alice both resents and envies. As expected, there is more to him than first appears. Alice and Peter begin as rivals and eventually become romantic interests. Anyone who knows me knows that I love love. I love romance and actively seek it out, but this was the first time I found myself thinking, No, thank you. I’m good. The romantic subplot did nothing for me, and was distracting. Alice would launch into a passionate analysis of a Chinese or Greek myth and its significance, only to circle back to her feelings for Peter. Instead of deepening the narrative, this constant detouring left me frustrated. ‧₊˚🖇️✩ ₊˚📖 Reading experience There is simply no nicer way to explain how I felt while reading Katabasis than to say that, for much of the time, the book feels as though it is having an identity crisis. It does not seem to know what it wants to be, because the possibilities are endless. The story is incredibly fast paced and it jumps from subject to subject every few paragraphs, to the point that it reads like a series of dissertations on loosely related topics. And then you have riddles and philosophical musings like this: “Okay,” said Alice. “Let me see if I can get it all straight. A, you can only leave Pride once you pass. B, we have not passed. C, we must follow the rules of Hell. Therefore, Z, we cannot depart. Is that right?” “Come on. You know very well what a heap is. You know it when you see it. It is like porn. And you know that if you shovel giant piles of sand out of the heap, there will come a moment when you can definitely call it not-a-heap. But just for that moment, when the paradox is laid out to you in that precise wording, you don’t know. For a moment, you think it is true—that it is impossible, indeed, to turn a heap into a not-heap. In fact you are probably so exhausted from hearing the word heap that the very concept is a blank to you. Confusion, doubt. And with that, for just a moment, the world blinks. The heap does not run out.” But of course, it makes sense. You just have to sit with it for a bit. I usually love heavy prose but - and this is a huge BUT - the problem is 541 pages of paragraphs like that, and it starts to feel like I'm doing brain teasers. The emotional cost is a steep price to pay. That said, at the very heart of the book is a reflection on the corruption within the structure of academia and the predators that prowl its halls. It's about divine retribution, self discovery, facing your fears and realising what truly matters in life. These are themes I greatly appreciated and related with. However, the magic felt out of place. Then again, if the plan is to go to hell to save your professor, I can see how having no magic might be kind of a deal breaker. Pre-read ༄˖°.☕️.ೃ࿔📚*:･ I love Yellowface and R.F.Kuang's writing in general but dark academia and I have a rather rough and occasionally violent history (with me as the tortured party). Nevertheless, I’m excited for this one.

I went back and forth on picking up this book, but curiosity eventually won. The premise was intriguing, Alice traveling to Hell, navigating dangerous situations, all to find her dead professor for a career recommendation. Unfortunately, the execution fell flat, and I wasn’t wowed. Instead what I saw was a naive infatuated scholar, but this opinion does change towards those last few pages. That said, there were moments I enjoyed. The rock climbing scene with Peter, where Alice motivates him, was a nice turn in their love hate relationship. Learning Peter’s backstory also softened my opinion of his character. The book isn’t all bad, "Hell has no rules" but at times the intricate details felt like more information than was really needed to move the story along.

2.5/5 boring. flavorless. devastatingly average. i was lowkey fighting demons to make myself get through those last few chapters. so much of the plot felt like aimless meandering with philosophical interjections and reflections on the state of academia, the meaning of life, etc., but without any real substance or depth to it. i'm also shocked by how rf kuang was able to make Hell Itself appear so bland and lame and featureless - despite all the hullaballoo around the eight courts of hell, alice and peter pretty much just stroll through them. whatever little obstacles they face are easily resolved and it's only in the last third of the book that hell actually starts feeling dangerous. to be fair though, it's clear this book isn't about the journey through hell as much as it is a character study of our protagonist alice law - and the hell depicted here is obviously meant to reflect/challenge her own flaws, desires, nightmares, what she feels about academia and her place in the world. which makes it unfortunate that she just isn't that interesting of a character, at least to me. i didn't mind reading about her, i sympathized and hurt for her in many instances but ultimately, she didn't stand out to me and her motivations for going to hell just felt so flimsy. her relationship with peter was equally unconvincing, mostly because we only see the real meat of their relationship summarized in flashbacks instead of seeing it fleshed out in the moment. also, i think it's a bit misleading to label this book as a 'romance' or 'romantasy' (as i see goodreads has done). the romance isn't even a subplot here, it's really just crumbs. a couple of things i liked about this book: the magic system with magicians creating paradoxes to enact magic was fun, i always enjoy seeing a scientific, academic approach to magic. the writing style was solid and very readable, and i thought the ending was as satisfying as it could be.

“What Alice needed most then was a nice long holiday, and then perhaps institutionalization at some remote facility near the sea.” Rating: ⭐⭐⭐,5 This was as good as it was boring. Almost everything was amazing, exactly what anyone would expect from any R.F. Kuang book. The plot, the character arcs, the chemistry between the protagonists, ✨THE LORE✨, they were all so well thought out. There are only a few authors these days who could come close to Kuang's world-building and character development. She built a Hell that was entirely made up of the oldest and most famous stories and myths in literature, and it worked so well. She also created characters that were so irritatingly relatable. I wanted to be annoyed at the things they did, especially with Alice, but I couldn't because I knew I would most likely behave the same way. Not to mention that even though the romance was clearly the subplot, it was so well written that it could've stolen the spotlight had the main plot and lore not been so epic. However, it quickly became obvious that this should've been about 200 pages shorter. The chapters shifted from the present to the past, slowly revealing important plot points. I wouldn't have any problem with that whatsoever, had the chapters from the past been much shorter and didn't include such an overload of unnecessary information. It just took forever to get to the point, and at times, it made it almost impossible to stay focused. I think I would still recommend this book, regardless of "the filler chapters". They definitely annoyed me, but in the end, it was worth it to me. The story was just that good.

I’m disappointed. The premise sounded so good the idea of studying analytical magic at Cambridge and going to the Hell to save a professor, but sadly the execution was lacking. The book started off well and I enjoyed learning about the different domains of Hell including Lythe, Wrath, Pride, Greed, Violence, Cruelty and more, but the plot went down hill soon after. The plot didn’t have direction and it was repetitive. I enjoyed learning about analytical magic, but it was too complicated and I wanted to see the magic in action instead of only learning the rules. The writing was descriptive and exceptional, but it didn’t save the book for me. I was disappointed by the characters and their development. Peter was an okay character, I did like how smart and ambitious he was but he also felt flat. I have mixed feelings about Alice, she was smart and ambitious but she didn’t make sound decisions and was cruel at times. I’m glad that Alice stood up for herself at the end and developed a little bit but not enough for me to change my feelings. I didn’t like Professor Grimes, he was rude, cruel, sexist, power hungry and only cared about himself. The ending was rushed but I’m glad one aspect of the conflict was resolved. I also appreciated that the characters learned a lesson by the end of the book. Overall, this book was okay but the execution was lacking and I wasn’t a fan of the characters.

⭐️ 3 ⭐️ You need a course in philosophy, physics and astrophysics in order to fully understand this book. It reads like a long dissertation paper on philosophical matter and is quite an overreach. This book is not for everyone as it’s very difficult to understand and follow. When I have to be googling things from almost every page (references to Gods, paradoxes, philosophical matter, etc) it takes me out of the story and just reduces my concentration. It literally was like walking through a philosophical zigzag where I was lost and confused and possibly feeling stupid? The immense amount of research that went into this book is astounding. It’s commendable and honestly elevates any type of work/writing in my opinion. However, it is not for everyone. Aside from all the philosophical weirdness, Katabasis had a plot and a very interesting one—that part was completely readable and understandable. I loved the entire dynamic between Alice and Peter, their quirky moments, their relationship. I loved how in between all the deep prose, R.F. Kuang threw in some comedic elements. It definitely lightened up the mood. Katabasis, which literally translates to “descent” or “going down” into the underworld was a trip that wasn’t overly memorable or exciting. I’m not a philosopher, I don’t do logic. I wanted to be fully immersed but ended up spaced out. *Full review to follow *

Alice Law wants to graduate in Magick with the highest honors and a recommendation from the greatest professor. That’s her golden ticket to success. Unfortunately, the professor died. And she was responsible for the accident that killed him. But just because he’s dead, that doesn’t mean her dream needs to be. She’s going to visit him in Hell. But her rival has the same idea. What a cool concept. This is a story that is basically one big criticism on elite academic institutions. But it’s not just about the institutions, it’s about the people there, or even better: how much people change because of those institutions. This is a character-driven story, but it’s worth mentioning that these aren’t the kind of people you’ll want to root for. Linda Ronstadt may have sung that it's so easy to fall in love, but R.F. Kuang proves that it’s also quite easy to dislike some fictional characters. The thing is that the main character Alice in particular has sacrificed so much of herself, that there’s barely anything left but unresolved trauma and an obsessive addiction to external validation. Part of that is the attitude of the scholars in general. They look down on anything that distracts from the life of the mind and they pride themselves on dedicating their lives completely to their research. And you can see that Alice discovers how wrong she’s been when she starts to question her idol, the professor she’s trying to find in Hell. For some reason, this book didn’t grab me as much as I was expecting it to. There is something to be said about the characters, but they’re supposed to be unlikeable. It’s a very complex read that requires quite a bit of academic knowledge to fully appreciate it, but that’s part of what makes this an interesting read. You could also say that there are quite a few flashbacks. Flashback always take you out of the story at hand for a bit, so it’s best not to use them too often. But honestly, everything is written well and serves a purpose. Objectively speaking, this story does a lot of things right. Subjectively speaking though, I just felt a bit bored and I never really cared about the characters. Maybe this is just not my kind of story. Overall, a unique concept with a strong but complex execution that makes it stand out. The characters are deliberately unlikable, but also interesting in their own right. Unfortunately, this never really grabbed me. Don’t let one reader’s opinion stop you from reading and enjoying this one though, as it has some cool things to offer.

rtc

I...huh. I'm as shocked as you are. I storming love this series. I'm planning to get a Bridge Four tattoo. But this was...not up to the same standard as the first three books. Don't get me wrong, it was good, I did enjoy most of it. There were some parts that brought me to tears. Unfortunately, some of those tears were from boredom. SPOILERS FOR PREVIOUS BOOKS!!!! READ AT YOUR OWN PERIL. CONTENT WARNING: (view spoiler) Things that were great: -The original cast. Kaladin, Shallan, Dalinar, Adolin, Bridge Four, Wit, Jasnah...Brandon's clearly in their heads and hearts and every moment with them was joy. -The immensity of the plot. Normally I seem to find books with plot that is too flimsy to keep going--books that try to run marathons on an empty stomach. This book was kind of the opposite. This ran a marathon after hitting a buffet and it was just wild how much we learned about Roshar and the cosmere. -Most of the issues. If the idea behind Radiants is that spren are attracted to people who've been tested and tempered by trauma, this book really pushes that forward. The amount of time spent on mental and physical impairment is really unusual and commendable in epic fantasy. There were some things I didn't love--for example, having a mental illness doesn't make me inherently stronger than someone without it. *I* as a person have an amount of resilience and perseverance that can be changed daily by my environment, my health, and what I'm doing. Same with all people. You learn skills, you learn to weather certain discomfort, but I don't like pedestals of any sort. We're all in various oceans of crap, and we're all struggling against our own personal riptides, they just look different. I don't think we gain much by trying to compare what our oceans look like. If you see a swimmer struggling, just throw them a line if you can, and keep swimming. -The weighty conflicts. What does it mean to save people? What does it mean to be free? How culpable are we with our actions? When do we determine if we've failed at something or succeeded, and using what measurements? -The focus on science. I super loved the storyline that played out about science on Roshar and in the cosmere. More lady scientists pls! Things that really tripped me up: -The storycrafting. This is usually Brandon's ace in the hole. His pacing is pretty impeccable, his reveals safe from infodumps, melodrama and treading water. Not so this time. Infodumps all over the place, near constant recitation of previous action and the predicament of each member of the cast, extreme pathos left and right...it was only slightly better than Warbreaker which I did not like at all on this front. -The plot holes. Hoo boy. There are a lot. We learn things that call for complete retcons of previously stated occurrences. The cosmere secrets and the Roshar structure did not blend harmoniously. -Venli's chapters. Oh man. I was soooo stoked for a more listener-centric book, but these chapters were...bad to me. They were boring, told us nothing new, and only added pathos, not empathy. Ouch. -The "twists." Pretty much the last 7% of the book was complete codswallop. It was not laid out, it did not add drama, it just made me mad about what's about to happen, and confused why we'd spent so much time setting up some other story, if this was the way this book ends. A complete letdown, honestly. It was still at least as good as many books I've read, and I dearly love so many of these characters that we got through, But if I hadn't already had history with them, this would have been a tragic stop in my reading of the series. I'll continue on because I only have one more book in this arc, and then we'll see. But wow. I'm pretty devastated that I can't crow any longer about how perfect this series is.

This might have been the most anticipated release of 2020. The hype was unreal and probably too high to be honest. After giving the previous 3 entries 5 stars as great books I found Rhythm of War to fall short of that. Good but not great. The reason this is my least favorite Stormlight book really comes down to one thing. This book spends a lot of time on characters and plots that I don't care about. Thus for large portions of this book I was pretty bored. Brandon spent a lot of time in this book, specifically during part III, with flashbacks and current plotlines involving Venli, Eshonai, and the rest of the singers and fused. I could not possibly care less, and the flashback chapters were so bad they would kill story momentum. There also seems to be a effort by Sanderson to stick in as many Cosmere easter eggs as possible and a focus that is too much on the intricate details of the magic. I don't enjoy reading pages and pages of science experiments. That being said when the book got back on track with our favorite characters of Kaladin, Dalinar, Adolin and Shallan it was as good as ever. Part V was an absolute rocket ship that made up for some previous shortcomings. The implications and developments were absolutely huge for the future of this series and the wider cosmere universe. If the rest of the book could have been as focused it would have been 5 stars. My final thoughts are that this is a fine book that was too long. A shorter more focused book with more from the most interesting characters would have been much better. In the end though Sanderson stuck the landing and I'm excited for book 5.

*** I have a YouTube channel now! Check it out here. *** 3 stars **Although this is a spoiler free review (spoilers are hidden), there may be spoilers for previous books in series (scroll down)** “Integrity doesn’t stop men from killing, Brightness, ... It just makes them use different justifications.” Rhythm of War definitely went in a way that was unexpected to say the least, though I believe many people will enjoy this new direction, it caused me to not fall in love as much with this instalment as I did with the other ones. I loved so many segments in this book, but truth is, these POVs were rare as the focus was on two characters that I really didn't feel like following most of the time... but we'll get into that later. Still. I really really liked this book and once again am in awe of Sanderson's storytelling abilities. The major aspect of this book that I didn't enjoy as much as the others was that we spent so much time with Navani and Kaladin. Shocker, I know. Despite loving the epic Kaladin/Navani moments towards the end, I just didn't want to spend the majority of the book focusing on them. Since The Way of Kings Navani put a bad taste in my mouth, and frankly I did not care about her in any other book (and then she was rude to Evi so...), meanwhile Kaladin just steals the spotlight all the time and I wanted to really get more of Venli (this was supposed to be her/Eshonai's 'book')... but she is overshadowed by Kaladin. Again, I feel like a lot of people will like this because Kal is a fan favorite, but it was just tiring for me. I felt like Venli had so much potential, and while Sanderson did deliver, I kind of wished we would have gotten more her, less Kaladin. The aspect in which this book shone was the world expansion. Note: although it isn't necessary to read Sanderson's other works, I would definitely say read Mistborn ERA 1 (Era 2 reveals something about the Ghostbloods and their mission), and Warbreaker at least. (I would also encourage people to read Sixth of the Dusk, Elantris, and White Sand volumes 1-3, but these aren't as prevalent as Era 1 and Warbreaker). Without this knowledge, I think the story is still very much enjoyable, but having that extra knowledge really kept me on the tip of my toes wondering about what different connections meant. Intrigue was really high in this novel, but most of it relied on Navani... and I just don't care about Navani. The most enjoyable segment in my opinion is the Adolin/Shallan segment as they travel into Shadesmar for reasons. Although I usually find Shallan tiring, I really liked her in this book (most of the time). I liked seeing her and Adolin supporting each other and figuring their way through the world of spren, their traditions, politics, secrets, etc. It was great, can't really say more without spoilers, but shame that we got so relatively little of it... because of Kaladin/Navani. The last group of joined POVs are Dalinar/Jasnah, and they were in this book much less than I thought they would be. Usually, Dalinar steals the show in my mind, but Jasnah's moments were epic. Seeing her become the queen and try to break the gender stereotypes of Roshar was really interesting. Her relation to Wit also opened a doorway for world expansion (which was much more enjoyable that Navani might I add) and I was just really amazed at her. Come to think of it, there are things in Jasnah's past that we don't exactly know about, and I really wish we'd get more from her in book 5. I'd also like to give a few spoiler-free thoughts on the beginning/ending. Whereas a lot of people rave about the fast-paced beginning, I must admit I liked the ending more, despite there not being a Sander-avalanche occurring. Then again, this might be because Kaladin/Navani really take the book by storm in the beginning... but they're basically done by the end. TL;DR? Great story, but too much Kaladin/Navani for my taste. Spoiler Thoughts (Cosmere-spoilers included): (view spoiler) ----------------------- The Stormlight Archive: #1 The Way of Kings: ★★★★.75 #2 Words of Radiance: ★★★★.75 #2.5 Edgedancer: ★★.5 #3 Oathbringer: ★★★★★ #3.5 Dawnshard: ★★★.5 #4 Rhythm of War: ★★★

I always forget to update the books I read on here. Here is my video review for Rhythm of War where I go over why it's my least favorite Stormlight Archive book: https://youtu.be/8AuKRgyv_0M

This is the first book in the series that I have read and I think I would have enjoyed it more if I had started it from the beginning to get to know the characters better. I am going to start from the beginning and circle back to this one later.

Davenport sidesteps Black Lives Matter, the death of George Floyd, and the chaos of Minneapolis in 2020 by sending Lucas and Virgil to Florida for a drug smuggling case. A brief mention of COVID-19 places the timeline early enough in the year that the next book could accept the challenge of addressing the dramatic aforementioned events, including the verdict of the Derek Chauvin trial.

The President's Daughter by Bill Clinton & James Patterson is a thriller novel. Michael Keating is a former Navy SEAL -- and a former President of the United States, now relocated to rural New Hampshire after a brave but ill-fated military mission cost him his second term. His daughter, Mel gets kidnapped by one of President Keating's past enemies and targets, the book is pure joy of thriller and a fast paced, complete page turner 500+ pages novel. The short chapters actually helped me finish this tomb in like a day or so. I enjoyed reading Mel as a character and her POV to the book in parts here and there. Mel grows as a president's strong daughter who is very tactful as well as smart in her own way. The way she rescues herself from Asim's men as truly a joy to read about. The politics with President Pamela, the suspense as well as the tech part was great. The first book is not related at all so definitely pick this up even if you haven't read the first. The book feels like a James Bond movie to me to be very honest, so in terms of exciting new plot this isn't your pick, but the execution was great.

This has been on my TBR for a long time. Truth be told, I don't like to spend a lot of time on children being Kidnapped, even if I know its going to turn out okay. So I am glad I got through this Chunkster quite quickly. I enjoyed it, and I always like bad-ass female heroines. This one happens to satisfy a bunch of challenges for me, but even better, its another one gone from my TBR that has been lingering awhile.

When ex-President Matt Keating is ousted after an acrimonious tussle with his successor, matters were supposed come to an end. Then his daughter gets kidnapped by a terrorist, and all hell breaks loose! His successor's administration is reluctant to pull out all stops to rescue Mel. Until the frustrated ex-President, who's also an ex-Seal, mounts his own rescue mission. Please read my detailed review from the link below https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-the... Do Read 📖, Like 👍🏼, Comment 💭 or Share 🚩 🙏🏼🙏🏼 #billclinton #jamespatterson #thepresidentsdaughter #bookfan #bookreviewer #bookreviews #bookworm #booklover #booklove #booklovers #bookbuzz #books #bookreview #booksaremagic #booksbooksbooks #bookaddicts #booksarelove #lovereading #lovereadingbooks #bookbuzz #thriller #mysterynovel

Fast paced and packed with tension. Mr Clinton's knowledge of the presidency adds an authentic political dimension that would not normally be attained and made the plot more interesting. Thanks to NetGalley and Random House UK, Cornerstone for this ARC!

> In my go bag are a SIG Sauer 9mm P226 pistol and a disassembled Colt M4 automatic rifle, with a TAWS 32 thermal sight, and plenty of ammunition for both. I’m an ex-POTUS now. And I’m also a father who’s willing to go anywhere, and kill anyone involved, to get his daughter back. It's a fine thriller, although so rah-rah USA that it backfires and makes the heroes seem morally bankrupt. Compared to "The President is Missing," though, I had a harder time seeing what Clinton brought to the table in this collaboration. I could see this being written without Clinton's involvement, and that takes away a main selling point for me.

I don't think I have ever been so entertained yet so bored at the same time. Ultimately, that is how I felt by the end of this one. I usually stay away from James Patterson but I was recommended one of his books that he wrote with Bill Clinton last year, so I tried The President Is Missing after a particularly brain numbing week at work. I was entertained by the somewhat over the top story and it was nice to see the details brought in by former President Clinton. This one was also on my radar and had quite an interesting premise, so I also gave it a try. I'm not sure why there was no connections to their previous novel, but we meet President Matt Keating and his family. The first part takes place during his brief presidency and picks up a few years later. A terrorist that he wronged during his administration manages to kidnap his daughter Melanie in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. What transpires is a pulse pounding race to track her down. There are multiple elements trying to track her down; including her parents, the current President and the Chinese government. (view spoiler). While I found the fast paced action entertaining, I felt like the story became bogged down in details. I understand that these details may have necessary to enhance the story but all the details of gear, weapons, etc. was `boring to me. I also did not appreciate all the unnecessary explanations of who characters repeatedly were. Madeline Perry was Keating's Chief of Staff, so it was not necessary to reiterate that every time we came across her. (view spoiler). Despite my grievances, it was an overall entertaining read.

Interesting but forgettable. President Matt Keating and his Vice-President Pamela Barnes watch as a team of seals try to capture Asim Al-Asheed, a violent terrorist who caused the death of people across the world. Al-Asheed having received a tip-off has hidden but left his wife and daughters in his mountain hiding place and they are killed when the seals set off the detonations personally set by him. President Keating takes the unprecedented step to apologise for the attack. This leads to his Vice-President using this as a tool to ensure he’s not elected for a second term, instead she’s made President. Two years after the attack, Al-Asheed takes his revenge, kidnapping Matt Keating’s daughter, Melanie. When President Barnes refuses to help him go after Al-Asheed, Keating has no option but to call in favours from his previous seal-mates and Secret Service detail to get his daughter back. Am I being mean giving only three stars? I loved The President is Missing, the first book that Bill Clinton and James Patterson collaborated on; however, this plot is similar in format; terrorists. President facing the terrible threat of his daughter being in the clutches of a maniac terrorist. Bravely fighting to save her. Justice for the good. I’m glad I read it, but the plot along with the characters will very quickly fade from my memory. Rony Elite Reviewing Group received a copy of the book to review.

I definitely have been looking forward to reading this book, especially after Bill Clinton and James Patterson's last book together (The President is Missing). I thought the characters were pretty interesting, but I would not read this book if you are easily upset by political divisions and tension between political leaders. The book definitely will not unify different people lol. Besides the problematic feel of the characters and their intentions, it was overall a pretty ok read. If you are a picky fan of thrillers and have very high expectations for thrillers, then I would say to skip this read. The book was a bit predictable, but I definitely still enjoyed reading it and flew through it. If Bill Clinton and James Patterson write another thriller, I will still read it. The book was a solid 3, nothing extraordinary, but still a decent read.

3.75 stars! I really enjoyed this book although its not my fav Abby Jiminez book. Full review coming in a youtube video soon! A few thoughts for now... 1. I LOVED the two main characters. I especially loved that our male love interest is a man of actions. I love words of affirmation but I particularly love acts of service/actions that show love in a book boyfriend. 2. I love that there's so much happening outside of the romance too. Lots of family issues, etc. and I surprisingly really enjoyed having lots of subplots outside of the romance. 3. I'm not fully sure why but the long distance set up just wasn't my favorite. I still lenjoyed it, but like I said I've just loved other Abby Jimenez conflicts more. I also felt a little meh on the ending.

3 Stars. I really enjoyed some parts of the story. I thought the MMC was super sweet and cute. The FMC was a little bit of a spitfire and I found her personality pretty delightful. The huge emphasis on the MMC looking like Rhys from ACOTAR was exhausting. Like beating a not funny joke half to death over and over. I also feel like Abby dumbs her characters down so much to wrap everything up in a convenient bow. The obstacle standing between these two being together didn't seem that big of a deal for me and could have been easily resolved and yet their entire reason for being separated hinges on it. It felt silly to me like most of Abby's books.(For me) Parts of it were cute, some parts cringe- overall I'm kinda indifferent about it. If you typically enjoy AJ's books it's worth the read. 💗 Meagan why's your dog on this here cover? 😅🐾💘 Almost here!! Expected Pub Date - 04/01/25 💖Enemies to Lovers 🐾Opposites Attract 💖Swoony MMC 🐾Slow Burn 💖Forced Distance 🐾Deeply Emotional 💖Second Chances 🐾Vet MMC 💖Strong Family Ties 🐾No Third Act ⋆✴︎˚｡⋆ Connect with me on Instagram ˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹

3.5 // not my favorite abby jimenez but still had its golden moments!

Abby Jimenez, I just know you STAY on TikTok! Girl, I rot on that app for hours too, but please 🙏🏾😭enough with the references!! Okay, I’m about to say the dumbest thing ever: Xavier is too perfect? Like, he honestly made me cringe a little sometimes? I swear I’m not trying to be a hater. I hope every guy one meets is like this. But whew, he just always knows the right thing to say and do? Samantha, girl… good for you! Samantha and Xavier’s romance was definitely cute! I get that this is a romance book where we get to step out of reality and soak in all the grand gestures, the sweet words, the magic. And if that’s what you're here for, then you’ll be more than satisfied.That said, their romance didn’t feel super believable to me. I just didn’t really get what they saw in each other from that very first date. I love that Jimenez highlights how hard long-distance relationships can be and how beautiful they are when both people are truly trying. But because I didn’t understand the why behind their connection early on, all the big efforts they made to see each other just felt like... huh? It gave very "insta-love." Once they actually started getting to know each other, that’s when I started vibing with their relationship a bit more. My favorite part of the book, hands down, was their individual lives. Samantha’s family and everything they were going through? So real. The hard decisions, the emotional weight. Super relatable for so many families! And I appreciated that the story didn’t shy away from the messy parts. Xavier had his own baggage, too, especially with his practice and his abusive family situation. I just love when books are raw like that, when I can feel their struggles and think, “Yep, that’s so human.” That really helped me connect with them as individuals, even if I wasn’t 100% sold on them as a couple. Definitely one of my most anticipated reads, and now the itch has been scratched. It didn’t meet all my expectations, but hey, it’s okay! I’ll survive. 😅

3💫 first half of the book- hated it. considered dnfing it but decided against it because i wanted to give it a chance. i felt absolutely no chemistry between the characters, they were literally together by page like 30. just way too insta-lovey and felt no connection at all. the way abby included so many tik tok trends and booktok aspects into this made me cringe so hard. i read to escape tik tok please dong bring it into my books😭 didn’t like that. the family drama was so annoying. someone said in their review that this was basically a soap opera and I completely agree. i thought our main character was annoying, and i felt so bad for xavier because the relationship felt so one sided. it read like he was the only one who cared. at this point, i was ready to give up and accept that this was going to be like a 2 star read. but then i actually found myself enjoying the second half!!! yay!!! i still dont feel very connected to these characters, but xavier is a sweetie and their relationship seemed to develop and feel more equal as the book went on. i thought the mustard stuff was funny and i liked her social media job. one thing i can’t get behind is supporting the dads cheating. its literally even WORSE that your wife had dementia. im sorry i dont care what the circumstances are, but cheating will never be justified. i hated that whole plot point and how everyone was so accepting. i am a huge animal lover and big on rescues, so i loved that aspect of this one🩵 not my fave book by abby, but im glad i ended up enjoying it!!

˖ ⁺ ౿ 🎡 ┆3.65 stars ⤿ in abby jimenez we trust 🫡 "If you had the power to erase every memory you have of me so you didn't know what you were missing, would you do it?" she asked. "No, I wouldn't do it," I said without even thinking about it. "Why?" "Because life wouldn't be worth living if I didn't remember you." now playing ♫┆wildest dreams say you’ll remember me standing in a nice dress staring at the sunset, babe (i had to sing the cover every time 🤭) ⊹ my thoughts i don’t really know exactly how i feel about this. but i did have a fun time with this overall! 💌 it’s just that i had a few slight issues, which made it a conflicting. starting off positive, i really liked the theme of how important memories are. and not just the big ones, but the small ones too because they can be just as significant. because while you may not be able to remember those exact moments, you remember the emotions that came along with them <3 one thing i love that abby jimenez does a great job with is tackling difficult topics within her books. seeing sam’s mom’s condition slowly deteriorating, and xavier’s abusive family background, my heart broke for them 🥺 but i love how they fought for their relationship. it felt more real because honestly idk what i’d do in that situation either. “The best moments don’t have to be big to be forever.” onto the issues—the romance felt a tiny bit insta-lovey? they still developed their relationship over time, but it felt a bit rushed imo at the beginning. the other thing was the gen z slang 😀 i’m sorry, it just was not it for me… personally, i don’t wanna hear “be so freaking fr rn,” “ick,” “mid,”"greek god vibes," “VILF”…etc. in my little romance books i use to escape reality. and reading that comment section iykwim was painful. not to mention the constant comparisons of xavier to rhysand. like it was fine at first but stoppp we get it 😭 those were pretty much the only things, and otherwise i did still like this book! just maybe not as much as her others. ⊹ characters samantha i liked samantha and seeing her relationship with her mom was poignant. but also a good reminder to embrace making memories and holding onto them, especially as circumstances such as these cause you to forget. xavier outwardly, he’s intimidating and grumpy, but once you give it a chance to get to know him, he’s so caring and attentive 🫶 and i love that his care for samantha extended to the rest of her family as well. it was so fun that he was a vet, but once we discovered the reason for that career choice, it made me wanna cry. he drowned them??!💔seeing into his difficult childhood was heartbreaking. if i ever find his parents… 😚 but also it pained me to see him burn himself out just to be with sam. i love how devoted he was, but he has to take care of himself too :( ⤿ shoutout to hank and jake from state farm! minor spoilers here one thing that really irked me was how the dad cheated on his wife like that. just because your wife has dementia, doesn't give you an excuse to go sleeping around, hello?? and the way the kids kind of just brushed it off was confusing to me. ⊹ concluding thoughts so overall, i’d recommend this! it wasn’t a bad book at all, and i still love AJ and will read whatever she puts out next. it was just a little disappointing bc i had such high expectations 🫶 ⊹ quotes “It was so mundane, but I wanted the mundane. I craved it. You think that it’s the big memories you should be chasing—and it is in a way. Birthdays and vacations and special occasions. But the small memories are the fabric of your life, the ones so inconsequential that you don’t even remember them. You just remember how you felt when you were making them.” “Because if you were my wife you would be my world. Everything starts with you and ends with you. Anything else is just the stuff that happens in the middle.” "Some things are worth remembering, Samantha. No matter how much they hurt." “Maybe that's the last thing we forget. Or we never forget it at all. Not really. We lose the words to say it. We lose the ability to show it. But we never lose the ability to feel it or recognize it when we see it. Love is the brightest color in a gray world.” ˖ ⁺ ౿ 🎡┆pre-read happy release dayyy!! 🤭 i’m basically just blindly jumping right in but i love abby jimenez so i’m trusting her!

3.5 stars This was cute! I did get the ick more than once, for sure, but I liked the main characters. Not my favorite Abby Jimenez book, but not a bad book either.

★彡【3.5／5】彡★ 𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙜𝙤𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙤 𝙡𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙬𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙚𝙖𝙨𝙤𝙣𝙨 𝙩𝙪𝙧𝙣𝙚𝙙, 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙄 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙜𝙤𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙤 𝙡𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙬𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙮 𝙙𝙞𝙙𝙣’𝙩 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙨𝙤𝙢𝙚𝙝𝙤𝙬 𝙬𝙚’𝙙 𝙨𝙩𝙞𝙡𝙡 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙩𝙤 𝙩𝙧𝙮 𝙩𝙤 𝙗𝙚 𝙤𝙣 𝙖 𝙥𝙖𝙧𝙖𝙡𝙡𝙚𝙡 𝙡𝙞𝙣𝙚. Samantha Diaz, a marketing manager, and Xavier Rush, a kind-hearted veterinarian with a painful past, meet through a kitten named Potter. 🐱 Their journey is filled with laughter, sadness, and tests of love, highlighting patience, sacrifice, and the strength of true love across distance. --- Honestly, during the first 45% of the book, I kept thinking about DNF-ing it. ❌ But I'm so glad I gave it another chance! After that point, I started to really enjoy it. The book had funny moments and silly situations, but also deep, emotional ones. 🥺 I felt so much sympathy for Xavier Rush — he gave everything he had to the relationship, and learning about his painful childhood was heartbreaking. 💔 Honestly, Xavier is the ultimate dream guy — handsome, smart, sweet, selfless, understanding, and loves animals! 🐾 Who could ask for more? I also really connected with Samantha's experience dealing with Alzheimer's. 💔 I went through something similar with my grandmother, and I know how exhausting and emotional it can be. Thankfully, my grandma still remembered me, which made it a little easier. ❤️ The story also showed the struggles of long-distance relationships so well. 🌍 Only true and loyal love can survive the distance — it's a real test of hearts. ✈️❤️ In the end, I’m truly happy I didn’t quit this book. I loved the ending, it felt full of hope and warmth. It’s not a perfect story, but it definitely touched my heart. ✨ 𓆩♡𓆪 𝑷𝒓𝒆𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒅 𓆩♡𓆪 Going in with zero expectations, but the title hit me in a weirdly beautiful way. Can’t wait to see where this story takes me ✨💭📖

this was good! i felt so heartbroken and stressed throughout the whole book over all the roadblocks to xavier & sam’s relationship being as easy as they deserved. distance, dementia, debt: the three Ds of this book 😩 i did think that it wrapped up a bit quickly, but I enjoyed the fact that there was no break up, which reinforced that these two were meant to be from the very first page. “there is nothing more beautiful than being a witness to someone’s life.” 🥺

The actual murder mystery was great and as always, I love being transported back to Three Pines. However, when I pick up a fiction novel, I want to escape the world, and in this case, escape to Three Pines. But in this book and the last one, there are some heavy political overtones that just cloud the story. Women being refused abortions, more gun control, inequality for women, the pandemic, etc... When I turn on the news or even open social media, I get all of that in spades, I don’t want to read about it in fiction novels too.

So disappointed. I am a hardcore Gamache fan and have read all of the books (at least once). I understand the need for a mystery writer to include some peripheral characters and stories to increase the "whodunnit" factor, but this book had so many characters and sub-plots, it was bogged down and confusing. I can't imagine someone trying to sort through this who didn't already know Armand, Reine-Marie, Jean-Guy, Ruth, Myrna, Gabri, Amelia..., and then had to figure out who Fiona, Sam, Harriet, Godit, the pastor and his wife, Nathalie, witches, John, the caretaker... were (are we supposed to remember what's wrong with Harriet?). When you have to spend the last several chapters sorting out and explaining why the "whodunnit" did it, you completely lose me. I have never (until now) quickly skimmed through words or chapters in a Gamache book. A little editing could have gone a long way here. So disappointed.

3.5 stars In this 18th book in the 'Chief Inspector Armand Gamache' series, the detective faces off against an old foe. The book can be read as a standalone, but familiarity with the series is a bonus. ***** Chief Inspector Armand Gamache, head of the homicide department at Montreal's Sûreté du Québec..... ......has a close relationship with his son-in-law, and former second-in-command, Jean-Guy Beauvoir. In this book we learn that Gamache first met Jean-Guy at an outlying Sûreté station when Gamache was investigating the murder of a woman named Clothilde Arsenault. Agent Beauvoir - whose behavior verged on insubordination - had been relegated to a desk job in the department's basement, but Gamache saw something in the young man and made him part of the Sûreté homicide squad. Gamache and Beauvoir determine that Clothilde Arsenault, whose body was found in a lake, was bashed in the head with a brick. When the investigators inform Clothilde's children, Fiona (14) and Sam (10), the kids behave oddly. Afterwards the detectives learn the Arsenault home was so abusive the siblings might never recover. The detectives also sense something 'off' about the youngsters, with Gamache thinking Sam is a sociopath and Beauvoir believing the same about Fiona. In the following years Gamache and his wife Reine-Marie take Fiona under their wings, and make her feel like part of their family in Three Pines. Now Fiona and another young woman from Three Pines, Harriet Landers - niece of bookstore owner Myrna Landers - are graduating from engineering school and the village plans a big celebration. The only fly in the ointment for Gamache is that Fiona's brother Sam, whom Gamache dislikes and distrusts, is coming to town for a visit. After the graduation festivities, Myrna Landers, who lives in a cramped apartment above her bookstore, mentions she's thinking of moving to a larger place outside Three Pines. Myrna's friends are aghast, and budding engineer Fiona suggests opening the attic room above Myrna's apartment. What?? What attic room?? Myrna knows nothing about an attic room. It seems Fiona observed a roof feature showing the presence of an attic loft. Moreover, a 150-year-old letter recently showed up in Three Pines, which mentions bricking up a creepy room in the 1800s. The whole village gathers to break into the previously unknown chamber, and a surprise is revealed - a copy of a 17th century painting called The Paston Treasure, which depicts valuable objects owned by the Paston family. The attic space also contains other odds and ends, including a medieval grimoire - a book with magic spells and incantations. The attic copy of the Paston painting is subtly altered with sinister additions, and Gamache is certain it's the work of his sworn enemy, serial killer John Fleming. Gamache believes the painting is a death threat from Fleming, but the killer's been incarcerated for years. And how could the picture get into a room sealed over a century ago? There are a lot of mysteries to be solved here, and the presence of Fiona and Sam Arsenault make things even murkier. The book is a thriller filled with assaults, murders, corrupt cops, and more. The story also refers to the (real life) 1989 massacre of fourteen female engineering students at Montreal's École Polytechnique, by an anti-feminist gunman. All the favorite Three Pines residents appear in the story, including mad old poet Ruth Zardo and her duck Rosa; artist Clara Morrow; and B&B owners Olivier and Gabri. I enjoyed the novel, my major criticism being too much talk about evil people 'getting into' Gamache's head and doing damage, which seemed like psychobabble. Still, this is a good book, recommended to fans of the series. I listened to the audiobook, narrated by Robert Bathurst, who does a good job, though his 'women's voices' are a bit off. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

** spoiler alert ** Even though I have read all the Inspector Gamache books by Louise Penny, this is my first review of one (I think)! I’d rate most of them in the 3-4 star range: they’re engrossing but flawed. The series’ hero worship of Gamache is always too cloying, and it starts out strong in this novel with the narrator reminding us how good, kind, and honest Gamache is. Although he’s been exposed, as the head of homicide, to the worst of humanity, the novel tells us that Gamache remains hopeful, compassionate, and relatively emotionally healthy. I should add that he remains all this even when the series has taken some of the people closest to Gamache and turned them into murderers. For me, that’s a cheap and unrealistic plot device that the series overrelies on. I found the novel’s early mysteries quite compelling. A few things work. First, in flashback, we get Jean-Guy Beauvoir and Gamache’s origin story in a difficult case where Gamache takes a chance on Jean-Guy, who after one kind word from the head of homicide becomes a loyal lackey who obeys Gamache’s orders and turns on his own corrupt department. It’s always satisfying to learn more about the main characters’ relationships, but this also works because the case centers around two children who have been traumatized. Their behavior and Gamache and Beauvoir’s instincts about the children adds interest, suspicion, and suspense, both in the flashbacks and in the book’s present. The book’s present is set in Three Pines following a graduation ceremony of college engineering graduates Harriet Landers and Fiona Arsenault, the now-grown female sibling from the earlier case. Fiona is staying with the Gamache family while her charismatic brother Sam, mistrusted by Gamache but not Beauvoir, is staying nearby. This part also works: Sam is clearly a malevolent force, and while we do see Fiona manipulating others, the novel sets up enough question marks that it’s unclear if Sam or Fiona is the ringleader. Gamache believes that Sam has it out for him while Beauvoir worries that Fiona is not to be trusted. This situation sets the stage for what ends up being the main conflict in the novel. A secret room is found in Harriet’s aunt’s attic, with a huge, seemingly-historical painting that was actually painted recently and which seems to contain clues to some impending doom for Gamache. This room, the painting, and the murder case they begin to unravel through it has great potential that ultimately peters out. It doesn’t end up being a red herring so much as just a big old billboard advertising a murder plan. The Sam and Fiona conflict also gets wrapped into this convoluted murder plan that veers into unrealistic and overwrought. I always appreciate the poetry sprinkled throughout the series, and the dialogue between our various Three Pines friends is often funny and witty. The series’ romanticism about Gamache and rural village life notwithstanding, the pleasant scenes of home, art, and love are comforting, as is— as always— Gamache coming out right in the end. There are a few other things that I think are worth critiquing, and be warned, spoilers are coming! First, the novel appears to be philosophically inconsistent. Unlike other detective fiction, Louise Penny’s books try to be serious about life, beauty, suffering, and death, even if they end up being terribly cavalier with the lives of side characters. With Gamache interpreting the world for us, we understand that good is powerful, that love can redeem relationships, and that trust, though often betrayed, is usually productive. Yet Gamache also says about a ten year old child that he was born bad and that circumstances made him unfixable. The novel tries to maintain through Fiona’s story that trauma produces traumatized behavior that can be redeemed, but then it also insists through Gamache’s instincts about Sam that an abused and neglected ten year old is forever someone to be suspicious of because he probably loves being bad. Fiona’s decision to betray and then to save the Gamache family is also left under-explored; she seemingly sacrifices the life she’s built for no reason other than family ties (as her father turns out to be serial killer John Fleming). The novel explains her decision to betray and then to help rescue Gamache in a throwaway line about having crossed too many lines. But murder was always the plan, and Fiona and Sam both seemed in on it. Why? And how? What were her lines? The novel’s treatment of Fiona and Sam seems to suggest that goodness and badness are heritable and not a little bit inherent. It’s notable that the unlikable characters the series has “redeemed” like Beauvoir or Amelia Choquet become trustworthy and reliable through their adoration of Gamache. This, the novel suggests, highlights their good judgment and ultimate incorruptibility. On the contrary, anyone’s dislike of Gamache becomes a marker for evil. Sam dislikes Gamache; he’s therefore bad. Fiona seems to like Gamache, and she therefore isn’t bad even if she does bad things. Second, the novel’s main antagonist, the serial killer Fleming, is imbued with too many contradictory characteristics. A religious fanatic, his initial imprisonment was for creating a seven-headed beast of Babylon by murdering and stitching together seven victims, yet his murder plan for Gamache is altogether areligious. That seems inconsistent. Additionally, Fleming isn’t charismatic or charming; he’s terrifying, and the novel describes both Gamache and Beauvoir’s feelings of horror in Fleming’s presence. The book characterizes Fleming, in jail, as simply radiating evil. Yet, he is able to pass for some time as the loving, kind, and wise minister of Three Pines’ local church, caring for and loving a dying wife. Nobody so much as says, “Yeah, I don’t like that guy” in the novel. He also seems to have unlimited funds and resources: How else are you able to have your entire identity in prison swapped with someone else’s so you can escape, leaving a trail of murder behind as you tie up loose ends and send your wife traveling as far as the UK to help set up your murder plan? Where does this money come from? How is he able to create totally new identities for himself? Finally, the reveal that Fleming is related to Fiona (but not Sam) doesn’t add anything to the plot or the characters, because ultimately that relationship is unrelated to the reasons he decides to target Gamache in the first place. Third, how are there any townspeople left in Three Pines to murder or to become murderers? If I lived there, I’d try to get the Gamaches to leave because the longer they live there, the more people I know will die.

Wow, I can't believe I've just read the 18th book of the series! I thought it would have been rounded off long ago. Maybe I would have stopped reading the series too, because the author's writing style can be quite annoying. She varies her sentence length. Too much. Sometimes, for no apparent reason. It's a bit less obvious when listening. In this book Chief Inspector Gamache is more human than ever before. Maybe the author has finally realized that her main character was a little too saintly in his goodness and forgiving nature. In this book, he's taken in an orphan, Fiona. However, Fiona is a recently released child offender, and she has a brother Sam, that Gamache cannot stand. Think of that huh, he finally meets a person he really hates! The book starts with the murder of Sam's and Fiona's mother. This is the case where Gamache and inspector Beauvoir first meet, back when Beauvoir really had an ax to grind. When that cold case is out of the way, the plot moves on to a more sinister one. It starts with the discovery of a boarded up room and an intricate copy of the painting of "a world of curiosities" and descends into chaos and horror from there. I enjoyed seeing the darker sides of Gamache. No human is a saint, we're all sinners. And not in any religious sense, we are by nature petty, jealous and vengeful - it's just that we contain this in different measures and some have so many more virtuous traits that their darker streaks rarely show. But they are there. I suppose this book could be read as a stand alone, but to get a feel for the real depth and breadth of it, you need to know the history of the characters. And for that, you need the back-drop. The other books. Many of them are quite good, so please feel free to start from the very beginning.

Not my favorite. I have read all 18 books, but this might be time for me to close the book. I don't want to describe and ruin plot for others who are devoted fans. Her favorite spice, the "f" word is in evidence throughout and makes me want to use it. Library Loan

I just can’t get into these books like I used to. This one seemed so outlandish, with a serial killer you’ve seen and now can’t recognize? I give it three stars for the painting and history which was a nice twist, but the characters are not my favorites any more.

If Thomas Harris wrote cozy mysteries, you'd have this book. As I write this review, it's got a 4.7 GR rating but I've got to disagree. Louise Penny is my favorite author, and this is certainly one of her most ambitious books in a career filled with ambitious books. It starts with the misogyny of the real-life 1989 Montreal massacre of female engineering students and adds a serial killer -- plus child sexual exploitation, not to mention a flashback to when the two main characters met on their first case. Oh, and art history and the Montreal bridge collapse and the history of witches in Canada and... I think the book would've worked better, for me anyway, if it were twice as long. It tries to cram too much plot into too few pages. Also, the recurring joke about Rosa and how "ducks are like that" felt forced this time, and the repetitive lists of fancy foods that everyone eats caused me to tune out. That said, this is one of the most action packed books in the "Three Pines" series, with two excellent standoffs, especially the brisk first one when an entire police station turns on our two protagonists. And I always love that kindness is the guiding philosophy of the lead detective, even in the most harrowing of circumstances. But, of the 18.5 books in the series, I'll put this one near the bottom after a few five-star efforts in a row from my perspective. Excerpt: “You need to remember that, Jean-Guy. The blindness you mention isn’t believing in the essential goodness of people, it’s failing to see it.”

I struggled to get into this book in the beginning, then got hooked in the middle, then felt frustrated by the convoluted, nonsensical end. The bad guy seemed like a cartoon villain; it was all so far-fetched that it ended up ridiculous more than riveting.

I usually love Louise Penny’s Gamache books but this one really didn’t grab me. It is a continuation from The Grey Wolf and I think that needs to be read first. I enjoyed The Grey Wolf but found the follow up to be very convoluted and with too many twists and turns for me. I know that in 2025 Trump is president so when I say some of the plot seemed preposterous, it is with the thought of unbelievable events really happening in North America right now. Nevertheless, I want Gamache to be a detective rather than star in a thriller with worldwide implications. I ended up skimming through the last half as it was just not for me this time. I should add that I have read most of the series often giving 5 stars. I read an ARC provided by NetGalley and the publishers.

This series has given me so much over the years, which is why writing a three-star review hurts more than I expected. There’s a quiet sadness in admitting my disappointment, because this series has lived in my heart for a long time—and sharing these feelings feels a bit like letting go of it. This novel follows “The Grey Wolf,” with its themes feeling uncomfortably familiar. At the beginning in her Author’s Note, Penny shares how real-world headlines began to echo her fiction after the manuscript was submitted, a concern that adds gravity—but also exposes how overt this book may feel to readers. At times, it feels less like a mystery and more like a warning. Penny has explored this ‘warning’ territory before—most notably in State of Terror (co-written with Hillary Rodham Clinton) and in The Grey Wolf. While that approach has worked effectively in the past, it feels less successful here. Armand Gamache, our main character, and head of homicide for the Surete, is still physically and emotionally marked by prior events from ‘The Grey Wolf.’ While Penny provides enough context for readers who may not recall—or haven’t read—the previous book, the narrative feels weighed down from the outset. The mystery is complex, but the pervasive sense of distrust and looming threat often makes the novel exhausting rather than compelling to read. Penny also leans heavily into metaphor and moral messaging here: fear versus hope, kindness versus cruelty, truth versus manipulation. These themes although clear and intentional, frequently overwhelm the plot itself. The balance between story and sermon tilts too far toward the latter, diminishing the suspense and emotional payoff for this reader. Gamache remains the central heart of the series—principled, worn, decent and deeply human. Yet, he now seems crushed by the relentless darkness surrounding him. This left me wondering whether the character, or the series as a whole, might be reaching its natural endpoint. Ultimately, while the themes are thought-provoking, this novel feels uneven and more message-driven than earlier books in the series. Thus, making it a less satisfying read for me. Whether Gamache retires, the series ends, or I quietly step away, this felt like a parting—one I didn’t expect, but can’t ignore. It might just be time for me to say goodbye. 😢 Trigger warnings: foul language; graphic descriptions of violence against persons.

Truthfully, it’s 2.5 stars. I gave it 3 because I wanted it to be better, I think. I’ve re-read this entire series over the past couple of months in anticipation of this new audio release. Maybe it’s just the new narrator but none of the characters feel as lovely as they do in the early books. They aren’t as light and charming and insightful. They swear more than is necessary, seem hard and angry, and just not like who they originally were. For example, since when does Gamache curse for no reason? Since “The Grey Wolf”. Since when does Ruth quote her own poetry? Since “The Grey Wolf” (even though the previous book specifically says she never quotes her own work. Since when does Ruth give winks and playful jabs to let you know she cares? Since this book. Up until this point her protection has been her “meanness”. Now she’s just like anyone else and that doesn’t make sense to me. And, truly, why oh why is there suddenly so much swearing? I just don’t think these are written as well as they used to be. I wish I enjoyed them more. I may be at the point where future re-reads end at “All the Devils Are Here”. I don’t think I can put myself through the rest of them again.

Lose the US politics I've noticed Penny's politicizing her books in the last two books as anti-American. I think Gamache would ask her to rethink it. Also so much more swearing with the F word. I love these books and own every one. I wish US politics stayed out of these books

3.5 Stars As someone who loved the previous novels in this long running mystery series, I was thrilled to receive a copy of the newest novel. This one is a very direct sequel to the previous book, Gray Wolf, so I don't recommend jumping into the series here. In fact, the character development has come so far that I would strongly recommend going back to the beginning. These last few books have involved bigger stakes and more action compared to some od the earlier entries. Personally, I prefer this series for it's slower mystery elements so I was less invested in these more thriller centric ones. That being said, I still love returning back to these characters. This has become a comfort series that I will read as long as the author continues to write them. Disclaimer I received a copy of this book from the publisher.

Penny asks: What happens when there’s no more water? Black Wolf (2025 by Louis Penny is part two of the project beginning with Grey Wolf (2023), a book I found surprisingly flat and predictable, a book of eco-terrorism (a foiled attempt to poison the water supply of Montreal, a story of which I, as an environmentalist, should have loved). This plot reaches across several domains, including the Montreal mafia, an assassination plot to kill Gamache that damages his hearing, the second-highest-ranked Canadian Mountie, widespread corruption. The early Penny books are Three Pines-focused, with lots of fine food and drink and sweet characters. As Penny wrote on in her series, the outside world increasingly intruded on Three Pines. The later books are tales of dire existential threats, which I really do appreciate, generally. I have been reading dozens of tightly constructed Maigret novels by Simenon, a quarter of the length of Penny’s books. In Dark Wolf we recap Grey Wolf in the first quarter of the book and we learn that Something is Going To Happen. Honestly, this takes us up to about halfway of a very big book. In this time we learn that that first threat of the Poisoning Plot, in Grey Wolf, may have just been the tip of the iceberg! But what else can it be?! When we finally snowshoe into action, we see some of the backdrops for this story include Climate Change criminals, politicians in league with businessmen who would allow thirty times the amount of pollution into the environment as is healthfully allowable, the boys of the Tar Sands and endless mining for short term profits. Corruption that may extend to the Prime Minister’s office and the White House. Penny underscores here that perhaps the key existential challenge at the moment is water safety. We already know the UN has declared fresh water an International Emergency. We already know that the majority of the tens of millions migrating around the planet are leaving waterless (and thus food scarce) homes. The US West in particular is drying up. And who has water? Canada. And who has already (in real time) threatened Canada with “annexation” for its natural resources? The US. A few years ago I read Brian Vaughn’s relatively light graphic novel We Stand Guard, about the invasion of Canada by the US over water rights. I thought then, heh, somewhat intriguing, somewhat amusing. The US invading Canada? Get serious. But now the scenario faced in this book seems all too possible at some point in the near future. Now we know Greenland, Venezuela, and other countries are ripe as well for US colonization by the US First Boys. So the story has some relevance! One focus of this book is also on the wildfires as an added threat to water safety, and another on misinformation, social media craziness: Penny notes thousands believe the Canadian wildfires were set as part of an attack on the US in retaliation for American tariffs, though it is also poisoning Canadian waters. The thriller plot with a double twist at the end is crazy to me, somewhat confusing, somewhat feasible, somewhat ludicrous, vague and dragging for way too long. A environmental and political thriller format, which doesn't fit the intimate Gamache provincial inspector vibe. Too much, I say. I might just be getting a little tired of Penny, since I should have loved this book for the real environmental terror in it, but I still say three stars, putting me in the vast minority of Penny fans.

The latest Gamache book reads like a fast action thriller, similar to the prior book. Additionally, while Penny’s books have always contained themes of social Issues, justice, human nature, and good vs evil, the books are becoming more overtly political. I’m not opposed to either of these shifts but must admit in this book I missed the character focused village mystery. I’m still a huge fan of the series, the characters and Three Pines and hope there will be more Gamache mysteries to come.

3.5 stars I wish I loved this one more. I really enjoyed The Grey Wolf (4.5 stars), but The Black Wolf pushed the overarching series plot to a scale that felt stretched past its limits for me. The stakes are bigger than ever, the conspiracy wider, and the tone leans into an almost operatic level of danger that made the absurdity more noticeable than the suspense. I miss the earlier Gamache novels — the smaller, province-level investigations, the emphasis on art, craft, and community, and the human-scale mysteries that felt rooted in character rather than global threat. Penny still writes moments of beauty and connection, and I continue to love these characters, but this installment left me longing for a return to a quieter, more intimate story.

Waste of time Too complicated and bizarre. Only the Three Pines characters were worth it .Go back to simpler plots please, Louise. Enough said.

I am having trouble with my feelings about this book. I really enjoyed the departure from the norm that Louise Penny gave us with book 19 The Grey Wolf. I am okay with getting out of Three Pines and meeting some new characters and being dropped into different types of crimes - otherwise Three Pines wouldn't be the safe haven we all consider it. I actually liked that she mixed it up and ended with a cliffhanger and dove into a more political type of thriller. I think one book of that would have been enough. I wonder if Penny felt she needed to keep upping the stakes in book 20 and I think she went too far. Some of the characters seemed to do things out of character, the stakes were so sky high that it didn't feel believable for Gamache to be involved. I got totally lost about halfway through and skimmed my way to the end. I appreciate that a series needs to evolve but this particular plotline didn't capture me or feel true to the heart of the Gamache books.

3.5 because I do love this series but boy, I hope Penny has “political thriller” out of her system. I don’t dislike that genre of books but that’s not why I read The Three Pines series. More Ruth, less complicated plot lines.

3.5 stars The Black Wolf by Louise Penny is the 20th in the Detective Armand Gamache/Three Pines series. Starting this second book about political corruption, mob associations, and environmental issues did not appeal to me, and I put it off. If I thought this would continue into a third, I may give up on Louise Penny, which I never thought I would say. These topics hold no interest. Neither does the fact that the main character is always attacked, either physically or emotionally. It's like every romance novel that always sees the heroine in a pitiful situation, and ends up finding true love. So, my 5 star reviews for this authors work have diminished into 3 stars. If you are a fan, you will be disappointed that I'm putting her down. However, I feel like Penny is letting me down. Again, not my cup of tea, and although the plot was complex, it was somewhat confusing with so many characters that left me wondering who was who again. At least it didn't end in the cliff-hanger that the last one did...which of course led to this book. All that being said, you can't argue with her writing. She is very talented. As well, I truly admire her for not going into the U.S. at this time to promote her book(s), because of her integrity as a Canadian, who feels strongly that President Trump is doing his nation, our country, and the world, a disservice. This may not be everyone's view, but it is Penny's, and she's willing to stand up for it. I admire that. Yes, the book was about politics, about mis-information, about mobs. It was about coercion, power struggles, threats, and lies. It was also about friendship and love - of country and of people. So, as much as I disliked the book, I still enjoyed her writing. I enjoyed what little there was of Three Pines, and of those characters. I loved the ending about Clara's Show. And the old analogy of the grey and black wolf. I've loved that since I first heard it as a child. Again, please read these books in order so that you truly understand the small and large events that have formed to create the characters they are today. So, overall, though I was somewhat disappointed with these last two books, I will definitely read book 21. For a more thorough review of this book and others (including the reason I chose to read/review this book, my own synopsis of the book, its author information and a favorite quotation or two from this book), please visit my blog: http://katlovesbooksblog.wordpress.com/

I did not like this book as much as I wanted to, and that pains me to write. The Inspector Gamache series has been an automatic buy for me for years. Cons: For me, this book feels too political. I'm not saying it's handled poorly, only that I didn't enjoy the reading as much given the political edge. The story was also confusing, and I read it pretty quickly. I didn't have time to lose the thread or forget characters ... and yet I did. Lastly, it was predictable in many places, including the incessant references to "Animal Farm" and "1984" which I feel is being overdone by everyone. Pros: Under all of the "cons" beats the heart of Three Pines and the characters that we love so much. I did enjoy that. I love the relationship between Gamache and Ren Marie (sp) and also between Gamache and his team. Well done there. For someone like Louise Penny, with a "microphone" as big as hers must be, I imagine there is a need to use that microphone to address those things near and dear to her heart. That's what we're told to do. Write about what you know. What about what makes you weep and what makes you laugh. So, perhaps that is what she's doing here. If you're a "Three Pines" reader, I encourage you to make your own decisions on this one. Mine are a bit too clouded.

This is the twentieth book in the Inspector Gamache series and is a direct sequel to the last book, The Grey Wolf . In The Grey Wolf, Gamache was on the trail of perpetrators who plotted to poison the water supply of Montreal. This was apparently part of a terrorist scheme to overthrow the government and put in place the Deputy Prime Minister, Marcus Lauzon, as the new Prime Minister. Lauzon was considered "The Black Wolf" in this plot but was he really the man behind it? And was stopping this plot the end of the threat? Well it appears not. Gamache realizes that it was only the beginning and that there is a deeper conspiracy involving high levels of both the Canadian and US governments. So what really is involved in this plot? It has to do with climate change and what would happen if water becomes even a more scarce resource. Would the U.S. actually invade Canada to obtain the water they would need? And is there a plan in place to do this? These are all questions that Gamache has to deal with as he tries to determine who is involved in the conspiracy. Is the Prime Minister really the one behind this? Will the U.S. try to make Canada its 51st State? Overall, I thought this one really was too convoluted with its conspiracy involving not only both the Canadian and U.S. governments but the Canadian mafia and widespread corruption. I have read all of the previous books in this series and I know I was drawn into the series mostly by its locale in the quaint village of Three Pines and its eccentric characters, the activities there, and the mouth-watering dishes that were always part of the story. But the last few novels have strayed from this idyllic setting and involved Gamache in wide-spread threats against the general population. Not sure where Penny will go from this point and I hate to say that I'm not sure if I will be joining her.

Ugh. These books have shifted to a different genre, and I wish they’d return to their roots.

I have loved Gamache and Three Pines since I found them many years ago. The magic they once inspired is no longer there. It's a bummer, but I really do not enjoy these stories anymore. The simplicity, quaintness and mystery are all replaced by a complexity within the masses and an ongoing web of deceit.

This is what happens when I decide to read something based off the cover. I didn’t read the synopsis & thought I was getting something completely different. I was not expecting a military thriller but that’s what I got. Nothing wrong with that except I’m more into psychopaths & serial killers 🤣

It took a bit to get into, the multiple viewpoints changing every 4 page chapter was a little hard to follow. But the ending was very satisfying. Not sure that I’ll read more from this line but I’m glad I read this one.

3-3.5 stars. Enjoyed a stand alone novel for a change. Slow getting into, then improved along the way.

3.5 stars - Different from my usual read but an engrossing military mystery with lots of turns. Felt like the characters could’ve been fleshed out more, but the story itself was pretty interesting

This was my first experience with a James Patterson novel. Honestly, it was a lot like McDonald’s. No frills, kind of cheap, but overall pretty enjoyable and extremely readable. 3.5 stars

Typical Stephanie Plum book--hijinks, bad guys, mortuary viewings, car explosions, romantic tension. Predictable but comforting in its predictability. In this installment Diesel returns because he and Stephanie are looking for the same guy--a hacker with absolutely no conscience. Lula seems to have inherited Stephanie's bad luck (her astrologist blames it on the moon) and gets into one bad situation after another. I find these books to be fun and entertaining, I know that there will always be meals with Stephanie's parents, Grandma being her sassy self, Ranger saving the day a few times, Morelli providing a stable balance, Lula's short skirts and high heels, an appearance of the Buick, and many doughnuts and trips to Cluck-in-a-Bucket. I'm not tired of this series yet! I'll be back for more as long as Evanovich continues to write them. In the back there is a teaser for the new series featuring Gabriella, which I'm sure will be enjoyable as well. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

Game On is the 28th book in Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series. On its own, the book is good. We have a lively mystery to solve, a revisit from an old fave character, and lots of humor. But... something felt very off with it too. It was a much more bland version of the past books. All the repetitive scenes were present, but it was less funny and toned down to the point that I found myself changing the dialog to make it the normal spicy. Oh well... good for a laugh, and I will read more from the series, but I don't think I will pick up her new series because either she has a ghost writer or she's out of ideas. I need each book to be more than the last, and sadly, this wasn't quite there. But if you love the characters, still read it!

I know what I'm getting into with this series, but this one didn't have its usual magic. The return of Stephanie Plum, Morelli, Grandma, Lulu, Ranger and not seen for a while, Diesel. And don't forget Rex, the longest surviving hamster in history. There were a few laughs, a few cringe-worthy moments and a few cars exploding but, on the whole, a little drab. Super quick, very light reading but not as much fun as usual.

Readers and fans of Janet Evanovich know what you get with a Janet Evanovich “Stephanie Plum” book. An independent, pretty girl, a couple of hunky guys – Moretti and Ranger - to team up with, and an adventure full of mystery and silly zaniness. Solving the mystery usually involves visiting different locations, lots of overwhelmingly crazy characters (especially Grandma Mazur), and comical situations throughout the quest. There is lots of teasing and innuendo between the Stephanie and the hunky guys as they work together, but in the end the mystery will be resolved whether on purpose or by accident within 300 pages or so of reading. This describes her Stephanie Plum bounty hunter series and pretty much everything else she’s written. You may think it sounds fairly formula-matic, and that’s true. The formula is the same, tried and true. However, in all honesty, nobody else has been better at writing this type of sarcastic humor and risqué laden banter than anyone else. Evanovich gets you to chuckle at least once every other page and laugh out loud at least once a chapter. At least that was the case with the first 15 – 18 books in the series, and unfortunately, less the case in the last 4 -6 outings which seem to be wearing the formula out. However, with books 26 and 27, Evanovich changed it up a bit by with a two-book arc marketing new covers and changed title approaches. Book 28 “Game On: Tempting Twenty-Eight” continues this attempt at refreshing the series by bringing back Stephanie’s third now-you-see-him-and-now you-don’t hunky Diesel character for an appearance and change-up to the usual Moretti/Ranger triangle. “Game On” begins with Stephanie waking up in the middle of the night to find Diesel moving around in her living room and soon trying to join her in her bed. Diesel, who has made appearances in 3 or 4 previous Plum books is back again. This time he on the hunt for a genius hacker named Oswald Wednesday. His trail crosses with Stephanie because Oswald is also a fugitive that Stephanie is trying to find and collect on his bond. Of course, this makes Stephanie and Diesel partners, working together to find the crazy hacker, which also takes time away from seeing Morelli and Ranger. For those of you who love Ranger, sorry, he doesn’t even make an appearance until page 126. And he is just talking to Stephanie on the phone. Ugh! Anyway, Stephanie spends her time between (1) hunting down Oswald, who is on killing spree, eliminating another group of hackers called the Baked Potatoes, one by one and cutting their tongues out, and (2) trying to apprehend miscellaneous bond breakers, including a professional mooner and a frustrated mother with kids who shot up a bakery just to get an éclair. Other key moments in this outing include Stephanie blowing up not just one car, but two cars, in one day, which still isn’t a record for her; and, Lulu losing her juju and suffering several bad experiences, including getting shot twice in the leg by crazy Oswald. Still, that’s not enough to keep our Lulu down. She needs her bucket of fried chicken. And by the end, bad guys are vanquished in time for Stephanie to enjoy date night with her steady, Morelli. Maybe this time, Stephanie will do some real cooking in the kitchen… Another fall Season. Another annual visit with Stephanie Plum, her family, and the rest of the gang. The question I find myself with after finishing this book is simple. Has Stephanie and her chaotic world in the Burg peaked? Has Evanovich reached the end of her creation’s life cycle? I hate to say it, but in a way, the answer is yes, and let me explain. First of all, this wasn’t a bad read. it was pretty good in some ways and enjoyable overall. However, here is the problem that has been growing over the last 4 – 6 books (or more) in the series. Evanovich has unfortunately written herself into a corner from a creative standpoint. She has purposely frozen Stephanie and the Burg int time, and therefore no real change can take place - no growth, no character development, no changing plotlines or surprises in the structure and format of the stories. Evanovich made a great success of creating charming characters with unique idiosyncrasies like Lulu trying to fit into clothes way too small for her and needing to eat comfort food 24 hours a day, and Stephanie flirting back and forth between Morelli one moment and the mysterious testosterone-filled, Ranger, who need only gently whisper “Babe...” to cause most women to shake in their lower extremities. And of course, it wasn’t a Stephanie Plum book without at least one car or truck being destroyed with her somehow involved in the outcome. Evanovich’s greatest strength was her ability to keep these unique and crazy characters bumbling along and the reader chuckling at every couple of minutes or more. However, after 28 outings with the same script, it cannot but eventually get old. There’s only so many times that Lulu can fire a gun and miss the target… Stephanie loses her bounty and gets Ranger to help her… Stephanie chases a weird dysfunctional bond breaker… Stephanie gets a vehicle blown up… The black-clad Ranger saying, “Babe…” and comes to her rescue. The reality is that what made Stephanie Plum and her gang so enjoyable has just grown repetitive and old. Stephanie spends several books with Morelli and then about every three or four books she has hubba-hubba moments with Ranger. Stephanie will never choose between Morelli and Ranger (and it looks like she will never have to). Nothing changes. Lulu, Connie, Grandma Mazur, Morelli, Ranger, and Stephanie’s parents never change. And I absolutely hate to say this – what was once creative, unique, and funny, has unfortunately become casual and old. Truth be told, there are only so many creative ways to tell the same type of story over and over again. It’s gotten to the point that as long as the overall story structure rules remain locked in place, I am not sure how Evanovich can make Stephanie Plum fresh again. It seems like a rather large challenge at this moment. The result is that reading Stephanie Plum is a double-edged sword. The good news is you get what you expect. The bad news is you get what you expect. However, I just don’t know how many times can you tell the same story over and over again without losing interest. I know I am really starting to lose mine. I can’t help but wonder with Evanovich’s other Fox and Hare series, along with the introduction of a new Gabriela Rose, recovery agent series, if she is also not getting tired too and looking for new characters and other series to focus her time and energy on…

3.5/5 Diesel is decent in the novellas but just doesn’t work in the full novels. Diesel subs in as a low rent Ranger and no one needs that. Aside for that this was a decent story that balanced the humor and more serious pretty well.

To be clear, I’ll always love the Stephanie Plum series. The characters are like old friends. I was just a bit disappointed that the author seems to have pulled back or gotten cold feet about the new directions being explored. I’ll always hold out hope she returns to them one day.

Predictable Fun as usual !! Not enough Rangeman ….

