I wasn't expecting a change! Since I liked this series from the beginning, I don't read the blurbs anymore so I was shocked to see so many changes happening with this series. First Amos receives a call that leaves him disturbed and profoundly sad. Then I realized Boggart, his boss has retired and Alex Jamison is assigned to a different city and partner. What the heck is happening? Yet, I shouldn't have worried. Baldacci knows what he is doing. Amos is given a new partner, Frederica White. She is short and a black woman. She is also a black belt in martial arts and she speaks her mind. I instantly liked her. The case was a mystery too. A judge, Julia Cummins, and her bodyguard, Alan Draymont have been found murdered and the FBI sends Amos and Freddie to Florida to investigate. Amos knows something doesn't add up. The judge was stabbed to death and the bodyguard was shot instead. Are there two killers? Glad Amos was back and I'm glad Freddie is his new partner. Hopefully, we can see Amos becoming happier with his life and his abilities. Cliffhanger: No 4/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Another long overdue book review coming to Goodreads. This is Baldacci’s character Amos Decker, known as the “memory man.” He does not like change, and in this particular book, he is thrust into it. His long-time partner at the FBI has taken a promotion and moved to NYC. His boss has retired and left the bureau. And his memory, has become less infallible. Always being able to at least count on that, even as annoying as it has been, this is not the time for it to let him down. So now… He has to deal with a new partner. Special Agent Frederica White. And… A new case. They are being sent to Florida to investigate the murder of a judge and her bodyguard. When they arrive, they find that the local agents were not briefed about their coming – which isn’t helpful. As they begin to investigate, they are caught up in something that might put them in the crosshairs of something completely unexpected that could result in them being the next target. Baldacci knows how to tell a story. He has characters that are complex, driven, with inner passions and demons. They feel real. Decker even shows a humanness towards his new partner...growth in his character. For someone who writes these books with righteous people pursuing evil in the face of danger, Baldacci sneaks in some very modern sensibilities. And... That felt like what was needed for readers to appreciate another good series.

I really enjoyed this one. Decker is paired with a new partner and the two are sent to Florida to investigate the murder of a federal judge and her bodyguard. The new partner is a good character and throughout the book there are hints of further changes for Amos. This should mean more books are coming. Recommended.

Three of my favorite mystery/crime fiction writers are Michael Connelly, John Grisham, and David Baldacci. There are very few books by any of those authors that I haven’t enjoyed. This continues to be the case for me with Baldacci’s new book, “Long Shadows” which is his seventh outing featuring Amos Decker, and more often referred to as the Memory Man. Due to a life-changing head injury during a football game, Decker has perfect memory and cannot forget a thing. Which makes him one of the best civilian investigators the FBI has on its team. The new outing begins with Decker experiencing some really bad news about his previous police partner from his prior life as a cop. That is followed by his FBI boss, Ross Bogart retiring; and his partner, Alex Jamison being reassigned to a new location. Decker’s new boss, John Talbott, has assigned Amos with a new partner, Agent Frederica White, who is a single mom with two children, very serious about her FBI career, and always wants to know where she stands at all times. Decker doesn’t handle change very well, and this time having a new boss and partner won’t be any easier on him. White and Decker’s first case takes them to South Florida where a double homicide has occurred. A female federal judge and her bodyguard have been found murdered in her home. One of the physical clues at the crime scene includes a black blindfold placed on the judge with the two eye holes cut out, seeming to send a message that she had made one too many enemies during her time on the bench. As White and Decker begin their investigation, most of law enforcement make their opinions known that this is a cut and dry case since the judge had many enemies. However, Decker respects the process and he finds many who would welcome her death because of her role as a judge – smugglers, gang members, drug dealers, you name it husband – he is not sold on the easy answer. He quickly finds other suspects, including a disturbed ex-husband and a jealous former boyfriend who both had personal motivations for murdering her. Decker starts to wonder if the deaths of the judge and the bodyguard are really connected or separate acts of murder. One was shot to death while the other was stabbed multiple times. It doesn’t take long for those they seek interviews with to suddenly disappear and before they know it, another murder occurs under their watch. Things become deadly when Decker pushes too hard and they suddenly find themselves under attack from an enemy that wants them eliminated permanently. This being the seventh book in the Amos Decker “Memory Man’ series, I was honestly not expecting much beyond another hopefully complex and interesting mystery to unravel. But surprise, this one actually got me emotionally involved for several reasons that I didn’t expect, and those reasons turned out to be crucial elements to Decker’s professional and personal life, his character development and growth. Baldacci carefully and thoughtfully put together elements and plot points that forced Decker to deal with his own life. I want to be careful here and not give too much away to readers, but they include potential changes in his mental abilities, being forced to work with a new partner who demands his respect and refuses to abandon him, and most important of all, being faced with his own mortality and the person he really wants to become. All of these elements play into a pretty solid set of mysteries that intertwine together while bringing these themes and conflicts to the forefront. For the most part, Decker’s character growth has been slow and smoldering. His success as an FBI agent have allowed him to ignore a lot of the social and formal expectations, but that can’t last forever as he burns through his partners and leadership at the current rate he’s going. He needs to grow and develop, engaging the people and social interactions that go with being part of society. This doesn’t mean that he has to change dramatically and Baldacci deals with Decker’s situation in an organic and authentic manner that works for me. I also loved the key roles that Special Agents Frederica White, Decker’s new partner, and Alex Jamison, Decker’s previous partner, played in this book. They were strong, independent female characters that had a great influence on Decker’s slow growth and social acclimation. We already knew Jamison and how she has slowly worn-down Decker’s rough anti-social personality over the last three books or so. She earned a well-deserved break from him, but their connection is powerful. Decker cares about her, seeks her counsel, and respects her feedback. That’s now opened the door White to become the partner he needs, especially since she has experienced personal loss in some of the same ways that he has. Although physically short, White is a good and savvy agent, who refuses to let Decker push her aside and work independently. She is his partner, his equal in the work, and holds herself accountable. It was easy to immerse yourself in her background, her family and career struggles, and I especially loved her Tae Kwon Do skills that definitely earned Decker’s respect. Let me not forget to touch on the mystery plotlines either. In my opinion, one of Baldacci’s greatest strengths as a writer is his uncanny ability to wrap a plot together in such a strong manner where the mystery, suspense, and clues are revealed one at a time like peeling away the layers of an onion. For example, as Decker and White diligently investigate the judge and bodyguard’s murders, interview people of interest, and convert clues into information, the underlying tension builds from a slow boil to a fulfilling and pleasing outcome. For an author that produces three books this year, he consistently delivers intricate plotting and pacing. Each character introduced is unique and their own, and the interactions between them flow with a rhythm almost lyrical in nature. Overall, Amos Decker is one of my favorite Baldacci characters. His unique skills are balanced by his lack of physical strength and social acumen. Although he contributes to the betterment of society, he is a person who learning, growing, and fighting to overcome his own challenges and weaknesses. In this outing, Baldacci spends quality time on Decker’s personal growth and relationships with his family, friends, and co-workers – and it pays off strongly for the readers, as well as setting things up for the next book in the series. As much as I want more Amos Decker, I also want more Frederica White! As I close this review, basking in the afterglow of enjoyment of another solid Baldacci outing, I leave you with this thought - give the Memory Man series a try… You won’t regret it…

(4.5) Amos Decker is an auto read for me, & he never disappoints! Can’t wait for the next 1!

Audio book - Libby

"Long Shadows" is the seventh in the Amos Decker series by David Baldacci...I find Amos to be one of the most compelling characters in the Thriller/Mystery genre, with his skills that can become overwhelming burdens...The only constant in life is change, something Amos doesn't handle well and this is a novel of change...Amos is adrift, away from his safety net of carefully won relationships and is thrust into a new partnership with another FBI agent who, like Amos, has lost family to violence...The two of them are sent to Florida to investigate the murder of a federal judge and her bodyguard...As usual, Amos will ruffle feathers and discover the deeper mysteries involved...Good Stuff!!!

Some people didn’t like this as much and maybe that’s why it appears that it could be the last in the series. Regardless, I still like Decker and his amazing mind that managed to sort through this mess and find answers. I like his new partner. I appreciate that Decker seems to be getting some slightly softer edges. All in all it was an interesting convoluted tale full of people doing bad things and other people getting caught up in bad things.

Amos Decker!! I’m ready for the next one

This book starts out with a shocking incident that rocks Amos and his world, and from that point it does not let up. Add into the mix Amos is dealing with a lot of change and we are off and running. Amos is a hard character, for me a least to like, but I found myself warming up to him in this novel. The pace of this book is relentless as Amos and his new partner scramble to discover why a federal judge was murdered. White is a great addition to this series, she is a really strong female lead and so well written I had no trouble believing in her. There are twists and turns in this novel all leading you to the stunning conclusion that I for one did not see coming. I am really interested to see where Baldacci intends to take Decker given the reveal in this book about Decker brain injury. I hope that Amos does not change to much - but then again!!! Baldacci is a must read for me and he never disappoints. Many thanks to Netgalley, the publisher and the author for a chance to read and review this book

Is it possible i haven't read a Baldacci book before? Possibly. Mum gave me this one, and I enjoyed the read. I found Amos Decker's particular 'talents' really interesting, having recently learned a bit about Synesthesia due to a young girl near where I live having this condition. As plots go, this felt tight. For characters, I think there is more development to go on Amos's new partner, White. I have another Baldacci book to read, so will be interesting to see how it stacks up.

Long Shadows, the seventh book in the Amos Decker series, is a fast-paced and complicated thriller. This time Decker investigates the brutal murder of a federal judge and her bodyguard. I enjoyed the suspenseful plot with several possible suspects and lots of twists...

I say it every time I review one of the books in this series by David Baldacci, but I love Amos Decker. Possibly not as much as I did when we first met him and I suspect that's because his superpower (hyperthymesia) seems to be diminishing, or at least less obvious, along with his anti-social quirks. That's not to say we're getting a diluted 'Memory Man' now, but perhaps a more realistic one, more fallible and more reliant on his detecting skills than his perfect-recall. I commented in my review of Walk the Wire (the last book in this series) that I felt Baldacci made things a little too convoluted. It's borderline here with potential crimes of passion mixed with blackmailers, politics and a bit of espionage thrown in. But though a smidge over-the-top, it ultimately comes together and certainly kept me interested. So, I'm still enjoying this series. I may be a bit confused about the direction Baldacci's taking some of the characters, but we're certainly not getting the same overarching story arcs being dragged out which can be the case with some series'. There's a hint things might change for Decker in terms of his health and I liked new partner Freddie, so look forward to seeing what comes next. Read my review here: https://www.debbish.com/books-literat...

Baldacci is definitely one of my favorite authors. This David Baldacci's latest in his Memory Man series and with this, I've read all 7. The story starts out with a bang. Literally. Lots of twists and turns and in my opinion, too many. After a while things got confusing and hard to keep up. If the story had been tighter, I would have easily given this 5 stars. I really liked the character Fredericka "Freddie" White, Amos Deckers new partner. Kudos to Baldacci for creating Fredericka, a solid and interesting Black woman character without making her one-dimensional or stereotypical. I'm eager to see Amos and Freddie partner up in their next case. Outstanding narration with this one.

So good! 4.25 stars The Match is a fast-paced, action-packed thriller about a DNA match on an ancestry site that leads to murder, mayhem, and intrigue. When Wilde, who made headlines as the boy from the woods when he was found as a child living in the wild in New Jersey, uploads his DNA on an ancestry website in the hopes of finding the identity of his parents, the consequences are beyond anything he could have predicted. Not only does he find a match to one of his parents, but he also matches with another individual who takes him on a dangerous journey that puts those he cares most about in grave danger. In addition to Wilde, The Match also features Hester Crimstein as well as some other characters who make appearances in Coben’s novels. My previous encounter with Wilde was in The Boy from the Woods, which was not a favorite. You don’t need to read Coben’s other books before reading this one--it reads well as a standalone. Everything that I took issue with in The Boy from the Woods was made up for in this one. Wilde’s character is fully formed and has some depth, and the mystery is compelling. Even better was that my armchair detective skills failed me. There were many twists and turns and surprises. Even though the identity of the killer is somewhat predictable, I was still surprised by the reveal. I couldn't put this book down. It filled the void when I didn’t have WiFi, and that says a lot ! The ending was awesome, but it did leave me with some questions that I hope will be answered in the next book featuring Wilde’s character. I highly recommend The Match to my fellow thriller fans who enjoy action-packed suspense, plot twists and turns, and a bit of over-the-top reality tv drama! I received an ARC of this book from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.

This is my second 4 star book for 2022 :'). ~ Quick Summary ~ Wilde, the boy from the woods, has no memory of his real family and goes through a DNA website to find out the truth where he is matched. ~ Pick this up if you enjoy/don’t mind the following ~ 🕵️ Mystery and being kept guessing 🤯 Suspend belief, it's a crazy story! ❓ A odd mix of events and subplots, there’s quite a lot going on: DNA websites, a vigilante group targeting online bullies, (view spoiler) (hidden in case you like to go in blind). ~ What I Enjoyed ~ This was hard to put down. Over half way the chapters start to end with cliffhangers, it's been a while where I had the feeling where I just need to keep reading! There was the right amount of drama and mystery. Even though I haven’t read the first book, I liked the characters and enjoyed the complexity in Wilde and his relationships. ~ What raised my eyebrow ~ Usually I’m fine with suspending belief, but it was a really weird mix of subplots and not what I expected. ~ What I wanted more of ~ The start of Wilde's investigation and the end was too short! In fact, I wish the whole book actually focused on that, I thought it was much more interesting. But sadly, that aspect was just an information dump,

It’s a Match! Wilde, a name people associate with the Boy from the Woods, as that’s where he was found living alone, with no memory of how he got there, estimated age 6-8 years. Now in his early forties, in a bid to uncover any living relatives and find answers to the mysterious circumstances of his early childhood, Wilde submits his DNA to a genealogy website, and to his surprise, not only receives a match to a second cousin, but also Wilde’s actual father. What Wilde doesn’t anticipate happening is that his search for his biological family will see him embroiled in the murky world of a reality TV dating show, online trolls, cyber-bullying, vigilantism, a missing person case and a hunt for an active serial killer. Assisting Wilde are all my favourites was the first book (The Boy From the Woods), Hester Crimstein, Laila, Matthew, Sutton, and Oren, and some new faces as well. And, this was mentioned very early on, so I feel it’s okay to reveal that The Stranger (from Coben’s earlier novel The Stranger) also made an appearance. FYI, you don’t need to know who any of these people are to enjoy The Match, as all relationships, ties, and Wilde’s backstory were explained. This one can definitely be read as a stand-alone, and if you want my honest opinion, I’d bypass The Boy From the Woods and read this one instead, as no. 1 just wasn’t that good, unless you really enjoy politics and punch-ups. I wouldn’t call The Match fast-paced or action-packed, but there was always something happening to further the story, the plot was engaging and thought-provoking, the characters were amazing, and the twists were phenomenal, I even had one gasp out loud moment, and some emotional ones as well. I am also very excited for the next book, as I am liking the direction this series is going. But have no fear, the main mystery was solved, but as expected their were unanswered questions regarding the overall scope of the series. The only thing that bugged me was the endless resources, contacts, easy access, and finances Wilde had, but I guess things could get stale if we wasted time on red tape, so I can live with it. A successful match! I’d like to thank, Netgalley, Random House UK Cornerstone Century, and Harlan Coben for the e-ARC. Publication Date: 17th March, 2022.

I just happened to stumble across this new release on audio via BorrowBox at my local library. I was so excited as I think I was number one! I quickly downloaded it and reshuffled what else I had on to jump on to this one with gusto. I heavily use this platform and as I listened to number one via audio I was so pumped for this. Wilde was the drawing card for this one; I wanted to know more. The story line for this one was a little convoluted and I was very much wanting to hear of Wilde's past. I mean, I guess this is what we got, but some of the main answers were given but I was a little underwhelmed with the big reveal. Even in the dialogue of the was this was presented underwhelmed me somewhat - BUT - I still enjoyed it a lot. I was still happy to rate at four stars, but did enjoy number one more. I do love how Hester Crimstein is heavily involved with Wilde, and his friendship with her son still reminiced upon and mentioned heavily. There is more to this, and Wilde won't budge. I was a little disappointed in the action of her beau, Oran, when things went awry, and thought that Hester may have been a little more fired up than she was. I think as I am SO not interested in reality television and the fakeness of Instagram and social media, that the distasteful part of this made me cringe. I know that Wilde also didn't go for this, but he focused well on the job at hand. Which was to find a serial killer involved in the one by one killing of a secret online community. Wilde has entered his DNA into an online ancestry website and with the help of Laila, her son, and his girlfriend, Wilde was on a timeline to find the killer. It was great re visiting these characters, and to see the chemistry with he and Laila still as strong as ever. I will be interested to see what my favourite author has for this interesting character that is Wilde, the boy who raised himself in the woods and is a strong and clever man, up there with the likes of Bolitar and Reacher. Someone you can trust, that has your back.

I think this is the second Harlan Coben book I have read, and it was even better than the first. I couldn't put it down! So many questions and twists. Totally threw me off. I really thought I knew what was going on, but I was wrong. Such a fun fast paced read. Perfect for when you need an engaging distraction!

Wilde, the boy from the woods, returns and is still searching for his family and the reason he was abandoned years ago as a small child. His search plays out over themes of celebrity fame, cyber bullying, and karma. Once again Coben will have you second and third guessing yourself as to where the plot is going. The ending was a bit weak, but obviously leaves a lot of room for a third book.

The Match is a great beach read. It’s a page-turner whose plot revolves around discoveries made on a DNA match website, a reality show scandal, and a secret society punishing cyberbullies. Not gonna lie, it was satisfying to read about online trolls getting their comeuppance. There were also several twists to The Match that I didn’t see coming and the plot raced toward a satisfying conclusion.

Crazy story, Like walking through a corn maze and coming to some dead ends, and then somehow stumbling upon the exit. I found myself rereading a few parts just to see if I could guess where the plot was going. Kept me on my toes til the end with plenty of plot twists. I enjoyed the book very much and would recommend.

I came into this book with high expectations, not only from the first book but also form Coben's many others, and was not disappointed! The Match revolves around Wilde, the infamous boy who was found living in the woods as a child. As he tries to determine who is actual family is from a DNA test, it opens the door to many more deadly and dangerous secrets than he could ever expect. Coben is one the few authors who can leave me speechless from just reading, and he has done it again. Not once was I correct in my theories about this book, something that rarely happens. This is a thriller mystery that will leave you on the edge of your seat until the very last page. Highly recommend to fans of the author or the genre. Thanks to NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for the ARC!

The only downside to borrowing books from the library is not realising I've picked up a sequel until I logged it as my next read. I managed to get the general idea of events of The Boy from the Woods from the outset, but jumping in and not knowing the other characters is a little disorientating... I really like Wilde, a grown man somewhere around the age of Forty to Forty-two, as his lack of memories of his childhood helped navigate me through the early chapters. As the title suggests, Wilde is desperate to know who his real family is. So the opportunity of doing a DNA match on a database is perfect and sets the plot in motion. Very action packed with plenty going on, I found it quite gripping and convoluted. This is a perfect example as to why I originally reached for Colben's latest in the first place.

Just who is Wilde? Who is his father, his mother? How did he end up alone in the woods for months or even years as a little boy? Book 2 in the Wilde series by Harlan Coben finds Wilde exploring those questions through the help of DNA testing. If Wilde can find some answers, will he finally feel free to pursue Laila, the love of his life? As his godson Matthew says, 'We get it--you can't settle down, you have trust issues, you have difficulty with commitment, you can't attach, you need to be alone in the woods. But a relationship is a two-way street. You can't just keep saying it's up to her.' There are some DNA possible matches. Wilde meets with a man who could be his father and hears from another who could be a cousin. But when he tries to contact that cousin, a man named Peter Bennett, Wilde learns the guy has disappeared and is believed to have committed suicide. It seems Peter and his wife Jenn, known to fans as PB&J after hooking up on a popular reality tv show, are in the midst of a divorce after Jenn's sister publicly accused Peter of rape. Social media has turned on Peter and cancelled him. Wilde starts looking into this case with the help of his foster sister, Rola. They track down the worst of the social media harassers only to find that person dead. There are several threads to this complicated plot line including a secret group called Boomerang whose mission it is to go after those who bully, harass, and abuse online. When one of their group is the killer's second victim, the leader contacts Wilde. We even hear from the killer in occasional chapters--someone who has discovered they enjoy killing. As someone who has done some genealogical searching of my own, the plot really intrigued me. Wonder where Coben will take this story next? I received an arc of this new thriller from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Many thanks for the opportunity.

The match by Harlan Coben is the second in the (Wilde) series regarding the boy from the woods. I wasn’t aware of this until I started reading and it sounded like the other book I have read. Wilde is now a man and still doesn’t know about where he comes from so decides to join a DNA online database to see if there is anyone out there that he is related too especially his father. Why did he abandon him and let him fend for himself for all of them years? So, when he gets a match and goes to find close relative, he gets involved in a secret community who gets rid of online trolls, murder and reality TV Stars. Thank you, Random house for a copy of The Match. This story is a continuation of Wilde’s story. It is a bit slow at first, but then it comes clear. It has an intriguing plotline full of secrets and lies that will keep you wanting more. 4 stars from me.

I like this better than book #1 ( I have rated that also as 4*). Wilde (mononym), the boy from the woods, is looking for his family in the genealogy sites and finds a match. When a 'cousin' reaches out to him with cryptic messages, Wilde gets caught up in the world of 'fake' reality stars and serial murders, and secret vigilantes. The plot was complicated. After finishing the book, I had to draw a mental map to figure the connection between sub-plots, and I am satisfied by the ending. All the information about reality TV was bang on. Coben does a good job explaining this. Does anyone believe whatever happens on reality shows. Are the hook-ups and break-ups real. I am baffled by the popularity of these reality shows and cant understand how these mini-celebrities like Kardashians influence young minds. The voyueristic nature of these shows is nauseating. In the book, the tactics that the reality stars employ to increase their ratings was cheap and infuriating. Hester Crimstein's romance track felt forced and unnecessary. Also what did the case she was defending, have to do with the plot? Characters from Coben's other series make an appearance, like the 'Stranger'. I found this character also unnecessary in the end when he contacts Wilde. Surprisingly Myron and Win are not mentioned. The writing was good and i am happy that he had toned down his wisecracks (and only one 'Articulate!'). The narration was mostly in third person, but switched to first person for the killer's POV. I don't generally like first person and here too, felt distracted as it broke the flow. However, in the end, i understood why he used first person narration. Yet, I think this could have been handled better. This is a must read for those who have read 'Boy from the woods'. This can be read as a stand-alone as well.

The continuing adventures of the Wilde boy. The follow up to The Boy From The Woods. Interesting tale, good character descriptions, and sometimes illogical. A satisfying conclusion is reached. An enjoyable book. Recommended to Coben fans (and who isn't).

Seventeen year old Audrey Coil runs a fashion blog and is ambitious to be ‘known’. When searching the web looking for photographs of herself that might be posted elsewhere she comes across a site featuring not only her picture but also photographs of a number of other children too. She quickly realises that the common link is that, like her, each is the son or daughter of a prominent politician. The website is called 1919 and judging by the accompanying spiel it appears to be run by right wing extremists. Could it pose a threat to these children, are they targets? U.S. Marshall Lucas Davenport gets a call and is asked to sniff around and see what he can find out about this site, the people who run it and their intentions. Lucas is a hunter and his instinct is that the site spells trouble. He spends some time tracking down a number of groups who might fit the right profile for the site and talking to some of its members, but he’s not really getting anywhere. Perhaps there’s nothing much to this after all. But just as he’s about to call it a day something happens. This is the thirtieth book in this series and regular readers will know that when Lucas is around it normally means that guns get fired and people get hurt. He’s only just recovering from a gun shot wound himself but that doesn’t dim his desire to get back into the action, and after quite a slow build up that’s where we go. I’m a long term fan of this series and I’d spend time with Lucas every day of the week if I could, I think he’s one of the best characters in contemporary crime fiction. He’s a slick suited ruffian, but in Sandford’s hands he becomes a human being that I think most people can also relate to. This may not be the best book in the series but get past the first few chapters and it trots along at a nice speed – and you always know there’s going to be a gala finish. Hurry back Lucas, I’m missing you already!

Masked Prey by John Sandford In these days of the pandemic when going to the grocery store with so many people wearing a mask feels like the set of a science fiction movie or an episode of the Twilight Zone, I opened my Father’s Day gift and found a book titled Masked Prey. I had to laugh at the irony. (Now let me be clear. I think everyone should wear a mask when out in public; it’s a health issue, not a political issue.) In my review of the previous book I read I mentioned my disgust with all the white supremacy in antebellum America. So, speaking of irony, this book has Lucas investigating alt-right, neo-nazi, white supremacists, etc. groups. And there seems to be a number of them and they like their guns. In the last John Sandford book, featuring Virgil Flowers, Lucas takes a phone call from Washington, DC while visiting with Virgil’s family. I guessed at that time that the next Lucas book would involve Washington, DC. In this book the author removes any hints and makes it quite apparent that Lucas and his crew will be going to Fort Lauderdale next. If you are familiar with the DC area you get an idea of Sandford’s use of local flavor. As Lucas travels around the area places are mentioned and described. This adds to the enjoyment when you live in the area (Twin Cities, Minnesota) where most of his stories are based — like I do. In the early books Lucas frequently skirted around the ethics of an investigation. For instance, Lucas would occasionally break into homes as part of investigating someone or something. In this book I found a couple of his actions again flirting with the unethical. Mentioning them would give away too much. I read recently where someone mentioned that Sandford has a team of writers working on these books. It doesn’t take much of a leap to figure that out when authors start publishing two books a year. Here, however, I am afraid that news may have influenced my opinion of the book. It started to seem a little formulaic near the end. It still makes a fun read and I won’t hesitate to read any of his future books. These books are page-turners. Most readers will recognize the “just one more chapter” feeling when reading books like this. My bookmark says “I read past my bedtime.” That seems an appropriate epitaph for this book.

I've got to admit, I like real books, as opposed to the electronic versions we can be access through our library systems Libby format...Lucas is brought in by an old friend, Senator Elmer Henderson to track down who is posting pictures of children of Washington politicians...Davenport and his US Marshall sidekicks, Bob & Rae focus on home-grown terrorists targeting the children of politicos, spurred on by this vitriolic website...Decent, but I think I'm beginning to favor Sanford's Virgil Flowers series, but still, I enjoy pretty much everything John Sanford churns out!!!

I am not entirely sure how one makes a fictional protagonist who has been the primary character in 30 novels (and a secondary one in several others) unpredictable, but John Sandford has done it with Lucas Davenport in MASKED PREY. There are numerous twists and turns here, including one that leaves the reader hungry for what hopefully will be coming next. Davenport’s latest incarnation as a semi-autonomous U.S. Marshal is the most interesting to date. It frees him from being restricted to Minnesota (and the occasional contiguous state) as he was in his prior careers as a Minneapolis police detective and with the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Investigation. But that doesn’t mean he doesn’t jump when a senator from Minnesota calls (and sends a plane to pick him up). Jump he does, and for good reason. While tooling around on the internet using facial recognition software, the daughter of another U.S. senator has reported finding her image on a more or less hidden website containing photos of the children of some other politicians, as well as a number of political articles, editorials and blogs from various sources. The printed matter, juxtaposed with the pictures, is considered to be possibly threatening. Davenport is tasked with finding out who is responsible for putting up the website and shutting down the threat before it causes any grievous harm. He is joined in this endeavor by FBI Agent Jane Chase, who readers of the series are familiar with, as well as Bob Matees and Rae Givens of the U.S. Marshals Special Operations Group, who we also have met before. Meanwhile, Sandford demonstrates the effect that the website is having when a lone wolf is exposed to it and concocts a plan to shoot one of the children pictured. Davenport and his co-workers have no idea what is going on, and chase a slender evidentiary thread that ultimately puts them onto the plot. They catch a break along the way and discover who created the website, which indirectly leads to the story’s satisfactory conclusion, though not in the manner that one might expect or predict. Additionally, Sandford gives readers a hint at what may be Davenport’s port of service, and it’s a fun one. It will be more so if and when he gets there. Part of the fun of MASKED PREY is watching Davenport march off in well-intended and well-reasoned, but occasionally wrong, directions when hunting his prey. Sandford is a master of this technique and shows off his talent to good effect here. While not one of his best books, it certainly is in the upper echelons and worth your while, particularly for seasoned readers of the series. Don’t miss it. Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub

Some creep has posted pictures and identifying information of the children of several Democratic senators (such as the name and addresses of the schools they attend) on a mysterious website. Is this a threat? Are these young children in danger? Could it just be a normal, well-adjusted grown man who likes taking pictures of children he doesn’t know with the new digital camera he got for Christmas and posting them for all to enjoy? U.S Marshal Lucas Davenport is called in to see what on Earth is going on. And boy, it does not look good. Many homegrown radical groups are taking this website as a call to action. Masked Prey is the 965th addition to John Sandford’s popular Lucas Davenport series. In these 965 books we have seen Lucas grow from a young boy busking for nickels on subway trains to becoming a rogue detective in Minnesota, to a maverick deputy chief, to an investigator for the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) who does things his own way, to his current role as a rebellious United States marshal. The prolific Sandford cranks these books out like a well-oiled Honda factory with very little drop off in quality. Masked Prey contains the humorous dialogue, insightful human observations, page numbers, and a blistering story that we are accustomed to. The moments where Davenport would kneel on the head of perps or joke with his marshal pals about injuring suspects that attempted to run away or fight back did make me cringe. The ending seems particularly problematic in our current environment with all the videos of police misconduct and abuse making headlines. Still, this was an enjoyable summer read and a nice addition the series.

I made it my goal this year to finish some of the series I have started, and I am happy to say that I have finally read or listened to all of the Prey books, and what a ride it has been. In this novel Lucas is on the hunt for a blog poster and a gun man, and I am pleased to say we get a glimpse of the Lucas of old. Lucas has never had a problem doing what needed to be done and he does not hold back in this case. It has been a real journey for both Lucas and myself and now that I am all caught up I have realized I am going to miss the gang until the next novel. Thankfully I don't have long to wait.

Good story line I miss Davenport being in charge. But a very believable story about blackmail and children. I been reading John Sanford and really enjoy his books.

This is the 30th Prey book in this series. It never took me this long to get into a book in The Pret books butin my opinion. Sanford should have kept Davenport in the BCA ot retired him 3 books ago. I will do a full review when I am finished.

This is one of the better Prey books. Davenport is a US Marshal and gets called in (secretly) by two US Senators to aid an investigation. The FBI is already involved and is not getting anywhere. The problem is that a secret website seems to be focused on the children of US Senators and Senators are getting upset that their children seem to be targeted with actual photos on the site with a lot of words from racists and anti-government. Lucas and his two buddies, Bob and Rae, began investigating all the right wing organizations they could find. Now these folks don't usually advertise in the want ads or the internet. Well, they advertise subtly with twisted words and double meanings. One can always find a right wing organization if they want to and this dark web site seems to encourage folks to attack the children of lawmakers. As usual, Lucas and pals are in danger, wandering around in places where there could be trouble. If you are a fan of Sandford, or any of the current fast-paced mysteries, you will like Masked Prey. It does bring up our responsibility to our children and what punishments or rules should govern our children's actions. A good, quick read.

Just finished latest Prey novel! I enjoyed. I find it hard to believe I just read the 30th book. Mr. Sandford does a great job and stays consistent with his characters. Probably should have given a half star more. Good story, good characters. Who could ask for more??

I always love a John Sanford, nice easy read and this book followed true to form

I don't know how he continues to do it, but as long as he continues to write 'em, I'll continue to read 'em. John Sandford has penned yet another fast-paced Lucas Davenport special and it's really good (actually, 4.5 stars but I rounded down for a change). Sandford takes two of the plagues of 21st century life, social media and white supremacists, to task in 'Masked Prey'. A rich high school young lady, daughter of a US Senator, runs a side business as an Instagram 'influencer' and, in the course of one of her photo shoots with a male friend, discovers photos of herself and other progeny of Democratic Congressmen on a dark web site ostensibly targeted to neo-Nazis. After showing the site to her mother, a decision to keep any investigation close to the vest is made, since it's thought that the children's photos might be posted out there to invite anyone with a grudge or wanting to gain leverage on their parents to assassinate or threaten them. US Marshal Lucas Davenport is contacted, and the fun begins. Who created the site? Why? Neo-Nazis and guns are all over the place as Lucas calls in a couple Marshal friends to help with the investigation. Not much progress is made until a 'lone wolf', who somehow understood the intended significance of the photos, shoots one of the children from long range in his schoolyard. Resources are suddenly thrown at the problem, yet it's Davenport who has the instincts to resolve the issue. Masked Prey is consistent with Sandford's output of high-octane stories with good plots, modern police work, solid writing, and great dialogue. My only quibble with the story was the occasional appearance of a 'ghost' in the psyche of the lone wolf killer-seemed a little Stephen King-ish to me, which Sandford doesn't need. It was good, though, to see Davenport back in the saddle again in this one and to appreciate Sandford's consistently great series.

Lucas is roped into looking at a Senator's daughter - the teen has a style blog. While her tech savvy friend runs face recognition software to make sure nobody's used any of her images, they find a surreptitious site that may encourage violence to high government kids. Even though there are some convoluted plot lines, I breezed through Sandford's book in two days. "Stokes was a short thin man, with short thinning brown hair he cut himself with a home-barbering set that he'd found at a garage sale for six dollars. It did a good enough job, he thought, but he only had one attachment head for the electric clipper, so his hair was exactly the same length all over his head, all the time. That gave him the aspect of a hedgehog when he took off his coiled-snake "Don't Tread On Me" ball cap, which he rarely did."

Four stars,one extra because of the author. And I did like it better than the last one, Neon Prey. In Masked Prey Lucas is brought in by an old friend,Senator Elmer Henderson to track down who is posting pictures of children of Washington politicians taken outside of their schools on a strange blog and why someone would do that. It almost reads like a take on the political climate of today,which might be a little scary. These may or may not be Sandford's political views I don't care because it kept me interested all the way through. And Lucas is up to his old tricks and in the end on the hunt which is always good reading. Hopefully Lucas will be on the hunt again in the next one when it comes out,Wave Prey.

It’s good to be back to Ms Plum’s action packed, heart throbbing, ultra exciting and entertaining world! I’m so pleased to see my advance reader’s copy waiting for me at my mailbox! So many thanks to dear Ariele Fredman! Not so many things have changed in Stephanie Plum’s world: She is still stubborn, determined, badass and loyal to her family, stuck between two charming guys ( after 27 books we think she will make a decision! Nope, even as a reader I already switched sides between Ranger and Morelli at least for five times! Of course she cannot choose between them. She has to get two of them: all or nothing!) A quick confession: I missed some of the books of the series because of my laziness, grass fed tbr monster’s uncontrollable blooming and unfortunate movie adaptation ( I still cannot believe producers chose Katherine Heigl as Ms. Plum! Of course the adaptation was box office disaster! And it literally damaged my visual image about Stephanie after all those freaking years later! ) so I read the summarizes of the previous books to catch up quickly and here we go: I’m all set, energized and excited to return back to Plum universe! Yes, Stephanie’s poor grandma is a widow again: Grandma Mazur looses her husband on wedding night, inherits a beat up chair and a keys to a world changing fortune! And this makes grandma and Stephanie treasure hunters! Good luck girls! Because there are vicious, extremely dangerous adversaries out there trying to break your bones into pieces! This book is one of the darker, more head spinning, more action packed story of the series. It introduces us brand new characters: George: a new neurotic, geeky, genius sidekick for Stephanie and a multi skilled assassin: Latina ninja meets Rachel Ray named Gabriela Rose who strikes a pose, walking at the red carpet in her very stylish designer clothes you’d die to find at poshmark! She’ll get her own book in near future. I can feel it. By the way is she dating with Morelli? Stephanie should pick her dreamy guy sooner because this Latina beauty could get him out of her hands without thinking any further! Hmmmmmmm (this reaction doesn’t connect with the book. I just take one spoon from my Magnolia Bakery’s banana pudding: this is the best treatment to recover from this book’s compelling, nail biting chapters with full of action! ) Again I’m giving my eulogy for the cars of the book which were mercilessly destroyed (I think in this series: more cars destroyed than entire Fast and Furious installment) and let’s not forget Ranger’s 911 buildings which were blown up, too. The high tension keeps building as Stephanie and grandma get closer to find the treasure and the dangerous follow them like their shadows! I had a lot fun. I’m so happy to choose reading this book on my Friday night instead of watching bad Rebecca adaptation on Netflix (please watch Hitchcock’s version or read the fantastic book! ) I guess it’s good to be back! And as far as I can see even 27 books later the series can be so much better and keeps you in your toes. I’m giving my adventures, lots of laughs, full of action, enjoyable stars! Again so many thanks to Atria Books and dear Ariele Fredman for sharing this special advance reader’s copy with me in exchange my honest review.

My reader's block has been cured by this book. Janet, my liege. Like in most long running series, new characters appear here too. But the author showed her experience by handling them well. I'm getting a bit tired of Lula as a punching bag for comedy relief. She's the only one who cracks unfunny or funny but rehashed jokes. I rated this book 4 stars. I liked the pacing of this book most of all. Stephanie Plum's life is no longer in limbo. Read to find out. This book might be the end of the entire series. I'm always demanding towards the books I read. It was fun while it lasted.

Fortune and Glory, also known as Tantalizing Twenty-Seven, is the latest Stephanie Plum mystery novel by Janet Evanovich, published in November 2020. I've been a fan of this series from the beginning, reading them all at once during my initial introduction... but for the last decade reading them the week they're released. I always enjoy them, even if they can become slightly repetitive, and recommend them to others who like sarcastic humor and unbelievable situations that we wish could happen... maybe not the actual murders, but definitely all the hilarity. Stephanie's grandmother married a man in the mob... in her eighties after Stephanie's grandpa died. Then he died too, and he left behind some La-Z-Boy chairs with secrets about a treasure. Stephanie agrees to find out where all 6 hidden clues are located, especially when 3 of the 6 men who held them are now dead. By the end of the book, more bite the dust, and Stephanie almost blows herself up at least 5 times. She also trudges through the underground tunnels of Trenton, encountering rats, bats, and crazy mafia folks. Oh, and I forgot... Morelli and Stephanie are on a break again, so things heat up with Ranger. You'll experience all the same fun with Lulu, but Potts is a new character whom Stephanie has to apprehend when he skips bail. He's got a problem with pooping in public, and now, he refuses to go back to court. But when Stephanie saves him from certain death, he agrees to be her bodyguard, except he's often asleep or causing more problems. In the end, he does help her find the clues, and he provides immense comic relief. The mindset of Evanovich cannot be paralleled when it comes to humor and wit. I am already excited about the next book in 2021... and it looks like a new series / book with a supporting character (Gloria) that begins here is gonna kick off!

This is #27 in the series about Stephanie Plum, who is a bounty hunter (but not your stereotypical bounty hunter) and works for her uncle. The book is quirky, funny, and a great read for summer vacation. Stephanie Plum has a sidekick named Lola who has lead a very interesting life before getting into bounty hunting. This book also involves Stephanie helping solve a mystery for her grandma, who is feisty and knows everyone's business. She manages to avoid getting shot, taken hostage by various bad characters in the story, and still manages to bring in her bounty. She does have help from some well-connected friends in law enforcement, who save her skin multiple times. The antics during the bounty hunting are part of what makes this book so much fun to read. Add in the family dynamics and the drama that follows Stephanie everywhere, and it is great at keeping you curious as to what is going to happen next! I have read most of the series now and have enjoyed all the books. Find this book and other titles within our catalog.

I need to start off by saying I am super annoyed that they changed the title format... there is absolutely no reason this book should be called Fortune and Glory. It is the 27th book in the Stephanie Plum series, period. "Don't stray from the formula!" Aside from the above, I really enjoyed this book. Laughed out loud a lot, enjoyed Potts as a new character. I continue to be Team Ranger. "Here it is. You think you know someone and then next thing they tell you is that they want a Chihuahua named Chardonnay." Looking forward to the next one!

Always good to get a laugh with Stephanie Plum especially when she reflects on her life's shortcomings. She can't cook, shoot, figure out streaming, understand the cloud or complete any of the books recommended by Oprah. Hilarious!

I love Stephanie Plum I’m sad that I’m done with this series but I plan to come back again. These are fabulous books they made me laugh out loud. I love that there is an option for audiobook and Lorelei King is a great narrator. If you haven’t read this series go on and pick it up. Trust me you won’t be sorry Happy reading everyone

I really do have a lot of fun with this series and while this one was more serious than others, it was still a lot of fun. I do wish the romance aspects would finally work themselves out and Stephanie would just choose already and settle down to an extent but I get why she hasn't and like it or not, it does fit with the storyline and the characters themselves. I loved having more Grandma M in this and I hope she continues to be a major character in this series because she just adds so much spunk to the stories. I will continue to pick this series up because I really do enjoy it and the escape that it offers.

I still love this series but felt like this book wasn't quite on the same level as her others. It was funny but I think Stephanie was a little more introspective about where she was going in her life and what she wanted. She is still torn between Morelli and Ranger, but I think she really leans towards Morelli. Ranger is still a hoot and I loved that he considers her his entertainment just for all the messes she finds herself in and the number of cars that end up totaled on her watch. I'll keep reading this series, but this one seemed a bit more serious than the others.

I like the premise of 27: Steph and Grandma continue the search for the “fortune” held somewhere secret. Must be a big deal, because out of thin air comes Gabriella Rose, a Lara Croft-like adventurer in search of the same treasure. She calls herself a “recovery agent,” and she’s much that our down-to-earth Stephanie isn’t: sophisticated, organized, meticulous. And is she flirting with Morelli? Hmm. This one had a terrific ending, full of adventure and intrigue. Not sure I’m swayed by Gabriella, but I liked her presence in this one.

Another one in the Stephanie Plum & Co book. Plenty going on as usual and plenty of Ranger too, for a change. Really enjoyed this and roll on the next in the series.

A typical Plum adventure with some notable exceptions: 1) Stephanie gets to be more physical. She hits one bad guy in the throat and she kicks another in the nuts. 2) This story is less funny and more adventuress. 3) Gabriela Rose is introduced and she may help Stephanie get more serious. 4) She actually put bullets in her gun. 5) She is thinking more about her future. Sorry if this reveals too much, but it doesn't reveal the storyline. Recommended.

Fortune and Glory, by Janet Evanovich, was another fun addition to the Stephanie Plum light, comedic mystery series. These stories are a little silly, but in the best possible way with enough grounded interactions and sound plot points to keep it from being too over-the-top or ridiculous. It contains some valid crime solving that makes it interesting and an intriguing mystery tied to Grandma’s treasure from her brief marriage to Jimmy. There are the longtime, favorite quirky characters in all the old, familiar haunts and it’s reassuring and enjoyable to spend time with them again. There are also some sweet, tender relationship developments and touching dialogue between family members that give it a little added depth. Stephanie herself had some significant character growth in this story, and it’s nice to see her evolve as the series does. This was a entertaining, easy story, and as always, I eagerly look forward to the next one and more adventurous with Stephanie Plum.

It appears that Janet Evanovich got the message. After years and years of seemingly writing the same book over and over again, Evanovich branches out with this, the latest in the Stephanie Plum series. You will quickly notice the changes: for one thing, the clever number-related title has been relegated to subtitle status. For another, the action is ramped up and, while giving a nod to tropes of the series - Stephanie's love triangle with Ranger and Morelli, the blowing up of cars, the plot of Fortune and Glory veers into darker territory, with kidnapping, mob hits, and a mysterious new female character who is very near the female equivalent of Ranger. If you've backed off on the Plum series lately, check back in with this one and its predecessor, Twisted Twenty-Six. You will not be disappointed.

Never can get enough of Stephanie plum series it predictable and enjoyable. Its great in audio. Always interesting who she is picking in her love life! I’m team Morelli. Lol

I like the addition of the new characters to the series, I hope Potts stays

4.0 stars “The Law of Innocence” by Michael Connelly is the latest in the Mickey Haller aka The Lincoln Lawyer series of books. Connelly is one of the few authors I know that writes both legal thrillers and police detective mysteries equally well. In fact, I can’t decide whether I like the Lincoln Lawyer series or Harry Bosch series better, as both are very well written and interesting in different ways. “Innocence” is a very well written novel in which Mickey represents himself after he is charged with murder when a dead body is found stuffed in the trunk of his car. As usual the author does an excellent job writing detailed narratives that accurately reflect the stress and gamesmanship involved in high stake jury trials. Since the story is told from Haller’s point of view, it is entertaining to see how he motivates himself by viewing himself as the poor, oppressed little guy going against the State who in his mind has all of the advantages and plays dirty. Meanwhile, Haller is pulling the same tricks which lead to entertaining back and forth courtroom flurries between Haller and the prosecutor on the case. The stress level is amped up because a loss for Haller means a life behind bars. Only a huge letdown of an ending which robbed the reader from getting a Scopes Monkey trial confrontation of the two lawyers from the witness stand keeps this book from a five star rating.

I’m a huge fan of Michael Connelly’s Harry Bosch series. I have not read any of his Lincoln Lawyer stories until now, “The Law of Innocence”. Defense attorney Mickey Haller is known as the Lincoln Lawyer because he does most of his work in the back seat of one of his two Lincoln Continentals. I was intrigued, because I’ve regarded Connelly as being more of a police procedural novelist, and this seemed like he went to “the dark side” in that Connelly’s protagonist is a defense attorney, who has represented some of the scum of the earth. It’s not easy to find a defense attorney likeable, and to be fair, Connelly didn’t try and write Haller into an angelic sort. By his own admission in the story, Haller was chasing the dollar and representing some questionable characters. In this story, Haller is stopped by a LAPD officer after a questionably legal reason for the stop. The Officer finds a dead body in Haller’s and it’s oozing blood from his trunk. So, it’s a bit of a stretch that a lawyer would knowingly be driving around with a dead body in his trunk, much less with a body that’s been in there for over 24 hours (and noticeably oozing blood). Well, he’s charged for the murder and sent to the correctional center in LA. He cannot make bail and needs to defend himself from jail. Connelly makes many jabs at police corruption. In addition, he doesn’t characterize the prosecuting attorney well. I guess because I’m a Bosch lover, it was difficult to have the police and distract attorneys characterized so poorly. I didn’t expect Connelly to make the reader dislike police. Mostly only corrupt police were characterized in this one. Connelly did bring Bosch in as an ally who helps with the case. Bosch plays a tiny side part in the novel. That said, the court drama part of the story is fantastic. I listened to the audible audio narration while driving cross counry, and listening to Peter Giles narrate the story made the cross country drive easier. Yes, Haller is questionable, and some of his court antics are questionable, but Connelly knows how to make characters a bit sleezy and yet likable enough that you root for their exoneration. It’s great, but I miss Bosch…..

There's a famous old adage suggesting that a lawyer who represents himself has a fool for a client. But when L.A. attorney Mickey Haller--the Lincoln Lawyer--is arrested on a trumped up charge of murder, he refuses to place his fate in anyone's hands other than his own. One night after leaving a party celebrating his latest courtroom triumph, Haller (who is completely sober) is pulled over by a traffic cop. He knows he hasn't violated any laws, but when the cop walks him around to the rear of the car, he sees that his rear license plate has mysteriously gone missing--hence the traffic stop. When the cop sees something dripping from the trunk, he opens the trunk and discovers the body of one of Haller's former clients who has been shot to death, apparently in the trunk. There's evidence linking Haller to the crime and he quickly finds himself in the L.A. County Jail with bail set at $5 million. That's out of the question and so Haller will have to remain in jail at risk of life and limb, while he tries to plot out his defense. He's assisted by the usual team, and his half-brother, former L.A.P.D. homicide detective Harry Bosch, also lends a hand. If Haller doesn't want to be dogged by this stigma for the rest of the life, he can't just get himself off on a technicality; he has to rely on the "Law of Innocence" and prove who really did commit the crime for which he has been framed. Inevitably, the plot and Haller's defense will both take a lot of interesting twists and turns. As usual in a Michael Connelly novel, the action is very propulsive, pulling the reader along and making this one, at least, stay up deep into the night to finish the novel. Connelly is best known for his great police procedurals, but he's proved that he has the chops to write great legal thrillers as well. The court scenes are very good, and all the legal maneuvering sounds totally credible. If I have any complaint about the book, it's a very minor one, and involves the fact that Harry Bosch is used very sparingly in the story. Connelly has written several novels that feature the two half-brothers working together and when Bosch was first introduced here, I expected that his role would be larger. I regret that it wasn't, but again that's a very small concern and I enjoyed this book a lot.

This latest legal thriller from Connelly is engaging from start to finish. So many elements propel the action at speed that this is a book that can't be put down. Haller is wrongly accused of murder, but is set up for the crime meticulously with the prosecution convinced of his guilt. He has to wear the prison suit and sleep where there is no sense of safety for him with his reputation, but this is all done with determined intent for a speedy trial. His team works hard, his daughter who is studying law attends court and his ex- wife Maggie ends up assisting defense. Bosch plays active role in assisting his half brother. Library Loan

"Within the informal downtown defense bar, there is a sacred duty to celebrate a not-guilty verdict the way a golfer celebrates a hole in one at the clubhouse. That is, drinks all around.” This tradition proves to be ill-advised for Mickey Haller. If you have followed Haller through Connelly’s novels, you know that the guy gets into (and sometime out of) some very tough circumstances that included begin “gut-shot.” After the celebration noted above, Mickey is stopped by a Los Angeles patrol car and subsequently found to have a freshly dead body in his trunk. “Go directly to jail, do not pass go, do not collect….” Why Mickey decides to defend himself from jail and how he manages the investigation and defense is the rest of the story “I didn’t make it a practice of asking fellow inmates what they were being held for or why they were on keep-away status. I had no idea why Bishop was in the module and would never ask him. Sticking your nose in other people’s business could have consequences in a place like Twin Towers." There is a lot to learn about incarceration for both Haller and us readers. This novel doesn’t disappoint with its tense courtroom scenes, quirky characters (including more of Harry Bosch) and a compelling plot. "“Are you really going to find out who killed him?” Neiderland asked. “Or are you just worried about proving you didn’t?” “The only way to prove I didn’t do it is to prove who did,” I said. “That’s the law of innocence.”" If Haller doesn’t succeed his future as a lawyer is kaput. A fast-paced novel with the kind of courtroom drama that complements the twists of plot that have made Connelly a very successful author. One very interesting touch is that this takes place while Covid and the Trump impeachment are rolling out. "I sat most of the day in front of the flat-screen, watching CNN reports on the ongoing impeachment saga as well as the mystery virus in China." When guards at Twin Towers start wearing masks, but prisoners aren’t given the option, Connelly adds another level of apprehension to the plot. I will not reveal any more of the plot but I found the details of prison life to be a fascinating and chilling part of this fine novel. 4.5* PS: I think that Connelly makes one plot error and if you ask me about it, I will give you the reasons why I believe so.

When 🌟Mickey Haller, the 'Lincoln Lawyer' 🌟leaves a party late at night🌙 and is pulled up for a 🚓traffic stop, little did he know that it turn his life upside down! Accused of murdering an old client and facing the Death row, can he fight his own case and prove his innocence?? 🤔 Please read my detailed review here https://www.aniblogshere.com/books-hi... and leave your comments! It's incredibly encouraging!🙏 Read📖 Like👍 Comment💭 Share🚩!!

I have to say that I have read every book by him and he is my favorite author, I do not think there is a better fiction writer in the world. I was very happy that he came out with two books this year. That being said I have a very high bar for him to reach . I thought fair warning was the better book out of the two. I thought this was a very good book and would be likely be an excellent book for any other writer. I had a few problems with this book. The first one was a new female character in this book that really was not needed or well placed at the least I just thought she was a waste of space. The second problem was thatI understood what he had in mind that he was going to show the seedy corrupt side of this one industry. I just feel like he did not connect all the dots. I thought the main reason for why this crime happened was on the weaker side. I just thought the who why and especially HOW the crime happened was spotty never fully explained how it was done. I also thought the second half was better that the first. I think Mickey made a decision in the first half tha most people would not , tried to explain but meah. I also thought the first half did not flow as smooth as the second half of the book. This was the first time ever he let a personal view into one of his books about a world leader. I had no problem I agreed with him lol. I am conflicted on the ending if it was good enough or not. I do in closing say this is a real good book and you should give it a big spin asap. I just have a high bar for him and I just felt he fell a little short but do give it a spin.

Another gem in this series. Haller gets set up to take the fall for the murder of a man tied to a scam to steal government subsidies. Haller is confined to jail until the trial. The story shows what it’s like to be locked up in jail for an extended period of time. The trial ends abruptly though and does not have the normal high trial drama. I enjoyed the book but did not like the unnecessary political jabs taken by the author.

The body was in the trunk long enough to leak fluids. The auto carrying this grisly cargo was a Lincoln, stopped for an apparently routine traffic violation. The driver was the Lincoln Lawyer, Mickey Haller. Of course we know Haller is not guilty of murder, so how does Connelly hold the reader's attention? Like Haller, we wonder about the connection. The body belongs to Sam Scales, con-man and former client whom he dropped some time back for being a deadbeat among other reasons. Then there is the question of how someone could have aligned so much circumstantial evidence against Haller and why. “A sudden chill went through me as I thought about how someone had murdered Sam Scales in my car, most likely while it was parked in my garage, and then how I had driven around with the body for a day,” Haller muses. (p.43) Haller is arrested and we are given an insider's view of prison. He hires one of the inmates for protection. As it turns out, he will actually have more to fear from the prison guards. An initial dislike for any defense attorney will escalate when Haller uncovers an illegal wiretap of his confidential attorney-client conversations. It's clear the reprimanded guards have decided it's not just business, it's personal. We learn why having a good lawyer gives the defendant a fighting chance. As he and his defense team gather evidence he cautions the team: “'If it's on paper, it goes into discovery – ....So no paper.'” (p.184) It is only one of many ongoing reminders that the prosecution and the defense are engaged in a zero-sum game, not a joint project to uncover the truth. Each side will attempt to sandbag the other side with technically legal “surprises.” Connelly focuses on how the presentations of the case are actually two conflicting dramatic narratives. Like any drama, sequence and timing are critical. Haller understands that allowing the jury to disperse with a strong prosecution argument fresh in their minds will weaken his case. At one point he even toys with the idea of feigning food poisoning to break up the anticipated momentum of the prosecution. Haller takes the art of jury selection to new levels. He dispatches his investigator to the courthouse garage to gather any shortcut hints about their subconscious sympathies. The reader is not the only one surprised at these tactics. Haller's ex-wife Maggie “McFierce” crosses the aisle to take on his defense. If she is surprised by Haller's tactics she is shocked by the tactics of the ruthless attitude of the prosecutor. As always Connelly has written a fresh and tension-filled crime procedural filled with insider detail. He also draws on the larger realm of public corruption. Just how did that police officer know to stop his car in the first place? How did crucial evidence vanish between the time the corpse was delivered to the coroner, and the audit of possessions was drawn up? What kind of crime could have connected low-life con-man Sam Scales with a large-scale FBI investigation? Here is a novel that begs for transition to film!

An enjoyable and fast-paced read. As always with Connelly, the plot was well-constructed and interesting. The ending for me was a bit weaker than the rest of the book. The way the courtroom drama was resolved felt realistic but a little lacking in drama. A bit disappointing. I liked that Harry Bosch had a role in the book, although it was a small one. He's a great character and always adds interest. I felt he was a little bit underused in the story, though. Apart from one key moment, he was a bit like wallpaper in the various scenes. I would have liked to see him and his skills feature a little more strongly. A good read, but because of the last part, for me not the best in this series.

My first book by CJ Box, and the 23rd book in the Joe Pickett series. I saw a really good review for this one on bookstagram and I can't remember who posted it. I also saw that this can be ready as a standalone, so I had to grab it and see what it's all about. I liked it. Definitely alot going on with side stories as well as the main plot, but I was definitely never bored and read it pretty fast. So I'll definitely need to check out more in this series at some point. I'm glad I picked it up. Thank you to the publisher and Netgalley for the gifted copy. All opinions are my own. Comes out February 28. I'll also have my review posted on Netgalley, Instagram, Bookbub, and Amazon once it publishes.

A Wyoming snowstorm is a storm like no other. Wind conditions blow the snow into a curtain that obscures just about everything, the roads become so hazardous that trucks tip over, and you certainly don't want to get caught unprepared outside. CJ Box describes several storms and their consequences so well that you might want to read this book in front of a fire. Joe Pickett, the game warden around whom this series is built, is out on a simple task to find and euthanize an injured elk when the first storm of the book hits. He finds the elk, but he also finds an unexpected fatal situation on the ranch where the elk disappeared. What follows is a wild ride that includes radical insurrectionists, bitcoin mining, and political malfeasance. The book is stuffed full with reprobates from all walks of life, and Joe finds himself fighting them as well as the weather. There is some game warden business included, but it's not the major theme in this book and serves more to support the political message than as a plot of its own. Nate Romanowski plays a large role in the book, as he has in the last few of the Joe Pickett series, and this has an impact on the violence level of the book. When Nate is involved, there is going to be much shooting going on and many killings. The direction that Nate's prominence in the plots has taken the series will either appeal to the reader, or not. For me, I prefer the earlier works that focused on Joe's work in the Wyoming wilderness and the wildlife that he encountered. I do appreciate the way that Box has brought technology into play in recent books, however, and I always start a new book wondering how he'll incorporate something new. Joe is relying more and more on his wife's researching capabilities and his daughter's support, making his investigations more of a family affair. The decidedly Western outlook of the books has not changed as Box continues to write beautifully about Wyoming. This was a very fast read, especially as the action picks up in the latter half. Box does not beat the reader over the head with the plans that Joe follows, but rather makes it clear that there is a plan and then jumps into action mode to immerse the reader in the execution of the plan. This means that some pieces don't fit tightly together which, again, may be to the reader's liking, or not. In the end, the plot lines come together satisfyingly, if not a bit unbelievably. This is the 23rd book in the series. It can be read as a standalone, with the plot fully developed between its covers. However, knowledge of the characters and events from previous books will help provide context for some of the action. I'm interested to see where Box takes us in Pickett's 24th outing. This review first appeared at reviewingtheevidence.com.

If you're a Joe Pickett fan, then you know what to expect in a Joe Pickett book. It's all there in this one--the bad guys, the good guys who aren't, Nate, Sheridan, Joe's wife, Missy the mother-in-law. It's like visiting old friends. This book and the last has a decidedly political slant, but whether that's a reflection of the author or the character, who knows? I found the body count to be unnecessarily high, but overall it was good to be with the game warden again. Note: language, violence, and a disturbing nature scene ... but you know. It all works out as well as you would expect.

In C.J. Box’s 23rd Joe Pickett novel - “Storm Watch” - the game warden in the county of Twelve Sleep, Wyoming, is facing a new set of challenges, some of which involve bad seeds that were planted in the past… The book starts off with Joe going in search of a wounded elk that was hit by a young driver and wandered off into the wilderness. The dying elk has been spotted by Clay Hutmacher, foreman of the Double Diamond Ranch. Clay’s son, Clay Junior, also happens to be dating Joe’s daughter, Sheridan. The problems start when Joe finds an abandoned Toyota Land Cruiser and then gets worse when he discovers the body of a dead man and finds himself being shot out from unknown assailants. As Joe tries to investigate the dead body, he faces all kinds of opposition. Sherriff Tibbs is close to retiring and doesn’t need to complicate things. The owner of the “Double D” is adamant about not wanting Joe near his property where the dead body was found. Even Joe’s boss, Rick Ewig calls to tell Joe that Governor Allen wants to meet with him immediately, only to tell Pickett to back off his investigation and let the state investigators handle it. It involves national security issues and Joe is ordered to stay out of it. However, that’s not in Joe’s nature… At the same time, Joe’s best friend, Nate Romanowski, who’s trying to live an honest life on the grid as a family and business owner, has an unexpected visitor. The man says his name is Jason Demo and he is a former military man like Nate who has been sent to let him know that a mysterious group of militant activists are preparing for a large-scale rebellion, one that would include secession. Their group needs Nate and his unique skills to help them succeed. Would Nate seriously consider joining such a group… While Joe fights off local law enforcement and state political leadership, and Nate flirts with a military group looking at violent rebellion, both a savage Wyoming snowstorm and enemies from the past rear their heads looking for the ultimate revenge on both men… This is my 23rd review of a Joe Pickett novel, with almost half of them coming in the last three months. That alone provides support for how much I am enjoying the heck out of this series. I immediately started this one immediately after finishing the previous book in this series because it was so dang good. Several of the key elements that drive my passion for these books are found in this book, including strong and interesting characters, compelling storylines full of conflict and built on family driven relationships, and settings that involve small-town communities as well as wild mountainous ranges that remind us of our country’s historic past. I am also amazed at how well each book blends smoothly right into the next and I don’t miss a beat. Especially since C.J. Box develops storylines over multiple books, as well as laying the seeds in one book that later come back as a new development in a later book. His plotting has a vision that is always looking ahead and laying the groundwork for new layers of character conflict and growth. For example, at least one character from the past and two more (one loved and one hated) recurring characters return in dynamic and diabolical ways that were set-up over several of the previous books. And let me add the ways that C.J. Box structures and lays out his plotting is so creative, delivering awesome payoffs for his readers. I would say more, but it would give away some of the great surprises in this one, and that I don’t want to do. I will just say that C.J. Box is playing a complicated and multi-layered game of masterful chess. I have come to love these characters. Not only the strong men like Joe, Nate, and now Geronimo, but also the strong and complex woman, including Joe’s wife, Marybeth; Joe’s daughters, especially Sheridan; Nate’s wife, Liv; and even Marybeth’s strong-willed selfish mother, Missy. I just can’t get enough of them, and unfortunately, I only have two books left until I am fully current and will be having to wait until next year for my next fix, which really kind of sucks after binge-reading the series so fast. Ugh. Overall, this was a strong 4-star to 4.5-star rating for me, which has been consistent in my reviews of the books in this series that is becoming one of my all-time favorites. I have given no lower than a 4-star rating only once in 23 books. That is a serious level of achievement, and for good reason. Each book continues to build on the previous as I have become fully committed to the Picket family and their blood brother, Nate Romanowski, and his own developing family. I hope you consider taking a chance on reading this series if you haven’t already. It is worth it. Entertaining mystery at its best and I’ve already started reading the next one – the 24th - in the series, proving that you simply cannot put them down. Don’t take my word for it. Find out for yourself…

This is the first novel featuring Wyoming game warden Joe Pickett that I have read, and it's a good one. Even though this is the 23rd novel in the series, it's easy to pick up on the characters backgrounds and situations as Box does a good job of filling in without bogging readers down in details. Box is a new writer discovery for me, and I'll be adding him to the list of writers of detection thrillers that I follow: John Sandford, Michael Connelly, Joe Ide, Robert Crais, Ian Rankin, etc . . . I recently listened to THE HIGHWAY audiobook (not a Pickett novel) and was entertained. We just finished watching Joe Pickett Season One on Amazon Prime, and it followed the beginnings of Pickett's time as a game warden - so now I feel indoctrinated quite well. Box has an engaging writing style that pulls you in. Dialogue is sharp and realistic and details are vivid. In this story, Pickett has his hands full with antler poachers, militant activists, Bitcoin miners, Chinese spies, corrupt politicians and dirty cops. Plenty to like and follow.

It was a novel that did not float my boat. However there was quite a lot of action: Joe, a forest ranger in Montana, finds a dead man in a strange shed, that doesn’t belong in a pasture. There were men chasing deer with snowmobiles so they could sell their antlers. The governor wanted Joe to stop investigating the murder, which led to more deaths. All in all, an interesting read for some that like a gritty violent ending with a twist at the conclusion.

This book definitely picked up a little more after the last one was a little bit of a letdown for me. I did enjoy it, and I liked the mystery and the build up. After reading this one I'm mostly excited to be caught up in the series, since the next book is the one that was just released. There were a lot of pieces set out that I think are going to come together in this next book.

Another fantastic Joe Pickett novel. I’m captivated from the first moment and honestly can’t wait to see what shenanigans Joe gets in to and how everything goes wrong for him and he makes out in the end. This one was full of twists and turns and I loved every second!

Like the Scooby gang, but with more guns, and ear twisting.

8.5/10 One of the best series going.

February, 2023 will be something to look forward to. Joe Pickett is back with another doozy of a read for all his fans, and I hope those soon to be fans. I was a little disappointed in the last book but this one more then makes up for it. All the elements we have come to expect grace these pages; corrupt politicians, home grown terrorists, nefarious cops, and let’s not forget the snow storms. That’s right….plural. There is more then one. Joe, with the help of his friends and family manage to get to the bottom of this conundrum before it all blows away. Enjoy!

I don’t know how he does it, but CJ Box continues to “bring it” with this Joe Pickett series! 4.5 stars. I can’t wait for the next one! I’ve lived following his family and Nate and love how he can bring back characters from the past and write them into the story! He’s brilliant!

This book had it all - crypto mining, Chinese spying and influence, graft, corruption, poaching. All the great characters had a role to play and they all performed beautifully. Full speed ahead from page one! It was total entertainment!

As always with Mr. Box, I have a sense of being right with him in his adventures. This tale was so unusual with a weird ending. Very different from his previous stories.

Joe Pickett 23 Storm Watch by C.J. Box 4.25 Stars challenging dark emotional mysterious reflective sad tense medium-paced Plot or Character Driven: Character Strong character development: Yes Loveable characters: Yes Diverse cast of characters: Yes Flaws of characters are a main focus: Yes Not sure how the author does it, but he gets me worried about the direction of the story, but then...by the time the story is at its climax, I'm all on board. Good writing. I really didn't think this story would work out, but I was wrong. Love the characters. All of them. It reminds me of the TV show M*A*S*H*. Hang with me. The characters ARE the show. The good guys and the bad guys. It only works when both are really well done. The good guys are sometimes bumbling idiot (outward appearance, but down to the wire...they've proven their worth by doing the right thing). The bad guys are bad, but also in a bumbling (scary way), but this allows the good guys to draw a bead on them, and foil the plot. Just a good time. That was pretty much EVERY episode of the sitcom about the Korean War (as the show lasted LONGER than the actual war). This story of conspiracy, and unworthy leaders selling out their own country, in the name of patriotism is disgusting, and harmful to the good people of the United States of America. As I have read this story in late 2025, it seems poignant to EXPOSE the grift of a certain portion of our leadership...who always spout Make America Great Again, but with their other hand, shaking and agreeing with dictators and evil people that's beliefs are counter to what makes America great. Thanks for this series, it is always entertaining. Next up, is Joe Pickett 24 Three-Inch Teeth.

Oh, Goodreads, let us use half-stars. Here is the metric I use to rate the books I review: One Star: Couldn't finish it. Two Stars: Finished it and didn't like it. Three Stars: I liked it. Four Stars: It was very good. Five Stars: It was unforgettable. I would give Storm Watch a solid three-and-a-half stars. It does not quite rise to the level of four stars because the plot is formulaic, and it's spoon-fed to the reader, but I had a lot of fun reading this story. The characters feel true to life for the time and place, and it was refreshing to read a book set in a small, non-urban town with characters who are authentically written. Box's plot, though far-fetched and melodramatic, was engaging and well-paced. I read Louis L'Amour voraciously when I lived in the Rockies, and Box's style reminds me a lot of L'Amour, but with more contemporary plot lines. This was the first novel I've read by CJ Box, and I had no problem connecting to the story. I don't think you need much backstory to dive in. Storm Watch was an entertaining read that was easy to zip through. Having lived in Wyoming, the dialogue and philosophies could have come straight from the mouths of people I know. (A few of whom I consider bat-sh*t crazy, but I know they're good at heart.) I liked that level of authenticity—even when it got cringey. Yes, there are politically charged elements to the plot, and if you are easily triggered by ideologically driven political opinions, this may not be your cup of tea. But the story is unapologetically a work of fiction, so if you don't let those things get under your skin, I say Storm Watch is an amusing and nostalgic read. I finished it feeling like I'd just taken a cross-country drive through Wyoming, and for that reason, I enjoyed it.

Man I love me my Joe Picket books---I've read all of the Joe Picket books in order--- all 23. They come out once a year, and I always look forward two one or two days of pure escapism--- This book did not disappoint. It featured Joe and some other very familiar characters: Marybeth, Sheridan, Nate, and ex Governor Rulon, as well as Missy, who shows up like a bad penny. The plot almost doesn't matter. You know you are going to have a mystery to solve, and you will get some shootouts, some traps, some game warden issues (in this case, harassing Elk on snowmobiles and harvesting their antlers early) and there are times when the good guys are in mortal peril---and in the end, order is restored-(but not until after another government vehicle is destroyed...). This book was about bitcoin mining and a connection to domestic terrorism. It went by too quickly. Now I have a year to wait for the next one!

Did it keep my interest? 4 My pal Andrea loves CJ Box, so now I do too. Did I enjoy the topic? 4. I love the description of this book. ‘Wyoming game warden Joe Pickett investigates a mysterious death at a secret high tech facility.’ Done. CJ Box is basically saying, ‘I wrote a new book. Read it if you want. If not, I could care less.’ Was the dialogue realistic? 3.5 I think I said this in my past Box review, but his bad guys are pretty darn bad. Like, no redeeming qualities bad. That said, it’s great fun to see Joe take down the bad guys. Would I recommend to Jen (smart, discerning reader)? 4 I think Jennie would enjoy reading a Box. Would I have recommended to my Mom (read for entertainment)? 4. Joe Pickett doesn’t do much ass kicking in this one, but his buddy does. Mom liked a good ass kicking. Quality of narrator? 4. David Chandler again. His excellent gravely voice doesn’t quite match the videos I saw of him reading. I wasn’t picturing a hipster glasses, black turtleneck guy. He’s made a living off of reading CJ Box novels alone

Warden Joe Pickett is on the job taking care of a wounded animal after it was hit by a car. Joe's job is to put the animal out of its missery. While looking for the animal Joe finds an out building on the Double D ranch with a dead guy sticking out of the side of the building. Joe's struggles to find out what's going on with the Double D ranch when he discovers the dead guy is a Professor at the University and the out building is full of computers.... a bicoin mining operations? So without the help of the sheriffs office Joe is investigating the murder with help of his Falonry friends.

Another fun adventure with our favorite game warden from Saddlestring, Wyoming! After Joe Pickett finds a murdered college professor on the DD ranch, a variety of questions start to arise that include terrorists, bitcoin smugglers, and even Wyoming’s governor. As more information is found, Joe and Nate put together a plan that leads to an explosive confession. I love this series because of the characters and the descriptive outdoors that is laid out in every story.

Daphne Bridgerton, the fourth eldest of the Bridgertons, is eager to make her debut into society...but much to her dismay, everyone seems to find her "friendly" and "a good person" but not marriage material. Meanwhile Simon Basset, the Duke of Hastings, has finally retuned to England and he wants to finish up some business without dealing with all the marriage-happy mothers and their desperate daughters. He's sworn to never get married, and he has no plans to stop it now. And so the two of them quite literally stumble into each other and hatch a plan. If Simon feigns interest in Daphne, then she will seem more desirable AND all of the other girls will back off on Simon. But...but what happens when the interest is no longer feigned? So...ultimately this book was hugely entertaining, but also kinda problematic. Daphne and the Duke were such an engaging couple and truly had some amazing banter. The cast of characters were fun and witty. And, of course, there's Lady Whistledown - the wildest of them all - always with a quick phrase and snappy comeback in her published papers. But also the story was chock full of sexism, classism, misogyny and more. Some of it was era-appropriate and some of it hugely exaggerated. There's one scene in particular (that if you've read it, then you know what I'm talking about) that I wish wasn't included cause I feel like the character change catalyst that the author wanted to happen could've easily happened without such extremes. But at the end of the day, this was an entertaining fictional story with compelling plot and entertaining twists and turns.

“Can there be any greater challenge to London’s Ambitious Mamas than an unmarried duke?” Well my Mama refused to find me a duke, even though she is desperate to see me settled down (apparently, I am a spinster at the ripe age of 24). In fact, she laughed at the idea, and then started her "stop reading-start living" lectures, while arranging to introduce me to the Lady of the Caramel's son, who is "rich, young and available"(I think available is her most important quality). Me, well, I ignored her as per usual, and started spinning, following the notes of an imaginary melody, pretending I was dancing with a handsome, sexy and mysterious duke (or prince, I'm not picky). Because that's The Duke and I's major effect; daydreaming. “There were rules among friends, commandments, really, and the most important one was Thou Shalt Not Lust After Thy Friend's Sister.” But Simon Basset couldn't help it. Daphne Bridgerton haunted his dreams, evoking dark fantasies that could not see daylight. There was something about her, something that made him forget who he was and what he was, she was the perfect match for him. She challenged him. But he had taken an oath, and he was determined to keep it. No matter how much he wanted her. Daphne Bridgerton was not a popular debutante. She was witty (perhaps too witty for her own good) , and gentle, but not the kind of woman that would inspire poems and make men go crazy over her. But Simon Basset was different. He made her heart race and her body burn, and when he proposed an arrangement that would benefit them both, Daphne could not refuse. But she also couldn't stop hoping that one day this wonderful man would become hers, body and soul. That she would tear down the walls he was building for years. “When you smile it takes up half your face.' 'Simon!' she exclaimed. 'That sounds horrible.' 'It's enchanting.' 'Distorted.' 'Desirable.” I've been dreaming of balls and gowns since I was a little girl. I still close my eyes and place myself in fairytales, and a part of me whispers that I was born in the wrong century. Julia Quinn satisfied every girly fantasy I've ever had, and then some more. She had a Jane Austen vibe, but added sizzling tension, steam to make you drool, and a not so gentle gentleman (imagine a dirtier Mr. Darcy, with many issues but always eager to please a woman). It was delicious. The Duke and I was a light, entertaining and uttetly addicting novel. Every time I turned its pages, a brand new old world opened before my eyes, sucking me into a society that demanded of women good manners and healthy heirs but gave them nothing in return, a London shocked but mesmerized by Lady Whistledown’s gossip papers, ballrooms full of Ambitious Mamas that became the nightmare of every eligible bachelor, and a loud family whose banters cracked me up. I must admit there were times I wanted to punch Simon for being so stubborn, guided by the hatred towards his father, but I also ached for his difficult childhood and the lack of love and acceptance that marked him. But Daphne knew that she could cure him and fight his demons, I admired her for her persistance and devotion, and I could empathize with her. Simon and Daphne were an explosive couple, that warmed my heart and my cheeks! “The world seemed somehow different when one was lying down. Darker, more dangerous ... And in that moment, as he slowly closed the distance between them, he became her entire world.” In this world, I was a debutante. An innocent girl seduced by a devilishly handsome duke. A woman determined to fight for the man she loved. And I savoured every single moment.

★★★★ “𝙄 𝗸𝗻𝗲𝘄 𝗻𝗼𝘁𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗯𝘂𝘁 𝗹𝗼𝘃𝗲 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗱𝗲𝘃𝗼𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝘄𝗵𝗲𝗻 𝗜 𝘄𝗮𝘀 𝗴𝗿𝗼𝘄𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝘂𝗽. 𝗧𝗿𝘂𝘀𝘁 𝗺𝗲, 𝗶𝘁 𝗺𝗮𝗸𝗲𝘀 𝗲𝘃𝗲𝗿𝘆𝘁𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗲𝗮𝘀𝗶𝗲𝗿.” Honestly, guys, my heart is currently experiencing a full-blown emotional symphony. It's not just floating; it's conducting an orchestra of feelings, and I've lost all sense of where the finale is. This book didn’t just melt my heart; it performed a complete emotional transplant.I laughed until my ribs ached, I smirked with the satisfaction of a perfectly executed plot twist, and yes, my heart clenched with a visceral intensity that left me breathless. The fake dating trope, often overused, was executed with a finesse that felt both fresh and utterly captivating. Simon Basset, the Duke of Hastings, wasn’t just a character; he was a tapestry of complexities, woven with threads of trauma, vulnerability, and a fierce determination to protect his wounded heart. His adamant refusal to marry or have children wasn’t just a plot point; it was a heartbreaking shield against the pain he’d endured. And Daphne Bridgerton? She was a radiant beacon of warmth and authenticity, a force of nature who could dismantle those carefully constructed walls with a single, genuine smile. The Bridgerton family dynamic? Pure, unadulterated joy. Anthony, with his fierce protectiveness and overbearing jealousy, was a character I instantly connected with(I CRUSH HARD). The chemistry between Simon and Daphne? It wasn’t just palpable; it was electric, a current that surged through every page, leaving me completely and utterly speechless 🥺. I found myself mirroring Simon’s own struggles with speech, the words caught in my throat, overwhelmed by the sheer intensity of their connection. (His childhood speech impediment and adult nerves? So relatable.) Yes, Simon had his moments, his decisions occasionally tinged with a cruel edge. But then, Daphne would emerge, a queen of wit and intelligence, dismantling his defenses with her sharp mind and compassionate heart. Her reactions and theories? Often unexpected, always hilarious, leaving me in fits of laughter 😂. P.S.: * Lady Whistledown, the scandalous scribe? A masterclass in narrative intrigue! And my neighbor? Her uncanny resemblance is both amusing and slightly terrifying 😭. We all have that neighbor, don’t we? 😁 * The alphabetical naming convention? A stroke of genius, adding a layer of charm and whimsy to the Bridgerton world. ⁠ଘPre_read My biggest flex would be reading all the whole series of bridgertons💅 ,so here we go 🤸

4 stars There were rules among friends, commandments, really, and the most important one was Thou Shalt Not Lust After Thy Friend’s Sister. I've been trying to read more historical romance novels this year and I've obviously been failing... but I'm so glad I listened to this one. Honestly, I really want to watch the series next month so I made time for this. I loved it. Daphane and Simon were fantastic and I can't wait to read more from this series. Audio book source: Libby (library borrow) Story Rating: 4 stars Narrator: Rosalyn Landor Narration Rating: 4 stars Genre: Historical romance Length: 12 hours and 9 minutes

|| 3.5 stars || This book radiates “pick-me” energy and, for some reason, tries very hard to make “quirky sexism” a thing, yet I still cannot deny I had a blast while reading this. The writing is a tad ridiculous and the characters are always laughing or giggling, which might have annoyed me in other circumstances, but it mostly gave me a warm and cozy feeling here. It’s hard to explain but this was just very cute, and I simply really enjoyed reading it. There’s not much more to it than that. The tropes here include ‘brother’s best friend’ with ‘fake-dating’, and there’s also lots of banter. I definitely liked Daphne and Simon together a lot, although I have to admit that I already fell in love with these two in the TV show, so the book itself didn’t need much to convince me to like them as a couple! 'Bridgertons' series: 1. The Duke and I - 3.5 stars 2. The Viscount Who Loved Me - 2.0 stars 3. An Offer From a Gentleman - 3.5 stars 4. Romancing Mister Bridgerton - 3.5 stars 5. To Sir Phillip, With Love - 3.0 stars 6. When He Was Wicked - 3.5 stars 7. It’s in His Kiss - 2.0 stars 8. On the Way to the Wedding - 2.5 stars

I can't believe I never got around to writing a review on this! I loved this book so so much and how it was a fake dating story. The whole Bridgerton family is so endearing and I loved how close they all were to each other. Anthony, Benedict, and Colin are overbearing older brothers and I loved them and how protective they were of Daphne. When Simon comes into the picture, it was so cute when he realized that Daphne was actually his best friend's sister, another romance trope I love. From the prologue, I felt for Simon's character so much. I really enjoy historical romances that touch on disabilities and Simon's stutter was so hard for him to work through and was even more difficult because his dad was disgusted by him because of it. I liked how Simon still worked through it in moments of extreme emotion as an adult. I will say, I do think the one problematic scene was a violation to me. I know Simon violated Daphne's trust by not telling her the truth, but she physically violated him and I really wanted more repercussions on Daphne's part. She didn't even really acknowledge what she did was wrong and it was written more as if it was all Simon's fault. Not a fan of that, so I dropped the star one rating. Overall, this is a magical world with a magical family and I can't get enough! Definitely one of my favorite historical romance series!

One of my 2020 reading goals was more reading and less reviewing. That being said, The Duke and I was a scrumptious bite of historical romance and I was 100% along for the ride. Angsty, with a hero who is a jerk (but actually not). Since the series will be coming soon, you need to make this book a reading priority asap!

The Duke and I is my second foray into historical romance and I can definitely say that I've found a new favorite genre. It's really exciting to go into books and not be able to predict anything since I'm not as familiar with the tropes or story structures of the genre. I found myself enchanted by the lovable Bridgerton family and I cannot wait to devour this entire series and then watch the upcoming Netflix adaptation! The one thing I will say is that I was loving this book, and I was leaning toward 5 stars until something very not okay happened. Like, VERY VERY not okay. Fortunately, it didn't derail my previous enjoyment up until that point nor did it ruin the whole book for me, but I can definitely understand why it would for others. I've heard that the series keeps getting better from here so I am glad I read book one and got to meet all of the Bridgertons at the very beginning of their story. There was a lot more humor than I was expecting and the inclusion of Lady Whistledown's society column gave the book a kind of historical Gossip Girl feeling. I already have book two checked out and ready to read!

if i would've read this without seeing the show then it probably would've been 2 or 3 stars, but seeing daphne and simon in my head felt like rewatching the show, which i adore so much. if this book didn't contain the few problematic scenes (that the show conveniently edited) toward the end, i'm sure it'd be a full five stars. julia quinn is so good at writing heart wrenching dialogue and confessions of love. this book was so vivid and i can't wait to read the sequels before diving into further seasons of the show.

So I read this quite a while ago but decided to reread due to the new Netflix series starting, I do remember I originally enjoyed it so was looking forward to rehashing it. I cut my teeth back in the day on historical romance and it is a genre that brings me fond memories and I don't read it nearly enough as I should considering how much I used to devour this type of fiction. So this is the first book in the Bridgerton series, each book focuses on one of the siblings and their individual journey towards wedded bliss. Its historical romance set in the early 1800's and this is the oldest female Daphne Bridgertons story. its duel POV told from both Daphne and Simon The new Duke of Hastings perspectives. We also have another voice that heavily influences the story the anonymous Lady WhistleDown author of a gossip rag that the whole of the Ton is totally fascinated with. The new Duke returns to London from overseas with little intention of immersing himself back into current society. Rejected growing up by his late father The Duke because of a speech impediment a stutter, Simon has worked hard to overcome what he perceives as his shame, he has vowed never to marry or sire children to continue his illustrious family line. He sees this as the ultimate revenge against his father whose attentions towards Simon came too little too late. Daphne is attending her third season and in need of a husband when the two hit it off Simon proposes an alliance one he sees as beneficial to them both. Thrown together at every turn Simon finds Daphne hard to resist and in a series of events Daphne and Simons's futures collide. So this was a good read that I did enjoy I liked both Simon and Daphne and this easily kept my attention there was a particular incident near the end of the book that I have noticed that some readers took issue with, for me it was very mild and I would no way class this as rape as others have suggested, more that Daphne took advantage of a particular situation. Was it a crappy thing to do? well yes, would I have preferred to not have that scene in the story? well yes again, but it really is a mountain out of a molehill, no biggie, I’ve read much worse in other historical romances. I was more bothered with the fact that it was never really resolved, like no apologies from Daphne which she sure should have done. That aside this was a well written and engaging historical romance and I really enjoyed reading it again, I'm planning to read the rest of the series also. Reviewed By Beckie Bookworm https://www.facebook.com/beckiebookworm/ www.beckiebookworm.com

Reread this in 2020 for the Netflix show! **** Adorable and HILARIOUS! I'm in love with the Bridgertons, especially their meddling mother. Can't wait to read about the rest of the family!

“A duel, a duel, a duel. Is there anything more exciting, more romantic ... or more utterly moronic?” This was my first time reading a historical romance, and let me tell you I did not expect to like it so much! Especially considering that I already knew the plot of the book because I just finished watching the Netflix series. I flew through this in a day, and I just can't wait to jump into book two, and see how the story goes on! This book just put me in a good mood :)

{Loved it} I have not watched the TV series yet and I have been hesitant to start the book series afraid it might be over exaggerated. I should have picked it up sooner, I absolutely love it!

***3,5 stars*** This is the kind of book I normally would never have read, but because a lot of my friends urged me to watch the new Netflix show Bridgerton, I finally gave in. I watched the series and surprisingly enough, I quite enjoyed it. So here I am, a week later reviewing the book as well 😂 There were many aspects I liked more in the adaptation and many I liked more in the book, but I will come back to that later. Full rtc.

Dearest Gentle Reader, Prepare for Lots of Scandal, and a Very Controversial FMC! 𝓡𝓪𝓽𝓲𝓷𝓰:★★★★☆ 𝓖𝓮𝓷𝓻𝓮: Historical Fiction, Romance 𝓥𝓲𝓫𝓮: Witty, dramatic, playful 𝓑𝓮𝓼𝓽 𝓟𝓪𝓲𝓻𝓮𝓭 𝓦𝓲𝓽𝓱: A porch swing in the late afternoon on a sunny day. 𝓔𝓶𝓸𝓳𝓲 𝓥𝓲𝓫𝓮 𝓜𝓪𝓽𝓬𝓱: 💐💌🫖💋💎 · ✦•······················•✦•······················•✦ 𝒫𝓁𝒶𝓎𝓁𝒾𝓈𝓉 𝒯𝒾𝓉𝓁𝑒𝒹: Hot Dukes & Family Nukes 𝒲𝒾𝓉𝒽 𝒮𝑜𝓃𝑔𝓈 𝐿𝒾𝓀𝑒: "Love Story" - Taylor Swift, "Adore You" - Harry Style · ✦•······················•✦•······················•✦ 𝒯𝒽𝒾𝓈 𝐵𝑜𝑜𝓀 𝐹𝑒𝑒𝓁𝓈 𝐿𝒾𝓀𝑒: ➺ The breeze from a lace fan. ➺ Turquoise, like the color of a lake ➺ Earl Grey with cream, no sugar · ✦•······················•✦•······················•✦ 𝑀𝑒𝑒𝓉 𝒯𝒽𝑒 𝒞𝒽𝒶𝓇𝒶𝒸𝓉𝑒𝓇𝓈: Daphne ~ The witty eldest daughter of the Bridgerton household, and the season's incomparable. Simon ~ The morally grey, brooding, older brother's best friend who can't keep his eyes off Daphne. · ✦•······················•✦•······················•✦ 𝑀𝓎 𝒯𝒽𝑜𝓊𝑔𝒽𝓉𝓈: This book was *almost* the perfect introduction to the Bridgerton series. I adore the Netflix adaptation of the books, and I watched them first, so the books didn't really live up to my expectations when it came to the drama. But honestly, I don't mind, that's not why this book shouldn't have been the first one in the series. It shouldn't have been the first because 1, Daphne is the 4th born Bridgerton and it urks me that all the other books go in order of age except this one, and 2, what Daphne did to Simon after talking to the housekeeper was despicable. She forced herself on a drunken Simon, and made him... to get her pregnant, after he'd told her he didn't want any children. They could've talked about it like adults and tried to come to an agreement instead of doing something that damaging. It doesn't make Daphne look very good, and she could've known better. I blame Violet Bridgerton for "turning green" and "blushing and stuttering" instead of teaching her daughter these important things about reproduction and what it was like to be a wife back in those days. · ✦•······················•✦•······················•✦ 𝓨𝓸𝓾'𝓵𝓵 𝓛𝓲𝓴𝓮 𝓣𝓱𝓲𝓼 𝓑𝓸𝓸𝓴 𝓲𝓯 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓛𝓲𝓴𝓮… - Emotionally unavailable, devastatingly morally grey men - Slow burn romance - 1800s London history retelling - Yearning!!

I've seen heaps of praise for Netflix latest book adaptation, now I'm not much of a TV watcher - but was curious to see why this was causing so much hype... The novel itself focuses on the middle child of eight Daphne Bridgerton who meets the Duke of Hastings at a ball and the pair decided to create a fake courtship which will benefit them both: Daphne is keen to start a family but all the male suitors only see her as a friend, 'being with' the Duke will make her more appealing, whilst Simon is keen to deter various mothers trying to set him up with their daughters. Predictably the arrangement leads to something more. I was a little suprised with how simple the story was but am led to believe that another plot strand was added to the adaptation. Both the characters were uniquely written as Simon is damaged from the treatment from his father as a young child, whilst Daphne is somewhat naive in how babies are made! The book hinges on THAT memorable scene which I wasn't expecting at all, it certainly changed the complexion on what for the most part was a cheesy Regency set romantic yarn.

The Return by Nicholas Sparks is the typical Nicholas Sparks romance I’ve been waiting years for. I really enjoyed The Return. The Return is a typical Nicholas Sparks romance with two people that shouldn’t be together falling in love. I was so curious to find out what Natalie was hiding and why she was so hot and cold. The mystery of Trevor’s grandfather and Callie was also very interesting. There were so many different aspects of this book that kept the reader interested. I really liked Trevor and Natalie. Trevor is such a caring person. He doesn’t want to fall in love but easily falls in love with Natalie. Natalie is an interesting character. She is a deputy sheriff but shows her softer side to Trevor. She is a strong woman. Callie seemed so standoffish, but once her secrets are revealed everything makes sense. Full Review: https://justreadingjess.wordpress.com...

3.75 stars. It's my 17th Nicholas Sparks book. And it was a very Nicholas Sparks-esque book. I enjoyed it very much. This isn't one of his best books but definitely not one of his worst either. It's a very enjoyable one. I really liked it. I wish there was a bit more of the romance. I also liked the mild mystery part surrounding the mysterious Kelly, his grandfather, and why Natalie won't commit to Trevor. But after reading 17 of his books, I knew exactly what Nicholas Sparks was aiming at. 😂 Would recommend!

A sweet, tug-at-your-heartstrings romance / contemporary. I’d expect nothing less than beautiful from Nicholas Sparks. “Life endlessly offers us chances to set new directions and in the process we grow and change; when we look in the rearview mirror, we catch a glimpse of former selves who sometimes seem unrecognizable.” Trevor Benson is an honorable military man that suffers from PTSD from what happened to him outside of the hospital that he worked in during his deployment to Afghanistan. The mortar blast caused a permanent scar on his face, left his torso pock-marked, his left hand is missing a pinkie and ring finger, among other wounds. When his grandfather passes away, Trevor is his last living family member and must go to New Bern, North Carolina to handle his will. He reaches the hospital with barely enough time to say goodbye, but when his grandfather gives him a message due to his poor condition he isn’t able to discern what it means. Additionally, he was found in his truck in Easley, South Carolina and Trevor has no idea why he’d be traveling seven hours away at his age, with Alzheimers. “...When I was a teenager, [my grandfather] told me that one day I would meet a woman who would change my life forever.” Upon returning to his grandfather’s home he meets a woman, the town sheriff named Natalie and falls in love with her almost immediately. He wants the kind of love that his grandparents had, he looked at her as his North Star. “I barely know you.” “And that’s a shame.” Together, he and Natalie try to figure out the mystery of his grandfather’s last few days. But, when she’s not around Trevor prides himself in taking care of the hives in the backyard, as his grandfather was a bee-keeper. While doing so he runs into Callie, a young girl who he always sees walking from the trailer park to her job at the local general store/diner. He can’t figure out her story either. Why is she alone against the world? She looks like she’s only 16! So he starts to ask around... “It’s like she dropped in out of the sky one day.” Trevor will find out in getting to know both Callie and Natalie, that they both are hiding a huge secret from him. Can he help them in time before leaving for Baltimore to take a job as a Psychiatrist? Will they give him a reason to stay? I did enjoy this story, but I wanted WAY more details about the romance and much less discussion about bees. I did however learn a lot about them and the different roles that they play in the hive, as well as things that their stings and honey can cure. Going into this—-be prepared to learn about bees for the first half of the book. I also thought that the ending was very rushed and I wanted way more of THAT part of the story. 🐝 🐝 🐝 🐝 4 ⭐️

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I was concerned with some of the reviews but I thought the plot and characters were very intriguing. The nerd in me ate up all the facts about bees and beekeeping. Recommend giving this one a read for an interesting plot drenched with suspense and mystery with romance of course.

Give me a minute to blow my nose. Can't read a Nicholas Sparks book without needing tissues, right? This story about Trevor, Natalie, and Callie seemed at times to be too long and at other times too short. Sure, the big romance is kindled early in the book. Then things stall out and it takes a bit too long for the mystery of Callie to be solved. I do love the opportunity that Trevor's character gives to explore PTSD. Also, the deceased grandfather is a rich addition to the narrative. Even in death we can consider him a major character. There is a bit of the old 'Notebook' feel to this and also a bit of 'A Walk to Remember' which is my favorite Sparks book. I'm sure others will see bits and pieces of their favorites, too. Get your tissues ready and enjoy.

⭐️4 Stars⭐️ The Return by Nicholas Sparks (author of The Notebook) is a well-written, charming and touching story of a navy surgeon who is sent home after being severely injured by a mortar explosion while working in Afghanistan. Trevor Benson has PSTD also known as post-traumatic stress disorder, he struggles with ‘the darkness’ because his injuries were so severe from the explosion that went off while he was outside the hospital he worked at. Trevor returns to New Bern, North Carolina to heal and to take ownership of his grandfather's old cabin, which needs some fixing up and he also plans to return to medical school to study psychiatry. In New Bern he enjoys looking after the beehives on his grandfather's property and he also finds himself immediately attracted to the local deputy sheriff Natalie. Could she have the same feelings but is holding them back? What huge secret is Natalie hiding? Trevor also meets Callie, a sullen young teenager who apparently used to be friends with his grandfather. He hopes Callie can help him find out more about his father’s death but she seems to be hiding something and wants to keep to herself. I really enjoyed The Return, it was a calming, romantic read with an air of mystery. I found the bee keeping part of the story interesting and informative also, it makes me want to have a bee hive! I was lucky enough to win The Return in a competition, many thanks to Books with Heart Bookclub and Hachette Australia

“The Return” is Nicholas Sparks' newest release, and true to Sparks form, it is uplifting, cheesy romance at its finest! Trevor Benson returns to New Bern, NC to sell his grandfather’s house after his passing. After serving as a military doctor, Trevor is still recuperating from physical and emotional issues sustained after he survived a bombing in Afghanistan. When he meets deputy sheriff Natalie Masterson, he realizes that his stay in New Bern just got a lot more complicated. As his feelings for Natalie grow, she continues to be resistant and he begins to wonder if there is someone or something else in her life that makes her disconnect. Trevor is also introduced to his young neighbour, Callie, a sullen teenager who appears to live on her own in the trailer park down the road. Intrigued by Callie’s former relationship with her grandfather, Trevor sets out to help Callie in whatever way he can, however Callie also appears to put up walls and resists his help. As he learns more about his grandfather as he packs up his things, Trevor sets out to help the residents of New Bern in the same way he knows his grandfather would’ve wanted, whether they resist his help or not. “The Return” is part “Dear John” (a broken solider trying to rebuild his life) , part “The Choice” (a patient in an irreversible coma) and part “The Lucky One” (a young woman who serves to ‘rescue’ the soldier from himself) , and all Nicholas Sparks. The cast of charming, endearing characters is led by Trevor, who is struggling with PTSD, and Sparks is both honest and open in his depiction of the mental illness. Of course, the relationship between Natalie and Trevor is marred by complication (would it be Nicholas Sparks if it was easy?) , but it is also emotional and heart wrenching as we see Natalie’s struggles, making it easy to sympathize with her. This novel is beautifully told from Trevor’s perspective, with the usual descriptive North Carolina settings we have come to know from Sparks. Easy-to-read, this novel is light and heart-warming. “The Return” will not leave Sparks’ fans disappointed!

Hopeful, heart-wrenching, and bittersweet! The Return sweeps you away to the small town of New Bern, North Carolina and into the life of Trevor Benson, a young doctor and wounded war vet who inadvertently stumbles across a mystery and unexpectedly falls in love when he heads to his late grandfather’s home to regroup, refocus, heal and prepare to move on. The prose is smooth and effortless. The characterization is well-developed with a wonderful cast of characters that are multilayered, strong, secretive, and endearing. And the plot is a tender tale full of life, love, heartache, healing, kindness, community, the intricacies of beekeeping, and a sliver of mystique. Overall, The Return is an absorbing, charming, incredibly touching tale with a real undercurrent of heartbreak, loss, loneliness, and grief. And even though in classic Sparks style it had me a little teary more than once, it also left me warmed, smiling, and extremely satisfied. Thank you to Grand Central Publishing for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.

*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.com 4.5 stars ‘Most importantly, it’s the story of two different women, though one was really just a girl at the time.’ An author regarded as the master of love and romance stories, Nicholas Sparks is a worldwide sensation. With over thirteen contemporary romance novels to his name, published worldwide and translated into over fifty different languages, Sparks is a novelist who needs no introduction. A highly anticipated read by his fans, The Return is a touching tale of chance encounters, friendship, support, illness, loss, taking stock and of course, love. I was surprised by how much I valued The Return. Trevor Benson is the commanding voice of The Return, the latest triumph from Nicholas Sparks. A veteran who returns home from a stint in Afghanistan, which ended with a mortar blast, Trevor is learning to heal from his physical and mental injuries. The mysterious loss of his grandfather sparks a lingering return visit to New Bern, where his grandfather resided. While attempting to clear up the details surrounding his grandfather’s passing, Trevor encounters a teenage girl, who seems to have a connection to his late grandfather. But the young girl named Callie isn’t going to give up her secrets so easily and Trevor faces an uphill battle in trying to connect with Callie. During his time in New Bern, Trevor also encounters Natalie, the local deputy sheriff. Trevor soon falls for Natalie and she slowly begins to respond to Trevor’s advances, but something is holding the deputy sheriff back from fully committing to Trevor. Embroiled by the secrets held by his grandfather, young Callie and his new source of affection, Trevor is set on a path of discovery, truth, revelations, understanding, friendship, forgiveness and homecoming. After a hiatus of over two years, international bestselling author Nicholas Sparks graces our bookstores again with his new contemporary romance novel. This new tale from Sparks has all the hallmarks that make anything written by Nicholas Sparks a joy to read. From the strong romance, complex characters, quaint small town settings, problems to overcome and for this particular issue, a set of mysteries to uncover, The Return should not to be overlooked if you have an appreciation for the writing of Nicholas Sparks. Likewise, if this is your first experience of this popular novelist’s work, The Return is a great place to begin your Nicolas Sparks journey. I was actually surprised by how much I connected with and appreciated The Return. Although I consider myself a long term fan of Nicholas Sparks, the last two books I have read by the bestselling author didn’t seem to have the same magic for me that I encountered with some of my favourite novels from his collection, such as Dear John and The Notebook. A close friend of mine who is very aware of my reading tastes also remarked on her shock that I enjoyed The Return so much! I have struggled with contemporary romance titles of late, so to openly state that I adored this love story was unexpected. If fact, I think the romance is this novel is not it’s defining aspect. Rather, The Return is preoccupied with other topics of interest. We get a full look into returned soldiers, PTSD, the art of honey production and tending to beehives. We also have a teen runaway to contend with, a mysterious death to solve, confusing letters to decipher, a potential lover who keeps our leading man at arm’s length, a tragic illness, a heartbreaking loss to contend with and career choices to make. Each and every strand of The Return is delivered with high emotion. Sparks really knows how to pull at the heartstrings. If you feel disappointed that the romance fades somewhat into the background if you are a fan of Nicholas Sparks and his signature love stories, I think you should give The Return a chance. Although the love story aspect is understated and it is more of a slow burn style romance, it still delivers all the feels. In true Nicholas Sparks style, the road to true love and happiness is marred by tragedy, setbacks, reservations, personal baggage, life changing decisions and heart wrenching obstacles. I think Sparks gave the full treatment to his romance element, while also directing the story towards other key issues of interest. For me, I really loved the mystery component to The Return. Not only do we have one potential mystery to solve regarding the puzzling circumstances surrounding the death of Trevor’s much loved grandfather, we also investigate young Callie’s back story. In addition, Natalie’s involvement in Trevor’s life brings further complexity to this tale. I liked the way in which each separate mystery unraveled, which is down to the penmanship of Nicholas Sparks. I have the feeling that The Return is another novel from Sparks destined for the big screen, it definitely has the makings for a movie adaptation. I know I will be buying my movie ticket as soon as it is released, I have a soft spot for this latest blockbuster from Nicolas Sparks. *Thanks is extended to Hachette Australia for providing a free copy of this book for review purposes.

Classic NS. All the feels. This one gave me a few chuckles along the way as the narrator tells a great story.

“Keep in mind that as hard as things are, it is possible to find things to enjoy and to be grateful for the opportunities that life presents.”

Trevor Benson never intended to move back to New Bern, NC. But when a mortar blast outside the hospital where he worked as an orthopedic surgeon sent him home from Afghanistan with devastating injuries, the dilapidated cabin he inherited from his grandfather seemed as good a place to regroup as any. Further complicating his stay in New Bern is the presence of a sullen teenage girl, Callie, who lives in the trailer park down the road from his grandfather's cabin. Claiming to be 19, she works at the local sundries store and keeps to herself. When he discovers she was once befriended by his grandfather, Trevor hopes Callie can shed light on the mysterious circumstances of his grandfather's death, but she offers few clues. Trevor is battling demons from being in Afghanistan and he doesn't trust easily. Callie is surely running and hiding and I wanted to know so much about her. When Trevor meets Natalie, the local cop, he doesn't know what to think of her. she is nice one minute and cold the next nd he wants to know why. She seems to have to prove herself in a man's world. I really wanted these 2 together. Thank you to Grand Central publishing for the book to review.

I feel like it’s normal for something by NS to be sad … this one was no exception :/ Excellent book.

** spoiler alert ** I am a big fan of Nicholas Sparks and enjoyed this book. What I especially loved about this story was the mystery surrounding the cryptic message Trevor's grandfather said to him before he died. In addition, discovering both Callie's and Natalie's secrets definitely kept my interest throughout the novel.

This was so fun!! If you're nosey or just love knowing other peoples business (me)- you need to read this!

i think the grannies who love these were on to something …. obsessed

Welcome to the Summer of ‘69 ‘22! (minus any mentions of Covid so as not to pop the fantasy bubble) This summer on Nantucket Island centres on the first three months of the newly-renovated, re-opening of The Nantucket Hotel – a historical building more than one hundred years old that has had its fair share of past bad luck, tragedy, and poor business decisions, and is literally haunted by the ghost of a young woman. Now, under new ownership, and management, the new general manager, Lizbet Keaton, is determined to make the hotel the best it can be. Assisting Lizbet are the following core staff members: Manning the front desk, ready to check you in and service your every need, are Alessandra Powell and Edith Robbins. Bellmen Ezekiel ‘Zeke’ English, and Adam and Raoul Wasserman-Ramirez (married couple) will deliver your bags to your room within five minutes of your arrival. Head of Housekeeping, Magda English (Zeke’s aunt)and her young protégé Chadwick Winslow have a one hundred points cleaning checklist that they follow religiously. Mario Subiaco is the chef of the Blue Bar – the hotel bar, and will serve you such sublime delicacies as deviled eggs with a trio of toppings, almond croissants, and a coconut and caramel apple whipped cream concoction. Night auditor, Richie Decameron is stationed at the front desk come nightfall. But, as you would expect, these staff arrive with life baggage – secrets, trauma, dishonestly, and betrayal. When I’m in the mood for charming, relaxing, uplifting, light entertainment, with drama, romance and FOMO for a summer on Nantucket, I know I can rely on Elin Hilderbrand, and The Hotel Nantucket delivered on all counts. Sure the writing and plot was at times cheesy and over-the-top (I mean there’s a ghost POV for heavens sake) but it’s all in good positive fun, and this is a sub genre of books that includes serious and emotional topics, but at the same time shouldn’t be taken too seriously. After weeks of rain here in wintery New Zealand, it definitely cheered me up, and of course it is the perfect choice for your summer vacation, beach read, and airplane/airport. But, be advised, don’t read it if you’re hungry as the drool-worthy descriptions of delicious culinary may cause you to snack on the book. As children, my two sisters and I, loved nothing more than exploring hotels we stayed in. I’m surprised we were never told off, although if we had of been we would’ve been genuinely apologetic, and my middle sister would’ve cried, so I’m sure all would’ve been forgiven. Anyway, my long-winded point is that that feeling of excitement, discovery, and imagination never leaves you, and I loved touring, exploring, and experiencing the various luxurious nooks and crannies of The Hotel Nantucket alongside the staff and guests, in particular seeing it through the eyes of eight-year-old Wanda – who was also a mystery fan, and inquisitive to boot. Unlike Elin Hilderbrand’s numerous ‘summer’ books set in Nantucket, this one doesn’t include any beach scenes, nor was The Hotel Nantucket a beachside hotel, so I’m a little confused by the cover, and would’ve preferred a photo of the hotel in question, since the majority of the action took place within its walls. But, never mind, it still screams summer. So, make your Summer of ‘22 one to remember by adding The Hotel Nantucket to your tbr for the publication date of June 14th. I’d like to thank Netgalley US, Little Brown and Company, and Elin Hilderbrand for the e-ARC.

My first Elin book! Definitely made me want to go to Nantucket immediately 🙈 a little slow, but I enjoyed it for the summer!

I needed a trip to Nantucket this winter, and The Hotel Nantucket hit the spot. I’m still loving the historical fiction angle infused into some of Elin Hilderbrand’s more recent books, and this particular story has a ghost. 👻 This one begins with a tragic hotel fire and follows the history of the hotel from its glamorous days to becoming more of a family-friendly lodge, to ultimately an abandoned shell. Eventually, someone buys the hotel with dreams of revitalizing it to its former glory. A chambermaid named Grace killed in the hotel fire is quite present in ghostly haunting. The Hotel Nantucket is such a great mix of genres along with that stable overall feel of an EH summer book. The hotel itself is a character, which I loved. Overall, this delivered everything I expected and more from this author, and I’m so grateful for the perfect escape. I received a gifted copy. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

literally love elin's books they're entertaining

Take a mini-vacation with Elin Hilderbrand’s The Hotel Nantucket! Immersing myself in this novel felt like I was in Nantucket, traipsing the cobblestone streets and going to Miacomet. If only! I barely even remember what a vacation feels like at this point! The new novel by Elin Hilderbrand centers around The Hotel Nantucket, which closed in 1922 after a fire. Newly reopened and revamped, Lizbet Keaton is now the general manager, having been hired on by a London billionaire to run the place. First on her list after renovations, is hiring a full staff to help run the hotel and help her win the best review possible from a hotel blogger (known as the 5 Keys). My favorite staff member here was Chad, whose personality and story won me over tenfold. A fun, winsome novel that kept me fully engaged throughout. Somehow Elin Hilderbrand always knows how to lighten the mood! Thank you to Little Brown and Company for the arc via NetGalley. Review posted to blog and to Goodreads and Twitter.

coming from someone who’s ex hospitality this book is so spot on with the guest and reviews 😭

Honestly, this book was more interesting than I hoped it’d be! It started well enough for an audiobook but soon I lost track of the characters since the different PoVs are very irregular (at least in the listening version). But once I memorised the characters, I started to appreciate them more & their stories. Moreover, I liked how the author wrapped the final reveal and book. I can surely say this won’t be my last Hilderbrand’s novel.

A light, fun novel with a mostly likeable cast of characters and their personal intrigues, including the ghost of the chambermaid killed in a fire at the hotel in 1922. After the fire, the hotel was bought by various owners and became increasingly seedy and rundown until it’s purchased by a British billionaire. He hires Lizbet to be the office manager, and she’s tasked with hiring the best employees she can. Some employees are hiding secrets, but as staff for the hotel, they’re all determined to do their best, not just because of the $1000 a week bonus the millionaire sends based on feedback from guests as to which staff member went above and beyond, but also because of the elusive social media influencer who gives up to 5 keys for the best accommodations, though the person has famously never given more than four. The person’s identity is unknown, so with each guest and their demands, the staff members do their best and wonder if this guest is the one that might hold the fate of the hotel in their hands. Thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this novel, which RELEASES JUNE 14, 2022.

A Bright and Breezy Summer Read SUMMARY The Hotel Nantucket is undergoing a major renovation by its new owner, London billionaire Xavier Darling. Lizbet Keaton, a longtime resident and previous owner of a highly successful restaurant, has been hired as the hotel’s general manager. She has put together a unique and inexperienced staff that she hopes will share Darling’s vision for the hotel. By the end of the summer, Darling is demanding that The Hotel Nantucket be recognized as the best hotel in the world. The staff must learn how to work together to make each guest’s experience delightful and memorable. REVIEW The Hotel Nantucket is a bright and breezy summer novel. It’s a perfect blend of setting, characters, and story. It is a fun and delightful read. The hotel is both elegant and beachy. There are so many fun characters in this book that it’s too hard to pick a favorite. Here are just a few: -Lizbet Keaton is the heartbroken general manager whose goal is to make the Hotel Nantucket the undisputed best hotel in the world. -Louie Marsh Is a six-year-old chess prodigy in seersucker shorts, spending his summer beating everyone he plays in chess. -Grace Hadley, the kindly 19-year-old ghost who died in a fire in the hotel in 1922 -The renowned and romantic chef of the hotel’s Blue Bar, Mario Subiaco, is as delicious as the food he prepares. Elin Hilderbrand’s writing is smart and easy to read. You will want this in your beach bag. Told from multiple points of view, this charming story has depth, drama, and sparkle. Even romance and mystery are woven throughout. In a word, this book is delicious Hilderbrand, who lives on Nantucket, sets all of her stories there. She has written over thirty books. Her most recent novels include Golden Girl [2021), and 28 Summers (2020) Thanks to Netgalley and Little Brown for an advance reading copy of this book. All opinions are my own. Publisher Little Brown and Company Published June 14, 2022 Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

Basically a vacation in book form. I'm giving it a solid 4.25 stars. Although I read it in a old house that I was half sure was haunted, which is not an experience I recommend. Avoid haunted places while reading this book. ✅ Pros: -A dilapidated hotel turning into a paradise with a hot chef - Lizbet - relatable, fresh start girlboss - we love her. - Grace, our friendly neighborhood ghost, just loved her. She's feisty. Who doesn't love a ghost with personality? - The 5 keys drama, stunning. ❌ Cons: - that was a very mischievous staff team. They all had so many problems. I felt like I was watching a CW show. -maybe it’s because he reminded me of Xavier Dolan but I really did not like the owner and he was annoying and I wish he’d never showed up. - It was about 100 pages too long. We get it, there's drama, you want a 5 star review. WE GET IT. I was more invested in Grace the ghost than all of the other characters, I'd definitely read a book about just Grace. Would I recommend it? Absolutely. it’s not gonna win a Pulitzer Prize but it’s interesting and cute..

Not me literally wanting to uproot my entire life and go run a luxury hotel in Nantucket. (I have no professional hospitality experience. ✨) My mama is a HUGE Elin Hildebrand fan so when I read The Perfect Couple a few years ago and wasn’t obsessed, she was pretty sad. I promised her I would give Elin one last chance and so I found myself packing her copy of The Hotel Nantucket in my suitcase for our family summer vacation. Long story short, I couldn’t put the book down and now get the Elin hype... 🙈 Read this if you like: - Beach reads 🏖️ - Mystery subplot - Multiple POVs that all come together in the end 🎀 - Drama and scandals ☕ - Nantucket - Descriptive writing - Haunted hotels 👻 (not spooky) There was so much going on in this book and I was SO entertained. Immediately, Elin introduces an entire cast of characters. We meet main character Elizabeth (Lizbet) Keaton, the island’s sweetheart, and follow her as she is named the new general manager of the local abandoned gilded age hotel bought by an overseas investor. Lizbet is determined to successfully re-launch the Hotel Nantucket and earn a 5 star review from renowned, and anonymous, travel influencer Shelly Carpenter. I will be the first to admit that I was fully expecting to be bored. Once I got past the initial overwhelming amount of characters, I got sucked in and couldn’t stop reading!! The writing, the different POVs, the descriptions of the island and the food, the characters, the drama, I was eating it all up. The way all the subplots tied together in a perfect bow at the end was so much fun. Someone please explain why I was tearing up at the end of a book about a hotel! 🏨 I had such a fun time with this book and think it was the perfect vacation/ beach read. Sometimes it pays off to give authors a second chance (and to listen to your mom). 🙂

A book that started as 3 stars and ended somewhere between 3.5 and 4. "The Hotel Nantucket" started off a bit shaky for me. I was intrigued but not invested. I couldn't connect to any of the characters, the writing felt very "buzz word"-y and a bit cringe at points. But I've enjoyed Elin Hilderbrand's books so much before I wanted to stick with it. I'm glad in the end that I did. Not only did the story (and writing) grow on me, I genuinely think it got better. Elin's knack for writing Nantucket like the pro she is also began to shine through, particularly regarding the food, as always. She transported me to a unique, elegant setting complete with mouthwatering meals and plenty of sun kissed skin. Certain characters also came into their own. While the cast was large and sometimes hard to keep fully straight, there were some standouts for me. (Magda and Chad particularly along with Louie and Wanda.) The romance element of the book was also very sweet and entertaining. I wasn't super invested in the ghost part of the plot. It was cute but mostly felt gimmicky. Any time things were from Grace's perspective, I could take it or leave it. Although I will say her storyline was able to give the ending a well-rounded feeling. Overall, "The Hotel Nantucket" is probably one of my lesser favorites by EH. Despite this, I still enjoyed reading it and wound up liking more about it than I didn't. It was an endearing beach read that was fun to sink into.

4.25- this was such a fun and juicy read! Like listening to the town gossip. I loved the character development and even shed a little tear near the end at an unexpected reveal . Perfect beach read

It's officially summer when I've read an Elin book!! If only I had saved it for poolside!! In her usual fashion, Hilderbrand delivers a fun novel full of complex characters, Nantucket charm, love stories and breakups, and of course DRAMA! I loved the twist in The Hotel Nantucket with Grace - a ghost who has been haunting the hotel for the past 100 years in the hopes that someone will pay attention and solve her murder. The descriptions in this novel were transportive. Hydrangea blue may be my new favorite color and I'm pretty sure I'll be judging every hotel I ever step foot into from here on out always searching for that five key property! The Hotel Nantucket and Blue Bar sounded like literal paradises. If only they were based on real places like so much else in Hilderbrand's novels! I always think it's fun how Hilderbrand ties in characters and pieces from her prior novels. It feels really authentic to me with Nantucket being such an intimate island. I haven't read The Blue Bistro yet, but after attending a reading with Hilderbrand last year and learning it's her favorite novel and then hearing so much about it and meeting Mario in The Hotel Nantucket, it's officially overdue that I pick it up!! That being said, it's also excellent that you don't need to have read those novels in order to appreciate the current one because they are not true series. I will say I was a bit confused on one point regarding Shelly Carpenter (which I won't elaborate on so that I don't give any spoilers) that I wish had been better clarified. I made assumptions and it certainly didn't take away from the storyline, but I definitely wish it had been addressed. All in all, this book was stellar and it's one I hope to see at many beaches this summer! If you've loved Elin's work in the past, this one will be no exception and you absolutely must pick it up! Thank you to Little, Brown and NetGalley for the copy.

i was craving something about hotel staff, and this hit the spot!!! 🙂‍↕️ reading about the renovations of the hotel, to the opening, to the day-to-day occurrences, and also the ghost's pov (she's haunting the hotel) is all very interesting 🤍🛎 we also learn about many characters (most of them being the staff members) and the ongoings in their individual lives. + the chapters are bingable and addictive, you just want to keep reading 🙈 however I didn't like some topics in this book, i felt uncomfortable by some and skimmed through parts (there's nothing explicit but you should still check TWs) and also a couple things felt unfinished, like bibi's sudden departure. I was expecting more of an explanation later on but that one sentence was all we got 🤔 overall it's a great summer, beach read. and i DID actually read the majority of this at the beach, check out this vlog I just posted! 🌊☀️ https://youtu.be/a6KD1pZf4nk?si=UY8HI... YouTube Channel: Maya Venice

•BOOK•REVIEW• 🌟Thank you to Little Brown for this finished copy! Title: The Hotel Nantucket Author: Elin Hildebrand Genre: Contemporary Fiction •Rating• ⭐⭐⭐⭐ 4 Stars I recommend this book! •Review• Is it even the begining of summer if I am not reading the latest Elin Hildebrand novel?? Her latest did not disappoint. A deep dive into all things Nantucket and boutique hotels. Loved the characters, all the side stories, and a bit of super natural. Pick up this beach read!

Elin has a way of drawing you into the lives of the characters in the story. It was a fun story and I cared about the characters, their story and their futures.

Nothing like Elin Hilderbrand summer based books for a cozy start to fall.

I was always interested in Nantucket & this book’s setting/background is on the island. This is definitely a page turner especially the last half. There is a suspense element to several of the subplots which I enjoy. However, I did not like the over abundance of romance between the characters. I know this novel is partly characterizes as a romance novel but I still felt there were just too much. The manager hooks up with the chef. The hotel guess hooks up with the night auditor. The owner hooks up with the cleaner. Etc, etc… The last part of the novel included a section call the “Blue Book”. It is a sort of a guidebook that includes the author’s (author is a Nantucket resident) recommendations on what to do on the island when visiting… Overall, this novel was not bad.

4.5⭐️ This was everything I want and need in a summer book! I felt so connected to all of the characters and loved seeing everyone’s different story lines. This really did feel like the show Below Deck but a hotel version! There were so many different tropes that kept this story entertaining! The only reason it’s not a full five stars for me is because there was a lot of people and names to remember and there were a few times I had trouble remembering who was who. This was still such a fun read and I desperately want to visit Nantucket one day! This was my first Elin Hilderbrand book and I can’t wait to read more by her!

“Find where you belong and make that place your own.” Recently, I mentioned to my husband that I wanted to subscribe to the Hallmark streaming channel. With the bombardment of disturbing daily headline news, I just wanted a syrupy sweet escape into their ‘pretty’ rom-com movies and mysteries. In some ways, Nicholas Sparks writing takes me to that place, too. I read a lot of his stories, and watched many of his made-for-tv and premiere release movies in the theater before coming to Goodreads. So, when this book was donated to my Little Free Library Shed, I thought it was time to indulge in Sparks again. Our three main protagonists are Tanner, Kaitlyn and Jasper. And, I should mention Arlo. Jasper’s dog. In many ways, the dog in a story will capture our hearts, and certainly Arlo does. How will these 3 lives intersect and how it will impact each of them? Tanner has been a loner for the majority of his life, having been raised by his grandparents when his mother died in childbirth. He is an avid traveller and former military with no place to call home. He comes to Asheboro, North Carolina because on his grandmother’s deathbed she finally revealed who is birth father was. This is his opportunity to discover his past before heading off to a job in Cameroon, in Central Africa where he once worked. Kaitlyn is a divorced doctor and mother of a precocious teenager named Casey and young son, Mitch. Casey happened to plow into Tanner’s car, which leads Tanner to Kaitlyn. What sparks manifest between them? Could Kaitlyn be the answer to Tanner’s restlessness? And, could Tanner be the answer to Kaitlyn opening her life to living? Jasper is a scarred-face loner who lives next to the woods with Arlo, an elderly Labrador, “part mystery mutt” who has appreciated Kaitlyn’s attention to his health, and Mitch’s visits. What happened in Jasper’s past? And then there is the rumors of a white deer in the woods. How will this affect Jasper? And, the others? This is a sweet, easy-to-read, page-turning story about family, faith, love and second chances. And, with Arlo, the joy of having a devoted dog. 🐾

Counting Miracles is a heartwarming, intricate story of being in the right place at the right time. Nothing is merely a coincidence. As with most Nicholas Sparks books I can just see this story playing out up on the big screen & I truly hope it gets adapted into a movie...soon! I loved the characters, the storyline, and how it all intersected at the perfect time. There aren't many of Sparks's books that I don't love, but this, dare I say, is some of his best work yet. My only complaint is Casey & Kaitlyn are such similar names for mother and daughter and it took some time before I able to keep them straight. Thank you to Random House for an early copy in exchange for my honest review. 4 stars.

Counting Miracles is another wonderful book by Nicholas Sparks. Tanner Hughes has been overseas working in the military most of his life. He's currently out and not sure what to do with his life. He's promised a military buddy that he'll do security for him overseas in a few months. Tanner has trouble staying in one place too long. His grandmother and grandfather raised Tanner as his mother died in childbirth and he was never told anything about his father. His grandfather has been dead a couple of years and he came back when his grandmother got sick. Tanner took care of her and on her deathbed she told him to settle down and find a home. She also left him a note with a name on it and the town of Asheboro, North Carolina. The name was David Johnson and it said it was Tanner's father. After settling his grandmother's affairs and listing the house for sale, Tanner heads to Asheboro to get answers. Why wasn't Tanner told about his father before now? He loved his grandparents, but would've loved to have seen his father, too. So many unanswered questions. Tanner needs to find answers on his own now. Tanner meets a single mom while in Asheboro when her daughter backs into his car. When he takes her home, his heart skips a beat when he meets Katityn Cooper, her mother. Kaitlyn is a doctor in town who is raising her teenaged daughter and 8 year old son. Their father is a famous surgeon and doesn't have much time for the kids. He met a younger woman and left Kaitlyn a couple years ago. He is now remarried to that younger woman and sees the kids when it fits his schedule. Kaitlyn's neighbor, Jasper, is an 83 year old living in a run down cabin. He has terrible scars all over him and is scary to look at as he was in a fire. No one knows what happened to Jasper. They know he had a family and know something tragic happened, but no one wants to ask him to relive it. Jasper's best friend is his dog, Arlo. They go everywhere together and are very close. What will bring these 3 people together? Is it possible to find family after you've lost everyone you ever loved? Is it possible to settle down when you've never stayed in one place for long? Is it possible to find love again after being hurt? These are questions that you'll have to find out by reading Counting Miracles. I rate Counting Miracles 4 stars with a high recommendation. I'd like to thank NetGalley and Random House Publishing Group-Ballantine for an advanced copy of Counting Miracles in exchange for a fair review. Counting Miracles is available now and should go in your TBR pile. #CountingMiracles

Counting Miracles by Nicholas Sparks is a heartwarming story with likeable characters and a storyline that will draw you in within a few chapters then this book is for you. I was fully invested in this story, and I didn’t want it to end a truly beautifully written novel that I have no hesitation in highly recommending.

Counting Miracles is such a heartwarming story. The ending is just so beautiful. The book tells the stories of Kaitlyn, Tanner, and Jasper. How their lives are intertwined. Once I got past the first chapter, I didn’t want to put the book down. I know I’ll keep thinking of this book for a while.

Nicholas Sparks’ Counting Miracles is a tender story about identity, family, and the quiet moments that change everything. Tanner Hughes, a restless Army Ranger, returns to Asheboro after his grandmother’s final words push him to find where he truly belongs. There he meets Kaitlyn Cooper, a resilient doctor and single mom whose warmth challenges his instinct to keep running. As Tanner uncovers long‑buried family truths, he’s forced to choose between drifting through life or finally rooting himself in love. The novel shines brightest when Tanner and Kaitlyn’s paths collide in a beautifully serendipitous moment, perfectly capturing Sparks’ theme that unexpected encounters can transform us. 🎙Narrated by Holter Graham and Nicholas Sparks. Graham’s captivating voice adds depth to the characters, making the listener feel each emotional high and low. Sparks' own narration brings an intimate connection to his writing, enriching the narrative with a personal touch. The pacing is well-balanced, keeping you engaged throughout the story’s twists and turns. The dual narration helps distinguish between perspectives, enhancing the immersive quality of the audiobook. It’s a journey of love, loss, and unexpected miracles.

Special thanks to NetGalley for the advanced reader copy of this book. Nicholas Sparks is one of my favorite authors to read and while this one was not my favorite of his, it still tugged at my heart strings and made me unable to put it down. As is normal, Sparks sends you on an up and down emotional journey making you fall in love with his characters and their stories. Unlike, 'The Wish' where I did not see the ending coming, I figured out pretty early on what the twist was going to be, but knowing it ahead of time did not take away from the emotions felt when it was revealed. Another fantastic book by Nicholas Sparks, sure to be another best seller!

** spoiler alert ** This was such an emotional read. There was a lot of references to the Bible and God so keep that in mind when thinking out reading this book. Counting Miracles is about an army ranger, Tanner, who was taken care of by his grandparents and before his grandmother passes away she lets him know where he can find his father. Tanner sets out to try and locate his dad. I loved how the book talked about how life sometimes falls apart or gets unbelievably tragic especially for one of the characters but for you not to give up. If you continue on or have faith life falls back together. Even though I figured out the twist pretty early on I was fully invested. The writing was so captivating and beautiful. I felt like I could picture everything like a movie. I have read Nicholas Sparks since I was young and I always enjoy everything he writes. Thank you to Netgalley for this free advance copy in exchange for an honest review.

I have read several Nicholas Sparks’ books previously and they never disappoint. He has the ability to write from a woman’s perspective as well as any woman, which is rare. When Tanner stops in Asheboro in the USA trying to find his father his beloved car is smashed into by a young girl – out without her mother’s permission. Tanner finds himself feeling sorry for the girl and ends up taking her home. When he meets her (single) mother, Kaitlyn, he is immediately smitten – but Tanner is only passing through – trying to find his father before going off to work abroad. Meanwhile Jasper is living on his own in Asheboro. Horribly disfigured from a fire that killed his wife and family his only friends are his Dr, Kaitlyn, and her family and a mysterious white deer he feels drawn to protect. This is a cleverly crafted story which I thoroughly enjoyed.

I'm so glad this is the very first book I finished starting with 2025! I've read a few of Sparks books but this one was just very heartfelt and made me feel all type of things. I heard it is coming out with this movie in 2025 so I can't wait to see it. Definitely one of Sparks best work.

A beautiful story of faith .. and sometimes realizing that the bigger picture is the small things we take for granted 💛

Thank you NetGalley for this ARC. Nicholas Sparks did it again! I cried tears from feeling touched by the story and the characters in this book. I adored the cast and thought the story was neat in its symbolism. A beautiful story highlighting the importance of family, connection, roots, love and something greater than ourselves.

Such a heartfelt book that tugs at your heartstrings. Nicholas Sparks is a brilliant writer in getting your feeling to the surface. I loved everything about this book, the character's were perfectly written and of course the ending always leave you satisfied. Thanks to the author, the publisher and Netgalley for an early release of this book.

Can I tell you a little story? Way before Bookstagram was a thing, the first book I ever jotted down in a Word Doc was Dear John by Nicholas Sparks on New Years Day 2010. I decided I wanted to keep track of the books I was reading (like my dad did on index cards) and that was the first one on my “list”. I read it in a day and thought, oh, this is going to be fun. 14 years later, I am still keeping track, across several sites around the interwebs and it still brings me so much joy! And clearly, I am still reading Nicholas Sparks! Sparks is an automatic read author for me. I’m not a huge romance reader but his stories are always sweet. There is always a build up, a conflict and then a resolution, all wrapped up in love and Counting Miracles is no different. I did love the character of Jasper. I have such a soft spot for older people who live in a cabin in the woods, with their furry companions. Maybe this is a foreshadow of my own life so I am here for it. You’ll also meet Kaitlyn, the mom of Casey and Mitch and Tanner, the guy that shows up in town and swoons everyone! This feel good romance is a quick read and I hope it brings a smile to your face and maybe a tear to your eye as you read it.

4.5 stars. We follow Tanner a restless soul who can never stay in one place go in search of his biological father after loosing his grandmother , Kaitlyn a divorced mother and doctor who has set up roots in the small town…& Jasper an old man whose story will break your heart; oh and the white dear. And an unexpected miracle that brings them together. A perfect pre Christmas read. My first Nicholas Sparks novel but definitely not my last… I loved it 😊. I’m always up for a plot line with some mystic and this didn’t disappoint, though I loved one plot line more than the other…, it all came together very well in the end.

4 stars ⭐️ A big thank you to NetGalley, Nicholas Sparks, and the publishers for the e-ARC! Having grown up reading Nicholas Sparks, Counting Miracles was another beautifully crafted story that didn't disappoint. The lives of Jasper, Tanner, and Kaitlyn, along with Kaitlyn’s children, are intricately woven together in ways that are both heartbreaking and deeply moving. I loved the multiple perspectives, and the twist at the end was amazing. Sparks evoked so many emotions throughout the story, with Jasper’s journey especially striking a chord with me. I can’t wait to get my hands on a physical copy when it's released!

Love me a good Nicolas sparks book! ❤️

Like all of Mr. Sparks' Novels, 'Counting Miracles' is set in the south. This story is set in Asheboro, North Carolina. Tanner Hughes was orphaned at birth; he was raised by his grandparents. Tanner is an Army Ranger who has yet to settled down. He much prefers to travel and remain active. In the story Tanner is around 40 years old. Tanner, though, is curious about his parents. He knew that his mother died in child birth. He, however, knows nothing about his father. On her deathbed Tanner's grandmother finally tells Tanner a little about his father. Tanner's father, as it happens, lived in Asheboro, North Carolina. Before Tanner is to report to his next duty station, he sets off for Asheboro in search of his father. While in Asheboro, Tanner meets an attractive, divorced mother of two, Kaitlyn; she is a doctor. Tanner and Kaitlyn start to see each other regularly. Their attraction is mutual. Meanwhile, eighty-three year old Jasper lives alone in his cabin in the woods with only his dog, Arlo, as a companion. Jasper has lived a lonely life since his wife and grown children were burned alive in their cabin decades before. Jasper survived the fire, but was permanently scarred from the fire. Kaitlyn is Jasper's doctor as it turns out. The novel unfolds among these various characters and how, eventually, it is discovered that they all have much in common.

Hell yeah! My wishes came true! Matthew McConaughey will reprise his role as Jake Brigance for HBO limited series! He’s back!🥳 I still remember the day I bought “a time to kill” because of high recommendation of bookstore salesman when I insisted I was something addictive and unputdownable! I was young, dumb high school wannabe, not so picky and tough reader! I was enjoying to be introduced to new authors. This was my first John Grisham book and a year later, I was also introduced the young and hot Texan Matthew delicious McConaughey with his blonde curls who was playing Jake Brigance, the heroic lawyer who has saved Carl Lee Hailey (for the love of Samuel L. Jackson) from spending his life behind the bars. As soon as I learned this brilliant character returned back for a new adventure: another tragic, thought provoking, action packed criminal case, I screamed “yessss!” I already started to wish seeing older and wiser McConaughey to play this role again. I think I cannot imagine anyone on my mind when I read the character. His handsome face just imprinted on my mind! I have to warn you: the book’s opening is shocking, jaw dropping and disturbing as hell! After this impactful start, the book captures your mind! You cannot put it down even though you try. The story is just hooking you! No matter what you do to go back to your normal life, your mind is already stuck with the events and what’s gonna happen to that 16 years old boy who committed a crime to save his mother and little sister’s lives! The story starts, drunk and outrageous deputy sheriff Stuart Kofer’s arrival at his home he shares with his girlfriend and her two teenage children( one boy and a girl) As like usual, he gets out of control, attacking his girlfriend, brutally beats her. The children who listen them from upstairs, secretly coming down to check their mother when Stuart passes out in his room. But their mother is not breathing! Did Stuart kill beat her to death? Drew gets panicked because his mother ilmight be dead and before passing out Stu already tried to attack his sister Kiera, too. He can wake up at any minute to finish what he started. So he HAS TO STOP HIM ASAP! They call the police but their arrival takes more time than they expected! When they finally arrive at the crime scene: they found crying Kiera holding her mother into her arms, shocked Drew holding a gun into his hands, confessing that he shot Stu on the head! Drew is taken to jail, getting charged for capital murder. If jury finds him guilty, his penalty is getting killed in the gas chamber. As you may imagine Jake Brigance’s decision to take this impossible case makes him more unpopular person in the town of Clayton, Mississippi because he’s defending a cop killer. Stu is already popular policeman among his colleagues so people seemed like this is a betrayal to the memory of one of the bravest crime fighters. The book is well written just like the other brilliant works of the author. Only thing bothered me is too long case preparation process. The trial process, twisty, shocking were the most exciting parts of the book but unfortunately they take place only last %15 of the novel! I liked the meaningful, brilliant, satisfying conclusion and beginning of the book was mind blowing but in the middle I lost my interest a little bit and got lost in law jargons. So I’m cutting only one point and welcoming Jake Brigance back with open hands by giving four justice for all stars! Crossing my fingers to see Mr. all right all right all right McConaughey on the big screen for the adaptation of this book!

Jake Brigance is back and it’s about time! The year is 1990 and the place is Clanton, Mississippi. It has been five years since Jake Brigance represented Carl Lee Haley. Now, Jake is asked to represent sixteen year old Drew Gamble, accused of murdering his mother’s boyfriend Stuart Kofer, a cop on the local police force who Drew and his sister claimed were abusing their mother. This is a case that no one wants, for good reason and yet, after being appointed by the Court, Jake defends it to the best of his ability, regardless of the backlash or the consequences. A brilliantly plotted, taut legal thriller that includes compelling characters and a myriad of prevalent issues all of which make for a truly thrilling read. This courtroom thriller kept me on the edge of my seat throughout and completely delivered. Published on Goodreads on 10.25.20.

4.0 stars —- “A Time for Mercy” is the 3rd Jake Brigance novel from John Grisham. I wasn’t a big fan of the last Grisham book I read and was hoping that this one would be back up to his usual high standards. After not being able to read for a week due to COVID issues, I breezed through this very well written and interesting novel in just 5 days. “Mercy” tells the story of a 16 year old boy who is charged with capital murder after killing his mother’s abusive boyfriend, who just happens to be a cop. When Brigance is appointed to be the boy’s attorney for trial, the small town turns against Jake (much like they did in “A Time to Kill”)and Jake has to try to overcome long odds to get his client a fair trial. Grisham does a great job of creating compelling, believable characters that make the novel an interesting read from start to finish. Grisham also does a great job of interjecting humor and sarcasm throughout the book that at rimes is laugh out loud funny. The only weakness was Grisham’s courtroom scenes were lacking, especially when he made Brigance into super-lawyer and the prosecutor a bumbling idiot who was unable to ask a single intelligent question on cross-exam due to the traps and scripted answers Jake had prepared his witness with before trial. Also, the Judge’s rulings were legally wrong time and again which also aided Jake considerably. Other than these slight irritations, the book was good from start to finish and I would highly recommend.

The opening of this book grabs the reader and does not let go. It is Grisham at his finest. The story is about domestic violence and all its ramifications. In many ways the story is a heartbreaker. The plot is interesting and the characters are colorful. There is enough racial tension and legal drama to keep the reader on edge. The story follows the real-world disagreements about domestic violence and what happens when the children victims fight back. I think the book could have been a bit shorter. If you enjoy a legal thriller, you will want to read this book. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book is nineteen hours and fifty-nine minutes. Michael Beck does a good job narrating the book. Beck has narrated many of the Grisham books.

What a terrific read! The last book I read by Grisham was Gray Mountain, back in 2014, so it’s been quite some time. I have others published after that one but I was not excited to read them as I was with this one, especially because “A Time To Kill” is one of my top 5 by this author, and as I loved “Sycamore Row”, I could not wait to put my hands on this one. I was not disappointed. I enjoyed every minute. Grisham is a great storyteller. I do recommend this book.

The long wait between instalments is absolutely worthwhile! Jake Brigance returns, representing 16-year-old Drew Gamble, accused of murdering his mother's boyfriend Stuart Kofer, a local police officer, who was not on duty but in small-town Clanton, Mississippi, 1990, this does not matter and Drew finds himself facing the gas chamber. Drew and his sister claim they and their mother are being abused by Kofer. Brigance finds himself embroiled in a deeply divisive trial as Drew's court-appointed attorney, but there is backlash, controversy and significant consequences to his representation of the boy (personal, financial and social). Grisham is a master storyteller. The slow-burning plot is filled with legal drama, damaged characters and a cornucopia of issues, making for a fantastic read. The courtroom scenes kept me turning pages late into the night. Definitely written with another book in mind and I can see this one being made into a movie!

This is the third book in the Jake Brigance series by John Grisham and it seems like the author has his mojo back. I really enjoyed the two previous books in this series but have been a little disappointed by some of the authors latest offerings so it was good to have normal service resumed. Jake Brigance is back in a murder trial that nobody wants, defending Drew Gamble who is accused of murdering a local deputy. The case is stirring the local citizens of Clanton, Mississippi, leaving them looking for justice and the death penalty following the murder of their local deputy. . Although it is with reluctance that Jake accepts this case he is a lawyer who seeks truth and justice at all costs, never sidestepping decisions that may put him and his family in danger. Many in Clanton want a swift trial and the death penalty, but Brigance sees it another way. Once he learns the details of the case, he realises he has to do everything he can to save sixteen year old Drew. I always enjoy court room drama and there was plenty in this novel to keep me happy. Excellent characters and good plot written by a master storyteller. John Grisham specialises in legal thrillers and this is well worth reading.

“… the mad glow in his eyes told her this was their last fight. This was the moment he would finally kill her.” In the eyes of his fellow officers and fellow townspeople, Stuart Kofer is a long-term model police officer and the finest sheriff’s deputy that Clanton, Mississippi, has ever seen. Late night and after his work hours tells a dramatically different story. Kofer is a sloppy, violent drunk who routinely beats his wife and step son, Josie and Drew Gamble, senseless, topping off his alter ego’s malicious conduct by assaulting and raping his fourteen year old step-daughter. After a night of particularly heavy drinking and a resulting vicious beating, Drew picks up Kofer’s service weapon and puts a bullet through Kofer’s left temple as he lay passed out on his bed in an alcoholic stupor. The resulting charge of first degree murder takes 16 year old Drew Gamble out of the juvenile court system and places him into the docket as an adult facing a capital trial and the prospect of execution by the state. A TIME FOR MERCY is most decidedly NOT a suspense thriller. From first page to last, it is a legal procedural that describes in heartbreaking (and, if I may say so, rather lengthy) detail the minutiae of the capital trial of a young man who readers will almost certainly believe is innocent as a matter of self-defense. Southern USA small town politics; mental illness; domestic violence and sexual assault; alcoholism and drug abuse; poverty; the difficulties of a small legal practice financing an extended defense for a case forced upon him by the state judicial system; police corruption; and the blue wall of silence make A TIME FOR MERCY an interesting, if somewhat less than compelling or page-turning novel. Admittedly a long way from John Grisham’s best work but an entertaining novel nevertheless that fans will enjoy. Paul Weiss

Grisham is my auto read/buy list. I don’t always like them but I do love the Brigance trilogy. This one was a slow burn tense read that ended up being really satisfying.

This is a book that just begs for 4.5 stars. The first chapter pulls you in and Grisham never lets up after that. A very good courtroom drama that has plenty of excitement and witticisms. If you like Grisham you will like this tale. Recommended.

It has become one of my annual late Fall rituals. The leaves are falling. College and Pro football are in season, which means it is time to open the new John Grisham novel, “A Time for Mercy”, and re-visit the law in action in the south. And on a personal note, it also an opportunity to get the bad taste of Grisham’s weak Spring outing, “Camino Winds” flushed out of my system. As I through myself into the first chapter, I remembered almost instantly why I love reading Grisham so much. He is a masterful storyteller. He pulls you from the first sentence, sets the scene, and grabs your full immersion in his story. Simple things become interesting and legal issues provide complex and emotional moral stories that pull on your heart strings. That is the case (no pun intended) as Grisham returns to his most established protagonist and underdog winning lawyer, Jake Brigance. It is 1990 in Clanton, Mississippi, where he is finally finding peace for him and his family following the aftermath of his getting a not guilty verdict for Carl Lee Hailey five years previously (as told in “A Time to kill” one of Grisham’s first novels), a man who killed his ten-year-old daughter’s brutal rapist. Now, jake is faced with another explosive and political conflict when he finds himself being pushed by the circuit court justice to take on another impossible case. Not being able to say no, Jake finds himself being appointed as the defense attorney for Drew Gamble, a scared and shy sixteen-year-old who looks more like twelve. Drew is in big trouble. He has been charged with killing a local deputy, with which he, his mom, and sister lived with. Because the victim was a member of local law enforcement and his family strong members of the local community, the gossip and negative reaction are heavy and fierce. Many citizens want swift justice in favor of invoking the death penalty for the teenager. And that anger and frustration gets pointed at Jake and his family as he tries to honor his commitment to defend the young Drew. To make matters worse, the more Jake digs into Drew’s and his family situation, he finds there is more to the story which could serve to inflame the town even more. Before long jake finds his career, family, and financial security will all be at risk as he tries to what he believes is morally right… I purposely tried to pace my reading of this book, to extend and savor the experience. Still, I devoured every page, every challenge that Jake faced, and the legal conflict that comes from small town politics and emotions. This book was like a date that you never wanted to end because you were so mesmerizingly in the moment. I hesitate to share anymore of the plot or characters because I don’t want to take away anything from anyone’s own reading experience. This one is best enjoyed without knowing anything more than what is on the book cover. “A Time for Mercy” radiated the masterful Grisham storytelling that we’ve come to know and love. His descriptions are brief, focused, and vivid. His dialogs are sharp and flow like a Robert B. Parker Spenser novel at its best. More importantly. Like Stephen King, Grisham is a pure in heart storyteller, and his storytelling skills are pretty flawless – smooth and flowing prose with no wasted or unnecessary words, a constant focus on moving the conflict forward. I am probably not the first, not the last, to claim that Grisham is our modern-day William Faulkner of American fiction. Overall, this is an excellent book, a page-turner from beginning to end, with one exceptional issue regarding the ending that I struggled with. The plotting is crisp and tight, moving from scene to another smoothly and effortlessly. The key elements and plot twists are revealed one steady step at a time, like the peeling of a ripe onion, not too fast and not too slow, building to a strong climax that delivers a solid pay off. There’s something about this one too that feels more personal for Grisham. His characters, politics, religious practices, southern history, and legal processes are intertwined into the tapestry of one of his richest stories in a beautiful and masterful way. Grisham projects himself through his protagonist, Jake Brigance, an authentic down to earth, flawed hero, trying his darndest to make the world a better place. As readers, we cheer him, walk with him, and want to be him. As for my one issue, I need to tread gently so as not to spoil anything for my fellow readers. For 434 pages this was a 5-star rating for me and some of Grisham’s best writing. However, the last 30 pages reflected a developing habit that has arisen in his recent books over the past few years (including “The Reckoning” and “Camino Winds”) for endings that feel inconclusive, thrown together, and even depressing. It’s hard to be specific without giving away details that could impact the reading experience, so I will describe it this way. There are two major cases that Jake is working on and after the emotional roller-coaster reading experience, one of them pretty much ends up where it started and the other one sort-of gets taken care in a brief scene or two that leaves you shaking your head and thinking WTH? I may be the only one who struggled with these structural issues, but the outcome for me is a 4-star rating rather than a 5-star. I fully accept that my thoughts on the last 30 pages will more than likely put me in the minority of viewpoints with the millions of readers who will love this book, and that is okay. That does not take away from my belief that “A Time for Mercy” is well-worth the reading the experience. It fully is. Thank you, John, for giving me one of my favorite Fall season experiences. Hopefully, I’ll see you again next year…

I've always maintained and I've always will that if you read one book by John Grisham, you read them all. The same, naturally, goes for this book too. And it is not something that I say out of spite or to criticize or to highlight any other disadvantage. On the contrary, I like Grisham's books and I've read almost all of them. And they are really good. But, at the same time, the aforementioned "read one - read all" means that I probably won't ever in the future rate any of them 5*, simply because of lack of surprise element or something that could be regarded as very unexpected and truly novel. As for this book - while I don't think it is the best book by Grisham, the main character Jake Brigance is probably my favorite person in Grisham's works. He's nice, good-hearted, pretty simple, with a strong sense of duty and honor and generally easy to relate to. So, I actually do not have much to add to. Those how read at least a few books by this author already knows what to expect and they (probably) won't be disappointed with this book, too. And those who haven't read anything by Grisham, well.. First of all, I guess they're in for quite a jolly legal roller coaster in a deep, rural south. Second - why would anyone start from book nr. 3? Go and read A Time to Kill, which probably is the best book (Well, at least one of top-3 for sure) by Grisham, and book nr. 1 in the series at the same time. I'm not gonna reveal any plot here, but it is an easy to read book that caries a sound social criticism at the same time. Certainly, some aspects strike me as too pious or even too bigoted in this book, but I just guess that it had been a standard norm in the rural south back at 1990. As usually, 4 solid *.

A Time for Mercy is the newest addition to John Grisham’s fine vigilante series featuring lawyer Jake Brigance. As someone who likes to grab my baseball bat after a few Budweiser’s and police the mean streets of my town until I pass out in the middle of my neighbor Lou’s well-manicured lawn, I can truly appreciate the take the law into your own hands approach Grisham takes with this series. And let me be clear, you do not have to be an active vigilante yourself to enjoy these books, maybe you just always wanted to join the Guardian Angels but (like me) you discovered that sadly all your berets were green. Or maybe you are getting up there in years and unable to rundown those high school punks spray-painting poorly proportioned genitalia on parked cars without throwing out your back. A Time for Mercy starts with young Drew Gamble shooting his Mom’s extremely drunk boyfriend (a Clanton police officer) in the melon after another violent beating. Drew and his sister believe Mom is dead and are traumatized by repeated abuse. The police arrest Drew and the case seems cut and dry. I mean you can’t just kill everyone who injures you, right? You have to work through the system, call the police, and seek help, right? Oh contraire, my frere! In Grisham’s odes to killing those who wrong you, it is never that simple. Lawyer Jake Brigance swoops in and soon works at finding ways to make the jury as well as us readers (even those of a more liberal leaning) outraged at the thought that this poor 16 year old could be convicted for simply shooting an unarmed and passed out man. Like a passive aggressive mother trying to get her slovenly teenager to put down the X-Box controller and do his chores, Grisham manipulates the story like a pro: Drew, while 16 years of age is smaller than Gary Coleman’s Arnold Jackson, The state wants to put him to death—no jail sentence for this kid, the dead boyfriend is an unremittent creep, an abuser with a history of violence that has historically been given a blind eye by his fellow cops and bosses. Grisham is a strong writer. The story is suspenseful and quick moving. As a reader I only paused to emit the occasional outraged grunt or hiss. While I may not agree with the flagrant lawlessness that Grisham endorses with these stories I was swept away by the nail-biting court room action. A fun and light read.

The book opens with a violent scene that sets the scene for the rest of the book. The place is Clanton, Mississippi. Thetine. 1990. Jake Brigance finds. Himself pressed into taking a case to defend 16 year old Drew Gamble. The prosecution is asking for the boy to be tried as a adult and seeking the death penalty, as Drew shot a deputy sheriff. But there is a lot more to the story of the Gamble Family, mother Josie, sister Kiera and Drew and what happened with deputy sherrif Stuart Kofer. This is the third book in the series featuring Jake Brigance. I had not read the middle book and wasn’t overly impressed with the first one but the premise of this story sounded interesting. I found this a thought provoking and extremely readable novel. Interestingly it takes till about three quarters of the way though the book to get to the actual trial, the rest is lawyers playing the chess game of the law trying to score points and out think the other lawyer’s moves ahead of time. I found this interesting although sometimes it does seem less about getting at the truth than outwitting the other lawyer. Many people in the community are not happy with Jake for representing Drew and Jake pays the price for that in more than one way. While I enjoyed this and it maintained my interest particularly once it got to the trial, I wasn’t thrilled with some aspects of the ending. Maybe that’s the reality but it just felt a bit unsettling. Still a good read.

Fantastic plot. John Grisham is a master at translating the complexities of the courtroom into a language that is both comprehensible and appealing to laypeople like myself. Big issues—great for conversations about domestic abuse, alcohol abuse, and children who, in self-defense, commit heinous crimes. “The facts are what they are and we can’t change them.” Good shit! 🙌🏼

I honestly don't remember reading a book of more than 600 pages before. It's a true testament to Grisham's ability to keep a reader glued to the pages that I finished in just three days. I can't say this is his best. Others will, but I felt there was too much side business going on that really didn't help move the plot along. The main plot, the murder of a police officer, is strong and carried my attention to the last page. Each time the train left the tracks, I wondered if it was just to make the book longer. As usual, Grisham's characters are superb. Even without the customary inner thoughts, it was easy and clear to know what the characters were thinking. You will fall in love with the two children. Say no more. The lead character - Jake - has been in two previous books by Grisham. I don't recall the second one, although "A Time To Kill" was amazing. Several word choices become apparent and overused, the reason I couldn't in good conscience rate this one five stars. "Eased" is used so often in five successive chapters that I was wondering if the author's thesaurus was stuck on that page. I like Grisham's writing and have admired it for many years. If you've read everything else by this author, than this book is a requirement. If John Grisham is unknown to you, don't start here.

Jake is back! This story starts out red hot and keeps on cooking all the way to the very end. THIS kind of fun writing is why I read John Grisham. ATFM is 4 and 3/4 stars easily.

I really enjoyed this third book in the Jake Brigance series. I didn't read the book jacket because I wanted to go in blind, and I'm glad I did. I knew from the start where it was going, but there were some surprises along the way. The only downsides for me were that it didn't have the same depth with the side characters as usual and that there was a lot of repetition with the law procedures, like picking the jury, for example. We got that in all 3 Jake books, which wasn't necessary. I really like the ending, and I like that there are unanswered questions. Overall, I'm glad I finally got to read this book, and I would definitely read more Jake books and more Ford County and/or Clanton books. I recommend this book to people who enjoyed A Time to Kill and/or Sycamore Row and to people who like legal thrillers. Trigger warnings: domestic abuse, rape, discussion of abortion

This was an interesting topic. What do you do??? The ending opens a can of worms for the next book.

Jack Brigance is a Lawyer in this sensational courtroom drama. He was in previous novels written by Grisham. This story takes place in Clayton, MS and is about 16 year old Drew. He is involved in what happened to his mom’s boyfriend. His sister testifies about the night in question during the trial and her experiences the boyfriend. Riveting, Suspenseful, Gripping! 4 stars!

An enjoyable, twisty read. John Grishan is a master of the legal thriller.

This book was wonderful. I read the audio. Now I have a feeling I may need to go back and read A Time To Kill. I remember reading and seeing the movie A Time to Kill, but the names of the folks in A Time For Mercy remind me of a TTK so much that it may be worth a trip down memory lane. I would try the audio this time instead of the paperback. Grisham is still a master storyteller, but it took a bit too long to actually get to the trial. It was never boring and it didn’t drag, but at some point I began to wonder whether there would even be a trial. I am definitely looking forward to the movie.

3.5 stars "We compromised, and still do, though that doesn’t always come easy for us. Love doesn’t hang on conditions, but marriage bloody well hangs on compromise.” Book 56 guys. Each time I finished a book in this series, it always feel like I've accomplished something. And I actually did enjoy this one far more than I expected, despite having a certain actor/actress element being a big part of it. The case was also a pretty straightforward with a few little twists and many lies. As always, the characters were the stars of the book, while the police procedural thing comes second. Nothing much happened, characters-wise, but still it's like coming home. I guess I was just in the perfect mindset for this one.

56 books in and I still really enjoy this series. Still love the narrating style of the audio book. It's a really fast read. This time, Eve, Peabody, Rourke, and the rest of the crew are investigating the poisoning death of an A-list star. It's fascinating the different angles that Eve has to navigate to solve the murder. As an avid reader of the series, I also really enjoy the running gags - like Jenkinson's ties and the thief who keeps stealing Eve's hidden candy bar in her office.

More of the same but passed the time listening. The crime was easily solved though I’ll admit wavering there somewhat, I was always strong with my initial guess. That along with no character development made a soft read. Nothing to write home about. Probably a 3 for this series but still better than some 3 star books I’ve read, so I’ll round up. Narrator was good as always.

3.5 rounded up The gang’s all back as Eve Dallas and co investigate the poisoning death of a theatre actor. Full of all the trademark wit and humor we love (I mean does it ever get old listening to Eve botch colloquialisms?) Great on audio too narrated again by Susan Ericksen. This was another entertaining murder mystery and the 56th instalment in the series even if not too much plot-wise happens to the main cast of characters other than another Eve and Rourke wedding anniversary. Long-time fans of the series are sure to be entertained!

I thoroughly enjoyed this 56th book in J.D. Robb's "In Death" series!

I obviously love this series if I’ve stuck around for 56 (!!) books. I love the near-future setting, I love the procedural setup, but most of all, I love the characters. By 56 books in with the same core cast, I know these people intimately. They feel more real to me than some people I know in real life. I also love the episodic nature, how each case is self-contained to a single book, while we get to see how the lives of the central cast are progressing and changing from book to book. This particular story deals with the celebrity world. When a hugely beloved actor dies of cyanide poisoning at the party he was throwing with his equally famous actress wife, Eve has to determine which half of the power couple was truly the intended target as she weaves through this world of glitz and glamour and long-held grudges. Just because you’re famous doesn’t mean you aren’t willing to get your hands dirty for revenge’s sake if opportunity presents itself. I found the central story of this particular installment a bit lackluster in comparison to some other books in the series. However, I readily admit that this is due in large part to the fact that I am in no way enamored with the celebrity realm. I see what Roberts was doing with this installment, though. The past few books have dealt with heavy, dark, disturbing content, and this provided a bit of a breather for both the reader and the characters. Even if I wasn’t deeply invested in the case, there were a few interesting twists, and I’m always incredibly happy to catch up with the characters.

Pretty good! It wasn't a favorite, but a solid entry to the series.

This one dragged for me and I was pretty sure who the murderer was early on. I have long praised this author and this series for remaining fresh and interesting with over 2-3 dozen books, but IMHO I believe the quality is finally beginning to decline. The past few books have been meh for me. Am I still going to read them all? Absolutely yes. I adore these characters and, like old friends, I feel the necessity to visit them occasionally.

Mystery - Police procedural After 56 books in the series, there isn't much left to say. These characters are like old friends that you visit a few times a year. This book mostly features Eve, Roarke and Peabody. The other players are still around, but don't feature in this story. Eve is called in after an A-list celebrity dies at a party. He drinks a cocktail that seems as if it was intended for his wife and dies of cyanide poisoning. The rest of the novel is really a police procedural of Eve following up and clearing every possible avenue to reveal the murderer. This was another very solid addition to the series.

Twists and Turns Abound In This Installment! Eve Dallas novels are my comfort reads, and this one didn't disappoint! It had a very unexpected plot, and a lot of twists and turns to find out who wound up doing the heinous murder. I definitely wasn't expecting the reveal on that front! The characters were very engaging, and I could swear that they were right in front of me, as if they were playing parts in a movie! The pacing was a bit off for me, as it moved slower than I'd like, but all in all, it was a great read!

The In Death series remains one of my favourites. Most series dry up for me after 5-10 books but at #56, I still look forward to the next one in the In Death books. This was not the strongest book in the collection and was missing a little of the supporting characters. The mystery seemed like a repeat just in the celebrity world too but after 56 books, you expect some repeats and it doesn't bother me as much as with some other authors/shorter series. I enjoyed it though, reading over a weekend and still looking forward to the next one in fall

Another fantastic instalment In the magnificent In Death series this sci fi crime thriller series is absolutely phenomenal to read, I love the characters of Eve, Roarke, Summerset, Galahad, Peabody, mcnab, Baxter, true heart, Mira, Whitney. I loved how in every book takes us on a journey alongside Eve as age follows clues and leads to capturing criminals and bringing them to justice. This series is highly entertaining and enjoyable books to read. Successful actors and husband and wife Eliza Lane and Brant are hosting an A list filled party for Eliza’s latest achievement she’s doing a revival of the play upstage which she originally played the daughter character which boosted her to stardom twenty five years earlier but the party ends in tragedy after the toast Brant collapses to the ground dead. Eve Dallas arrives on scene with Peabody and mcnab to work the case, cause of death cyanide poisoning, they begin interviewing guests, leading to possible suspects such as fellow actor Vera Hallows who once dated Brant before he left her for Eliza, there’s Also an ex stalker of Eliza’s Ethan Cromwell. Throughout the case Eve has to deal with the high level of media interest because of the celebrity death meaning media conferences which she doesn’t particularly enjoy dealing with. Eve, Peabody, mcnab, Baxter and trueheart begin examining the crime scene, morris the ME confirms cause of death. Peabody and Eve go to queens to question Ethan who clearly is still obsessed with Eliza they bring him for breaking parole but quickly rule him out of killing Brant. They interview several other people including Vera’s date Rico, Samantha the actress playing the daughter role in upstage, they interview Vera whom Eve doesn’t believe she’s the killer either, they question Eliza best friend Sylvia who reveals that Eliza was the understudy to Leah rose in the original upstage production but had to play the part after a mixture of alcohol and pills killed Leah in an overdose which landed her the role that made her a star. They connect the choreographer minx to Leah sisters through marriage Peabody and Eve question minx who tells them she doesn’t blame Eliza for Leah’s actions that lead her to her death, she wanted to work in this production as closure to Leah they rule her out as a suspect. She gives them information on Leah’s mother Debra who blames Eliza for her daughters death, they track her down and arrest her for assaulting an office, they search her place and find evidence of blonde wig, maids uniform and Eliza’s stolen Toby award from upstage. Debra only confesses to stealing the award not murder and with a lack of evidence she gets bail, Eve deeply frustrated roarke steps in and surprises her with an early anniversary present a box full of new armour thin shield the one she wears from her husband and now he’s outfitted for the rest of her team and will be distributed to the rest of the NYCPD free from roarke industries a touching gift. Roarke helps Eve with her case and discover the cyanide connection to Eliza the nephew of Eliza’s Staff who is a metalworker artist, Debra is found dead from cyanide poisoning and keep it quiet to not alert Eliza of their suspicions, they interview Tyler the artist who admits Eliza has been in his studio and was alone for a few moment’s because he’s working on a piece for her, he checks his cyanide and notices some missing, they visit Sylvie and check the room Eliza was staying in and finds a vial of cyanide hidden in a toy teapot in her grandchild playroom horrified by this tells Eve that Eliza wasn’t happy that Brant was going away for six months to produce a movie instead of staying and supporting Eliza as she does the upstage revival. They go to Eliza’s apartment and finds more evidence they arrest Eliza and dna tears confirm the cyanide found killer both Brant and Debra. They get a confession on Brant and Debra’s death but not on Leah’s death, they also charge her with child endangerment and Eve heads home to be with roarke.

Very few authors have given voice to the pandemic or a post pandemic world (even as we are still within the pandemic). With this story, not only is there a voice, there is a concern that a character’s study could provide a solution that could bring the country back to some order, if her solution is taken seriously. And then a murder occurs. Should something happen to this person because her study’s conclusion was so abhorrent? Or was there something from the past that has relevance to this current crime? Chief Inspector Armand Gamache will find himself in a case that touches an emotional chord for him, and leaves readers with many twists and turns along the way. A spellbinding page turner that will not disappoint!

Gamache and the gang are all back in Three Pines for the latest in the series and all the better for it. Penny manages to achieve just the right balance in this one, the village crowd are all there but never overbearingly so, the Gamache-Beauvoir- Lacoste team all play a significant role in the case, and the story throws up enough discussion of social issues and literary references. Even if it doesn’t rank up there among the best in the series, it is a real joy read from beginning to end. And now, just a year long wait for the next episode!

4.0 Stars Video Review: https://youtu.be/EMgU50NWDe4 This is one of the most interesting entries that I've read in the Three Pines series. Set in a post pandemic world, the story deals with heavy issues, exploring the value of life. I found the discussions fascinating and was completely engrossed in the story.

Inspector Armand Gamache is suddenly given the responsibility to protect a professor, who's known for her incendiary speech and rabble rousing capabilities. But chaos hits on the day of her speech and a few days later, another woman is murdered... Masterfully told novel, full of intriguing debates https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-rev... Do Read 📖, Like 👍🏼, Comment 💭 or Share 🚩 🙏🏼🙏🏼 #TheMadnessOfCrowds #LouisePenny #thrillerbooks #mysterybooks #insoectorganache

I am an absolute fan of Louise Penny and was looking forward to reading this one. It did not disappoint (though I don't think it was as good as the previous book, All the Devils are Here). In this story, we are in a post-covid world where people are struggling with the aftermath of the pandemic. Armand and his team find themselves protecting a controversial lecturer. When the murders start, it's impossible to know why they are happening and the killer is, of course, elusive. There's the lovely backdrop of Christmas celebrations in Three Pines. The team struggle to contain the ever growing circle of suspects and potential targets. Armand's family are pulled in to this one, which I liked , nd one of his grandchildren is at risk. The author makes wonderful links with the crimes and Gamache's personal feelings for his family members, and his beloved friends. People take sides, either agreeing or disagreeing with the lecturer's extreme ideas. There's a dark secret from the past which gets thrown in to muddy the waters. Beauvoir's loyalties are tested. Overall, this is another great read with an original plot. My only small dislike was the addition of one too many crazy characters.

I thought this was a well-plotted mystery that kept me guessing right till the end. Some interesting issues were brought up; food for thought.

Perspectives on life; meditations on life; harsh realities that lead to violence; valued friendships and life affirming rituals...all present and accounted for. Penny takes us to imagined post-pandemic life where ugliness intrudes and death results. And then there are winter holidays as celebrated in Quebec, new friendships, enjoyment of winter landscape and treats newly introduced to guest from Sudan.

The plot didn't draw me in this time, yet the audio production was superb, thus the fourth star!

4.5★ “Each day they tracked down killers. Each day they put their own lives on the line. And in return they were scapegoated. Chained to the ground, food for politicians.” Jean-Guy Beauvoir isn’t going to live like that anymore. He has taken Annie and their small son, Honoré, to live in Paris, where he has accepted a good job with a big engineering company. She is heavily pregnant, due any day now, and he intends to be a better husband and father by not having to dodge bullets – and politicians. “He was worn down, worn out by his work in the Sûreté du Québec. He’d headed up the homicide department after his mentor and chief, and father-in-law, Armand Gamache, had been suspended.” Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his beloved Reine-Marie have lost both their children and three (almost four) grandchildren to Paris, and as the book opens, they have arrived in Paris themselves where they are staying in their apartment. Also in Paris, is Stephen Horowitz, Armand’s godfather, who helped to raise him when Armand was orphaned at only nine years old. He was a significant presence, advisor, and surrogate father to the growing boy. Now in his nineties, Stephen is still quick-witted and still offering advice. He is also rich – a billionaire, in fact. There is much talk among various characters about World War Two, when Paris was headquarters for the Nazis, and feelings still run high about who was or was not a collaborator or part of the Resistance. Jean-Guy learned early never to suggest collaborating with a colleague – it remains a loaded word. A major story thread is the estrangement and tension between Armand and Daniel, his son. Armand is suffering because he has always loved his boy and has no idea what went wrong. I will let the author sum up where the situation is now. “Unlike his father, young Daniel had not been a scholar, but what the boy had was self-discipline. He worked hard, and often excelled past his more naturally talented friends. He’d been a happy boy. Until … At the age of eight something changed. A wall went up between him and his father. . . . Reine-Marie didn’t think any father could love his children more. Then came the teen years, and the real troubles. With the drugs. With the arrests. As soon as he could, Daniel moved away. Putting a deep blue sea between them. And then Jean-Guy arrived. Agent Beauvoir. . . . Armand had become Jean-Guy’s mentor. And more. Jean-Guy had risen to become Armand’s second-in-command. And more. And Daniel had never forgiven either.” That’s the personal side, that and the reunion with Armand’s godfather, Stephen. When it seems that Stephen is involved in some enormous business deal, the action heats up to the point of murder. Suddenly everyone is in danger, mortal danger, and the Canadian homicide detectives (current and former) are in the thick of it with the Paris police (old friends…or are they?). There are many characters connected to different parts of the story, and it’s impossible to tell the difference between good and evil. The author sends us down every possibl and impossible trail so we suspect everyone. As with all of Penny’s books, there are quotes from and references to classical literature as well as Ruth’s eccentric but beautiful poetry. And history, always history. I missed Three Pines and the village atmosphere and I felt a bit bogged down in the middle, but as the plot came together, it became a proper page-turner. I didn’t need the villagers to enjoy the warmth and depth of feeling between the characters in this story, and I was pleased with how the author brought it to a conclusion. I’ve enjoyed all of the books in this series, and I’m certainly not alone!

Is there anything like diving into a new series? No, no there’s not thankyouverymuch. Always one to buck the linear path I decided to start the Louise Penny, Chief Inspector Armand Gamache, series with the most recent. All the Devils are Here is the 16th in the series. I had the opportunity to listen to the audiobook narrated by Robert Bathurst and jumped for my headphones! This was a double edged sword, and I fell hard. The 16th book in the series finds the Gamache family in Paris. After a family dinner while walking home Armands godfather, Stephen Horowitz, is critically injured. This draws Armand into a very personal investigation that uncovers years of secrets. I am a huge audiophile. Audiobooks are my default this year. If you’re familiar with the series I stand by this. If you’re new to the series I’m going to recommend reading in print, and probably reading the first in the series before any of the others. Robert Bathurst is a phenomenal narrator and when he’s narrating the story I’m following, I’m immersed, I’m there for it. When he moves into a characters french accent I’m lost. I’m trying to follow a layered mystery plot, family connections which feature heavily in this book, and identify characters with accents and french words tossed in. In theory the differentiation of voices would help. It was one layer too complicated for this reader/listener to tease apart. I wanted to mentally peel it back and read. This surprised me as normally I love ensemble cast recordings, narrators with accents, etc. The other edge of that sword, I’m hooked! I loved the story, the mystery, the family relationship dynamics, and immediately dove into the first book in the series, Still Life. I’m working my way through several in print and then will jump back into audio again. The talented Robert Bathurst narrates the series starting with book 11, The Nature of the Beast. There’s a reason this is a best selling series, has a cult following, and Louise Penny has won numerous awards including being honored for her contributions to Canadian culture. Always mentioned with cozy mysteries I believe they far surpass this description. Characters are nuanced, and complex. The mystery layered and multifaceted. I recommend for lovers of mysteries, most specifically for those familiar with the series. Many thanks to Netgalley and Macmillan Audio for the advanced listener copy. All opinions are my own.

The sixteenth outing in Penny’s exceptional series sees Chief Inspector Armand Gamache, the head of homicide for the Sûreté du Québec, and wife Reine-Marie travel to Paris for the birth of his grandchild after his daughter Annie and her husband Jean-Guy Beauvoir moved there to start a new life. Having just had a meal at a cosy bistro with Gamache’s godfather, the 93-year-old billionaire Stephen Horowitz, everyone is relaxed and enjoying the evening but that doesn't last too long before the mood changes drastically and for good reason. Stephen, who exposes corporate corruption for a living, has apparently been mowed down in the street by a delivery van with everything pointing towards a deliberate hit and run. Luckily, Gamache witnessed the incident. Stephen is badly hurt and ends up in a coma so Gamache must investigate why this happened and exactly what Stephen was mixed up in. It's his most personal case to date and perhaps also the most dangerous. Gamache attempts to convince the Prefect of Police and old acquaintance to treat it as attempted murder but until a body is found shot to death in Stephen’s apartment he refuses. With no authority to even investigate in this jurisdiction, Gamache feels uneasy but he can't help look into both cases. Little does he know — long-held, devastating family secrets are about to come to the surface. This is a superb addition to the Gamache series and is compulsive and full of intrigue from the very beginning and Penny continues with her nuanced and deep exploration of human nature. This is a bit of a departure from the preceding 15 books as not only does it take place outside of Quebec and Three Pines and involves a high stakes game of cat and mouse but it explores Gamache’s familial relationships. Subtle details continue to lend authenticity to the story such as the bureaucracy involved with Armand being outside of his investigative jurisdiction and the tug of war between family and career rears its ugly head with both expecting devotion and dedication to them. Also, the motive involved was certainly a believable one, which also made the story more believable rather than less. There is twist after twist with each making you more addicted and absorbed in the storyline and ingenious use of misdirection which definitely threw me off the scent. The tension is palpable as you feel, much like the Gamache family, that you don't know who to trust or who may have ulterior motives. I really loved the love, care, belief, trust and commitment the Gamache’s had in each other. By the end, I was excited about the big reveal and I must say I was dumbfounded. A must-read for crime enthusiasts. Highly recommended. Many thanks to Sphere for an ARC.

So many surprises in this book, though I missed the villagers in this book.

Greatly written book with awesome narrators. Very well developed characters with deep story line. I haven’t read the previous books in the series but I still enjoyed this one. Some moments were confusing but then the ending didn’t disappoint. *I received a copy of this audiobook from the publisher, via NetGalley, in exchange for a fair review.

Every now and then we’re given a Chief Inspector Armand Gamache novel that’s not based in the idyllic location of Three Pines and that’s the case with All the Devils Are Here. Instead, Gamache, accompanied by his wife Reine-Marie, is in Paris as they await the birth of another grandchild. The happy occasion will be Annie and Jean-Guy’s second child and their first after moving to the City of Light. The entire family, along with Armand’s godfather, billionaire Stephen Horowitz, have just enjoyed dinner at one of the city’s restaurants and are walking home when tragedy strikes. Stephen is run down in a hit and run car accident that leaves him critically injured. Armand and Jean-Guy are sure this was no accident. Fighting through the horror of the situation, the question of why the elderly man was targeted in such a brutal attack sits firmly at the forefront of their minds. The mystery deepens even further the next day when they visit Stephen’s apartment to make another horrific discovery. A man is lying on the apartment floor, shot to death. Jean-Guy, Armand’s former second in command at the Surete du Quebec, is now working in Paris at an engineering firm. He’s a bit of a fish out of water but is determined to quickly get up to speed. However, he’s not being helped by his own second in command, constantly being challenged and tested as new projects cross his desk each day. But there’s something about the latest project, it has some kind of link to Stephen, that’s raising a red flag in Jean-Guy’s head. Is it somehow related to the tragedy that’s just unfolded on the streets of Paris? Armand and Jean-Guy feel compelled to investigate what they believe is an attempted murder. He makes contact with an old friend, a police chief with the Surete who wields a great deal of clout. But the local detectives are stubbornly doubtful over the possibility that Stephen was targeted. As well as becoming a complex murder investigation there is also a far more personal and disturbing sub-story being played out. It turns out that Daniel, Armand’s son, has grown increasingly distant with his father as he has grown older. As a man there is a distinct malevolence being displayed to the point where it appears his dislike is bordering on hatred. Armand can’t understand what he’s done to cause this reaction but one thing’s for sure, things are moving towards a showdown and it’s going to get emotional. All the Devils Are Here is yet another outstanding entry in the Gamache series, made even more fascinating by its Paris setting. And while it’s ostensibly a murder mystery with links to corporate fraud, the more important theme lies around familial bonds, the power of real friendship and the importance of communication between loved ones. The main characters, already given tremendous depth through the earlier books in the series, are coloured in to an even greater extent, making them even more beloved. Louise Penny once again does a wonderful job of bringing every scene to life with depth and effortless clarity of her prose. This is a compelling mystery with a sneaky complexity to it, yet the intrigue and double crossing is beautifully designed to provide maximum impact.

All The Devils are Here by Louise Penny is the 16th in the Detective Armand Gamache/Three Pines series. Series Background: (Warning – May contain spoilers from previous books) Armand Gamache and his wife Reine-Marie moved to the small village of Three Pines a few years ago, where they have found peace from their daily struggles, and have found a home among the locals…who often play a large part in the mysteries that surround Gamache. After being suspended as the head of the Surete du Quebec, due having a large amount of drugs hit the street on his watch, he is now back as the Chief Inspector of Homicide. But he has a lot of enemies. My Synopsis: (No major reveals, but if concerned, skip to My Opinions) Armand and Rene-Marie are in Paris, where Jean-Guy had taken a private sector job. They are anxiously awaiting the birth of Annie's little girl. She is due any day. Armand hopes that perhaps he can repair his relationship with his son Daniel while he is in France. On their first night, they have a family dinner at a favorite restaurant with Armand's godfather Stephen Horowitz. On the way home, Stephen is the victim of a hit and run. The 93-year old is now in a coma. Armand is sure it was a deliberate attempt on his life. Although the police Prefect Claude Dussault is an old friend of Armand's, he and Jean-Guy are going to investigate this themselves. They find a key to an expensive hotel where apparently Stephen had been staying, although why he needed a place other than his apartment is confusing, until they check out the apartment. Meanwhile, Jean-Guy is surprised to find that Stephen may have had something to do with his new job, and he starts to worry about one of the projects he is over-seeing. As things progress in the investigation, it becomes clear that nothing is as it seems. Armand is going to have to figure out who he can really trust. So will Jean-Guy. My Opinions: Another great book in the series. But up front, I have to admit that I was rather disappointed that the whole book took place in Paris. It was good, don't get me wrong, but I really missed Three Pines and the characters. At least everyone is home by the end. The plot was really interesting, and twists were great. It was rather a complex story, so you had to pay attention, but everything eventually got cleared up. I was a little annoyed at the beginning when it looked like everyone was attacking Armand's character (again), and in particular his son, but after a while the story just took over, and my frustration left me. The characters are what make Penny's books so good. This book was really about family, and about relationships between members. It was nice to finally have the Armand/Daniel issue brought to light and rectified. The book looked at how sometimes actions or words can be interpreted wrong, and if not discussed at the time, can grow into animosity and years of distance. Daniel's relationship with his father was a good example. I also liked that we learned more about the relationship between Armand and his godfather. The addition of Idola to the family is wonderful. I am looking forward to the next book....and Three Pines. For a more complete review of this book and others (including the reason I chose to read/review this book, author information and a favorite quotation or two from the book), please visit my blog: http://katlovesbooksblog.wordpress.com/

All the Devils Are Here is the 16th book in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. While I enjoyed this audiobook I would recommend that you do NOT pick it up if you haven't been following this series. Unfortunately I made this mistake and while I liked the book I felt like I couldn't fully appreciate it. This is one complicated story! It was nice and refreshing to read a book where I had no idea how it was going to end. Penny kept my attention and kept second guessing all the characters right up until the bitter end. My only complaint with this book and perhaps its my own fault for not having read the others, was that I found the names confusing. Penny often bounced between using the characters first and last names when referring to them. This was a decent sized audiobook so by the end I definitely knew who was who but in the beginning it was a bit of a struggle! I received a digital copy of this book from the publisher via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.

"Hell is empty and all the devils are here." This was my first time reading this series and it was a fun ride. Louise Penny added so many twists and turns that I was lost. I didn't know what was going on until the last few chapters. All The Devils Are Here wasn't about the mystery only. It was about love, family, courage and belonging. I enjoyed the dynamics between the characters, their bonds and affections. "People believe what they want to believe. Beginning with their own lies." Wisdom was found in this book and humour was also injected into it.

I read it in just two sittings and certainly enjoyed it. It was so well put together with lots of little twists and a good mystery that unraveled nicely. Another positive was the fact that it took place in Paris and so the Three Pines crowd didn’t figure too much in the action. I do love the gang, but they did need a well-earned rest. If I have a problem, and I think I must be the only person that feels this, I believe Gamache works best on individual murders in small communities, the village, the town , or even the monastery. It doesn’t sit well with me when he is saving the world. I didn’t really enjoy him saving Canada from the drug cartels, and I didn’t much care for him pitted against evil International conglomerates here. He is good, as always, but getting into the secrets of the Louvre because Clara Morrow’s friend was a curator there, or managing to access sensitive police files because Reine-Marie’s friend was an archivist for them just didn’t convince. I think it is great that Louise Penny focuses attention on major problems, but maybe a different character or series might do that job better. For me, it is a little like finding out that the next Inspector Barnaby novel (Midsomer Murders) involves Barnaby and Sgt. Troy running off to Tokyo to get one over on the Yakusa. I was going to give it three stars, but I gave the extra star for what the author revealed at the end about Annie and Jean-Guy’s gift. No spoilers! You are just going to have to read it.

Inspector Gamache is in Paris because his daughter Annie is about to have a baby. Armand’s god father Stephen gets involved in a bit and run, and when a dead man is found in his apartment, it’s clear it’s no accident. Armand’s son Daniel seems to be involved. The father-son relationship is fraught with tension and the mutual suspicions do not help. Secrets unravel and Armand despairs. I find the writing style annoying. Long sentence, medium long sentence, short sentence. Short. Short. Long. It gets really irritating after a while. Aside from this, the plotting and characters are great. This can be read as a stand alone, but to get the most out of the story you should start the series with book one. This is one of my favorite detective series of all time.

This morning I could not get myself out of the shower. The water was so hot and steamy. Outside it was bitterly cold and unpleasant. I shampooed, rinsed and repeated-six times. I loofahed all eleven of my toesies and exfoliated my back. I used up half my wife’s extremely rare apricot scrub and I cleaned every inch of my body (even those dark and horrifying areas I usually pretend are not there). My wife pounded on the door hollering about the water bill. Yet I struggled to leave, swathed in the comfort and protective spray of a soothing liquid burrito. This is exactly what a Louise Penny Chief Inspector Armand Gamache novel does too. These books are full of kind, caring, decent characters that provide the same level of comfort as my amazingly life-changing shower (but without making me look like a wrinkled prune). As a bonus, the stories are excellent; full of suspense, expert pacing, and solid mysteries that will puzzle you until the last pages. In All the Devils Are Here, Gamache travels to the City of Lights to support the birth of his newest grandchild. But things take a turn for the worst as his godfather, the man who raised him after his parents died, is horrifically run over. Gamache soon discovers that this was no accident. A sinister conspiracy reaching up to the most powerful players in Paris is unfolding. Gamache and his family are standing directly in their path like a decarded le Big-Mac container Tossed out the window of a speeding Peugeot sedan, lying in the path of a Steam roller speeding down the Avenue des Champs-Elysees. Louise Penny is a fantastic writer who can balance moments of love and emotion with heart-seizing tension and suspense better than Hoover, the prized seal at the New England Aquarium balances his red ball on his nose while waddling and making honking noises. And as far as I know Penny is not rewarded for her stupendous balancing act with raw fish. Though, if it was up to me, I would be tossing pieces of herring and flounder at Penny every few pages. She deserves a reward! All the Devils Are Here is another great addition to one of my favorite book series. The only real downside to this book is how soggy the pages get as I read it in my shower.

the library hold i've had on this book for 6 weeks coming in the same week it wins the national book award...i feel so alive. even better: the award was deserved. i've been seeing some negativity around this book lately. maybe backlash that it's been nominated for and/or won what feels like every award you've ever heard of and a few made-up sounding ones. maybe the innate human desire for an unpopular opinion (been there). or maybe the boldness of an author daring to retell a Great American Novel (read: a worse version of tom sawyer that bravely and half-heartedly takes on slavery 20 years after the emancipation proclamation). i don't know what it is, because i think the hype is deserved. i'm no huck finn fan, if you couldn't tell, and a percival everett retelling felt like exactly what that book needed. it chillingly reconstructs the cruelty and inhumanity of slavery, using strategies ranging from excellent character construction to literary devices to style to basic empathy. it manages to use the framework of huck finn to build itself up, and to drift away from it when it would hold it back without detracting from its core concept. in fact, most of the ways it's limited (abrupt ending, overloaded beginning, overlong middle) feel like mark twain's fault. bottom line: call me a hater, but i really liked this book.

** WINNER of the 2025 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction WINNER of the 2024 National Book Award! ** ‘With my pencil, I wrote myself into being. I wrote myself to here.’ In his novel Green Hills of Africa, Ernest Hemingway declared that ‘all modern American literature comes from one book by Mark Twain called Huckleberry Finn.’ A classic from the 1880s that has embedded itself in the American literary canon, we now find in 2024 that another great work of modern American literature has arrived that, in keeping with Hemingway’s pronouncement, stems from Twain’s novel. Winner of the 2024 National Book Award for Fiction, Percival Everett’s James is a fresh reimagining of a familiar tale as Everett gives voice to Jim who, fleeing slavery, has taken off down the Mississippi River along with Huck. Told from James’ perspective—mostly only white people refer to him as “Jim”—Everett deftly captures the style and tone of Twain’s classic while simultaneously subverting its cultural impact, maintaining the hijinks and capers while revealing James to be highly educated and pulling the strings behind the scenes as James pursues deeper literary investigations. Literary and widely accessible, James quickly pulls the reader through thought-provoking investigation into identity, the impact of slavery, and language itself, Everett’s James becomes more than a twist on a classic and delivers its own wit and power. ‘My interest is in how these marks that I am scratching on this page can mean anything at all. If they can have meaning, then life can have meaning, then I can have meaning.’ ‘Probably the most subversive thing we can do in any culture, in any society, is read, which is why fascists always want to burn books,’ Percival Everett said in an interview for Goodreads, ‘the second most subversive thing we can do is write. And write truthfully.’ The power of reading and writing is alive in James where we discover the Jim from Twain’s original novel to be much more than meets the eye. Under Twain, author Toni Morrison wrote in an essay that Twain gives an ‘over-the-top minstelization of Jim,’ and while she concedes this was ‘predictable and common’ or the era, ‘nevertheless, Jim’s portrait seems unaccountably excessive and glaring it its contradictions—like an ill-made clown suit that cannot hide the man within.’ I recalled this image in a scene where James, forced into a minstrel show, is made to appear in blackface but in a way that makes the audience perceive him as a white man with his face painted (‘me, a light-brown Black man painted black in such a way as to appear like a white man trying to pass for Black’). Under Everett, we discover that James is educated and has not only read the books he claims he isn’t taking but is using them to teach his family and the other slaves as well. Abolitionist Frederick Douglass wrote that ‘once you learn to read, you will be forever free,’ firmly believing literacy was a key to knowledge and freedom. He disccuses at length in his Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass about learning to read and write and teaching it to fellow slaves, believing that education was incompatible with slavery and that by freeing their minds the freedom of their bodies would be able to follow. So too does James believe. Everett, known for wordplay, creates a rather fascinating dynamic with language and what James calls the ‘slave filter’ in which the Black characters of the novel switch into when they are aware white people are around. James, who excels at giving ‘white people what they want,’ notes that this gives them a smokescreen to hide their education and intentions if the white people view them as ignorant and harmless. 'White folks expect us to sound a certain way and it can only help if we don’t disappoint them…The only ones who suffer when they are made to feel inferior is us.’ He teaches lessons in how to hide behind language, the sort of broken language Jim speaks in Twain’s original now viewed as an act of subversion against their white oppressors as well as an act of self-preservation: The children said together, “And the better they feel, the safer we are.” “February, translate that.” “Da mo’ betta dey feels, da mo’ safer we be.” “Nice.” Much of the novel concerns James’ attempts to conceal his education. This is more humorous and playful at first, such as an early scene where Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn steal his hat. In Twain we have him convinced he was bamboozled by witches, though here he plays along with the game because he knows his role is ‘either a villain or prey, but certainly their toy,’ but also he has taken a bit of a liking to Huck who he pitties for the abuse brought down upon him by his alcoholic father. As the novel progresses, however, his education frequently begins to slip out. Especially around Huck and this only adds to the dangers James is facing. ‘I had wondered every time I sneaked in there what white people would do to a slave who had learned how to read. What would they do to a slave who had taught the other slaves to read?’ It is certainly an indictment of the culture that the pursuit of education was denied to Black people and used as a method of control and subordination. It is, in fact, the ability to feel a sense of control that first encourages James to pursue the act of reading and writing. ‘ If I could see the words, then no one could control them or what I got from them,’ he tells the reader, ‘they couldn’t even know if I was merely seeing them or reading them.’ While with Huck we witness him being the brains behind many of the familiar hijinks of the original novel, when it comes to other white people there is a larger element of danger, though he is often not found out until it is too late and suddenly James is the one holding a gun with control of the room. ‘I had never seen a white man filled with such fear. The remarkable truth, however, was that it was not the pistol, but my language, the fact that I didn’t conform to his expectations, that I could read, that had so disturbed and frightened him.’ While occasionally the wordplay seems to take so much of the focus that there isn’t much to the characters beyond, moments such as these are when James is at its best and we see the cultural sense of superiority being the undoing of the white oppressors. I also particularly enjoyed the moments where James confronts others of the white literary canon, such as Voltaire and John Locke, in order to show how even those thought progressive at their time harbored rather racist lines of thinking and upheld a white cultural hegemony. ‘Folks be funny like that,’ James says, ‘they take the lies they want, and throws away the truths that scares them,’ and much of the novel forces the reader to confront the horrific legacy of slavery and racism even in the stories of authors like Mark Twain that tend to be thought of as the less problematic of their times. ‘How strange a world, how strange an existence, that one’s equal must argue for one’s equality, that one’s equal must hold a station that allows airing of that argument, that one cannot make that argument for oneself, that premises of said argument must be vetted by those equals who do not agree.’ Slavery is at the center of this work and Everett crafts James as a vessel to not only force the reader to reckon with it but also as a figure that shows the perils of attempting to subvert it. James is on the run when he learns he will be sold off and does not want to leave his family, but his predicaments only worsen when he worries he will be blamed for the murder of Tom, or the dead man on the houseboat or simply executed for having run away. James shows us the fears and feelings of hopelessness when there is nowhere to turn and the law will always side against you and how there isn’t even an outlet for this rage and fear. ‘I was as much scared as angry, but where does a slave put anger? We could be angry with one another; we were human. But the real source of our rage had to go without address, swallowed, repressed. They were going to rip my family apart and send me to New Orleans, where I would be even farther from freedom and would probably never see my family again.’ There is a real human tragedy come alive on the page in this novel and Everett does well to recenter the pain and suffering even while keeping most of the more misadventure narrative of Twain’s work. The plots to differ but it would seem beside the point to really take that as a criticism. ‘Which would frighten you more? A slave who is crazy or a slave who is sane and sees you clearly?’ In James we see how this anger had to stay muted and how that pain would reverberate for generations and why concepts like code-switching occur or why tone-policing is such a harmful act particularly as it is most often directed at Black or women activists as a way to silence them for making the white patriarchal society feel uncomfortable. And in this way, James is a great success. A fascinating reworking of the original in a way that makes this Everett’s own and a novel worthy of its accolades, I quite enjoyed James and I cannot wait to read more Percival Everett. 4.5/5 ‘I could always run. But running and escaping were not the same thing…As it stood, I had no plan, but it was clear that I needed one. I had to ask myself and answer honestly, How much do I want to be free? And I couldn’t lose sight of my goal of freeing my family. What would freedom be without them?’

Now Winner of the National Book Award for Fiction 2024 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2024 And with this, I'm joining the ranks of those demanding Everett to be awarded a Pulitzer for this one ASAP. The observation that the novel is a very loose retelling of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (which, btw, I never particularly liked - go ahead and sue me) from the perspective of Jim only scratches the surface of what Everett achieves. Much like in The Trees, he is out for Quentin Tarantino-esque revenge, but his social critique turned satire now feeds off ideas about race as performance: Just think The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life meets Black Skin, White Masks. Language and performance are employed to show how supremacy is performed as a ridiculous act with gruesome consequences. It's not the colloquial, harmless Jim used by his slavers our narrator claims as his name, but the full version, fitting to the serious man he is: James. The runaway is bilingual, speaking standard American English and the simplified version of English that is expected from him as sub-human property - and it's this language that protects him, because it pacifies racists who deem themselves superior. At some point, James is sold to a minstrel troupe as a tenor, so he is painted white in order to let him appear to be a white man in blackface, while another performer turns out to be a light-skinned Black man passing as white and performing in blackface. What the actual fuck, you ask? Well, that's the logic of racism: It's non-existent, which makes it all the more suitable to execute random acts of brutality, and that's what Everett illustrates (plus that torturing others takes away the torturer's dignity, not that of the victim). Not-so-fun fact: Mr. Mark Twain was a fan of the real-life version of the minstrel troupe, the Virginia Minstrels. As for the plot, it's certainly very implausible, which gives the book the air of a fairy tale (and I mean the dark German and Danish ones) that clashes with social realism ca. 1860 - it remains picaresque, but the main character navigating the mythical Mississippi searching for (moral) growth (as is integral to the classic Bildungsroman) is not even considered a person by society. The adventures of James, a book lover in his mid-20's who flees because he is supposed to be sold and fears to lose his wife and daughter, involve all kinds of people and situations illuminating the dynamics of social roles between Black and white people in the South shortly before the Civil War. Huckleberry takes on a whole new role as well. Frankly, I do think that Erasure and The Trees are superior literary works, but the fact that Everett lovingly subverts an American classic that was progressive for its time, but is not anymore, will certainly endear him to scholars and prize judges even more. Be it as it may, Everett deserves all the acclaim: His razor sharp wit and propulsive writing are highly recognizable and simply captivating. You can listen to the podcast crew discuss the German translation in our Booker special: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

A good read but it falls short of a 5-star rating from me. I’ve appreciated reading many of those who have reviewed it more favourably. I reckon I was expecting more, however must say this has whetted my appetite for Mark Twain’s popular Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn’s stories. 3.5 rounded up to 4 stars.

“Heaven for this climate; hell for my long-awaited lunch with Mark Twain.” My best friend Sharon wanted to discuss this book with me. So, I couldn’t wait for “James” to come in from our local library. Surprisingly, for both of us, we were one of the first to receive it. And, so I put all my other books on my “currently reading” Goodreads list aside, and began to read this one. Let me address the elephant in the room. For me. First. I will give you an example of my concern here… “Lak I say, I furst found my hat up on a nail. ‘I ain’t put dat dere,” I say to mysef. ‘How dat hat git dere?’ I recognize that speaking this way was the dialect of the time. But does it need to be written that way in contemporary books? Every time I had attempted to read this story, with words spoken in that dialect, it felt uncomfortable and unpleasant. I can appreciate that the author was trying to stay true to the times, and the characters, but I felt myself tripping over those words and wondering if I would be able to get myself through the pages. My head would begin to hurt, and I would find myself slamming the book down in frustration. And then I would find myself asking… Was the whole book going to “talk” this way? And, if so, was I going to be disappointed and miss out on the story, and my discussion with Sharon? I could feel a dilemma coming on. What was I to do? I read a few more pages. It appeared as long as they weren’t talking, it was easy to follow the narrator, James telling of his story. It would just be when James or anyone else would speak that I would cringe. And, this book was full of conversations. And, of course, this story, and what we are wanting from his story, is his slave’s point of view. I continued to read. Thankfully, the author provides short chapters. He is taking us on the same adventure as Huckleberry Finn, but through James’ view instead. It would be his perspective. And, as readers, we will follow along with him. If anyone remembers Twain’s Huckleberry Finn, some scenes may seem familiar, but the author finds ways to insert the story with his own backdrops. So, that the emphasis is on James and how he views the world and what is happening in it. As I mentioned earlier, it was hard for me when the book was conversational. And yet, that was the majority of the story. So, how did that make my reading experience? Less than enjoyable? And yet, could this be a brilliant telling of a homage to Twain? After all, this was a Pulitzer Prize finalist. To be honest, I am conflicted. It isn't going to be an easy read (besides what I mentioned). My Goodreads friend, Jamie shares it best. Her review is here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... But…let’s just say it got better as I continued to read. It was an adventure, most importantly. And, despite the “language barrier” I think it was a worthwhile read. Update: this book just won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction 2024. According to the NY Times article on May 6, 2025, it wasn't won easily though. "In a surprising twist, the prize went to Everett after the Pulitzer committee’s board failed to reach a consensus on the three finalists that the fiction jury initially presented — Rita Bullwinkel’s “Headshot,” Stacey Levine’s “Mice 1961,” and Gayl Jones’s “The Unicorn Woman.”"

Update : Now the winner for Pulitzer Prize 2025 - A deserving winner. Congratulations. Update : Now longlisted for Booker Prize 2024 - The longlist looks promising. Unlike other recent retellings, the one of Mark Twain's "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" told from the perspective of Jim feels more than an easy commercial endeavor. The transformation of Jim into James is something that the modern reader needs to put next to what has become, in recent years, a controversial classic. "You can write? I cain't hardly write. What else can you do? Can you fly? What else ain't you told me, Jim?" Luckily, Percival Everett (who has had a great year with this one and the Oscar-winning American fiction based on his novel 'Erasure') was the one who took on the task of imagining this transformation.It is a worthy and impactful journey that has the problem of having dialogue like this: "Okee. So, blue gum monkey on up da Allen, yes, like Lucifer done bit on da broomstick. And them Charles be down on him like white on rice. I mean, they be on 'em like them ..." It is interesting to see Jim thinking one way and talking in another, but it gets hard to read these passages.I also think that in the end, Percival Everett is a little undecided on what to do with James. There are moments of horror that don't match with Django/James Bond situations. But 'James' does the job because it doesn't make the mistake where it matters. The updated relationship with Huck remains the highlight of the novel.

Engaging and thought-provoking.

Before reading James, I reread The Adventures of Huck Finn because it had been decades since I read about the adventures of Huck Finn, Tom Sawyer, and Jim. James is about the adventures of Huck Finn and Jim, told from Jim's (James') viewpoint. It's tragic and horrific with moments of levity, determination, grit, and ingenuity. I am in four book clubs and three of the four book clubs are reading James this year.

One man's revolution. I wasn't sure about reading this one because it was years since I read Huckleberry Finn and scarcely remember anything. But luckily, it didn't affect reading James at all. This is a brilliant retelling that depicts adventure of a run-away slave along the Mississippi river. The longer he travels, the more pain and suffering he witnesses, the deeper dives into the darkness of a slavery. And demonstrates that there is no such thing as a good master. When the system exists to use, hardly anyone can avoid abuse. And the ending ss a great message: slaveowners fear a slave who can read more than a slave with a gun.

Try to reimagine The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn with the “slave,” Jim, as narrator. Now he is known as James, and he is learned. James is brilliantly realized. James speaks standard American English, but when around white people his talk becomes an ungrammatical slave vernacular. This vernacular, of course, is not a vernacular. It’s a mask James’s and his fellows in wretchedness put on to hide their intelligence from whitey. The device is not only funny, but it subverts almost every word here. There are moving insights into the myriad brutalisms of slavery — and the sick white rationale for them. That’s good. We need to be reminded that for slaves there was no absolutely no recourse to rule of law. They were accosted for anything and everything: including imagined slights. For God help the slave who should even for an instant imply intellectual superiority to his or her “owner.” The writing is lighter than air. It moves from wry amusement to harrowing action and back again within the space of a sentence or two. I’m especially impressed by Everett’s narrative zip. He has an enviable facility for brief sections and chapters. Each has its little narrative task —string them together for addictive narrative thrust. The minstrelsy part has multilevel irony. On hearing him sing in a blacksmith's shop James is bought by a white minstrelsy troupe. He is the dressed in suit and tie and painted with blackface. So he is a black man painted in blackface so he can appear like a white man painted in blackface and sing for whites. As a black man he would not be allowed to perform with white men. To enliven my flimsy description of this excellent novel, I’ve included a link to the true story of Leonard Black, a Maryland-based “slave” who fled to Canada in 1837.

An excellent return to the Huckleberry Finn universe, this time from the point of view of Jim. Feels crafted to be a high school companion piece to the famed original novel which might otherwise have gone out of fashion as a stand alone. Readers of all ages should appreciate the literary interaction, however, and will be reminded of many dark realities of mid-19th Century America. Everett handles the issue of dialect well, both capturing the flavor of Mark Twain's rendering, but also revealing that Jim only speaks this way to appease white expectations. Pacing is perhaps speedier than Twain, based on my memory. Jim travels from one adventure/horror to the next in quick succession, offering only fleeting commentary on each situation. I would have liked more of Jim's perspective, not just his point of view. The quick pacing is probably appreciated for a high school audience, though. Overall, I think the book's buzz is slightly overrated but there's no question it's a wonderful reimagining that both celebrates the source material and gives voice to a major character whose perspective was long overdue.

- I can easily see the importance behind this story and it should definitely go down as a classic in school!! Would have loved to read this in college and dissect the differences between this story & the adventures of huckleberry finn. - I don’t think I would have loved this one as much as I did or would have recognized how powerful of a story this is if I wasn’t already familiar with the original story. - The ending was exactly the ending I wanted to read! I’m not usually someone that loves a retelling, but this was perfect!

RTC Definitely an interesting and great twist on a classic. I highly recommend listening to the audiobook if reading classics bore you (like me).

A creative reimagining of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn that is told from Jim's perspective, and is a much better book than Twain's novel. This book could have been titled The Adventures of James or The Trials and Tribulations of James. It's a very fast-paced and thrilling book. The characters are fascinating and complex, some of them could have novels of their own that I would (i.e. Norman or the enslaved man in the riverboat). I think James would make a great film, think Django Unchained but with a Black filmmaker like Cord Jefferson or Gina Prince-Bythewood. Make sure you read this one!!!

Loved the retelling of Huckleberry Finn through Jim’s voice. Any school teaching Huckleberry should also teach James at the same time.

Huck Finn a true classic. James is told through the eyes of Jim(James from Huck Finn) a slave who leaves his family when his owner plans on selling him. Huck and James travel together, and throughout the story they take turns rescuing each other. James lives through many schemes to make money, sometimes resulting in his being subjected to torture. It captures the cruel reality of the ugliness of slavery and inhumane treatment of innocent humans.

The first book that made me cry was Charlotte’s Web in first grade. I read it over and over and cried every time. I have a long history with loving emotional reads. 😂 The Notebook also made me cry. The story reminded me so much of my grandparents. The Wish definitely had me crying big tears. Maggie is sent to live with an aunt in isolated, coastal Ocrakoke (my family used to camp there when I was a young child; it was too remote for me then! 😂). While there, she meets Bryce who immediately captures her heart. He shows her around the island and how beautiful the rustic place can be. He also teaches her the basics of photography. Years later, Maggie is a travel photographer with her own gallery in New York. She normally travels over the holidays, but not this year. She’s grappling with a new medical diagnosis. She begins to share her story with her assistant. Well, not just any story. It’s one from years before. A magical Christmas that shaped the trajectory of her life. Easy-to-read, emotional, and answering that “what if” question I so often think about, The Wish is all we expect from a Nicholas Sparks novel. My tissues got a workout. I received a gifted copy. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

A book that really makes you feel. I hadn’t read Nicholas Sparks since high school but this book makes me want to pick up more of his novels! A really sweet story of love and family with all the coziest holiday vibes. Dragged a little bit in the middle, and I definitely saw the ending coming, but a solid 4 star read.

4 stars There's nothing like a true love story that is equally beautiful and painful. Leave it to Nicholas Sparks to illustrate the strength and power in that love.

“It’s important to remember that none of us is perfect. Everyone makes mistakes. All we can do is try to be the best version of ourselves as we move forward.” This was slow, wholesome, moving, and felt like home. Just like every other Nicholas Sparks book. You really don't get many surprises from them, and you could say they are predictable, but sometimes predictability is all you need, and his books never fail to make me feel secure and fluffy. Perfect for the upcoming season. ❤️ And even though I knew exactly what was going to happen, and even though I already knew I would be moved towards the inevitably sad ending, listening to this as an audiobook was such a beautiful and relaxing experience. If you are in the mood for something like this, I definitely recommend it. It is slow, nothing much really happens, but it does make you feel good.

*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.com 4.5 stars “But never forget that love is always stronger than fear. Love saved me, and I know it will save you, too.” These wise words have been taken directly from The Wish, penned by the king of romance fiction, Nicholas Sparks. A book that covers you in love, compassion, fate, friendships and connection, The Wish represents a wonderful addition to the Nicholas Sparks collection. Following the heart-breaking life of lead protagonist Maggie Dawes, The Wish unfolds over two timelines, over two decades apart. Twenty years ago, the heroine of this tale found herself in a difficult predicament. At age just sixteen Maggie discovers she is pregnant and is consequently sent away to live with her aunt until she has the baby. Maggie and her parents have arranged to have the baby adopted as soon as it is born, leaving this teenager with the chance to return to her old life. But when Maggie settles into her temporary home in Ocracoke, a remote village off North Carolina, she encounters a young man who will change her life forever. Bryce is from a local family in Ocracoke and he teaches Maggie a thing or two about photography and life. When this gentle friendship blossoms into an unforgettable love story, Maggie and Bryce must adjust their life plans to accommodate their strong feelings for one another. Now twenty years later, Maggie finds herself thinking more and more about her time as a teenager stuck in Ocracoke. Although Maggie has achieved great success in the photography world, nothing compares to the time she spent under her aunt’s care with Bryce. What does Maggie truly want in life and will she achieve it before time runs out? Nicholas Sparks has been a constant presence in my reading life for many years now. Ever since I discovered The Notebook I have continually sought out each new release this master of contemporary romance has published. In September 2021, Sparks published his latest novel with Hachette Australia. The Wish is another incredible love story from this kind hearted writer. Full of joy and sadness, along with love and overwhelming personal pain, The Wish is a book that came to me at just the right time. I loved it. Sparks relays his latest triumph across two different periods in time, in two contrasted settings. In Manhattan in 2019, we meet a talented photographer named Maggie who issued is with the earth-shattering news that she has stage IV cancer. Following this shock diagnosis, Maggie is on borrowed time. As a result Maggie has a strong desire to return to a place from her past. Linking back to Maggie’s memorable past chapter, a second storyline emerges. We meet Maggie again, but this time as a teenager. This version of Maggie is marooned in the remote village of Ocracoke, pregnant and cast off by her family. Despite some initial resentment and resistance, this small window of time proves to be life changing for Maggie. It is in Ocracoke that Maggie meets fellow young resident Bryce, who changes her life forever. As always Sparks explores the setbacks, problems and issues to overcome in burgeoning relationships and this was the case in his latest novel. With plenty of high emotions, beating hearts and feelings to express, The Wish is a tale that will take you to some great emotional heights. Sparks captures the gentle beauty of Ocracoke, a small village in North Carolina extremely well. This tight knit community has had its fair share of ups and downs. With isolation and the weather impacting this tiny town, Sparks manages to capture the true essence of this township. In contrast, Manhattan in the year 2019 is clearly presented on the pages of The Wish. I felt like I was standing right next to Maggie in both locations, thanks to the author’s most giving prose. The romance depicted in The Wish is just perfect. I loved this tentative friendship that blossomed into something much more life changing. I adored Bryce, he was a fantastic young man, almost too good to be true! Meanwhile, I sympathised with Maggie and her life situation in both time periods. Each Maggie storyline really cut deep for me. These two leads were well matched in my eyes and I’m pleased I got to know both leads thanks to this embracing new tale from Nicholas Sparks. There is probably a lot more I can say about The Wish. I especially loved the focus on fully appreciating the precious moments and sense of time spent with loved ones as being more important than anything else. On the whole I absolutely adored this book. The Wish was the perfect novel to begin my summer school holiday break reading agenda. My only issue was a predictable element to one fairly major plot twist, but other than that I responded well to The Wish. A solid 4 and half stars from me. I can’t wait for the next Nicholas Sparks book and film adaptation. *Thanks is extended to Hachette Australia for providing a free copy of this book for review purposes.

I have so many thoughts on this but I’m going to keep it brief because I don’t like spoilers in reviews. First off, this was a great book. I don’t want to take away from that. It was a beautiful story, it was engaging and it was touching. However, the believability is just not there. I understand it was the 90’s and people still shipped their pregnant teens off. Going somewhere whimsical with a relative you’ve never really known seems a bit silly. A young man wanting to sit and listen to your life story like that is.. well, let’s just say rare. He was listening to her like she was the Queen of England. Her stipulations with the guy were just ridiculous. WHO DOES THAT? It got so drawn out afterward that you knew what was going to happen based on the information you already had so by the time it did happen, there wasn’t as much shock value and not enough of an explanation either. It was a beautiful story and I really enjoyed it but some of the ridiculous parts in the fourth quarter or so of the book irritated me. Especially from such an amazing author. Still recommend.

I you've heard of Nicholas Sparks, you know it will be a tear-jerker, which it was. Like several of his other books, the storyline and pacing mean this would make a great movie. My favorite parts of the book: The lovely descriptions of the windswept Outer Banks, NC. I also very much liked the old school style of a character telling another character a story. The switches back and forth from 2019 to 1996 were quite well done. It's also a sweet story of first love. And how one experience can change the whole trajectory of a person's life. Would be a great book club read to share with friends. Also, good for a late Fall read, as much if the story takes place over two Christmases.

I had no idea what to expect from this one, but a few chapters in, I realised that this was the backstory prior to Dorothy's visit in the Wizard of OZ!!! More essentially it is the backstory of the 'Wicked Witch of the West', as a mature audience re-imagining of Oz and its well known and loved characters from Oz himself to the Munchkins. And lo and behold this was a slam dunk re-imagination that blew my mind! I really enjoyed reading this, far far more than the original series. On so many levels this is superior, from the family dynamics to the reality's politics. Three quarters into the book I wanted Dorothy and Toto to get wacked :D Easily the best fantasy long-form storytelling re-imagination I have ever read. A rarity for me, but I recommend everyone reads this one. A very firm Four Star, 8 out of 12 read. 2025 read

Reviewed by K. Osborn Sullivan for TeensReadToo.com Have you ever read a popular book and wondered why it was so popular? That's exactly how I felt as I worked my way through WICKED. Actually, that's not entirely true. I know why it's a New York Times Bestseller. Part of it has to do with the reason I picked the book up in the first place. I expected a light, fairy tale-like story. It's based on a children's book. There's a Broadway musical about it. Sounds like it should be fun, right? Uh, not quite. I get the feeling, though, that a lot of people thought as I did and bought WICKED looking for an easy-to-read lead-up to THE WIZARD OF OZ. I wonder how many of them finished reading the book when they figured out the truth? Although to be fair, WICKED doubtless also owes some of its popularity to the fact that it's a well-written, literary novel that can be appreciated by well-read, literary-type people. Unfortunately, I'm really not one of those. Giving me a piece of deep, meaningful literature is like giving a copy of Hemingway's THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA to a manatee. In other words, I was disappointed. My disappointment was partly in the book for not fulfilling my expectations, and partly in myself for not being able to appreciate a quality literary effort. In case you've been living in a hollowed out tree for the last couple of years and haven't heard about the play, WICKED is the story of the Wicked Witch of the West and how she became the Wicked Witch of the West. The book delves far deeper into the witch's life and times than any musical could in only two hours, however. In the book version of WICKED, readers are introduced to the witch, whose real name is Elphaba, when she is first born. She's green and has dangerous, pointy teeth. Needless to say, she's not too popular with the other children. Even her parents aren't too sure about her. As the story progresses, we see Elphaba at college. She falls in with a number of fellow students, some of whom are more and others less accepting of the strange green girl. It's not just her skin color that's different, though. Elphaba thinks and acts differently than other people. And she has this aversion to water.... Well, we all know how that turns out for her. The book is an interesting departure from the Oz books, including such details as why the Cowardly Lion is able to talk, and the fact that everyone in Oz thought Dorothy's dog, Toto, was the most irritating thing to ever draw breath. I wish, however, that I could have liked some of the characters. No one was particularly likeable, as far as I was concerned. Even Elphaba, who readers should have had some sympathy for, seemed odd to me, and I never understood her motivation for anything she did. In other words, I could have gotten over the fact that she was green, but it really bothered me that she didn't act normal. Also, a word of warning: Even though these are essentially fairy tale characters, this book treats them like adults, complete with sex, swearing, and the occasional murder. Younger readers should steer clear, and older readers should be aware of what's in store here. In general, I recommend this book for OLDER readers who are huge fans of the Oz books or the Wicked play and want to go deeper. According to my husband, who is capable of appreciating fine literature, it also has literary merit. But for those of us who want to keep our memories of the Oz stories as sweet as the old Judy Garland film was, those readers might want to be careful around WICKED.

I discovered Wicked before I had deviated away from my youthful literary tastes, when I still struggled to read anything that was not Stephen King. I liked Maguire because his style reminded me of King's (and certain elements that would eventually become my own, also). He used chunky diction, wrote tall, seemingly rickety syntax that spiraled up and trickled down into a splash. I could roll with his beautiful style and because of that, I stuck out Wicked, a brave, progressive reimagining of a well-known legend that centers disabled women. As a disabled reader, I identified greatly with the main character, who was judged constantly for her appearance and always expected to behave in certain ways based on that alone. I think this book was both well-written and addressed important issues. It is worth reading and discussing for any readers but particularly for young readers and readers struggling with image issues because of disability or mental illness. Update 2024 - definitely due for a reread of this!

I read Wicked before the play, and before all the hype. I really liked it, although I felt that Maquire just kind of gave up at the end, and lost all the wind in his sails. You could say the author melted.... Still, I loved the book.

acerbic witch abhors water, lies, family Oz haunted my childhood days. I've never really given it up. I read all Baum's books many times and most of Thompson's continuations of the series. I always thought that someone (other than Philip Jose Farmer) should have written an adult version of the Oz books, so a couple months ago, when I heard that Gregory Maguire had done it (OK, I'm not so with it.....he had done it 17 years before !) I went down to the public library and borrowed this very book. So....what's my verdict ? Well, it's hard to say, given my lifelong feeling of closeness to the characters. Of course, the Wicked Witch of the East and the Wicked Witch of the West were not developed very fully in the original. Here, they, with Glinda the Good, plus the Wizard, are the central figures, with a number of other characters never known in Baum's books. I liked the religio-philosophical context, the witticisms here and there, the wrestling with the moral problems of the real world, the geographical imagination, and the maps on the end leaves (just as in some Baum books). The plot is excellent, the interweaving of everything and I liked the way Maguire lets the reader draw some conclusions, without underlining them too closely. I don't know, if you have never read any Oz books, whether this will all fascinate you. I can't figure out if people would like the book for itself. The charm is certainly in the re-working of the Oz legend. On the other hand, I often tried to imagine how I would have re-written the Oz books in an adult manner. My own imagination runs in a very different vein from Maguire's, so in a way I felt that he had crowded out my visions, sent them packing before his published work. I didn't like the modern American slang or suburban-speak that sometimes jarred in the mouths of people of a different world. I'm sure the author wanted the book to communicate with the modern reader, so it's understandable, but still...... All in all, I enjoyed this book, could hardly put it down. It all depends if you really care about Oz or not, if you would like to imagine the classic story in an entirely new way or not. Give it a shot. I'm the 23,000th plus person to write a review, so I fear that I haven't said much new.

My own peculiar obsession with The Wizard of Oz, in both its book and movie forms, was both a boon and, at times, a slight disadvantage to reading this book: since our culture's two primary references for the Oz story are so very different, Mr Maguire has a fascinating dilemma in trying to create a narrative that honors both, and is also something new. He does so brilliantly, re-imagining characters, places, and circumstances of the movie and the books (most notably the second one, The Land of Oz, in addition to the Wizard of Oz) into something remarkably new, with careful (but thankfully not slavish) fealty to the source material. The result is not only a very engaging story with well written characters, but a special treat for those of us who recognize some of the lesser of Baum's characters when Maguire reintroduces them (including Boq and Professor Nikidik) and leaves our imaginations to fill in the missing pieces that connect this story to the one we already know. My only problem was in reconciling the many differences of the two versions of the story. Maguire obviously faced similar challenges, and does a remarkable job of picking, choosing, and combining details to suit his needs. It kept me a little bit removed from the story, though, a little bit on edge, until I made a simple discovery: if we assume Wicked is the true account of these people, it is easy to see Baum's book as a considered literary version from a man used to re-telling and re-imagining popular fairy tales to children. It is likewise easy to see the MGM version as Hollywood's Technicolor extravaganza re-telling of the story, in which the colors are brighter and good and evil are never confused. Once I settled in to the willing suspension of disbelief that allowed Wicked to be the "truth," I could read this excellent book without being caught up in my head. And I was richly rewarded.

Overall, I enjoyed this book, but not for the reasons I thought I would. I went into this book (after having already seen the musical) expecting something fantastical, and mostly positive. What I got was a series of mostly unhappy events for our main character, followed by an ending that left a lot of unanswered questions. But, I think that's the whole point. It's a fairy tale without the neatly wrapped package at the end. It is a discussion about education, friendships, religion, love, and politics, and it is not supposed to be pretty.

Having been pleasantly surprised by enjoying the movie version, I decided to give the book a try - and, although fantasy is outside my normal reading matter, I was again pleasantly surprised. Very different to the family friendly film, it was the story-telling that won me over, the idea of taking the original story of The Wizard of Oz and telling it from the side of the Wicked Witch. It won't be for all and some fans of the musical may find it too different. I liked the political and theological tracts, and the underlying question - what is evil? - made this both thought-provoling as well as clever entertainment.

I have loved Holly Gibney’s character ever since the Mr Mercedes trilogy. I am so glad that SK loved her just as much to give Holly her own book. I’ve seen a few comments complaining about the Covid element in this book. I think it’s really important to talk about topics relevant to the time the book is set. This has always been the case in Mr Mercedes too. Stephen King writes about the unemployment crisis in America, he has never shied away from the hard topics. When people read this book in later years it will provide information about the years covid was rife. I also believe it strongly fits Holly’s personality - she was always quite extreme when it came to germs etc. When a young woman’s bike is found but with her nowhere to be seen, her mother asks Holly to investigate. What she unravels is terrifying and dangerous. Another thrill ride from Stephen King, I throughly enjoyed it. ********************** Yessss to more Holly Gibney!!!!

Okay. Let me just explain two things. One. Stephen King scares me. So, I have not been a particular fan of his, which means I have not read his books. I know. It started as a youngster when I saw a couple of movies that were based on his novels. That did me in. So, anytime his books came out, I just stayed clear. Until now. So…What changed? This one. But…I know I am in trouble. Because…I am coming in with the 6th book in the series. My second thing to discuss. So… Two. This may have put me at a disadvantage. Although, in reading the synopsis, prior to making the decision to read the book, it assured me, that Holly was on her own for the first time. Which…Made me feel, that maybe Holly and I could be comfortable in this circumstance. Let’s see if it worked. It begins with Holly Gibney, a private investigator, our main protagonist, (Hence: the title of the book), attending her mother’s funeral. When…She is approached by a woman asking for her help to find her missing daughter. And…Thus, the story goes. Into…Darkness. A lot of darkness. Apparently, the missing young woman vanished from Red Bank Avenue, a derelict strip of self-storage units, warehouses and empty lots. Up the hill from the avenue, the retired professors Emily and Rodney Harris live in a row of expensive Victorian houses. Now…The Harrises are considered respected members of the college community. But…What really goes on in their basement? And…This is why I haven’t read a Stephen King novel before. Can I just say the crimes described felt a bit queasily believable? Perhaps that should be considered a compliment to this writer. But…Even though this book does have a high body count, please note… Most of the deaths through these pages aren’t caused by its villains – they are from Covid. Holly’s investigation begins in July, 2021, as hospitals are piling up with patients and temporary morgues. And…In this regard, even Holly shares… “When this is over, no one will believe it really happened. Or if they do, they won’t understand how it happened.” Still…The evil within the characters is on full display... And…It is obvious that King is bending the rules of a police procedural, by revealing the perpetrators’ identities in the opening chapter. But…As readers knowing this early, gives the narrative more urgency, especially as the gruesome nature of their crimes becomes more obvious. As an author he knows how to point the difference between right and wrong – and evil. The question to readers is what toll does it create? After staring directly at the worst sorts of evil a human can commit… Do we come away stronger? Or just very, very sad? To be honest, I had nightmares at least two nights in a row. And…I know it was from reading this book. So…This book is my one and done.

Holly Gibney was introduced to readers in Stephen King's 'Bill Hodges Trilogy' which begins with 'Mr. Mercedes.' In the trilogy, Bill Hodges is a retired police detective who investigates crimes with the help of an amateur team that includes Holly, a shy computer whiz; and Jerome Robinson, a bright young man headed for Harvard. Holly has now come into her own as an investigator, and she and ex-cop Pete Huntley run a private detective agency called 'Finders Keepers.' Holly also gets some part-time assistance from Jerome Robinson, who's now in college; and Jerome's sister Barbara, a student. The book 'Holly' is set in the middle of the Covid pandemic, at a time when most people are vaccinated, wear masks, avoid shaking hands, and so on. Holly is very meticulous about evading infection, and is extremely conscious that her business partner Pete is home with the coronavirus; and her mother, who refused to be vaccinated, died from the disease. Holly is grieving the loss of her mother, and dealing with surprising revelations that followed her mother's death, so she's planning to take a break from work. Then Holly gets a call from a woman called Penny Dahl. Penny says her daughter Bonnie Dahl, an assistant librarian at nearby Bell College, has disappeared. Penny is distraught, and wants to hire Finders Keepers to look for Bonnie. Holly accepts the job, and since Pete is sick, has to do the legwork herself. Holly gets some data mining assistance from Jerome and Barbara, but they're both students - and aspiring writers - and are busy with other things. Holly soon discovers that Bonnie Dahl was last seen in a convenience store, and after Bonnie vanished, her abandoned bike was found with a scrap of paper reading 'I've had enough.' Holly rightly shrugs off this 'goodbye note' as a plant, and before long, Holly connects Bonnie's disappearance with a string of missing people, one going back almost a decade. The kidnappings are being perpetrated by a married couple, Emily and Rodney Harris, who are elderly emeritus professors at Bell College. Emily is an English teacher and Rodney is a research biologist who specializes in nutrition and health. The couple, who are still lovebirds after decades of married life, are - to put it bluntly - cannibals. (Not a spoiler; the book starts off with this duo's antics.) I'm happy to see Holly - who was once so timid she could barely speak above a whisper - take charge as a detective. Holly approaches witnesses; interviews them; puts two and two together; and comes to intelligent conclusions. I must admit though, that one thing Holly does may have readers yelling, "Don't do it! Don't go there".....as the audience sometimes does in horror movies. In any case, the book is an exciting suspense thriller, highly recommended. FYI: Stephen King is not shy about his political leanings, and Holly and other 'good guy' characters are sensible, vaccinated, and knock elbows instead of shaking hands. Conversely, creepy 'bad guy' pro-Trump characters insist Covid is the flu or a hoax and refuse to get vaccinated or wear masks. So it this offends you, you might want to skip this book. You can follow my blog at http://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com/

I can’t post a full review just yet, but I wanted to let those who care know that I did love this book quite a bit. There were aspects of the story that were kind of weird to me, but the author's note added light to those issues. As for Holly, I’ll love her always. I’ll post a more in depth review closer to release date :)

Holly is one of my favorite ever King characters, and I hope to see her again. I’ve loved watching her character progression, and while I was crushed when Bill was taken out of the narrative, I can now understand why that was necessary for Holly to become who she is in this book. I’m also relieved she got to where she was with her out of control family. I also love her friendships with Jerome and Barbara, but I feel like they are written with less depth. I would love to see a spinoff just for Barbara, or let’s give them more prominence in the next Holly installment as more than standby supporting characters. Actually, they were fairly active in this one, but I have a nagging feeling that they were underutilized.

** The Stephen King Goodreads Discussion Group is doing a re-read of his works from the beginning to the end. It’s been a long time since I have really immersed myself in Uncle Stevie’s world, but a rate of a book a month, I am all in. My goal is to read and review each one with as much honesty and reflection that I can give. ** Background – “Holly” was originally published in September 2023 as a Scribner hardcover. Length-wise - my original hardcover lists it as 449 pages and my Kindle lists it as 454 pages. Plotline – This continues the story of Holly Gibney, one of King’s most unique and empathetic characters ever. Holly is currently the owner and lead investigator of Finders Keepers Investigations Agency. When it the book begins, Holly is having a tough time. Business is tough in the early post-Covid world. Her partner, Pete Huntley, is sick with Covid. Her Uncle Henry is suffering from dementia and living in an elder care facility. And her selfish and more-than-complex, mother, Charlotte, has just passed away. Holly is just trying to get through the funeral services and keep her business afloat. Then Holly receives a call from a very desperate woman named Penelope Dahl. Penelope’s daughter, Bonnie, has gone missing in medium-sized college town. For some reason Holly cannot turn away from helping her and agrees to look into Bonnie’s mysterious disappearance. While Holly begins her investigation, we are introduced to some of the faculty members of Bell College of Arts and Sciences. Living nearby are Professors emeritus, Rodney and Emily Harris. Both are very successful academic stalwarts, Rodney teaching Life Sciences and Emily teaching English Literature. They have been married for many years, examples of respectability and devotion. Although semi-retired, they have some unique habits and deadly secrets that they are hiding from everyone. The problem for Holly is that their secrets may somehow tie to her search for a mother’s missing daughter. What Holly doesn’t know is that Rodney and Emily are very smart, conniving, and have a dark side… What Holly does discover is that Bonnie is not the only person to go missing in the same area… The question is why? Who is taking them? And more importantly, can Holly connect the dots before she becomes the next victim? Thoughts and Reflections – Let me say right up front, I really enjoyed this book. The plotting, pacing, and tension throughout worked well for me. There just didn’t seem to be any slow spots or wandering too far off on unnecessary paths. For me, King had everything mapped out structurally well – a major mystery leading the way, along with several supporting sub-plots that involving Holly, Jerome, Barbara, and Pete, that all intertwined together in a very well delivered reading experience. It started as a slow boil laying the groundwork and background, heated up throughout the middle, and then delivered a strong climactic ending over the last 80 pages that left me with a very satisfied and happy reader. This novel reminded me a lot of King’s prior Bill Hodges trilogy in many ways. Those books introduced Holly as a minor character, and as King has often stated, she subtly took over and grew into an interesting and uniquely dysfunctional lead character. This book was similar to those in style, plotting, rhythm, and character development. I found the murder mystery to be interesting and compelling, but not for the usual reasons. The guilty party (or parties) are given away early in the book, but the driving factors for committing the crimes are the focal point that drives the mystery. In addition, the bad guy(s) are not super strong villains, but King makes them crafty and ferocious in their own exclusively disturbed ways. The way King lays out this story and then peels the onion throughout the entire book, and even into the epilogue, makes this worthwhile reading. What really makes it work for me, is that King delivers situations and moments that challenge and stretch Holly, forcing her to become stronger and heroic in her own ways. She has become our quiet example and hero as she follows her intuition, develops personal indomitable spirit, and refuses to surrender to the bad things in life. King’s use of Holly’s mother’s death and their conflicting relationship history provides a symbiotic connection and motivation in her ongoing investigation. One feeds the other and vice-versa. For me, Holly really comes across in this book as a combination of the television characters of Columbo and Monk, but then she breaks the model into one that is her absolutely her own. I also enjoyed Jerome and his sister, Barbara’s storylines regarding their writing and publishing successes, and especially Barbara’s mentoring and support from the poet, Olivia Kingsbury. I really connected with Olivia’s freewill personality and frank demeanor. We all want someone like her in our lives to talk to and help motivate us when we need it the most. In addition, Penelope (Bonnie’s mom) had to be one of the most annoying and selfish side characters I have ever experienced. However, she was desperately needed to move the plot forwards in several key moments. Yet, she was a large pain to deal with. And I cannot forget dear old Roddy and Emily Harris. As a nutritionist, Roddy seems to have never met a type of meat that he doesn’t like. As for Emily, she is a beast. A self-centered, psychotic who brings on a whole new level of bat-crap-crazy. She makes Annie Wilkes (from “Misery”) sound somewhat sane and rational. Just saying… Now let’s deal with the elephant in the room. There have been a lot of concerns and criticisms expressed about the numerous Covid and Trump references in the book. I saw a lot of negative feedback regarding the abundant use of these topics in social media. It seems that there are those who were turned off by them, especially with King’s public dislike of Trump. I am not going to take any sides on that and just respect that everyone has their own opinion. I will just speak for myself and say that I get what King was trying to do in using the time of Covid and strong political conflicts as integral elements of his story. The challenge is that using a very polarizing situation and divisive time in our country also unfortunately makes us relive conflicting issues and deep emotions that we really want to have moved on from. Painful issues that we would prefer to see in the review mirror and not have to live through again. For some readers, this may cause a less than enjoyable reading experience, and even potentially border on bad memories. Do I think King used some of his political references too much? Maybe… Probably… And I can see others being sensitive to that. Again, each person has their own opinion and I respect that. I won’t argue or disagree. For me personally, I didn’t let the references or comments take away from the story being told and will wisely I will leave it at that. P.S. There was a specific chilling moment that I loved so much. I will call it a combination “Dexter” TV show / slash / “Misery” Annie Wilkes moment. That should be enough of a clue to those who have read the book (if not, just ask me in a message and I will share it). Other Notes – “Holly” is the sixth book or novella that features the character of Holly Gibney, and King has publicly mentioned that he is working on another novel with her in the lead role. That book will hopefully be published in the next year or two, depending on the publisher’s schedule. Overall – As mentioned fairly extensively above, I enjoyed this book quite a bit and give it a strong 4 star read. I am also not surprised to hear that King is working on another “Holly” novel. He just cannot let go of her. And truth be told, neither can I. Bring on the next Holly adventure! I cannot wait.

I always learn something from King’s books. In “Holly,” I learned that even though you are in your eighties, you can still have a huge impact on other’s lives. It’s not’s too late to take up new things like remodeling your basement or find a passion for food preparation and cooking. ;) “Holly” is a straight up crime novel – none of King’s signature supernatural in this tale. We follow a well-known King character – Holly Gibney. She has appeared in “If It Bleeds,” “End of Watch,” “Finders Keepers,” and originally in “Mr. Mercedes.” In prior books, Holly is depicted as a bright, shy, but courageous character, with OCD and some emotional baggage. She is a strong character and carries the novel. I mean this book has no mysterious supernatural element. There is plenty of creepiness and evil, but nothing paranormal. There is little mystery either, as the narrator is omnipotent, and we see both sides of the equation play out. The action is light, although there is a healthy parfait of suspense. The villains are fairly typical these days – racist and narcissistic psychopaths. The twists and turns are fairly limited for a crime novel – I was never shocked about a turn of events (although the crimes are certainly shocking). I also didn’t enjoy the fact that it was set during Covid-19, who wants to relive that! So, let’s summarize, little mystery, no paranormal, light on action, no big revelations, and it dragged me back though living the pandemic. But guess what, I still enjoyed it. Why, King’s character building is top notch here. Holly is as real a character as you’ll find, and the side characters are strong and unique. King pulls us deep into Holly mind, and that makes for good storytelling. There’s also a bit of nostalgia, connecting back to the past novels that Holly was in. Basically, King makes you like his characters, then lets your root for them, and finally puts them in peril. It works. Four blood dripping stars for this suspenseful detective novel. In my opinion, it’s doesn’t crack his top ten, but if you enjoy deep character development, you’ll eat-up this book.

Holly is a very good detective story, with some very suspenseful sequences and clever twists and turns. The character is still delightful and fascinating despite the developments and changes she's undergone in the previous adventures in which she's been involved, as are most of her friends and associates. While it's a straight crime story with no supernatural element, King liberally sprinkles some references for his Constant Readers throughout the novel: for example, on page 29 Holly tells her client that she's willing to take payment via Master or Visa or personal check, but not Amex, because they're difficult to deal with. (If you don't remember the commercial King did back in the '80s, look on YouTube.) On page 37 the missing girl's mother tell Holly that she was a prom queen in high school, but no one dumped a bucket of blood on her. Or on page 193, the numerals in the street address add up to 19... you get the idea-- lots of Easter Eggy fun bits. As has been noted by most people posting comments, it's a very political novel set in 2021, and King shows his frustration at the reality of basic healthcare precautions and procedures being reduced to declarations of political affiliation. While I agree with almost all of what he espouses, I did think that the prevalence of the philosophy detracted from the flow of the story. Near the end of the book, on page 442, he makes some puissant observations on the nature of evil which illuminate his ideas about the differences in supernatural horrors and human wickedness, which should mollify readers expecting or desiring a supernatural element. He observes that the human kind is worse, because it comes from within rather than any outside that could be blamed. It's a captivating book, and King is still the master storyteller he always was. I hope Holly has another case to solve soon.

3.5⭐️ Where to begin??? 😂 Okay… This was good. It got there for me… but let’s start at the beginning…. The Mr Mercedes trilogy is one of my favorite trilogies ever. When the first book came out I was so excited. That book felt DIFFERENT from other Stephen King books, but in a fun way. I was excited to read about a serial killer and detective story from King. And who emerged from that trilogy as one of the most unlikely likable characters ever??? Holly Gibney! I adore her, and her story. So here we have her own book! I was excited. This story tells the tale about a woman who comes to Holly (who is at this time running a very successful private investigation company, “Finders Keepers”) to find her missing daughter, Bonnie. We know from the beginning who most likely took her. A very creepy elderly couple who has really turned to the dark side! 😳 Can Holly find the missing girl before it’s too late?! You’ll have to read and find out! At this point, let me address the elephant in the room. This book takes place during the unfortunately very real covid pandemic. Mr King wrote this book during the pandemic. King, like many of us, has very strong feelings about the pandemic, and our leaders who were responsible for the decision making during the pandemic, and how we as humans responded to the pandemic…. And King was very angry. Listen… I get it. I worked the covid pandemic as an acute care nurse in its entirety. I was tired, I was angry, I was frustrated. I still have nightmares about the patients I lost. It was HORRIFIC. King has earned his spot in the literary world and he’s allowed to write whatever he wants and however he wants. I just felt like… his anger towards how the pandemic was handled really caused an overshadowing of Hollys story. Especially the first half of the book. I’m not saying I agree or disagree with his feelings. I’m just saying from a readers point of view, his anger took me out of his story. Again- I’m not saying his anger isn’t warranted… I understand… but I just feel like I missed out on some of Hollys story. I will say the second half was a little less politically driven and the story was able to get told. And I did enjoy the creepiness of the murderous couple! We got there… it just felt like a scenic route. 😂 sort of like this review… 😉

Spending more time with King's beloved heroine, Holly Gibney, was a delight. She's center stage in this stomach-turning detective thriller that takes a long, hard look at aging and the horrifying lengths one octogenarian couple will go to in an effort to keep time from catching up to them. COVID is very prevalent in this novel. The subject itself didn't bother me, but the number of references to masks or lack of masks and vaccinated versus non-vaccinated became a distraction and slowed the urgency of the narrative. Jerome and Barbara Robinson also get their moment in the spotlight, but more for their writing success than their skills as investigators. I really enjoyed their subplots. They helped balance the sickening behavior of the villains.

It took some time for me to complete this Novel, since it didn't engages me initially with the story. Penny Dahl mother of missing Bonnie Dahl reaches out to Holly a private investigator of Finders keepers. Holly who had lost her mother during the Covid pandemic agrees to take the case but it leads to a serial killers with more than one missing person but what really happen to them. I can see Olivia character leads some how to find the killers but it was dragged a lot like a sloth. How a old couple could be such a creepy and cannibalistic, living in their own world. Wonder how some time few more Knowledgeable people are walking to a mislead path. Overall a creepy detective novel.

Intense SPY Thriller! CIA operative Scot Horvath races against time to catch his wife's killer and save himself from assassination in this high-stakes thriller full of suspense. This is a great read with well-rounded characters and should have five stars except Thor rushed the ending like he had to get out the door for a camping trip to the Poconos which is coincidentally how I feel right now finishing up draft 1 of my second book!

In this latest entry in the Scot Harvath series, someone puts a $100 Million bounty of Harvath's head. Meanwhile, after the event of the last book, the quarry is drinking heavily, trying to get over his grief and guilt. After finding out he's Wanted: Dead, Harvath goes hunting for the man behind the reward. Along the way, he has what passes for a meet cute in these sorts of books with a beautiful Norwegian intelligence agent. The two combine their forces, and go after the assassins and the one who hired them. Pretty good. A little slower paced than many of the books in this series.

Near Dark is another good addition to the Scot Harvath series. It is as formulaic as some of the previous entries but still manages to be entertaining as ever. Brad Thor fans must read this.

Really a 3-star, but it is a Brad Thor "Scot Harvath," so 4-stars it is..."Near Dark" extends from last Summer's Harvath, "Backlash" as a Russian Oligarch seeks revenge by putting a $100 million bounty on him...Much of the story deals with Harvath and company peeling back the layers of the Byzantine maze of the intelligence world to find the source of the bounty...Okay Summer read!

Scot Harvath is a broken man. Brad Thor's masterful story telling takes you into the mind of a man that has lost all hope after the devastating loss of the most important people in his life. Once at the top of his game, Scot has lost his will to keep going. Only after nearly being assassinated himself and discovering that the largest bounty ever has been placed on his head does Scot snap out of his stupor and take his life back, or does he? Only after teaming up with Sølvi Kolstad, a Norwegian operative, with a history every bit as dark and haunting as Scot's, does he finally start to regain a sense of purpose. Scot and Sølvi have a shared interest in finding the man that killed their friend and mentor. Along the way they each develop a respect and understanding of each other and quickly become an unstoppable team. Brad Thor's uncanny ability to make you feel the raw emotions of the characters, brings to life another expertly written, emotionally draining, pulse pounding and suspenseful Scot Harvath thriller. Near Dark is a departure from the tried and true formula that Brad Thor has used to remain one of the best Authors in the thriller genre, however, it is a testament to Brad Thor's evolution as an Author, along with Scot Harvath's evolution as a man that has too long kept his emotions bottled up. The ending however, was too rushed and lacking the great detail that makes Scot Harvath stories a staple in the thriller genre. I highly recommend Near Dark to anyone looking for another great Brad Thor thriller and anxiously await the next installment in the life of Scot Harvath (and hopefully more Sølvi Kolstad).

This is another great installment in the series about Scot Harvath by Brad Thor. I'm glad to see that he seems to pull himself together after everything that has happened but what happens in the end of this book, is it smart? I sometimes wonder when I reed these books about top tier agents and assassins. They live in the same time and place right? Should their paths not ever cross? Victor should have been a deadly foe but he could always call 1-855-2-NOWHERE. It would actually be rather fun to see some of my favorite characters appear in the same story. If someone out there has missed this series I recommend that you remedy that.

4.5*. Scot is the character that I remember from the earlier books and I’m glad that he is back.

I enjoyed the story of Scott Harvath on the rocks. Brad Thor sketched a good portrait of a man struggling with his grief ready to destroy himself. I’m glad that despite the loss of Lara, we still have Nicholas. He has always been a fascinating character. The main villain (no spoilers) is also quite interesting. I think Thor did a good job of writing a thriller and the story of a man struggling to move on after a terrible tragedy.

Scott Harvath is one of my favorite characters. If you enjoy reading the espionage thrillers then this book is for you. First page to last it’s non stop adventure

Scot Harvath, the hero of Brad Thor's terrific long-running series, has had a really tough go of it lately. He has lost his wife; his mentor, Reed Carlton, of the Carlton Group, which employed him; and a trusted colleague, Carl Pedersen. He has elected to drop off the grid and drink himself into oblivion in Key West, Florida. But after being asked to leave his regular resort following an altercation, he drives to the far end of the island, checking into a lowbrow hotel for two weeks. The action in NEAR DARK takes off when he visits a seedy local bar. The prologue features a conversation between Andre Weber, a Westerner, and Lieu Van Trang, an elderly Vietnamese gentleman. Both are extremely wealthy and powerful. Their discussion quickly shifts to the amount of money they need to hire the best assassins in the world to take out someone permanently. That target is the one and only Scot Harvath. As he is fighting two bikers outside the Key West bar in which he had been drinking bourbon, a stealthy gunman takes aim at him. A shot is fired, but it is not Harvath who goes down --- it is the shooter himself. Harvath is rescued by a small team that he had become acquainted with during his top-secret government work. He is whisked away to Washington, D.C. for a meeting with an old friend. Nicholas, the diminutive dwarf and his one-time foe, has stepped up in the absence of Carlton. He is an expert at many things, not the least of which are hacking and scanning the dark web, where he finds chatter about a hit put out on Harvath. Now they need to determine who wants him dead to the point where money is no object and all the top assassins are invited to claim the bounty on him. One of these hitmen is a former Irish citizen now living in France under an assumed name. Michael McElhone is now Paul Aubertin and is one of the best in the business at what he does. He has a special love for the French national landmark Mont-Saint-Michel, which not only will play a role in the story but also is keenly depicted on the book’s cover. Against the wishes of his superiors and peers, Harvath decides to throw himself back into the most recent places in which he had stirred up trouble to see if he can pick up the scent of who is paying to have him killed. Everyone at the Carlton Group wants Pedersen's killer dead, but they are not confident that Harvath is going to figure it out. We also are introduced to a Norwegian version of our protagonist, a tall and striking female operative named Sølvi Kolstad. She has experienced a tragedy of her own involving personal loss and drug addiction, and finds an almost instant kinship with Harvath. Having an ally is a good thing at this point, but he still has no intel on how, when or where the attempt on his life will come. In true Brad Thor style, the book continues to globe-trot across the planet as Harvath and Kolstad fight, torture and go clue-tracing until they get a jump on the assassin. A final breathtaking showdown will take place, like something out of a James Bond novel or film. NEAR DARK is everything you would expect from a Brad Thor book. A staunch conservative who has shown his disillusion for the current political landscape through his recent work, Thor gets an opportunity to step away from these trappings --- and the result is an outstanding chase novel. He knows his stuff, as evidenced by his work in many secret government think tanks throughout his career, his depictions of “spook life” and his knowledge of great international locales. He dedicates the book “To all those we lost. And to all those who bravely served so that the rest might live.” I am looking forward to the next installment (the 20th!) of this series, which hopefully will be set amidst our current global pandemic. If there is anyone who could get to the bottom of this mess and come up with a solution, it would be Scot Harvath. Reviewed by Ray Palen

Another solid effort in a fun series Read this in basically two sittings. Could not put it down. Story moves fast and develops quickly. Looking forward to the next one.

Liked this book a lot.

It was a thriller for sure. No complicated language and an easy read, it was about what I was expecting. It is indeed a page-turner though.

Usually Thor's books are home runs but this one fell on the warning track. Sure, when Scot and Nicolas could do their magic the story picked up but before that it was such a rehash of the other books that it became a bit boring. Still, well worth the read.

Good read, up to Brad Thor's standards. I had a little problem with the ending. Will ask other readers what they thought. Do not want to include spoilers. Good news, I believe the next book will be great. Can't wait!

Another great Scot Harvath adventure!

Actual rating is 3.5 stars. This is part of a series but can be read as a stand alone. In this one Robert is in Prague with his new girlfriend. She is a writer and her book is about to be published when suddenly all copies are being stolen. Robert finds himself in the middle of a conspiracy once again. If you have read a Robert Langdon novel you pretty much know what you are going to get. Robert accompanied by a beautiful female trying to figure out who the bad guy is by solving puzzles that are hidden within tourist attractions. All this because of a subject matter which is usually thought provoking and a little controversial. This one followed the same vein but not to the degree I would have liked. I thought Robert and the puzzles were almost nonexistent. The subject matter was very interesting but I don't believe it is that controversial. It is food for thought and I can see how readers will fall on either side. Even without these staples of a Langdon novel being prevalent I still thought this was a more than likeable book. The author does a terrific job with describing the surrounding areas. And by now the author has his formula how to put the thrill in a thriller novel as we proceed through the chase between the characters. At being close to seven hundred pages I did think this offering lost its momentum for the thrill at times. It became slow paced in areas when I wanted the fast pace of the adventure to continue. That being said I was interested in the book throughout and I enjoyed it. If I had to rate this book in a list of Robert Langdon books I would put it in the middle. It is not the best but it is not the worst. It is definitely worth a read.

“When we lose ourselves in the virtual world,” Katherine said, “we are giving ourselves a kind of nonlocal experience that, in many ways, parallels an out-of-body experience—we are detached, weightless, and yet connected to all things. Our filters are dropped…We can interact with the entire world through one screen and experience almost anything.” Reading The Secret of Secrets marked my firth experience with Dan Brown, and I went into it with mixed expectations. I had been underwhelmed by Origin, but after eight years, enough curiosity had built up to draw me back in. This time, the experience was elevated by doing a buddy read with a friend. Since we both work in the medical field, our discussions -particularly around the scientific concepts- added an extra layer of engagement that I don’t usually get from thrillers like this. It made the reading feel more interactive and intellectually stimulating. As expected, Brown’s writing style and the sheer amount of research behind the story are commendable. However, I couldn’t shake the feeling that the book overstayed its welcome. The pacing feels artificially stretched, especially considering that the events unfold over just a little more than a single day. There’s a mismatch between the scope of the narrative and the time it supposedly occupies, which made parts of the story feel unnecessarily drawn out. The plot itself is undeniably intriguing. I found myself particularly captivated by the ideas of noetic science and non-local consciousness (Concepts that made me reflect differently on aspects of my everyday work). That said, I was able to predict the ending fairly early on, largely because Brown’s narrative patterns have become familiar to me over time. Robert Langdon, as a protagonist, continues to be a weak point for me. His repeated role as the savior of the world stretches believability, and at this stage, it’s hard not to question how he still fits into these high-stakes adventures without feeling outdated. His romantic subplots also feel somewhat awkward and unconvincing, lacking the depth needed to make them meaningful. (I shouldn't be surprised when Brown himself has mistress with 27 years age gap). I can’t help but think the series would benefit from a shift in perspective, perhaps introducing a new scientist or expert with each installment rather than relying on Langdon. It would bring freshness to the narrative and allow for more diverse and compelling character dynamics. Additionally, if this story exists in the same universe as Inferno, it’s difficult to reconcile how the world appears largely unchanged after such a massive, world-altering event. That disconnect feels like a significant oversight. “The ultimate test of a man’s conscience is his willingness to sacrifice something today for future generations whose words of thanks will not be heard.” To sum it all up, this was an engaging but flawed thriller, The Secret of Secrets delivers on intriguing ideas and solid research, especially with its exploration of consciousness and science. However, predictable plotting, pacing issues, and an increasingly unconvincing protagonist hold it back from being the next big thing!

3.5 stars, rounded up for Goodreads. I (lovingly) refer to Dan Brown's books as brainy beach reads for a reason - they are excellent novels to suck you in, turn your brain off, and zip through 200 pages in an afternoon. These books are thriller-esque in the sense that Brown creates an atmosphere of tension and danger around every corner, but it's up to the reader to determine what's real and what isn't. Brown is known for his meticulous research of historic locations, local religions, and iconography - this installment of the Robert Langdon series is no exception. I didn't know that much about Prague and thus really enjoyed learning about this ancient city and its landmarks. Brown is talented at fusing fact with fiction, potentially too much so at points. Readers can easily get lost in what's reality versus the made-up elements that drive this particular plot forward, which is at times an uncomfortable grey zone when discussing things like science and religion. While Brown has definitely examined the intersection of science and religion in past novels, this book more heavily leans on the science side, feeling almost sci-fi at points. The core issue here is around human consciousness and the little we know and have been able to confidently determine about it - an interesting concept that was exciting to read about, but there were moments that it felt far fetched. Langdon's counterpart, Katherine, is a "noetic scientist" who is doing research into "non-local consciousness" or the theory that our consciousness isn't tied to our physical body but rather exists outside of it with the body acting as a sort of "radio receiver." Research in this field is difficult to complete and replicate, considering that the best moments of understanding how consciousness works typically happens in the moments before or around death. Katherine accidentally crosses the wrong people. There are moments, as we barrel towards the conclusion of this novel, that feel too far fetched even for the premise Brown sets up. The chapters are short and the book erupts at an incredibly rapid pace, never letting up until the final reveal. Unfortunately, that final reveal comes nearly 100 pages from the end of the book. With a stronger editing process and sharper eye for conciseness, this novel could have easily been cut down significantly (I'm talking like, 100 pages). The bloating comes mostly at the end, where there is a redemption arc for even the most egregious of offenders (another complaint of mine about this installment - even the villains who were unequivocally performing heinous crimes against other humans got a short of shrug and explanation that the work was mostly done for the common good, which thus justified the means). Brown, furthermore, should trust his readers to comprehend/understand concepts (even ones pretty deep in science and religion) the first or second time he explains them. There were so many moments I was reading a passage that was nearly identical to another 50 or 100 pages earlier. One of the "twists" in particular felt a bit sloppy in a way that surprised me. This all being said, Brown's books suck me in every time and I find them difficult to put down, especially given the tension and pacing that he builds to a fever pitch. I will keep reading them because they're my shameless guilty pleasure books. I enjoy the short chapters and multiple storylines that you must trace in an effort to understand how they will all come together before the end. I'm a sucker for a thriller with a smart concept, but this one was just a bit lacking in execution for me. As a broader note, Langdon must be so tired of being chased and almost killed at this point - I hope Brown gives him a soft retirement in his next novel, but something tells me he may not be so lucky.

Thoroughly enjoyed this latest Robert Langdon mystery-thriller! If you are a fan of the author then you shall not be disappointed with this offering. No spoilers to ruin any elements of this lengthy novel for other readers. All you need to know is this smart story takes place in an old European city and is full of history tid-bits and intriguing sciency-ish mystery and thrills. If you are not a fan of the author or don't appreciate these kinds of story features then you may find the novel a bit dull and long.

What is the secret? The secret is to not read to Dan Brown books in order, because they are way too long and cause boredom when done that way. Yes, and of course, I have forgotten much of the book. There was a lot of chasing in this book That takes place in Prague. Now I love Prague. Years ago, a penpal sent me a photo of Prague that another penpal had sent to her. I have kept it all these years, even though I am blind. When we went through our postcards that my husband did not want, I only kept the photo of Prague, even though I couldn’t see it. I now wish that I had looked at other images of Prague on the computer, but I never did. So this is to say that I was looking forward to a book that took place in Prague, but his descriptions of the buildings Were not something that I can visualize in my mind. That was not his fault. And the story was about quantum physics and consciousness. What is consciousness? That is something that the physicists are trying to answer. I don’t think they will ever be able to figure it out. But I do know one thing, Consciousness, and Hinduism is God. And this consciousness has the nature of love. Not hate not judgment just love. It is not duality like it is here on earth. But our consciousness according to Hinduism is also God‘s consciousness. While this may be true, I don’t see myself as being God, but that God is more than us. So I suppose for the next 150 years if the Earth is still around, the quantum physicist are going to be trying to find out and understand consciousness so far they know it’s non-local to me non-local means it’s actually everywhere And not pinpointed to your brain. That’s all I know, and I don’t really know anything for sure either.

Robert Langdon is back, baby! Another action-filled adventure, this time navigating the science behind a CIA secret in the historical city of Prague. Dan Brown really knows how to pull you in with his mix of history and suspense. I couldn’t put it down once the clues started coming together. It feels like classic Langdon, smart, mysterious, and just a bit over the top. Full of mystery and puzzles, these books can never be long enough for me. Hopefully, there will be a continuation of Langdon’s mysteries, and we won’t have to wait another eight years! "As my prep school English teacher Mr. Lelchuk used to tell us: 'The right book at the right time can save your life.'"

Okay. This book??? WILD. UTTERLY WILD. Jeneva Rose really said "Oh, you thought that was it? Watch this." and threw us headfirst back into Sarah Morgan’s chaotic, cunning, completely twisted world—and it was GLORIOUS. First things first: this sequel eats. Better than the first?? 100% yes. And I say that as someone who didn’t even love the first one. But this one? This one had me clapping, gasping, and side-eyeing everyone like “who’s playing who now??” The drama. Sarah is BACK—smarter, meaner, and more done-with-your-crap than ever. And Bob? Sweet summer Bob? Boy, BYE. He messed with the wrong woman. This wasn’t a divorce. It was a full-on WAR. Messy, savage, unhinged... and I loved every second. Twists? YES. Mind games? Double YES. That moment where you think it’s over but it’s NOT? ICONIC. And can we talk about the ✨tone✨ of this book? It’s giving Gone Girl meets courtroom chaos and petty revenge—but with way more murder and razor-sharp shade. Also? The dialogue is lethal. So many one-liners I wanted to tattoo on my soul. Sarah is savage and I live for it. Yeah, it’s over-the-top. Yeah, it’s totally dramatic. But that’s what makes it SO addictive. I stayed up way too late inhaling this, eyes wide, heart racing, and muttering “WHAT?!” every ten pages. This is not just a book. It’s a vibe. It’s a messy, blood-stained, secret-filled, don’t-trust-anyone vibe. And honestly? I want more. Would I recommend? Absolutely. Just maybe don’t read it right before bed unless you want to lie there plotting imaginary revenge on people who ghosted you back in 2018. Petty. Dirty. Delicious. The perfect divorce? Nah. The perfect thriller? Maybe. Someone get me book #3 IMMEDIATELY. I’m not done with Sarah. Not even close. Cue dramatic music and a slow, sinister smile. Final thoughts: Justice is messy. So is divorce. But damn, it makes for good reading. 10/10 would get legally entangled again.

This is one of those rare cases where the sequel is way better than the original. Loved this. ♥️ She is back again! And just as manipulative as ever. Or is her husband the manipulative one? Who is plotting against who and who will come out on top? To be honest, I was one of the people that didn’t really like the first book. BUT, with that said, you absolutely need to read the 1st or at least know the major plot points to read this as it plays a major role. This was really great and from the ending it appears we will be getting another which I actually am really excited about now. I find it really hard to say all the things I want to say about this one, because it would just give too much away. This is gonna be a hit! Thank you to netgalley for this free advance copy in exchange for an honest review.

Genius! Love the cleverness from one of the characters, there was some serious devious planning and I loved it.

Book Review: The Perfect Divorce by Jeneva Rose ⭐⭐⭐⭐ (okay... 3.75 but who's counting?) Let me start off with this: I. AM. OBSESSED. WITH. JENEVA. ROSE. 😍🪶 She is my literary mother goose, and I will never not want to grab coffee, talk murder plots, and just bask in her storytelling genius. ☕🔪💬 That said… The Perfect Divorce, the highly-anticipated sequel to the 5-star stunner The Perfect Marriage, didn’t quite live up to the hype I personally built for it. And oh, the hype was real. 📈🔥 🎭 The Characters: Love Some, LOATHE Others First off — Sarah Morgan. Still that girl. 🧠💁‍♀️ Intelligent, sharp, resourceful, and honestly, even after orchestrating one of the wildest murder cover-ups in thriller history, I still found myself rooting for her?! HOW. DOES. JENEVA. DO. THAT. 🤷‍♀️💼⚖️ But then… there’s Bob. 🧓👎🗑️💢 If you’ve read The Perfect Marriage, you probably remember Bob Miller as the smug, borderline-prick colleague with zero redeeming qualities. So imagine my emotional whiplash when I found out Sarah marries this guy and has a kid with him 😳🤯 Like… Sarah, babe. You framed your cheating ex and got away with it… but THIS is your husband?! WHY?! 😩 Bob continues to be a walking red flag parade 🚩🚩🚩 — with quotes that make you audibly groan, roll your eyes, or scream "GROSS" at your Kindle. Seriously, every time he showed up on the page I got secondhand irritation. 🙄📖 🌀 The Plot: Messy in the Beginning, Twisty by the End The first half of the book took a while to find its rhythm. 🐢⏳ It was a bit scattered, trying to catch us up on 10 years of Sarah’s life while weaving in new characters and plot threads. I struggled to stay hooked — which was surprising, considering how tightly plotted and fast-paced The Perfect Marriage was. BUT THEN... The second half hit different. 😮‍💨💥 The pacing picked up, the tension escalated, and the classic Jeneva twists started rolling in like plot grenades. 💣🕵️‍♀️ DNA evidence, missing women, ugly divorces, and former characters coming back with vengeance — chef’s kiss. It reminded me why I fell in love with this twisted universe to begin with. 🍷📚🖤 🧃 Final Thoughts: Juicy, But Not Perfectly Blended This was a solid sequel with strong bones and plenty of juice, but the flavor just didn’t quite match the first glass. 🍇🥂 There were moments of brilliance — especially with Sarah’s character arc and the smart legal mind games — but there were also moments that made me scream internally, “NOOOO NOT BOB AGAIN.” 🙃 Would I recommend it? YES. Would I reread it? Maybe not. Will I read anything Jeneva writes ever again? ABSOLUTELY. 📖💋 Rating: 3.75 Stars ⭐⭐⭐✨ 📦 Worth reading for the drama, the plot twists, and Sarah — but go in knowing it’s not The Perfect Marriage 2.0. Till death do us part... or until Bob opens his mouth again. 😒🔫

Goodness!!!! She sure is evil!!! cant decide if you want to route for the MC or watch her get caught in all the web of lies she's made. Good continuation to the first book! but honestly would like Sara to get hers in spades too! Solid 3.5 stars!!!

Release Day 4/15/25✨🩸 "He's already a part of my past. He just doesn't realize it yet...." Now this is how you write a sequel! I thought the first book, A Perfect Marriage, was good—a solid 3⭐️—but this one was such a great follow up, and I was so much more invested this go round. It didn’t suffer from the dreaded second-book curse, and Jeneva truly delivered. The story picks up a year after the events of the first book and is packed with twists and turns. The tit-for-tat dynamic between the main characters was masterfully plotted, keeping me guessing who would come out on top. While there’s one loose end that wasn’t tied up, Jeneva has mentioned this will be a trilogy, so I’m confident it’ll be addressed in the next book. I can’t wait to see how it all concludes! *Thank you Blackstone Publishing for the ARC*

I will read just about anything Jeneva Rose writes. I actually loved The Perfect Marriage so I was excited for this one! I enjoyed it, the audiobook performance was amazing!! I listened to it in one sitting and couldn’t stop. It was a tad far fetched but idc. It was fun! Sarah is insaaaaane.

4.5 ⭐️ | Talking about an ending that I didn’t see coming! In most cases the book 2 is not usually as good as the first book, but in this case I liked it just as much or better. It didn’t hook me in from the very beginning like book 1 did, as the multiple POVs were unexpected. But when it all came together, it took me on a roller coaster ride. Jeneva left me wondering how does she come up with this stuff lol! I listen to the audiobook, and the different narrators for the different characters was a really good idea. I will certainly be diving deeper into this author’s catalogue & recommend this book. It was a great story with a wowzers ending.

Is it alarming that I would describe this murderymystery as fun? Because it was.

I can sum this book up in one sentence: Honestly, what did he really expect to happen???

4.5 ⭐✨ Jeneva Rose has done it again with The Perfect Divorce! This twisted follow-up had me hooked from page one. The pacing is sharp and the plot delivers—fast, suspenseful, and completely binge-worthy. I couldn’t put it down. Yes, a couple of twists were a little predictable, but the ride was still thrilling and nonstop fun. The real star here is Sarah. She’s cunning, psychopathic, and brilliantly intelligent—the kind of anti-heroine you can’t look away from. Watching her coolly outsmart everyone around her is easily the highlight of the book. As a duology, this sequel is the clear winner for me. It took everything I loved—the chaos, the suspense, Sarah’s brilliance—and delivered it on a bigger, more satisfying scale. Overall, this is a fun, wild thriller with that addictive “just one more chapter” energy. Perfect for fans of dark domestic thrillers with unforgettable female leads.

The perfect divorce Dark, Demented, Twisty, Turny, and Simply Unputdownable! Years after defending her first husband Adam for murder, Sarah finds herself in another predicament, she discovers that her second husband Bob had a fling and that his mistress has gone missing. To make matters even worse, Sarah finds evidence that Adam may be innocent of the crime for which he was convicted. Does the drama never end? Not in this mystery thriller by Jeneva Rose. Though I missed the first book in the series, I thoroughly enjoyed The Perfect Divorce and will definitely be reading The Perfect Marriage. Huge thanks to NetGalley and Blackstone Publishing.

the setup… Sarah Morgan has moved on since she unsuccessfully defended her husband Adam in his trial for murdering mistress Kelly Summers eleven years ago. She married Bob Miller, has a nine-year old daughter Summer and left the prestigious law firm where she was a named partner and opened her own practice and foundation. Sarah recently discovered Bob had a one-night stand and immediately files for divorce. Then evidence turns up that forces Adam’s case to be reopened and the woman who slept with Bob goes missing. Sheriff Marcus Hudson who was a deputy at the time of Kelly’s murder is determined to get it right this time. the heart of the story… She’s back! You must read the first book to fully appreciate this one. There’s a lot going on here and Bob is certain Sarah is gunning for him. I wasn’t sure if his fears were well grounded but if I were in his shoes…just saying. The divorce process turns nasty and I knew something was coming and was braced for it. Let’s just say I wasn’t disappointed. the narration… It’s an all star cast giving voice to all the important characters and it made such a difference. Mozhan Navabi, Andrew Eiden, Adam Lazarre-White, J. S. Arquin, Brittany Pressley, and Andi Arndt delivered great performances. the bottom line… This was one of my most anticipated releases and I inhaled it. Sarah and Bob are both cagey and devious, keeping me off balance as to what they may be up to. In the background was Sheriff Hudson who, deep down, knew he couldn’t trust the obvious as his instincts with the first murder confirmed. All throughout I was waiting for the twisty moments but still was caught off guard. Get your popcorn ready and settle back for the most interesting ride. What’s next? Posted on Blue Mood Café

The Perfect Marriage is one of my favorite books ever so I was so excited to get a sequel! Sarah Morgan is one of those characters that will live rent free in your head. Her cunningness and diabolical personality will have your jaw dropping throughout. I thought this was a great sequel to a spectacular book. I did enjoy the first book more but I thoroughly enjoyed the sequel and would love even more from this story and its characters. I had a couple of working theories and each ended up being wrong. I love to be proved wrong when reading a thriller. I finished this in less than a day and it kept me engrossed the entire time. Only one of my suspicions was true. Jeneva Rose weaves a twisty web that will have you questioning everyone and everything.

While I might have slightly preferred The Perfect Marriage, this sequel is still fantastic! The twists are clever, the pacing is spot-on and the dark humor is sprinkled in nicely throughout. Rose’s characters remain wonderfully sneaky, and she continues to constantly throw in surprises that'll leave you guessing. Just when you think you've figured it out, she hits you with more, and you realize you know nothing. Get ready for a truly fun and unpredictable ride!

A great sequel! I really enjoyed this book. It was fast paced with a bunch of twists. I’d be remiss to say I didn’t totally guess. What was happening towards the end but still thoroughly enjoyed :)

Long story short, this was a complete vibe and I ate this devious domestic thriller up!! Rose serves up a sharp, darkly comedic thriller that makes you question everything about love, marriage, and... well, divorce. When Sarah decides to split from her marriage with Bob, things take a wicked turn, proving that even the perfect divorce can get perfectly messy. 😏🔪 This book made me wanna stop and reread the first book but I also couldn’t stop listening to this one. Overall, I thought it was very fast-paced, addictive, and packed with fun twists. This one is filled with sass, the writing was genius and I love what Rose did with the wrap-up. I was highly satisfied by the end of this book!! Are some parts ridiculous? Yes! Did that take away from the vibes? Absolutely not! I think this is my fave thing about JR’s books— though some of it is ridiculous it’s so entertaining and entertained I most certainly was! 🎧 I listened to this on audio only (thank you to the publisher for the early access) and it’s so good!! There’s quite a few narrators ( Mozahn Navabi, J.S. Arquin, Adam Lazarre- White (👏🏾🔥), Brittany Pressley, Andi Arndt, Andrew Eiden) and I really think that really helped bring the story alive! ⭐️ 4.5/5

I actually liked this book more than the first. I think part of it is we know the majority of these characters now, so it is more fun to see what they do. There isn’t anything you don’t see coming for a seasoned thriller reader, but the journey is very enjoyable! I listened to the audio and loved all the characters POVs. It made it easier to remember who’s talking. With that said, I clocked Adam Lazarre-White immediately because I love him so much and was SO happy to hear him in this. I also love to hate Bob’s character, which added to the appeal of the sequel 🤣 Jeneva said this storyline isn’t over here, so Im intrigued to see what she does next with these character!

Did I read this in one day? Yes Am I fully satisfied by my reading experience? Yes

4.75 stars!!! I could not put this book down and read it in one sitting. I LOVE Jeneva Rose’s writing! One of my new favorite mystery thrillers <3

I really liked this book. I actually preferred it to the first book in the duology. Jeneva Rose brings a little bit of humor to procedural crime and mystery in this novel. I found it to be extremely fast paced and had many elements in the story that kept me guessing. Which is what I'm looking for in a thriller. This book freaked me out and now I'm forever afraid of lawyers.

In the previous book, The Perfect Marriage, attorney Sarah Morgan defends her husband when he is charged with killing his mistress. Now we return eleven years later, married to attorney Bob Miller. The two have a beautiful daughter they are both devoted too. Bob loves his wife, but Bob screwed up and Sarah found out he has been with another woman. For Sarah, there is no going forward together and she initiates their separation. Things get complicated when the case against Sarah’s first husband is reopened with new evidence. Then the woman Bob was involved with disappears, and it looks as if she met Bob before her disappearance. People die, disappear, fingers are pointed, trust dissolves… who is behind these actions and who are the victims? The author keeps you guessing as the plot twists and turns. The book is full of fun characters you will love to hate.

Jeneva is so clever lol while reading the book and when the plot twist happened, I was definitely initially shocked! However, there was a small part of my brain where I figured that plot twist probably had another plot twist mixed in it ( which I guessed in my head) lol therefore, I give this book 4 stars! Sarah’s personality truly had me cackling and the punch lines she was giving Bob and the others were so funny to me. If I was truly shocked by how this book ended and couldn’t guess any of the plot twist, it definitely could have been 5 stars for me! Despite this, I highly recommend!

Review posted on blog: https://books-are-a-girls-best-friend... Harlan Coben. You do Beat All! An Entire Novel about my FAVORITE Character? Windsor (“Win”) Horne Lockwood, III? How did I ever get so Lucky? Can I just gush for a few minutes and talk about how much I LOVE Win?! His sarcasm, his wit, his affect? Win’s witty sense of humor throughout “Win” had me laughing hysterically, my entire bellyaching. His brilliance, his ego, his entire personality. Win’s deep abiding love for and loyalty to his best friend Myron, which seeps through the entirety of this book and made tears prick my eyes and fall, more than once. That his love for Myron is ever-present throughout, even when Myron himself is not, well, that speaks volumes. Win’s love for the finer things in life, including fine wine and well, of course, women. Did I mention his appreciation for women? You’ve got to hand it to the guy, he has pretty good taste. Yes, he’s a little psychotic at times, but it’s always with the best of intentions. I, for one, would be grateful to have him on my side (and in my bed... BAAAH!!!) Kidding... Not Kidding. (LOL!) But I digress, Let’s get to the plot, shall we? When an unknown man is found murdered in a penthouse apartment in NYC, the authorities link items in the man’s apartment to Win and to the Lockwood Family. A Stolen Vermeer painting and a piece of luggage, with Win’s initials on it. Both items are linked to cold cases, one of which dates back to the kidnapping of Patricia Lockwood, Win’s cousin, which happened twenty (20) years ago. When questioned by the FBI, Win, of course, gives nothing away, and yet he realizes that he must investigate. His privacy (and that of his families) is at stake. A fantastic mystery/suspense with several intertwining storylines, “Win” by Harlan Coben delivers in more ways than one. The character development and the plot are spot on, the twists and turns keep you guessing, and the novel includes several surprises for long-time fans. While I did, however, miss Myron Bolitar (as I adore him as well), and long for the day when Myron and Win are together again, I will gladly continue on this journey with “Win.” 4.25 Stars This was a wonderful buddy read with Kaceey, my book bestie, and the Myron to my Win. A huge thank you goes out to Morgan Swift at Grand Central Publishing via NetGalley for the arc. Thank you also to Harlan Coben. I have read and loved Myron Bolitar and Windsor (“Win”) Horne Lockwood, III, since the late 1990s and will love them till the end of my days. Published on Goodreads, Twitter, and Instagram.

Well, this sure had me glued to the pages. The crime/mystery was intense, creepy, and intriguing. Win was a fascinating character, whom I am not familiar with, having not read any of the Myron Bolitar books. Certain plot elements do make me keen to revisit the Mickey Bolitar series (Myron's nephew) and also read 'Home'. But you don't have to have read any of those to follow or enjoy this one, although there are minor spoilers regarding characters and relationships.

This was an entertaining read and one of Coben's better ones, in my opinion. Yes, he follows a formula, but it works well enough and I thought Win was an intriguing character, who will make for a good protagonist in an ongoing series. The plot was entertaining, if a little predictable, and the dialogue clever. I wouldn't be surprised if this was turned into a miniseries or film, like many of Coben's other works. Looking forward to the next one! Thanks to Grand Central Publishing for supplying me with a copy of Win in exchange for an honest review. Find my book reviews and more at http://www.princessandpen.com

I thought that I was better than that - but I ended up being charmed by Win, I mean by Windsor Horne Lockwood III. He's born with a silver spoon, he's entitled, smart and good looking. In real life, I despise people like him, not that I've known any personally. Win's candour, sarcasm, directness and some of his astute observations did win me over. I'm human, after all. And of course, the fact that he hurts just the bad guys (mostly) made him more endearing to me. Coben sure loves the word apropos. I thoroughly enjoyed Steve Weber's narration but I wish I had the ebook so I could count how many times the word apropos made it into the book. Other than that, this was fun, which is what I expected. The Miron Bolitar and Win are my favourite characters in Coben's books.

A new series by Coben is always going to set my reading heart on fire! Win, (Windsor Horne Lockwood III), is the billionaire friend of Myron Bolitar, and in this new series, it’s his, and not Myron’s character that takes centre stage. A strong antihero that requires perseverance to get acquainted with, Win is a very different character from all of Coben's other protagonists. Investigating a murder in an exclusive apartment block -a very expensive Vermeer painting, belonging to the Lockwood family is discovered. The original theft of the paintings is also linked to Win’s cousin Patricia being abducted and her father killed. Patricia was missing for months at the time but she escapes her captors. The initial murder scene also results in the finding of a monogrammed suitcase that belongs to Win’s family. Enter the Jane Street Six, a parallel crime that seems to be intertwined in the murder case. Very good story-telling (with a few pinches of salt) form the basis of the unfolding plot. The slightly psychopathic, morally questionable, WASP'ish Win is not a stereotypical character but this makes him very intriguing. Character-driven, as to be expected for the first in the series, the book soon had me racing through the story. My eventual acceptance of Win as a character is probably linked to his daughter Ema. A complex tale, with a vain, arrogant, and outspoken protagonist was a fascinating read in its uniqueness, faults and all, it was a great break from the tried and tested formula of the crime genre.

Win, by Harlan Coben, is the first in a series featuring Windsor Horne Lockwood III, the uber rich best friend of sports agent Myron Bolitar. Win, as he prefers to be known, can get things from people and the police that Myron couldn't. He also has no qualms about dealing out his own form of justice if need be. In this story, the FBI picks up Win after his briefcase and a stolen painting are found in the apartment of a murdered man. After determining that he isn't involved, he asked to look into it since, once again, he can do things the FBI can't because of protocols. It is discovered that the victim was involved in an act of domestic terrorism in the 60s and may have been connected to other crimes which may include Win's family. This book, like all of Coben's other works has a mix of snark, break neck pacing, and great character development. I will forewarn you though, that there are events referenced from the Myron Bolitar series. So if you haven't read them and want to, be ready for that. I really enjoyed seeing Win's character develop further as well as the return of old friends from the Bolitar series too. I can't wait to see what Win is up to next! Thank you to Novel Suspects, Grand Central, and author Harlan Coben for gifting me a copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.

Patterson rarely disappoints me. I do love the Murder Club and hope this series never ends. Another twisty ride for all the ladies and I loved it

On a detective’s investigation: “Got a whole lot of parts on the floor of the shop, but can’t make a car”! I’ve said it before in other WOMEN’S MURDER CLUB reviews but nothing has changed. In short a formulaic review works just fine for a formulaic series. That said, the series is thoroughly enjoyable and entertaining. In fact, for my money, it’s the best that James Patterson and his writing machine team have ever produced. Ladies and gentlemen, meet THE WOMEN’S MURDER CLUB - Lindsay Boxer, police sergeant and homicide detective; Yuki Castellano, prosecutor and assistant district attorney; Claire Washburn, medical examiner and forensic scientist; Cindy Thomas, writer and investigative journalist. Their novels are as predictably formulaic as the proverbial Hallmark movie but that formula (as of the writing of THE 20TH VICTIM) is working like a well-oiled high speed machine so don’t expect authors Paetro and Patterson to be breaking the pattern any time soon. Think of a WMC novel as a mash-up of two or three novellas or short stories, each involving one of the WMC ladies as a lead protagonist – a murder, trial or legal issue, medical drama, rape, breaking news story, kidnapping, bombing, arson, social issue … you get the idea. The stories weave in and out of one another in real time to produce a single larger novel but the interaction between stories is typically minor, incidental, or coincidental. Sprinkle in a generous helping of personal issues interrupting the ladies’ professional lives – marital difficulties; flagging sex lives; questions of professional integrity or self esteem; pregnancy; professional discord in their employment; divorce or separation; commitment; changing personal objectives; morality; illness … once again, all pretty predictable stuff! Last but not least, toss in at least one or two coffee klatch, dinner and drinks, or purely pub meetings over booze during which the ladies meet and discuss their issues and brainstorm potential ideas and solutions with one another. In a pretty real sense, if you’ve read one WMC novel, you’ve read them all but, darn it, they’re entertaining as hell, they manage to be quite gripping, and THE 20TH VICTIM is no exception to this astonishing string of successes. The story lines in this one? First, vigilante assassins, presumably from a military background with exquisite long-range sniping skills (and, it must be said, with more than a little public applause), team together to take down top dogs in the illegal drug market. Second, in a quasi-medical thriller, Joe Molinari lends a hand to his best friend who is certain that a doctor murdered his father. Third, Yuki Castellano deals with the moral and ethical difficulties of prosecuting a slam-dunk felony case against a young man who is clearly guilty but seems to have been innocently set up by circumstances. And, finally, in a fourth case, Medical Examiner Claire Washburn deals with the devastating fallout of a diagnosis of cancer. Up next, 21ST BIRTHDAY. Paul Weiss

I thoroughly enjoyed this book and feel it was one of the better ones in this series. I should add that I have read them all so was very excited to get this one prior to being published as an e-arc. Thankyou Netgalley and publishers. Great storyline, and thoroughly enjoyed it but I do have one or two little niggles this time. The main character seemed to leave her little daughter at home alone a few times. Not sure if this was done on purpose by the author, but there were at least two occasions when the neighbour Mrs Rose who usually helps with babysitting wasn't there and Lindsay gave daughter her a kiss and went out for a run while she was asleep or went for a walk. What would have happened if she woke up? Her husband wasn't at home. Not sure this is the right thing to be advertising or doing personally, particularly in the city she lives with all these murders going on.!! Additionally Cindy, the crime reporter who works for the paper, seemed to be very attached to her police radio scanner. Since when? I don't recall any mention of this in any previous book, but the authors couldn't stop talking about it in this one and seemed to never leave her side. Sorry for my issues but you wanted an honest review.

So, as many of you know, I’m a huge fan of this series. This was not my favorite but was still amazing in the fabtastic Patterson fashion that I’ve come to know and love. The ending left you knowing we’re gonna have a #21.❤️ I giggled to myself as I pondered the short yet sweet title for #21.🤣🤷‍♀️💯4.1 stars

20th Victim is book 20 in the Women's Murder Club series and threw us back into their world with two major cases ( one legal one vigilante serial killers) and a side case involving Joe (Lindsays husband) as he digs into another case involving his friend and a possible medical serial killer. Amongst these cases, we see personal and professional challenges unfold as Claire has a life changing secret to share, and Cindy deals with a male 'problem' at work. I really liked how Cindy was supported as a female in her working environment without question and how the women grouped together both professionally and personally through different scenes and events in the book. I do feel that Claire will be leaving the series going off the vibes of the last few books in the series and am unsure if this would be a positive or negative change.

I got what I wanted from this book. They turned it back a bit into what it was from the start. The woman’s murder club. Sad for Clare it it bought something different to the story. It was a good story this time and made more Sense.

This outing of the WMC is more like early Patterson been more recent efforts I think his writing is very good when he’s with Miss Paetro. The reader was very effective and the story moved right along. I think the part of the book involving Joe and the angel of death was totally unnecessary. This latest effort redeemed some of the more recent Patterson work.

Let me be honest up front. I read most of James Patterson’s books and have for several years. Some might ask why and that’s another whole discussion best saved for another day. I have really enjoyed some, liked some, and didn’t really care for others. On a personal level, I must admit that his Women’s Murder Club series – focused on the professional and personal lives of four women in San Francisco - has been hit and miss over the last couple of years with more weak outings than not. This year’s outing - “The 20th Victim”- kick’s off with a shooting in San Francisco that pulls Detective Lindsay Boxer into a bizarre situation when similar shootings take place in Chicago and Los Angeles at the same time and on the day. The case heats up when more shootings take place in Houston and other cities in Texas. Boxer, her partner Rich Conklin, and their boss, Jackson Brady, are pulled into a fast-moving and wide-ranging mystery as to who these sharp-shooting killers are and what is driving their need for taking out individuals involved in the drug trade. In addition, to the primary plot, there are several other sub-plots going on that involve all of the members of the Women’s Murder Club. Medical Examiner, Claire Washburn, is facing the medical crisis of her life that will make her face her biggest personal fear. Crime report, Cindy Thomas, is on the hunt, trying to turn her early scoop of the mysterious shootings into a national headlining story, which puts her at odds with Lindsay’s ability to keep the investigation under control. Assistant District Attorney, Yuki Castellano, is facing her own professional challenge in prosecuting a defendant that refuses to participate in any type of plea deal in order to protect his family members. Even, Lindsay’s husband and ex-FBI profiler, Joe, has been recruited by his best-friend from college who refuses to accept his father’s recent death, and wants Joe to investigate it. This is a busy novel, moving from one storyline to another in breakneck speed with no breaks in between. Patterson and Paetro weave between the primary and secondary plotlines in an overly fast-paced style that works very well. Unlike the recent books in this serious, this one was surprisingly interesting and well developed. The twists and turns were less predictable than usual and the each of the storylines pulled me in and kept my interest throughout. I also appreciated that all of the Murder Club members were involved in the storylines and played key roles. I found myself especially being pulled into Claire’s life-threatening situation and having an emotional reaction to what she was going through. I enjoyed Joe’s personal investigation into his friend’s father death, as well as Yuki’s tough prosecution of a young defendant trying to stay alive. Both plotlines were fresh, rather than re-hashed, and delivered strong outcomes. And although the primary plotline of the rebel assassins played out in a way that lacked a little closure, it was still interesting and better than any of the plotlines in the last several books in this series. Overall, this book was actually a breath of fresh air following the last two books in the series, which included weakly delivered stories, predictable plotlines, and one-dimensional characters. Although I am not proclaiming this outing to be stellar or awesome, it is certainly a step up in quality and character development over the two previously disappointing books. This gives me hope for a brighter future for the members of the Women’s Murder Club… Hopefully Patterson and Paetro can build on this momentum in future books… Rating: 3.5 out of 5 stars.

Here’s the thing. I adore James Patterson. He used to be one of my absolute favorite authors and basically anything he wrote immediately became my new must have. That said, in recent years the books have been hit and miss for me. There have still been some real winners- I am fully behind where the Alex cross books and Michael Bennett books are going…. but there have also been some that I have been on the fence about. I couldn’t fully fall in love with the Harriet Blue series and the Private series are touch and go for me. While I liked this one, it wasn’t the best book in the series by a long shot- there was a lot going on and everything just seemed a bit… messy. Let’s start with the main storyline. Modern day vigilantes are taking vengeance on drug dealers and the like. They claim to be the new war on drugs, doing what police can’t or won’t. Lindsay and Rich are trying to figure this out, and get help from other areas where similar killings have happened- meeting with varying levels of success. At the same time our favorite reporter is trying desperately to get the scoop- and a little pissed at her lover and bestie for keeping her out- yeah, we’ve had this issue in these books numerous times and it’s getting old. You would think by now Cindy would respect the fact that they can’t talk to her about some things- or that they may need her to wait on info in order to catch a killer. And yet… she sulks. Add to that there’s a new, very annoying reporter that’s placed on the story with her. Is he just a jerk… or is he trying to sabotage her? Side story #1: Joe is called to an old friend’s side when his father dies of what looks like natural causes. Ray just isn’t convinced, in fact, he believes that the doctor killed his father- and maybe several other patients. Is it the grief talking? Has Ray lost it? Or could he actually be on to something? This one was messy for me. It’s obvious that Ray needs help- therapy at least, whether he is on to something or not. I don’t like that most of the time Joe seemed to be basically humoring his friend. The story dragged a lot, with little pockets of mayhem to spice things up. Side story #2: Claire is sick! I won’t go into too much because…. spoilers…. but Lindsay’s BFF is fighting for her life and I don’t feel like we got enough information here. I would have loved to see this from either her POV or her husband’s. As it was, something that could have given the characters and the WMC universe more depth simply seemed to detract from everything else going on. Side story #3: Yuki is having to prosecute a young man with charges that she doesn’t think he deserves. The boy was a driver for a drug dealer- in a stolen car. Did he know the car was stolen? Who knows?! Did he know about the drugs? He won’t say. He also won’t say anything about the passenger- who shot a cop and got away leaving this boy to take the fall for everything. But if he won’t talk, even to save himself, how can anyone help him? Out of all the side stories this one was probably my favorite. I love Yuki, and I respected the heartache she went through over this case. It made me see her in a different light and I feel like there was some character growth here. All in all this was a four star book for me. It was really good- but not the best in the series. Still, it was an interesting fast read. Rating: 4 out of 5. On the Adult Content Scale, there was a large amount of violence, some language and substance abuse and mild sexual content. I would give it a five.

I enjoyed it. I do have a few gripes.... first of all, the title has become obsolete again.... There was no 20th victim. Also, I am glad they took "The Women's Murder Club" off the cover because they haven't been a murder club for several books now. This book is about a police officer who has 3 friends who have their own subplots are that are unrelated to the main plot. I don't dislike any of them and they do get together every once in a while in a non-work related capacity. I just feel like the original concept of the murder club is long gone. My other gripe is that I thought several times "Nobody talks like that but ok" at some of the dialogue. It just does not sound realistic at times. I still enjoyed this series which can be classified as your run-of-the-mill police procedural now.. which can still be enjoyable and was! I will continue to read this series for now. If the dialogue gets any worse, I may have to jump ship. A qualified recommendation this time....

I really liked this book, even though it was hard to keep track of all the characters. It was suspenseful and I like how the ending came together.

Another trial of tension and personal investment thru THE LADIES OF THE MURDER C.UB. always exciting and surprising

Quick, easy read. Basically, for those who follow the WMC, you know what you’re going to get. Nothing too deep, multiple storylines, fun and thrills.

Mr. Patterson, don't you dare kill Claire. If one of the women needs to die, it can be Cindy or Yuki. Cindy was super annoying in this one. Yuki wasn't too bad. Lindsay was the star of the show, and I like it when she and Joe can still work together. The mystery with Joe's old friend was a better mystery, but the assassinations were better action. 4 Stars

the setup… Jake Kincaid and his legendary rock band Avenue A never forgot their roots and return twice a year to play at Club Rock It, the place where it all started. One of those nights is reserved for the under twenty-one crowd and sixteen-year old Jenna Harbough has convinced her parents to let her attend with her two best friends. An aspiring musician, she fantasized that she’d be able to get Jake to listen to her demo. As she and her friends were enthralled in the concert, Jenna feels a sharp jab in her arm and sees the guy who did it as he moved on. Not thinking much of it, she continued partying until it was clear she was in distress. She headed to the outside alley for air, only to run into Jake who was taking a break. He comes to her aid but Jenna dies in his arms. Girlfriend Nadine Furst immediately reaches out to Lieutenant Eve Dallas, the city’s top homicide cop and her friend. It doesn’t take long for Eve to figure out Jenna might not have been targeted, especially when the same thing plays out again one day later. the heart of the story… How do you find a killer who selects his victims randomly? It was fascinating to see Eve and her team disassemble clues and form a path and profile to likely suspects. Of course, hubby Roarke applied his serious tech skills, this time absolutely a critical need. This was the finest in police procedurals, especially how they were able to hone in on a profile, sift through mounds of data, elevate relevant information and quickly set sights on the right target. Throughout all the insanity of these random murders, there were some tender and lovely moments to balance things out. the bottom line… This was a fast moving story because time was of the essence to stop the madness. I love a good police procedural and this was one of the best. As it impacted people close and important to Eve, she had an opportunity to show how she’s grown and evolved in how she handled that aspect. There were also some old friends who resurfaced, reminding me of the breadth of beloved characters relevant to this series. Lest we not forget the great house project, too, always fun to get updates. Another winner in a series that continue to find a way to stay relevant and fresh. 4.5 stars Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to St. Martin’s Press for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

This was a true blue police procedural and I ate it up. We do get some nice character moments with Jake & Nadine, since Jake is on the scene where the first murder happens, so that was nice for us long term series readers and is what makes a really enjoyable installment in this series. But I always appreciate the mystery being at the forefront, and this struck the right balance for what I like best for an In Death book

This is book 58 in this series (which totally blows my mind) but it can be read as a standalone (I haven’t read the earlier books). I do think I might have enjoyed it more if I had read the other books because I would have been more invested in the characters if I knew them better. I liked the futuristic speak and some of the teen lingo was so good I laughed out loud. One night as teens watched an iconic band play someone pricked a girl with a deadly cocktail. Despite emergency services being contacted she did not make it and this got Lieutenant Eve Dallas is on the case and she won’t stop until she hunts the killer down. I listened to the audiobook of this one and thought the narrator did a good job bringing the story to life. I liked this book and definitely think I will read more of this series. It was a fun thriller/police procedural.

4 stars - Police Procedural/Mystery/Futuristic/Thriller This series never disappoints. I hope she keeps them coming because I can't see myself ever getting tired of these characters.

This is the 58th book in the In Death series and, sadly, I haven't read nearly enough of them. I've really enjoyed the J.D. Robb (aka Nora Roberts, aka Jill March, aka Sarah Hardesty) books, but have read more written as Nora Roberts. She is a prolific writer and I can't keep up! I will say that every single book I've read by her, under any name, has been a good read and I felt worth my time. Description: Jenna’s parents had finally given in, and there she was, at a New York club with her best friends, watching the legendary band Avenue A, carrying her demo in hopes of slipping it to the guitarist, Jake Kincade. Then, from the stage, Jake catches her eye, and smiles. It’s the best night of her life. It’s the last night of her life. Minutes later, Jake’s in the alley getting some fresh air, and the girl from the dance floor comes stumbling out, sick and confused and deathly pale. He tries to help, but it’s no use. He doesn’t know that someone in the crowd has jabbed her with a needle—and when his girlfriend Nadine arrives, she knows the only thing left to do for the girl is call her friend, Lieutenant Eve Dallas. After everyone on the scene is interviewed, lab results show a toxic mix of substances in the victim’s body—and for an extra touch of viciousness, the needle was teeming with infectious agents. Dallas searches for a pattern: Had any boys been harassing Jenna? Was she engaging in risky behavior or caught up in something shady? But there are no obvious clues why this levelheaded sixteen-year-old, passionate about her music, would be targeted. And that worries Dallas. Because if Jenna wasn’t targeted, if she was just the random, unlucky victim of a madman consumed by hatred, there are likely more deaths to come. My Thoughts: Lieutenant Eve Dallas is a great detective character and it was fun to follow her methodology as she investigated this class with so very little to go on. I found the plot interesting and kept wondering what if something like this were really happening, how would anyone even begin to solve it, how many people would it affect before the person was caught. I fell for the character, Jake Kincade, who seems such a kind-hearted passionate guy. My heart went out to the victims who were so seemingly random and were just out having fun when they were attacked with no warning. I recommend this to anyone who likes a good mystery. Thanks to St. Martin's Press through Netgalley for an advance copy. Expected publication January 23, 2024.

I didn't even notice this one drop onto my kindle, so it was a pleasant surprise to find it. I'm not going to do an extensive review, because we're 58 books in and so at this point, you probably know the basics. It's a series that I enjoy coming back to because I love the characters - it is like going home for a visit, with each book. The mystery in this one was sad - killing teenagers - but not my favorite in the series, because there weren't really personal elements to it. Just a narcissitic incel douchebag. Would have loved to see him get the crap beaten out of him, though. But overall, the mystery felt like a couple days on the job. Normally I re-read a series when a new book comes out, because I just don't want to walk away, but with 58 books that's just not going to happen. I think I'll randomly snag a couple books out of the series, though, to re-read and enjoy.

Somebody is killing teenage girls with an OD cocktail, and Dallas is really not having it. Like, she's not going to sleep all week about it. She and Roarke may hook up a few times, but then it's right back to the murder board. Pros: Classic Dallas mystery, but we get to see how much she's grown as a person. The way she handles her personal life intersecting with a case is so much different. The way she thinks about and navigates a marital dispute is way more mature. Plus, it's cool to have a case where she doesn't have a profile on the murderer right away, beyond the hilarious fact that he's clearly an incel. Cons: JD Robb is to making up future slang as Stephen King is to making up past slang. If either has ever met a teenager I'd be shocked. Yes, I think they are both parents of adult children but I stand by my point.

A quick and really interesting read! Well-paced amd well-thought out. It's my first book from the series and I really enjoyed the main characters and their relationships as co-workers. This book did a great job with diving into femicide and misogyny, and how dangerous it can be. I was so disgusted listening to the parts that were from the killer's perspective. Very creepy and infuriating. The ending was very satisfying. I love Dallas' personality and the way she carries herself. Makes me want to read the series from the beginning. Great read!

3.5 rounded up.

4 Stars for The Hamptons Lawyer: Jane Smith, Book 3 (audiobook) by James Patterson and Mike Lupica read by Eva Kaminsky. Just how many times is Jane Smith going to have to defend Rob Jacobson on double murder charges. She’s done it once before and now it looks he’s killed two more people. Surely he’s guilty of at least one of these murders. And the guy is an absolute creep. But could somebody really hate this guy to set him up for two different double murders? The only saving grace is that Jane will probably die from cancer before she can get this scum bag for a second time.

What can I say? Jane Smith is one tough cookie. Crime and courtroom drama to the max. Library Loan

The third Jane Smith novel in the series. It’s well written. Jane continues her battle with cancer. Plus, she continues working hard as a criminal attorney. Most of the supporting characters return from the previous novels in the series, along with a few more. The book is well written by Mike Lupica. I felt like I was there, in the court room, on the beach listening to the waves, etc. I love that Jane is such a strong woman, especially when she shows her vulnerable side. I hope this is a long series. I definitely recommended Hamptons Lawyer!

Global best-selling author James Patterson teams up with legendary NYC Sportswriter and author Mike Lupica for the third novel in the unique and highly suspenseful Jane Smith thriller series entitled THE HAMPTONS LAWYER. The title may be quite matter of fact, but the circumstances are not. Defense Attorney Jane Smith, resident of Long Island’s famous East End, has been fighting a mostly losing battle against cancer as she continues to deal with a large tumor in her neck and head. She realizes that she could very well die at any moment, yet she continues to throw herself into her cases. No case has confounded and challenged her more than her defense of Long Island rich bad boy, Rob Jacobsen. Jacobsen had already been acquitted before with Jane’s help and now throughout this new novel is on trail once again for the murder of a family on Long Island. He swears he is being set up and the fact that he is in the pocket of infamous mob boss Sonny Blum, in much the same way that his father once was, does not make this an easy task for Jane. However, Jacobsen claims that Blum and his influential colleagues were setting him up to be the fall guy in this triple homicide of an innocent father, mother, and teen daughter. It is for this reason only that Jane Smith is continuing on as Jacobsen’s counsel, to see that justice is done for this family and that the actual killer or killers go down for it, even if it ends up being her own client. Assisting Jane, as always, is Hamptons bar owner and ex-NYPD Detective Jimmy Cunniff. He has direct experience with Sonny Blum and his entire racketeering organization and provides much needed backup, security, and detecting aid to Jane. While she is mentally zoned into this case and also dealing with her losing battle against cancer, her boyfriend and veterinarian to her beloved dog Rip, Ben Kalinsky, proposes to her. Jane does not need to think too long about an answer as she gives him a firm no, indicating that a wedding needs to be a happy event not a sad one where everyone knows the bride has a short expiration date. Her doctor has put her on a new level of chemo treatment partnered with new meds. This and the fact that her once terminal friend, Fiona, had just beaten the dreaded disease provide Jane with some reason for hope. Unfortunately, she cannot feel the same way about the Jacobsen case, which was just complicated by the unexpected surprise that he hired a second chair for his defense in the form of Thomas McGoey --- a shady attorney whom Jane is sure is in the pocket of organized crime. Another plot line adding more suspense and dread is the fact that a deadly hitman for the Blum family by the name of Roddy Sassoon is out there and waiting for the green light to take out both Jane and Jimmy. We get to witness a trail of bodies that have been left behind from his various hits and Sassoon indeed means business. One of the individuals who is in deep gambling debt to Sonny Blum ironically is Jane’s ex-husband who owns a popular East End restaurant. He reaches out to Jane for help after a visit from Mr. Sassoon, but she cuts him off, claiming the last time she paid his debts was the final time. As the case begins to ramp up in intensity, with several verbal battles between Jane and her opponent from the prosecution, events outside of the courthouse continue to provide more reason for Jane to worry. This comes in the form of the unexpected deaths of several individuals either directly tied to the case or potential witnesses. Add to this fire the fact that Jimmy personally serves Sonny Blum a subpoena to also appear at this trail. This is a dangerous ploy which may very well come back to bite Jane and her defense strategy. THE HAMPTONS LAWYER is a great summer beach read that is never predictable and hard to put down. On top of that, and in spite of the fact that Jane is gambling with the Grim Reaper, the novel ends with a terrific cliffhanger which will hopefully open the door to a fourth installment in this engaging series. Reviewed by Ray Palen for Book Reporter

“The Hampton’s Laywer” is the third book in the James Patterson -Mike Lupica “Jane Smith Thriller” series featuring their anti-establishment hero, defense attorney, Jane Smith. And yes, that appears to be her real name. “The Hampton’s Lawyer’ continues Jane’s story and starts up right where the last book – “Hard to Kill” left off, and continues what is basically one large ongoing legal thriller and overly dramatic soap opera. These are not separate books, just one story that is being published in individual 400-page increments. Each book ends with a shocking murder that just leads into the next one. I was thinking that this would be a 4-book series, but now my guess is it could be somewhere between 4 – 6 books in length. I googled it, but there is no clear available or available answer. When “The Hampton’s Lawyer” begins, Jane is preparing to defend her lying and cheating client, Rob Jacobson, who is charged with killing a family of three for the second time. This time his DNA is found at the scene and his situation is worse than the first time Jane helped him avoid a long-term prison sentence. At the same time, Jane continues battling her own problems. Serious medical problems involving her own fight with stage 4 cancer that’s currently winning. She’s 8 months into an estimated life expectancy of approximately 12 months. Even with support from her best friend and personal doctor, Samantha Wylie, her boyfriend and love of her life, Ben Kalinsky, and Jimmy Cunniff, her investigation partner, ex-NYPD police detective, and local bar owner, she is not doing well. Things are so bad that her doctors want her to try an experimental drug that may very likely be her last chance at survival… Jane is facing the biggest challenges in her life – trying to stay alive long enough to figure out who is trying so hard to frame her client and put him away for the rest of his life. A client who keeps making things worse for her defense and has even involved the local mafia leader who is warning Jane to keep him out of things, or he will eliminate her. And the new drugs are wreaking havoc on her body, keeping her from doing what she needs to do to be effective. Jane’s biggest fear is that this will be here her last time in court… After finishing this book, I felt a lot of the same things that I did after the last one in this ongoing, never-ending story. First, the good stuff. Thie strength of this series comes from its heavy character driven story. Other than his big three series – Alex Cross, Michael Bennett, and the Women’s Murder Club – I don’t usually think of James Patterson as a strong writer of character. In this one, he has created another strong, yet empathetic lead that grabs my heart and pulls on it with a tight grip. Jane Smith takes center stage and is in almost every scene that takes place. Although there are selected chapters told from Jimmy’s point-of-view (and I really enjoyed them), Jane carries the weight of the overall story, pacing, and ambience. Don’t get me wrong. For the most part, it works. It works very well. I found myself fully immersed emotionally in these books as Jane dealt with her professional challenges and personal medical issues. Jane is what makes this work. She is an unfiltered, stimulating character. Unfiltered. Outspoken. Flawed. Emotional. Stubborn. Underdog. Brilliant. And someone you cheer for. There were even moments in this one when Jane was struggling, I was really starting to feel the reality of her illness hit me. Hopefully, Patterson and Lupica will not take any cheap ways out in dealing with the outcomes when dealing with her serious medical issues. They have a chance of delivering on the promise of her being one of Patterson’s greatest characters. For me, the secret sauce is Jane’s personal life and professional relationships. How she relates to others. Protects them and at the same time keeps secrets. Goes out of her way to anger others by her flippant and disrespectful attitude yet sacrifices for others in ways they’ll never know and understand. She’s selfish, yet serving, but mostly on her terms. These facets of her character, her strengths balanced by her weaknesses are compelling to us. We all want to be like Jane and say whatever we want, regardless of social expectations, but her facing death allows her the unique freedom to let her inside voice out. Shout it out loud. As for the things I didn’t like, the primary one was the overall storylines involving Jane’s scum bucket client, Rob Jacobson. Although this was an enjoyable, escapist read, it was heavy on style and delivery, and repeated plot development of a second triple homicide (as if one triple homicide wasn’t enough). We continue with the storylines of bad cops, mobsters, and people with political and financial power (the usual in Patterson books). For me, it got fairly convoluted. Lots of characters. Several cops. A few mobsters and an interesting hit man. It wasn’t terribly too hard to follow, but it didn’t really propel the overall storylines forward as much as it felt repetitive. As a matter of fact, Jane’s personal battle with cancer was more compelling than the courtroom drama in this one (at least it was for me). And of course, right at the end, when it looked like you were going to get some closure on outstanding issues, nope, you get another shocking murder that will involve Jane again in the next book… For me, that was a bit of contrived overkill. Overall, compelling characters, especially Jane, made this a fast-paced entertaining read. However, what started out as potential plot development kind of whimpered out in the end and will carry on repetitive plotting into the next entry in the Jane Smith series. I can’t help being left with the feeling that Patterson (and Lupica) are going to milk this as long as they can. To be honest, part of me appreciates that, but the other part is still struggling with the pacing and dying creativity of the legal plotlines. The good news is that isn’t stopping me from reading Jane Smith, but the rope is definitely getting shorter. You can make your own call... 3.5 out of 5 stars (and yes, Goodreads doesn't round off).

Mike has written an excellent book 3 with our heroine, Attorney Jane Smith. In all honesty, I have yet to read books 1 or 2. I didn't know they existed until I started on book 3. As you would expect, there's a big twist at the end, only this book has two, although some might say there are three. The chapters are short, the book has 380 pages with over 100 chapters. If you're constantly interrupted (like I am), the book can be put down and picked back up without rereading pages to get recentered. I've enjoyed Lupica's ghostwritten books for Robert Parker's series of books, along with his own sports-related books. This could be why New York sports teams are also a topic of conversation in "The Hampton Lawyer" book from James Patterson.

Looking forward to more books with Jane Smith as the main character.

As always, Patterson keeps the pace fast and the characters interesting. I wasnt sure how it would end, and the personal connections feel authentic between Jane and her loved ones.

Pretty good

I liked the book but it was too long.

Great book!! James Patterson has a way to keep you entertained!!😀

James Patterson teams up with Mike Lupica for the third entry in their unique and highly suspenseful Jane Smith series. The book’s title, THE HAMPTONS LAWYER, may be quite matter of fact, but the circumstances are not. Defense attorney Jane Smith, a resident of Long Island’s famous East End, has been fighting a mostly losing battle with throat and neck cancer. She realizes that she could die at any moment, yet she continues to throw herself into her work. No case has confounded and challenged her more than her defense of Long Island’s rich bad boy, Rob Jacobson. This is the third time that Jane is defending Jacobson, who is on trial for yet another triple homicide. He swears he is being framed, and being in the pocket of mob boss Sonny Blum --- in much the same way that his father once was --- does not make this an easy task for Jane. However, Jacobson claims that Blum and his influential colleagues are setting him up to be the fall guy for the murders of a married couple and their teen daughter. It is for this reason only that Jane is continuing on as his counsel. She is determined to see that justice is done for this family and that the actual killer goes down for it, even if it ends up being her own client. Assisting Jane, as always, is Hamptons bar owner and ex-NYPD detective Jimmy Cunniff. He has direct experience with Blum and his entire racketeering organization and provides much-needed backup, security and detecting aid to Jane. While she is mentally zoned into this case and also dealing with her terminal illness, her veterinarian boyfriend, Ben Kalinsky, proposes to her. Jane gives him a firm no, indicating that a wedding needs to be a happy event, not a sad one where everyone knows the bride has a short expiration date. Meanwhile, a hitman for the Blum family is out there and waiting for the green light to take out Jane and Jimmy. We witness a trail of bodies that have been left behind from his various hits, and he indeed means business. As the case begins to ramp up in intensity, with several verbal battles between Jane and the prosecution, events outside of the courthouse continue to provide more reason for her to worry as some individuals either directly tied to the proceedings or potential witnesses unexpectedly die. And adding fuel to the fire, Jimmy personally serves Blum a subpoena to appear at the trial. It’s a dangerous ploy that may come back to bite Jane and her defense strategy. THE HAMPTONS LAWYER is a great beach read that is unpredictable and hard to put down. Even though Jane is gambling with the Grim Reaper, the novel ends with a terrific cliffhanger that hopefully will open the door to a fourth installment in this engaging series. Reviewed by Ray Palen

Finding your way to The Hamptons Lawyer might take a moment. The series doesn’t follow a neat title sequence, so if you’re trying to track Jane Smith’s journey, you’ll need to do a little digging. And trust me, you’ll want to start at the beginning. This isn’t a series you can just parachute into. Jane’s backstory, her relationships, and the sheer volume of names and job titles flying around require some orientation. The authors offer a few breadcrumbs, but to really feel the weight of what’s happening here, you need the full arc. Now, about that writing team. James Patterson is often a “love him or leave him” kind of author, but this series feels different. That difference? Mike Lupica. There’s a sharper emotional undercurrent, a more grounded sense of character. It’s not just about the plot twists (though there are plenty); it’s about the people caught in the storm. Jane’s cancer isn’t just a subplot; it’s a presence. A shadow that follows her into every courtroom, every confrontation. It’s written with a kind of quiet persistence, never melodramatic, but always there. And the characters around her? They’re not just names on a page. Their connections feel lived-in. There’s a real sense of camaraderie, tension, and history. It’s the kind of ensemble that makes you feel like you’re in the room and not just reading about them. That said, the book isn’t afraid to get messy. People die. Sometimes gruesomely. But when bad people hurt other bad people, well... it’s not exactly a tragedy. And let’s be honest, the cast was getting a little crowded. A little narrative pruning was probably overdue. There are quirks, of course. Jane appears to run a law practice without any visible staff. Legal filings appear to happen by magic. But if you can suspend disbelief, the dynamic between Jane and Jimmy more than makes up for it. Their banter is sharp, their loyalty unshakable, and their ability to survive increasingly absurd situations is half the fun. By the end, most threads are tied up; some with a satisfying snap, others with a gasp. But Jane being Jane, there is always something new that she should say no to, but where is the fun in that?

Please note I did not read books 1 & 2 before reading this one. The Client: Jane represents Rob Jacobson, a wealthy real estate figure she previously defended successfully against a murder charge. The Case: This time, Jacobson faces a triple homicide charge, and the overwhelming evidence, along with mob involvement and a conspiracy to frame him, presents Jane with her most challenging case. Personal Stakes: Jane is also fighting a serious, advancing battle with throat and neck cancer, forcing her to balance her legal fight with her own mortality. Rising Danger: Jane and her investigator, Jimmy Cuniff, become targets of a dangerous killer who has been murdering mobsters, transforming the legal defense into a fight for survival. Characters: Jane "Effing" Smith: The brilliant, strong, and undefeated defense attorney, known for her determination and sharp skills in the courtroom. Jimmy Cuniff: Jane's wily investigator and close friend, who helps her navigate the dangerous legal and criminal underworld of the Hamptons. Rob Jacobson: The unlikable but high-profile client, who swears he is being framed for a crime he didn't commit. Norma Banks: An 83-year-old jury consultant who provides lively and insightful support to Jane. Sonny Blume - mobster Ben Kalinsky - Boyfriend to Jane Catherine welsh - prosecutor in the case against jacobson

Fast and entertaining legal thriller. This is the third in the series featuring criminal defense lawyer, Jane (Effing) Smith, who is, at least in her own mind, the best of the best but definitely so in this part of Long Island. This is the only one I’ve read, but I’m definitely hooked and look forward to checking the others out. In this book, Jane and her investigative partner, both ex NYPD cops, are defending a local real estate creep named Rob Jacobson. He’s been accused of murder, the triple homicide of a man, wife and teen daughter. The evidence against him is overwhelming, but Jane and Jimmy Cunniff have a plan. Unfortunately, the case has ties to a local bunch of bad guys who are into loan sharking, racketeering, and bookmaking. Meanwhile, Jane is dealing with a personal health crisis of her own that means she has to win this case if it is the last thing she does. Lots of action and bad guys doing what they do. The characters were interesting and I’d probably know them better if I had read the first two books. This was fine as a stand alone. The medical aspect was a bit, ok wildly, unbelievable but I just ignored that and went with it. This is the type of book you can just lose yourself in for a couple of hours and just have fun with it. I was able to listen to the audio book while also following along with the e-book ARC provided by the publisher. The narrator, Eva Kaminsky, did a great job of voicing the characters and they were easy to differentiate. Her dramatic flair added a nice touch and made the immersive experience more pleasurable.

Although the plot is well written, it took me a while to get into this book, which is why it took me 20 days to finish it. I would read something else and then return to it. It finally held my interest as I was about 60 percent into it. Although I enjoy the main characters, I don’t care for the client who is on trial again for a similar crime that he was previously acquitted of thanks to Jane Smith and her former NYPD cop investigator, Jimmy Cunniff. The client and the crime boss who’s controlling illegal betting in the area. have something on each other which keeps the client alive. As several people are late on payments, his enforcer shows them the consequences of getting behind. This same crime boss may have his enforcer try to eliminate Jane and Jimmy as he has before, although Jane is more likely to succumb to her cancer first. She’s receiving the best treatments possible, but they are taking a toll on her for the trial. The plot was well developed overall and I enjoyed the twist ending.

Never Say Die Jane Smith, the hotshot Hamptons lawyer, is back. Once again her client, Rob Jacobsen, is accused of murdering members of a family. Jane had gotten an acquittal when Jacobsen had been accused of killing his father & the father’s mistress years before. The defendant was not a likable character. He was a rich playboy with an affinity for very young women. Jane was fighting on two fronts. She wanted to have her client cleared and she also wanted to survive the cancer that had overtaken her body. The lawyer, who had once worked in the NYPD, had her retired NYPD detective friend Jimmy Cunniff doing her investigative work and even protecting her against gangsters eager to kill her. This is the third book in the Jane Smith series. Patterson and his co-author, Mike Lupica, have created a tough female character who will go to great lengths to vindicate her clients. This is the first book in the series that I have read but I will definitely read others. I received this ARC from the publisher and Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.

Jane Smith is a Hamptons defense attorney who has never lost a case. But her current client may prove to be the exception. Rob Jacobson has been arrested and charged with the murder of a married couple and their teenage daughter. For the second time. Jane was able to get him off on a previous triple murder with disturbing similarities. But this time there is DNA evidence and a time stamped photo showing him leaving the scene on the night of the killings. Jane is dealing with a client who is his own worst enemy and this is looking to be a trial that can't be won. Jane and her investigative partner are receiving death threats. Someone doesn't want them to get Rob Jacobson acquitted. At the same time, Jane is also fighting a cancer diagnosis that could prevent her from living long enough to argue this case. I like this character and will probably read more books in the series if and when James Patterson writes them.

James Patterson and Mike Lupica kept me hooked from the very first chapter. The Hamptons Lawyer has everything I love in a thriller—fast pacing, sharp twists, and a setting that adds an extra layer of intrigue. The Hamptons backdrop gave the story just the right mix of glamour and grit, and the courtroom drama kept me flipping pages late into the night. Jane is such a compelling character—tough, smart, and layered in ways that made me root for her the whole way through. The short, punchy chapters made it impossible to stop reading, and every time I thought I had the plot figured out, Patterson and Lupica threw in another surprise. If you enjoy legal thrillers with strong characters, high stakes, and nonstop suspense, this one is a must-read. ✨ Thank you to NetGalley, the publisher, and the authors for the chance to read this book early. I couldn’t put it down!

This book started out on NetGalley with the title NEVER SAY DIE then switched to THE HAMPTONS LAWYER. How confusing! When I finally realized it was the third in the Jane Smith series and not a new series, I was happy. Jane is still her strong, mouthy self, defending Rob again for a new murder. The characters here were stronger and clearer in my mind than they were in the last book. The murder mystery is solved to my satisfaction, and a possible new case opens up, leading, hopefully, to a continuation of the series. Thanks to NetGalley and Little, Brown and Company for providing an ARC. Just please don't change the title midstream!

Is there anything Tessa Bailey can't write? I feel like with Hook, Line, and Sinker, she has cemented her status as a must-read author for me. From the moment Fox and Hannah met, there's always been a little sizzle of attraction there. But between Fox's reputation as a ladies man and Hannah being the younger sister of his friend's fiancée, it doesn't seem like a good idea to take it further. Now they are solidly in the friend zone, texting every day and sharing their deepest thoughts. But when Hannah has to stay with Fox for a few weeks because of her job, will that finally nudge them towards being honest with their hearts and each other? I thought the beginning of this book was just adorable. There was so much tension between them as they went around pretending they were strictly platonic friends with each other. Hannah even has a lingering crush on her boss, and Fox has to give her advice on how she can go about trying to snag him. It was so much fun and I about died with delight. But then we reach the middle of the book, and I feel like it kind of lost some steam for me. Instead of the usual snappy pace, it just went on and on. Fox or Hannah would come up with yet another reason (or the same one) for why they can't possibly be together, and we just went in circles, again and again. To be fair, I always think I'm going to love the friends-to-lovers trope so much more than I actually do. When I think of other books I've read in the same vein, I always end up a bit lukewarm by the end. It's because there just isn't 300 pages worth of material you can fill on two friends who clearly have the hots for each other, but are either too slow or hung up to actually realize it. So to make a big conflict out of the whole thing, minor reasons must be dragged out to the max, and that's what happened here. Usually with Tessa Bailey romances, I feel like I have to make a note of how steamy they are, lest a new reader go in unawares and combusts in front of the pages. But this one didn't feel that hot. I don't know if it's because the story dragged on a bit and so the tension wasn't as high, or if the hotness level was a notch down from the usual. Either way, it's still steamy, just not as scorching as I normally associate with Tessa Bailey. I feel like this all sounds a bit negative, but it really isn't. Tessa Bailey can write the heck out of anything, and she definitely makes this story as interesting and heartfelt as possible. So in terms of this being a delightful read, there's no question. But even her writing chops cannot overcome a trope that just isn't that exciting to begin with. But even within the confines of that, she still wrote my favorite rendition of it. And that says a lot. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: It Happened One Summer Window Shopping My Killer Vacation Hot & Hammered: Fix Her Up ✧ Love Her or Lose Her ✧ Tools of Engagement ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

An obsessive friends to lovers that makes you crave more of their angsty story filled with two characters from different worlds that collide in the best of ways... After reading the first book in this series, I knew I was going to love Hannah and Fox. Their starting banter is what makes them the ideal couple to fall in love with. They know what they both want, but are stubborn to admit their true long past feelings towards each other. But with time they both learn that their attraction is not the only thing in they way of them being together. And even though Fox has a past that prevents him from admitting and opening up towards Hannah completely, and not just physically, his struggles to admitting that she is the one is what draws the reader to continue this story; "She felt like the runrise coming up over the water after a bad storm..." Without further to say, Tessa Bailey knows how to truly make you obsess over her characters. A healthy obsession that will have your toes curling for much more to come. ARC kindly provided by Avon Books, in exchange for an honest review... Follow Me On: Instagram ♕ Twitter

3.5-4 stars! I had high hopes for this after loving book 1 but even though this was good, Fox and Hannah didn’t draw me in like Piper and Brendon did. It’s surprisingly slow for a Tessa Bailey romance and this is the first time I’m gonna say I wanted more steam in a book by her. We have a former playboy hero who realizes he’s fallen for his new best friend but he’s terrified of his reputation ruining things so he keeps her in the friend zone. It’s still a really sweet friend to lovers romance but it was just missing that charm from book 1 for me. *** Tessa Bailey is giving me the friends to lovers romance that I NEED!

Fox. Fox. Fox. Fox. Fox. Fox. Fox. 3.5 stars✨ We're getting slow burn and forced proximity? Friends to lovers? Sign me up. But despite that, it felt a bit lacking. Where was the juicy smut Miss Tessa?! I thought the playboy would have more to show for himself but you made him soft (I did not mind that too much tbh). It was sweet to see Fox get jealous. Hannah was there too; compared to Piper- Hannah felt dull and didn't outshine. Fox easily carried this book for me. There was repetitiveness in the conversations. Hannah and Fox go back and forth with their "friend pact" in the middle and it just dragged on unnecessarily in my opinion. But it's still a fun book. To see them yearn for each other, root for each other and have fun with each other make the couple seem so good. But yes, I agree- there's no beating Brendan and Piper.

4.5 stars!!! Loved it so much. Fox had such a surprisingly rich backstory and depth to his character. And the epilogue 😫 so. freaking. cute. I love Hannah and fox together so much. This was such a perfect ending to the bellinger sisters series.

I love love love Tessa Bailey as a human and I’ll always read her books. But I was definitely prepared to be disappointed by this one! There are a couple of reasons for that. The first one is that one of Hannah’s main character traits is that she is very into music and is very nerdy about it - which is great! I just… don’t think that can be an entire personality? Idk! I mean, I feel like most people are very into music, and we’re all nerdy about the artists that we love the most. So I was a little annoyed that this had to be a thing with Hannah. Like, we all love Fleetwood Mac, chill out! The other thing that was making me nervous was Fox’s whole deal; basically, he was just so hot that people always assumed he would be a womanizer and conditioned him into thinking he would never be able to commit (or be worth commiting to). And yet, even though both of those things were very prominent in the book, I still LOVED IT!!! Hannah was such a highlight for me. She was so fun and compassionate and witty, the friend of all our dreams. The story starts seven months after It Happened One Summer; this whole time, Hannah and Fox have been texting every day and nursing tiny crushes on each other. Now, the movie Hannah’s working on as an assistant producer is heading to Westport for filming, and she’s about to move into Fox’s guest room for the duration. This was truly so fun and funny and steamy and I absolutely loved Hannah and Fox’s dynamic. So flirty and cute the whole time. How many more Bellinger sisters can we get?? I want all of them!!!

This was such a cute friends to lovers romance where they ended up being roommates too. I enjoyed this book a lot more than the first one because I loved our characters and their chemistry together. Fox was such an interesting character and there was a lot fleshed out about his past and how he's always been known as a womanizer and a playboy. His relationship with Hannah was sweet and I loved how they were friends over text first. Hannah had a huge crush on someone at work, though, so there was a bit fake dating in here, which was fun! I also enjoyed Hannah's character and her career ambitions. While the romance was cute, it didn't blow me out of the water. It was just a fun friends to lovers romance.

I am so sick of the third act breakup omg

3.5 Stars Overall Opinion: This was a cute add to this series. I like the characters and I liked their friendship-to-more relationship. I took a long time reading this because I had a lot going on this weekend, but I didn’t really feel that pull to read it during my downtime either. So, I’m not sure my struggles with the pacing was a me thing or the book 🧐. I liked the epilogue, but I still would’ve liked more of them working through being in an actual relationship on page. This was enjoyable, but I sadly just didn’t love it like I was hoping I would. Brief Summary of the Storyline: This is Hannah and Fox’s story. Hannah’s sister is with Fox’s best friend and they sparked a friendship themselves. Fox is the beautiful womanizer that she knows she needs to friend zone because he doesn’t do relationships, and Fox treasures his friendship with Hannah. When Hannah’s work takes her back to town and her sister doesn’t have the room, she ends up staying with Fox. Lines get crossed, secret feelings are exposed, and there are some sexy times…and they get a HEA ending. Point Of View (POV): This alternated between focusing on Hannah and Fox in 3rd person narrative. Overall Pace of Story: Good. I never skimmed. Instalove:No, they become friend-to-more. H (Hero) rating: 4 stars. Fox. He was damaged from his parents and his own self-fulfilling prophecies, but I liked how he cared for Hannah. h (heroine) rating: 4 stars. Hannah. I liked her. I appreciated how she looked past the persona Fox gave the world and how she was loyal. Sadness level: Low, no tissues needed Push/Pull: Yes (view spoiler) Heat level: Good. They have some good tension, chemistry, and scenes -- but not so much it takes away from the story. Descriptive sex: Yes OW (Other Woman)/OM (Other Man) drama: Yes (view spoiler) Sex scene with OW or OM: No Cheating: No Separation: Yes, but very short (view spoiler) Possible Triggers: Yes (view spoiler) Closure: This ends with a really cute epilogue and what I would call a HEA ending. However, I’m still greedy and would’ve liked to have some time on page of them working all their lives out. Safety: This one should be Safe for most safety gang readers (view spoiler)

↠ 4.5 stars In the simmering follow-up to It Happened One Summer, a former player helps his best friend land a guy, but ends up falling for her instead. Fox Thornton has a reputation around Westport as a flirtatious and easygoing player. Everyone assumes that he will never settle down, preferring attachments that can be easily severed as opposed to the real thing. When his best friend Hannah Bellinger arrives in town for work, his routine is put on pause with her staying right down the hall. In tow with a hopeless crush on a colleague, Hannah needs assistance, and Fox is more than the right person to help her get the guy. As the two spend more and more time together, their friendship begins to blur, yet neither of them are willing to cross that line. If they are to become something more, they will have to reevaluate what they mean to one another and what they owe to themselves. Returning to Westport after the knockout that was It Happened One Summer made this secondary novel a tough act to follow. That being said, Hook, Line, and Sinker is friends to lovers at its finest, complete with a delicious slow burn that had my heart aching the entire time. With one of the most touching love stories I have read in quite a while, this quickly surpassed the previous book in my mind. From the start to finish of the Bellinger Sister series, Tessa Bailey has absolutely nailed the Schitt’s Creek vibe that she was aiming for. The authentic small-town atmosphere and character relationships portrayed here give homage to that wholeheartedly. What makes this novel especially memorable is the various conversations intertwined with the romantic development. Though there is obviously a main focus on the romance evolving between the main characters, I loved that there was an emphasis on personal growth outside of that. Fox’s development in particular was really wholesome and it was nice to see him challenged to be better. I certainly related to Hannah’s struggle in viewing herself as a side character in her own life and how she had to step away from that in order to move forward. The connections through music that were interwoven throughout the romance were also an added touch. Bailey has a knack for creating well-rounded romances, and Fox and Hannah’s story is evidence of that. It was just as easy to fall in love with this sequel as it was with the first book last year. It Happened One Summer may have hooked me from the beginning, but Hook, Line, and Sinker has established Tessa Bailey as the romantic genius that she is. This is an outstanding love story, complete with the angst, pining, and emotion needed to close out the series. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for providing this arc in exchange for an honest review Trigger Warning: death of a parent, slut-shaming

Hannah's landed in town for work and finds herself crashing in Fox's spare bedroom. Fox, known for his ladies' man reputation, seems like an unlikely confidant, but they’re strictly platonic. Or so Hannah thinks. Nursing an unrequited crush on a colleague, she turns to Fox for help with her love life. Who better than Westport’s resident Casanova to give her the inside scoop on romance? Armed with Fox's tips, Hannah sets her sights on catching her coworker's eye. But the more time she spends with Fox, the more her heart betrays her original plan. Suddenly, the line between friendship and flirtation gets all kinds of blurry. Hannah adores everything about Fox but is determined not to become just another conquest. The character development in this book is top-notch. You’ll find yourself rooting for Hannah and Fox as they navigate their evolving relationship. While Bailey’s books can be hit or miss, this series hits all the right notes. I thoroughly enjoyed these two installments! If you're looking for a romance that’s equal parts heartwarming and fun, this book is a must-read. Get ready to laugh, swoon, and cheer for Hannah and Fox as they discover that sometimes, the love you're looking for is right in front of you.

4.5 ★ After reading It Happened One Summer, I was SO excited for this book, and it did not let me down! This is a friends to lovers, forced proximity, reformed playboy romance. Fox has been a playboy for years, and has some serious doubts about his worth, especially when it comes to Hannah, because of his past. Hannah has always played the side kick role, never fully allowing herself to be in the spotlight. I love that they each help each other to truly be the best versions of themselves in this book. Fox helps Hannah trust her abilities and talents, while Hannah sets out to prove that Fox is enough and that she truly values him. This had the perfect mix of humor, tension, witty banter, swoony moments, and everything I love about Tessa Bailey's writing! The only reason this wasn't a 5 star read for me is because I felt like Fox's constant self-doubt and hatred of his past seemed to take over so much of the plot, and that meant we didn't get to see them together for as much as I would've liked. However, I still absolutely loved this book and highly recommend it!

“Our love is always enough. It’s more than enough.” This was such a fun and spicy romance about love and acceptance. Fox Thornton is a fisherman who is a sexy and carefree flirt. Hannah is production assistant who is in Westport for work and she is immune to his charms, but she loves his personality. Hannah slowly starts to break down his barriers and shows him that he deserves love. This book was so good! I loved Fox and Hannah, they are perfect for each other. The chemistry between them is amazing! I enjoyed that the book included both Fox and Hannah’s perspective. I loved Hannah, she is sweet, caring and strong. Fox is so kind, brave and hardworking. The pacing was a little slow in the beginning, but it picked up quickly. There were so many spicy scenes that made me blush and swoon. I was so glad that the book ended on a happy note, and I loved seeing where the characters ended up 10 years later.

Am I out of my slump? It’s too early to tell but this was a enjoyable start to hopefully ending my slump. I didn’t love this as much as It Happened One Summer but Fox and Hannah’s story was still precious. I wouldn’t say this is truly friends to lovers. They’re like acquaintance to lovers? I really enjoyed how music was such a big connection in their relationship. And having both POVs was lovely because we got to see both of their inner monologues along the journey. Not as much sexy times as the first and I did find some of the dirty talk cringier than the first book— some lines just felt real weird. But overall, it warmed my little cold, black heart. And made go awwwwh. I was rooting for Fox and Hannah 🖤

Tessa Bailey reeled my heart in once more with this adorable friends to lovers book. This is the sequel to the wildly popular, contemporary romance book, "It Happened One Summer", following Piper and Brendan. "Hook, Line, and Sinker" continues the story of Brendan's right hand man on his fishing boat, Fox Thornton, and Piper's younger sister, Hannah. I was immediately intrigued with them from where they left off on It Happened One Summer! Hannah and her sister, Piper moved from their luxurious, sprawling mansion in Los Angeles and traded it in for a dingy apartment above a bar, that once belonged to their deceased father. When they arrived, Piper was disgruntled and could never picture her life in a quiet fishing village. Her heart belonged in the flashing limelight and glory of LA. Very different from her older sister, Hannah rolled up her sleeves and began to work on the bar and at a local record store. Whereas her sister wore designer dresses and heels, she preferred sneakers and her headphones. During her stay, she managed to confront Brendan, a tall, broody sea captain who thought the girls were fish out of water in Westport. She also became good friends with a gorgeous, tattooed womanizer, named Fox Thornton. While her sister kindled a steamy romance with the widowed sea captain, Hannah began a platonic relationship with Fox. Wondering if something more could be between them, the pair texted daily for about seven months after Hannah's stay in Westport. Back in LA, Hannah is working as a production assistant for a grungy director named Sergei. When she suggests the melancholy fishing village as the set of his new film, Sergei readily agrees. Heart-eyed Hannah has been holding an unrequited crush for her boss for years. She is giddy to see her sister and her fiancé, and the bad boy fisherman she left behind. Back in Westport, Fox finds himself constantly thinking of the blonde beauty who enraptured his heart. He convinces himself that he will never be enough for her and that their feelings for each other are purely based on friendship. With no where else to stay during the filming of the movie, Brendan offers Fox's sparse two bedroom apartment, for Hannah. When she arrives, their friendship becomes more of a flirty situationship. Could Hannah find herself settling down with a player? Can Fox change the beliefs he has about himself, before the woman of his dreams walks out of his life forever? The natural energy between them, made this story flow perfectly. The epilogue?? Made me sigh with happiness. I adore Piper and Brendan, but this may be my favorite book of the summer. I suggest reading the first book, but of course it isn't required and can be read as a standalone. Besides an adorable romance, I loved the character development and vulnerability of Fox. I also loved Hannah's passion for music and the discoveries she makes about herself and her family. tropes: he falls first, commitments and compromises, friends to lovers, slow burn, and close proximity! 💞 2/5 🌶️ Arc kindly provided by Avon Books and NetGalley in exchange for my honest review!

~ currently rereading ~ i forgot the plot, so im rereading 😭😫 ~post read~ update: i just realized what book this reminds me of: rain of shadows and endings (the legacy series) it wasn’t… mind blowing. the beginning was really good, but it kind of slowed down around halfway ~ currently reading ~ oml the slow burn im dying. im at 94% (NINETY FOUR PERCENT) and theres been no action. kill me now. the secondhand embarrassment is actually crazy rn 😭😭 i physically had to put my phone down several times ~~~~ … i realized too late that this was a published dramione fanfic, but IVE NEVER READ HARRY POTTER- im currently binge watching the movies right now (ik the books are supposed to be better, but fuck it 😩😩) >> thank you to netgalley and forever publishing for an arc <33

4⭐️ You know what? Julie Soto, I am SO glad I gave you another chance because this was AMAZING! The fact that she can write a fantasy this good is crazy work and I am here for it. I truly did love every character in this book. Briony was such a fiery character but she didn’t actually start out that way. I was really impressed with her character growth and her mentality changes as the story progressed! It was kinda hard to read the parts where she was a complete push-over, but I understood that that was just because it needed to seem that way to advance the plot. I liked Toven, but I wasn’t in love with him. I thought that 80% of the time he was acting like a petulant child who would throw a tantrum when he didn’t t get what he wanted. The other 20% he was deep down a nice-ISH guy. These 2 were the definition of what an enemies-to-“lovers” romance should be. The rough childhood history mixed with him “owning” her when he buys her at the auction; *chefs kiss*. It leads for such an interesting story with these 2. The side characters were lovable for the most part but I did have conflicting feelings on whether I should like some of them or not. They really added so much to the story whether I did end up not caring for them and I wouldn’t have it any other way. My absolute FAVORITE part of this book was the plot. Trust me when I tell you that it was so interesting and it had me in a chokehold. I wanted to read this every time I had a thought about it and every time I was in the middle of reading I didn’t wanna put it down. Julie Soto had such a way with words and storytelling that just hooked you and sunk its teeth into you with an addictive venom. It was memorable and fun and exciting; exactly how I like my fantasy books to be. The only main issue I had was that this was extremely predictable. I knew a majority of what was going to happen by the end of the book but that’s okay. The book was totally worth it. Please keep in mind that if you want to read this book and have specific triggers, look up the warnings!! This book can be very graphic at times and I think could be triggering to those who might just be looking for an engaging fantasy to try out. While there’s no like graphic graphic scenes, it is very much a heavier fantasy that delves into sensitive topics. Overall, I had such a good time with this book and I would definitely say that Julie Soto has earned my respect back. She did so well for her first fantasy and I think she has a solid story to go off of. The next book gives me goosebumps just thinking about it. You best believe I’ll be hopping in my car to Barnes when the second book comes out. Anyways, the hype around this book is real and valid. I tend to struggle with over-hyped books, BUT I feel like this actually deserves more hype!! It has beautiful writing, a compelling plot, and characters you want to root for all the way through. What more could you want? 🤭💜 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 𝓟𝓻𝓮-𝓡𝓮𝓪𝓭: Julie Soto…I’m giving you another chance mainly because this book sounds so good and it’s been on my mind for days 👀👀 I hope that this lives up to its hype 💜💜

4.25 stars This was much darker than I was anticipating. A word to those who haven't read, take the trigger warnings seriously. There isn't a lot of explicit content but the emotional damage of what has happened/is happening is right in your face the entire time and gets really heavy at times. But it was pretty hard to put this down and there are a lot of great characters to follow here (and alot of shitty ones. LIKE A TON OF SHITTY CHARACTERS). I think there were some small development issues for me, but I think this book prepared us for the next ones and it's going to be crazy ❤️‍🔥

4.5 stars How could you, author?!!! You kept me awake till 2 AM and gave me a cliffhanger. And this book isn’t even officially published yet!!! 😭 😭 This was originally a Dramione fanfic (yes, that one—The Auction), and it’s now been rewritten and published as an original novel. Funny thing: I DNFed The Auction despite all the Reddit recs. It’s still sitting in the corner of my Kindle, unfinished. But when I heard this new version was getting published, I got excited to try it again. And here I am, not disappointed and loving this one!!! I’m actually happy I didn’t read the fanfic, because the author kept me in the dark. I didn’t know what would happen until it happened, and I loved that. I enjoyed the world-building, (view spoiler) Loved that. Honestly, I was so curious how the author would weave the story and the magic, knowing this started as a Harry Potter fanfic with such incredible world-building and magic. Well it didn’t disappoint. But I really needed more details, though. I would’ve loved it if the mind barrier part had been more fleshed out, like actually showing how Briony trained for it, not just thinking about the lake, reading a book, and then boom, she’s suddenly specialized in it. The characters are definitely Dramione-coded. I love my Dramione, so I absolutely loved Toven and Briony. AND GUYYSS THE TENSIONS!!!! The tensions between them. Oh I love how the author teasing us. The slow burned really burning guys, (view spoiler)I want mooooreee. Oh, and I didn’t cringe. Not even once. Zero cringe. Nonexistent!! If you know me, you know how much that matters to me lol. Note : Huge thanks to Forever (Grand Central Publishing) for sending me my dream ARC. I’ll be impatiently counting the days until the next book drops.

✩ 4 stars ✩ What to Expect: ➼ Forced Proximity ➼ Enemies-to-Lovers ➼ Forbidden Romance ➼ Slow Burn ➼ Captive x Captor ➼ Morally Gray MMC ➼ Dual Timeline ➼ Hidden Motivations ➼ Dark Romantasy ➼ Narrated by Ella Lynch ➼ Third Person POV Alchemised will be released tomorrow (yes this will be relevant), so I feel like it’s time to finally write this review. First off, yes this is a different book now and not the fanfic anymore, yada yada… just want to get that out of the way before someone feels the need to say it in the comments. 😆 Yes, I know, I get it, but I AM going to talk about the fanfics for a minute. So anyway… I always planned to read The Auction, but never got around to it. I had heard a little about it here and there and I knew on a basic level that it was similar to Manacled, but I was honestly a little put off by just how similar this book was to it. I’m a die hard fan of Manacled. I honestly think it might be the best thing I’ve ever read, so instantly I was kind of outraged for the author of Manacled, and then I realized how silly that was since both authors had borrowed so much from other authors. And then I googled the date when each fanfic was published, and THAT is what really threw me for a loop, because The Auction was actually published first. 😳 So yea… apologies to Ms. Soto for that whole spiral. This was kind of shocking to me though, so I did need to sit with my thoughts and this review for a bit after realizing all of that. The actual Handmaid’s Tale book is pretty dry, but the premise was equal parts compelling and terrifying. My mind was so divided on the topic. One side screaming at me that we could so easily head in a similar direction and the other side assuring me that nothing like that would ever happen here. When these authors included those themes with their more modern writing styles, it made this kind of future feel even more possible. These characters were trapped in a society built on the oppression of others and were each fighting back in the ways they were able. Reading this really made me stop and consider what I would be willing to do to keep the people I loved safe. Would I be able to play the role I needed to play if the stakes were this high and my morals and boundaries would be tested? The idea that he would save her by making her his own captive is extremely loaded and I’m sure many people have mixed feelings about it. The questions this kind of plot brings about are essentially, is it okay to do something you believe is wrong if it prevents something even worse from happening? Yes, the Harry Potter world was removed from this, but the Dramione vibes were still very much alive and well. Like everyone else, I’m a sucker for enemies-to-lovers and those aspects of this story were extremely well done. If you like slow burn angst, this is the book for you! Now that the world building is out of the way, I honestly think the second book will be even better. I’m gonna try so hard to let Alchemised be a separate entity, but I doubt I’ll manage it considering how much I compared this one to the fanfics when I’d never even read The Auction. Definitely a memorable book and one that made me think! Looking forward to continuing this series. ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ Pre-read: I don’t have the energy to read The Auction first. Hope I don’t regret it… ≪ ◦ ❖ ◦ ≫ Connect with me on Instagram

3.5 So many thoughts! The good: 1) I LOVE JULIE SOTO! Her writing hits everytime. 2) the ending of this book was wonderful, made me really excited to read what comes next. 3) yearning? Yes absolutely. Love it, keep it coming. The not so good: 1) the beginning was sloooow. The plot didn’t pick up until the very end (but the very end was so fun). 2) the world building was too much, all at once at the beginning of the book. 3) I didn’t expect or love how this was so dark romance-y. Not my genre, but if that’s your thing- you’d likely love this! Definitely will continue with the series tho, Julie Soto just hooks me in with her writing every time!

4.25⭐️ How on earth am I supposed to wait for book two???

thank you to netgalley and the publisher for the arc. all opinions are my own. HAPPY PUB DAY! now THIS is how you do a real slow burn enemies to lovers romantasy!!!! i absolutely adored this book & had such a great time reading it! i’ve been in a reading slump for almost two months and this one pulled me right out of it and plopped me down into evermore/bomard. the writing? far better than most new romantasy books. the plot? devoured. this one is definitely on the darker side (look up trigger warnings before diving in)! i really enjoyed reading about the magic system & the politics of the world. i was locked in start to finish and did not zone out once (which is saying something because again - recovering from a slump). also i loved everything surrounding toven’s family/hearst hall… i won’t say more in lieu of spoilers but ate this part up! the narrative structure/timeline? huge fan!! this one takes place mostly in the present but does have a few chapters that jump around in time, taking us back to briony’s school days. usually, i don’t like when authors do this because it tends to be poorly executed or just plain confusing. julie soto, however, did this flawlessly! i really enjoyed reading about briony’s past and getting to see how these scenes were interwoven with the present. the romance? PERFECTION. quite honestly catered exactly to my taste. the slow burn is burning so unbelievably slow (which i adore) & the smallest moments between the two main characters had me clutching my pearls and sweating like a victorian man seeing an ankle for the first time. also if a man is a real D1 yearner, i’m almost guaranteed to love the romance. i’m also a sucker for romances where the FMC is so painfully oblivious to the MMC & his feelings… idiot(s) in love perhaps?? my only gripe(s): a little bit more detail with some descriptions/setting/magic would be amazing - though this is a small thing & didn’t truly bother me. also: more development with briony & her brother - i kind of didn’t care about their relationship in the slightest. obviously i’d like to learn more about what’s going on with certain characters & the biltmore girls but i understand this is the first in a trilogy. need book 2 neowwwww

“Each slap of her feet against the marble floor held a new wish she needed to be true“ This was truly well done. Julie cooked with her word building concepts hopping in the fantasy genre. I did not expect her to knock it out like this. The elements revolving around heart and mind magic was darkly engrossing. Coupled with bonding and other pieces that complimented the universe here? Unique and pulling. With that being said, this is a book that I’d place a big emphasis on, when it comes to being highly aware of its TWs. A lot of occurrences throughout was absolutely and undeniably heavy to read. The gross behaviors of the awful piece of shit dudes here, and how they treated woman had me fuming. Knives ready and all 🔪. Definitely proceed with caution. Ending had a spectacular reveal, and the slow burn was definitely burning. Very very slowly. Just how I prefer. I’ll be here for book two. “Your heart was ripped today, let your mind heal it“ 🔥♠️.

ok look the romance plot? unmatched, incredible, tension filled, wonderful, screaming, crying, etc the world building? a bit muddled and gives generic romantasy but interesting enough to engage me overall? I adore the fanfic so I love this inherently as the base story of the fanfic has translated well - that is briony sold at auction to the rich toven hearst who she had a crush on when they went to school together FROM HERE VERY MINOR SPOILERS/REMARKS ABOUT THE OG FANFIC AND ITS ADAPTATION Briony is actually less annoying than the Hermione in the fic (but just as naive) - a win! In order to create that history that exists between the characters in the fanfic (that we already know bcos it’s fanfic), Julie has added in flashback scenes of the characters during school pre-war. These were a very effective storytelling device and I really enjoyed these moments, I think she’s done an amazing job at adapting her story without using the existing IP she originally wrote in. I don’t feel briony or toven lacking in any sort of way and I BELIEVED THEM!! I love toven just as much as I love his other depiction. I basically got to read fanfic of my fave fanfic and that was truly something special and I will follow Julie to the ends of the earth There is SO MUCH to unpack about a fanfic being reworked into an original story that I fear I can’t cover in this review. Some of the magic of the OG translated a bit randomly in Julie soto’s new world - this is not fantasy for high fantasy lovers. There are some substantial changes to the fanfic in order to adapt this, so go into it not expecting word for word, scene for scene adaption - notable elements have changed which didn’t detract anything. The exciting parts you’re looking for are still here just in a different font. Some dialogue is the same, some alters. It’s like it’s a shadow of its former fanfic self. The story is just so good but the world is a bit lacking - this is first in a trilogy so I do expect more to be unpacked so it’s not a huge deterrent. I enjoyed the magic Julie created re heart magic vs mind magic and the history between the two. I did enjoy it for the most part and like I love the story so it’s ok to me. I think if you’re a high fantasy reader who loves a politically rich plot with vivid and clear world building and magic, this may not be for you. If you’re a more low level fantasy reader, new to fantasy, and LOVE an amazing romance plot this is absolutely for you. It’s also not quite as slowburn as the fanfic but again to be expected as this is first in a trilogy. Overall I think this is a fun rework of her original story set in a decently interested world that just needs to be unpacked a bit more. The romance is fucking top tier and really delivers like I can’t wait to read the next I will probably add more thoughts very soon as I continue to unpack it!!

The slow burn in this book was simmering at an extremely low heat. I was getting impatient, but I have to admit that what Toven imagined doing to Briony was spicy and steamy as hell 🥵 There was a drawer in Toven Hearst's bedroom that contained a shoebox. Inside that shoebox was a hair ribbon. And try as she may to rationalize it in any other way... that ribbon was hers. "They're going to pay for what they did," she vowed, her voice hollow and misshapen. His gray eyes stared down at her. He moved a curl behind her ear. And he nodded. I have so many questions left answered. Did Serena Hearst see the vision of the future where a Rosewood would sit on their rightful throne? Was that why Orion and she were rather protective of Briony? So Rory is alive, and the dragon wants to be bonded with him? Why would Toven refuse to tell Briony anything? Toven Hearst was basically a vault in this book. Secretive and protective. Was it a farce with Larissa? I was a little annoyed and disappointed to be honest. Julie Soto, can you at least throw me some crumbs? The world-building wasn't that enticing in the beginning, and I think that was part of the reason why it took me more than a week to finish this book. Thankfully the plot developed and thickened. The tension became delicious as the story weaved on. And the flashbacks were interesting, and pulled me back into the story. And that epilogue?! How am I supposed to wait until Dec 2026!? 😭 I hope the next book focuses on Toven, because he deserves and needs some solid written POVs. But I’m also so damn intrigued by the Rose Prince, Rory too!

⭐️ 4.25 ⭐️ IT WAS GOOD!!! Full review to follow when I come back! Draco & Hermione Fan fiction 🫶🏻

I wrote an entire review and then realized that I was saying more than I should. Therefore my review is: Live, love, laugh Briony Rosewood. Men should die. Toven is great but also fuck off with your hot/cold bullshit. I love women. I love women supporting women, and I'd like to castrate any men in my vicinity currently so STAY AWAY.

4.25. amazing slow burn. so excited for the next books!!!!

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐.5 / 5 As a huge Julie Soto fangirl, I was so ready to devour her romantasy debut. The concept? Flawless. Post-war setting ✔️, morally gray love interest ✔️, captured princess sold to the enemy ✔️, and obvious dramoine fanfic roots? ✔️✔️✔️ Yes please. But sadly… this one didn’t quite hit the way I hoped. 🥲 The first 75% of the book dragged for me. The pacing was slow, the tension felt muted, and the plot just didn’t move. I kept waiting for that signature Soto spark to ignite—and when it finally did (around the last 25%), I was hooked. The ending delivered the intensity, the twists, the emotion I’d been craving. But by then, it almost felt too rushed, like all the best bits were crammed in right at the finish line. 📚⚔️ The epilogue? My favorite part. It gave me real hope for the series moving forward—and left me curious enough to want book two immediately. I also need way more of the dragon in the next one, please and thank you. 🐉 There’s so much potential here. If the sequel keeps up the momentum from the last quarter of this one, I think we’ll be in for something special. But overall, Rose in Chains was a mixed bag for me—full of promise, but weighed down by a sluggish start. 📅 Look for this one in July 2025

As a devoted fan of Karin Slaughter, I eagerly dove into her latest novel, thrilled to meet a brand-new protagonist, Officer Emmy Clifton. Set in the seemingly quiet town of North Falls, the story kicks off with a Fourth of July celebration that takes a dark turn when two teenage girls vanish without a trace. Emmy finds herself at the center of the investigation, determined to uncover the truth—not just for the town, but because one of the missing girls is the daughter of her best friend. As she peels back the layers of the town’s polished facade, she realizes that North Falls is anything but safe, and every resident harbors secrets that could shatter lives. Slaughter masterfully crafts a deeply immersive mystery, balancing procedural authenticity with psychological depth. Emmy is a flawed yet compelling protagonist—tough, relentless, but burdened by past regrets that shape her every move. The dual timeline adds an extra layer of tension, revealing how a crime from over a decade ago still casts a long shadow over the present. As the investigation unfolds, the narrative is laced with gut-punching twists and morally gray characters, keeping readers on edge. While the pacing occasionally lingers on heavy descriptions, Slaughter’s signature storytelling prowess ensures that even the slower moments simmer with suspense. The town’s suffocating small-town politics, buried betrayals, and desperate attempts at self-preservation make for an unsettling but riveting read. By the time the shocking conclusion arrives, it’s clear that no one in North Falls is truly innocent. With its gripping whodunit plot, richly developed characters, and relentless tension, this is yet another knockout from Slaughter—one that fans and newcomers alike will devour. Many thanks to NetGalley and William Morrow for sharing this unputdownable thriller's digital reviewer copy with me in exchange for my honest thoughts. medium.com instagram facebook twitter

Karin Slaughter has been hit and miss with me in the past, but this is an excellent thriller made of many intricate layers. I am so glad to hear we can expect a series with Emmy and Jude. There's a lot going on in We Are All Guilty Here. Lots of characters, lots of secrets, lots of mysteries spanning many years. The story turns out to be far bigger than the mystery we are presented with in the beginning, and the pool of potential culprits is large enough to keep you guessing. I also think Slaughter crafted the story in such a way that even if you figure out some of it, you won't figure out all of it, leaving some satisfying reveals for even seasoned mystery readers. Like the best thrillers, however, the story doesn't hang everything on the mystery, instead allowing the book to be carried by characters that are likable but flawed. Emmy was a character that felt relatable, even though her life is very different from my own. This is because certain aspects of her character-- her dependence on a family member who is her anchor, her poor relationship decisions that impact all around her, her guilt over that one conversation she didn't have --are all things that many of us can understand. Jude, when she arrives on the scene, seems to be the antithesis of Emmy's emotionally-charged approach to life-- cool, logical, takes no shit --but these kind of outward personas often hide the darkest of trauma and Jude is no exception. It's hard to decide whom I like more. The stakes feel incredibly high from the very beginning of the book, and there is constantly this awareness of time slipping away as the detectives race against the clock (knowing how the odds of recovery shrink with every passing hour) to bring the missing girls home. Very intense and compelling. Contains references to sexual assault, child sexual abuse and alcoholism.

4.0 stars— “We Are All Guilty Here” is the first book I’ve ever read by Karin Slaughter. She has written over twenty books, but I’ve never read a plot summary or blurb that ever made me want to sit down and read one of her books. I saw a lot of positive reviews of this book so I decided to finally give one of her books a chance. I have to admit, I am very glad I did. The book is written primarily from the perspective of Emmy, the sheriff’s daughter and the chief deputy of a small town in Georgia’s sheriff’s department. Emmy is racked with guilt after she refuses to meet with her best friend’s 15 year old daughter due to Emmy having to compose herself from a very public argument with her husband at the local 4th of July celebration. When she regains her composure, she discovers her best friend’s daughter, Hannah and her good friend, Cheyanne are both missing. The book then takes the reader into the investigation of the local sheriff’s department and their investigation into the girls’ disappearances and the aftermath. There are many twists and turns in this very well written thriller. The book is at its best when Ms. Slaughter concentrates on the investigation and how the investigative team works through many leads to get to the bottom of what happened to the girls. I felt like the author’s description of the investigation itself was very nicely done, and very true to life. The only issues I had with the book were the ridiculous family dynamics that became more unbelievable as I read further into the book and one of the climactic gun battle scenes that made a seasoned experienced police office look like a complete buffoon. Also, most of the characters were very unlikable which makes a long book like this harder to read. I still give it 4 stars because the main plot line was so good it made me forget about some of the slower, less interesting parts of the book. I would definitely read Ms. Slaughter again because she has great writing ability that kept me interested in the book from beginning to end.

The first part of this book takes us back 12 years, to the disappearance of Madison and Cheyenne. Honestly, it felt like I was right there in the moment, heart racing, completely tense, almost overwhelming at times. Emmy, our deputy sheriff (and total star of the story), throws herself into the search with the help of her dad, the sheriff. No spoilers, you’ll have to read it to see how that plays out! Fast forward 12 years, and another girl goes missing. That’s when things really start heating up again. I thought the story was fantastic, well told, with phenomenal characters. My only whim is that there is too much retelling of details. I kept thinking, I’ve already read this bit twice. If it had been tightened by about 100 pages, it would’ve been punchier and even more gripping. I was still hooked the whole way through, and the ending completely blindsided me. As a die hard Karin Slaughter fan, I’m here for every book she writes, and this one was no exception. Huge thanks to NetGalley and William Morrow Publishers for letting me read and review this ARC from one of my favorite authors!

What You Don’t Know… With “We Are All Guilty Here” Karin Slaughter introduces her new North Falls mystery series. The series takes place in the seemingly idyllic small town of North Falls, a close-knit community where everyone seems to know everything about everyone– until their dark secrets come to light. When two young girls vanish during the Fourth of July festivities, Sheriff Gerald Clifton and his daughter, Deputy Emmy Clifton, launch an immediate investigation. Their chances of finding the girls alive dwindle with every passing hour. Emmy is particularly burdened by guilt, as one of the missing girls had attempted to reach out to her just before disappearing. Twelve years later, another young girl vanishes in a similar manner. A recently retired FBI agent, Jude Archer is compelled to arrive on the scene, revealing her secret ties to both the town and the Clifton family. Her methodical approach clashes with Emmy's emotional struggle to control her feelings. Emmy is a wonderfully flawed heroine. She is driven to physical and emotional exhaustion by her powerful sense of justice and overwhelming guilt. This guilt, however, is not hers alone, as the title implies, every character harbors a secret. At one point, the Andy Griffith show is referenced– but this is not Mayberry. Despite occasional slowdowns due to police procedural explorations, the narrative gains momentum through unexpected twists. The North Falls locale is stocked with well-crafted characters, establishing a solid foundation for a compelling series. Going forward, the two women look to work well together, with Jude’s analytical skills complimenting Emmy’s passionate approach. This highly suspenseful and entertaining book comes with a warning: some readers may find the depictions of violence and abuse disturbing. Thank you to William Morrow and NetGalley for providing an advance reader copy in exchange for an honest review. #WeAreAllGuiltyHere #NetGalley

Okay, I haven’t written a review in ages, but wow, what a great book to break my hiatus with! Slaughter gets me every time!! So far, I’ve enjoyed the books I’ve read from her. I’m always drawn to how raw and fearless she is about laying it all bare. I can always trust her to deliver! I knew what to expect in terms of graphic details and enjoyed every bit of it …..well, not all the violence, but you get the idea. The story hooked me from the beginning, and I was glued to the end. Thrillers always bring out my inner detective. I like to analyze every little clue to see if I can predict the twist before it happens. I love it when an author completely throws me off, not in an unrealistic way but just enough to make me gasp. Slaughter didn’t totally manage that this time, but that’s okay; the entire story made up for it. What I loved most was that this wasn’t just another “missing girls, let’s find them” kind of story. It definitely had heart. I actually felt like I knew these characters, and I felt t for every single one of them. The main character, with her complex emotions and complicated family dynamics, comes off so strong and badass, but deep down, she’s just as fragile as the rest of us. When I actually care about the people in it, that’s what really keeps my attention in a thriller. The relationships here, including parenthood, friendship, and family, are messy, imperfect, and very real. My only gripe? The big reveal was a little bit underwhelming. I kinda saw it coming… not to brag, but maybe I’m just that good. Still, just when I thought we were done, Slaughter hit me with a few more twists that completely pulled me back in. So overall, I ended up loving this one. In the past, Slaughter has wowed me, so maybe my expectations were a little too high. Totally my fault! But the pacing was excellent, the storyline addictive, the ending emotional, and you’ll definitely see me back in the review section for her next book.

Two girls disappear & the race against time begins as the cops realize they were abducted. Then another girl goes missing years later under similar circumstances. The beginning of this book was 5 stars, then it just dragged on and became so long. Then it got good again. Overall, it is really hard for me to rate this book. I personally feel it should have been condensed about 100 pages or split into 2 books. It felt like it dragged on. But the story itself was interesting and at times very dark. I would give this one a 3.5 rounded up. If I was this author I would have cut out quite a bit of unnecessary stuff to not destroy the impact of the wild beginning 1/3 of the book. Thank you to netgalley for this free advance copy in exchange for an honest review.

“We Are All Guilty Here” (North Falls #1), by Karin Slaughter 4 solid stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ “Welcome to North Falls. A small town where everyone knows everyone. But nobody knows the truth.” TW: pedophilia, sexual abuse including rape This was my sixth book by this author. I own several of her works that remains unopened because I had some disagreements and felt discouraged about. This one got my attention because it’s a new series and the reviews have been amazing. I must confess that I was pretty impressed with this work. The writing solid and the storytelling gripping and suspenseful. This is a novel that skilfully blends police investigation with psychology, but the subject matter is quite dark and the story hard hitting. The first part was enthralling and heartbreaking, but the second part, although still interesting, was too slow, and having long chapters may displease some readers. As for me, this book was far from being boring. The dynamics and interactions between the (some troubled) characters were full of drama but very much believable, and I loved the determination of Emmy Clifton. I loved that this book was free of silly and farfetched twists (a common trend) and also did not feel rushed. The conclusion was riveting, surprising and satisfying. Some twists that I didn’t not see coming. Quite brilliant. I’m looking forward to reading the next book in this series. I may even attempt to read her older books, the ones I have already purchased. Hardcover: 439 pages (20 chapters)

4-4.5⭐️ In North Falls, where everyone knows everyone, a shocking crime will rock the community. When two teenage girls suddenly vanish during the town’s fireworks show, officer Emmy Clifton will stop at nothing to bring them home. You know those types of books that, as soon as you glimpse the title and author, you can almost guarantee are going to be fantastic? This is most definitely one of those books. From the eerie, picturesque cover to the horrific crime that rocks the quintessential small town, this book is a winner both inside and out. And while the first book in the series is often a heavy lift, having to establish so much of the foundation, including the setting, characters, and relationships, Karin Slaughter does a seemingly effortless job setting the North Falls stage. What makes We Are All Guilty Here so chilling is how realistic it is— this is a story that can happen in any small town, anywhere. Because of the way Slaughter writes such real, multi-faceted, and dynamic characters, it is impossible not to feel an almost instant connection, particularly to our central character, in this case, Emmy Clifton. As the story unfolds, and we are witness to her navigating such complex emotions around what happened and any part she may have inadvertently played, my heart broke for her over and over again. She is a character made of grit and guts, and it’s that intensity combined with her flaws that make her such an outstanding character. I love the fact that it is her son who will work alongside her as we continue the series, as well as a continuation of the backstory of Emmy’s upbringing and relationships with both her mother and father, the town sheriff. If I have any feedback that leans negative, it is only that I wish the book were just a bit shorter. As I neared the third of the book, I felt as though the pacing slowed down quite a bit as we focused in on individual characters and their backstories. Then again, I feel hard-pressed as to what I would even omit given that this story must lay the foundation for a multi-book series. 🎧 Narrator Kathleen Early does an impeccable job at bringing this story to life. While stories told in third person can sometimes keep the characters at a distance, I never felt anything less than connected while listening to her narration. I did end up pairing the ebook with the audiobook, given the larger cast of characters, and I think this was the way to go to be able to experience Slaughter’s cinematic-like storytelling, without missing the nuance and detail. Read if you like: ▪️true crime ▪️thrillers with emotional depth ▪️police families ▪️small town settings ▪️complex family dynamics ▪️vivid storytelling Thank you William Morrow and Harper Audio for the advanced copies.

4.5 stars. Boy I love Karin Slaughter’s books. They are just so in depth and well researched and complex. This one is no different. Two girls go missing leaving behind a bike that appears to have been run into accident a lot of blood. I loved the police aspect of this book and all the families that make up this tight-knit community. Lots of secrets are well hidden in this town. Great suspenseful novel.

Karin Slaughter does not care how many times the receptionist has to call my name.

I am a huge Karin Slaughter fan, and this book did not disappoint!! While I'm hoping she'll continue to release books in her other series, this new North Falls series looks very promising! This is a thriller that has you on the edge of your seat, and the twists are pretty shocking. Definitely a good read!

This small town crime thriller was so intricately designed, it was truly amazing. It kept my attention from start to finish. RTF!

Someone call me an Uber so I can get the hell out of this town 🙃 Let me establish my bias upfront: Karin Slaughter is one of my favourite authors. An auto read. I named one of my cats after her. My love for her and her books is basically a lifestyle choice at this point. I go through phases where I forget about Karin's books, and then I pick one up and I'm immediately obsessed. I'm mentally preparing for a binge. I’m always a little sad when I open one of her books and there’s no Sara Linton or Will Trent waiting for me like my emotional support BFFs. I miss them and need them. I trust them. But fine. I'll meet new people. I'll grow as a person if I must. And these new people are spiritually unwell. I love them. This book is what happens when you take a small town, inject it with generational guilt and trauma, secrets, repression, bad decisions, worse parenting, and then you just wait for it to fester. The premise (two girls disappear, the town fractures, time passes, history threatens to repeat itself) sounds straightforward. It is NOT. It’s a slow, suffocating spiral into the idea that everyone, on some level, is complicit. Even the good ones. Especially the good ones. The MC Emmy's holding herself together with spite and trauma. She’s doing her best, but also she's so not okay. A classic KS protagonist: competent but unravelling, driven but compromised. She's the kind of person where you think, this woman should NOT be in charge of anything, but ALSO she's the only one I trust to fix this. She spends the entire book navigating the past and present and tricky town dynamics while basically picking at a psychological scab for 400+ pages, trying to outrun a shadow that’s already inside her. Emmy isn't framed as heroic in the traditional sense. Is any KS character? She makes questionable calls and fixates on things that are actively terrible for her mental health. But she cares, and that makes her the emotional anchor of the story. Every lead feels personal, because it is. Her family dynamic's so engaging. The book digs into how a single traumatic event can break a family and then fossilise it. Everyone gets locked into roles: the one who stayed, the one who left, the one who can’t move on, the one who pretends they’ve moved on (they most certainly have not). Every conversation's layered with subtext and resentment. There are years of things that should have been said but weren’t. A group therapy session could have prevented… so much. But nope. Silence and snarky thoughts it is. The vibes are pure dread. This town feels like it’s deteriorating from the inside out. Everyone knows each other, but no one knows or admits the truth. Every conversation feels like it’s hiding three more underneath it. Secrets aren’t revealed so much as they just leak. I’m obsessed with the town. North Falls is basically its own character, one with a personality disorder. It runs on image, this curated idea of safety and community, but underneath's nothing but decay. The supporting cast all feel like pieces of a larger psychological puzzle where no one's innocent, but not in a dramatic, villainous way, more like in that realistic I looked the other way and didn’t ask questions, I chose comfort over truth way. It’s slow. Like molasses slow. You can feel the procedural gears turning at times, and if you’re here for nonstop twists and adrenaline, you might start to lose patience a little. But if you surrender to it and let the atmosphere do its thing, it becomes so engaging. Part of that comes from the dual timeline structure. The original case is treated like a wound that never actually closed, and you see where things stalled and what people chose not to pursue. So many missed opportunities, and not all of them accidental. Then the present day case acts as a mirror, forcing the town to confront the fact that they’ve learned absolutely nothing. The title isn't subtle, and the book isn't interested in letting anyone off the hook. The emotional damage is consistent and unrelenting. The real question isn’t just who did it? it’s who allowed this to happen? It's not just about solving a crime, it’s about what happens after. The grief and guilt that mutate. The books clear that harm doesn’t exist in isolation, instead it’s enabled and buried. This town's an ecosystem where silence is the primary survival strategy. It's a strategy that's (sort of but not really) been working so far. Everyone's carrying something, but the trauma isn’t loud or dramatic, it’s chronic. It seeps into everything: failed relationships, stunted growth, rigid routines, the inability to trust anything or anyone. I adored how memory's handled. Different characters remember the same events differently, sometimes because they’re lying and sometimes because their brains are trying to protect them. Truth becomes fragmented and unstable, something you have to piece together while doubting every version you’re given. You can't trust a thing anyone says here. No matter how honest they seem. It’s bleak. Like, aggressively bleak. There are some flaws, lile some threads could’ve been tighter, and the payoff, while satisfying, doesn’t quite justify the sheer amount of emotional suffering I endured. But also that might be the point? It's not a neat resolution. I still miss Will and Sara and Faith and Amanda. I miss Grant County and Atlanta. But I still fell a little bit in love with North Falls and Emmy.

We Are All Guilty Here by Karin Slaughter was fast paced, had lots of twists and turns and captured my attention right from the beginning. Over the years, I have read many of Karin Slaughter’s mystery novels and admired her ability to pen such compelling stories. We Are All Guilty Here was no exception. It centered around the strong and determined female character of Officer Emmy Clifton who was the daughter of the current sheriff. Emmy, her father and Emmy’s son all worked together in the police force of North Falls, a usually quiet town where everyone knew each other. However, when the teenage daughter of Emmy’s best friend and the daughter’s best friend go missing the town of North Falls will be altered and its tranquility threatened. Can Emmy save her best friend’s daughter? Who was responsible for her disappearance? What happened to the girls? If you enjoy a good psychological mystery thriller with a strong, talented and ambitious female protagonist then I am sure that you will enjoy reading We Are All Guilty Here by Karin Slaughter. I listened to the audiobook and enjoyed the narrator very much. I could not have predicted the ending and found it very satisfying. I highly recommend this book.

Being a lover of the thriller genre it is hard to believe I have never read a Karin Slaughter novel before. Now on to the review…I found this to be more of a police procedural than a thriller yet it definitely had the elements of a thriller as well. Regardless, I thoroughly enjoyed my very first Slaughter novel. The author had me feeling as if I was right in the middle of a movie. Perhaps that is why her books have translated so well into movies and television series. I felt the tightness in our protagonist's Emmy chest as she approached a dangerous situation. When Emmy was fatigued I was as well. She drug herself with little to no sleep and oft times forgetting to eat to be able to chase down her next important clue or run down one of her suspects in this tangled story. These feels can most likely be attributed to sharply written characters. I was a bit surprised yet later pleased that the pacing of the novel was not consistent throughout. The book felt a bit heavy in the beginning but ramped up to a satisfying pace. That is the one and only reason I did not score this 5 stars. However if we were able to score more than full stars this would be a 4.75 star read. When reading one of the most important things for me is solid character development. The second tier characters were fabulous as well. Even the missing girls were so well drawn you felt you knew them before they went missing. It was interesting meeting Emmy's family and then watching them unravel. The sheriff's department certainly had an interesting group dynamics as well. This was a solid story line with some pretty grand twists. It is important for you to think about why someone might kidnap a young girl and be aware that some readers might be too tender to discover that reason. If you feel you might be one of those readers I suggest you do an online search for triggers. Additionally, even though it does not carry through the entire book there are some parts that are quite graphic. Certainly I look forward to following this character Emmy Clifton through the series as this is only Book 1 of said series. Before I jump on one of her two well loved existing series I most likely will read her stand alones. Thank you to Karin Slaughter and her publisher William Morrow for the privilege to read an advance copy of We Are All Guilty Here. Also sending apoligies for incorrectly recording her publication date in my reading diary. Thanks as well to NetGalley for facilitating the reading of this novel.

An engrossing plot spanning two crimes separated by over 12 years. Strong procedures and build-up. North Falls, Clifton County, Georgia: Madison is waiting for her friend Cheyenne (Shy) who is late. Emmy, a police officer who is close friends with her stepmother Hannah, sees her. Emmy has an argument with her husband Jonah, and soon after it appears that Madison wants to say something to her. Both Madison and Cheyenne go missing shortly after. Emmy’s dad Gerald is also in the force and the Sheriff. They painstakingly investigate the case and interview potential suspects. It appears they have found the culprit but there are complications which come to light many years hence. Now, another girl Paisley goes missing and there are a few similarities to the case of the two girls many years back. Jude, who has just retired from the FBI, comes to North Falls to help as a consultant. Emmy has an uneasy equation with her; what led Jude to leave North Falls is revealed over the course of the story. This is a well-written story with an interesting story line, good characters and strong procedures. The build-up is excellent, though the story is somewhat slow-paced. Emmy & Jude are strong well-developed characters. I felt Jude’s introduction was abrupt and some of the revelations on her equation with Emmy could have come earlier. It may be because the author wants to develop this into a series and more may come in subsequent books. Nevertheless, Emmy & Jude’s characters could have had better convergence. A recommended read! My rating: 4.25 / 5. Thanks to Netgalley, the publisher and author for a free electronic review copy.

I’m not usually big on a police procedural. This one has a satisfying ending. So disturbing though.

Karen Slaughter never fails to make you deeply think about her stories, and make you go through a series of emotions. The story is gripping from the very first chapter, weaving together secrets, betrayals, and the darker side of human nature in a way that keeps you invested. She did an amazing job at building suspense, with just the right amount of tension to keep you guessing - yet it keeps you emotionally invested as you try to decipher who in this story is truly guilty. The pacing was strong, allowing you to get lost in the chapters as we investigate this crime of missing teens in this small town. The author really makes you feel as though you are right beside Emmy. Thank you William Morrow and NetGalley for an advanced reader copy. All opinions are my own.

I've only read one book from Karin Slaughter so I thought now would be a great time to read more because this is the first in a brand new series from her. We Are All Guilty Here is a well written and TENSE novel about two missing girls and the officer with a personal connection who will do everything to see they are found. As with the last book I've read from Slaughter I found this book to be emotional as it deals with some tough topics AND trauma. Readers should check out other reviews and any other potential trigger warnings if you're bothered by darker themes. All in all, I enjoyed this one and am looking forward to seeing where Slaughter takes the series. I definitely flew through this one despite the longer page count and was full invested in the story. 𝗠𝗬 𝗥𝗔𝗧𝗜𝗡𝗚: ⭐⭐⭐⭐

Connect with me! ✏ Instagram ✏ My Blog ✏ The StoryGraph ✏ TikTok ✏ Facebook Karin Slaughter delivers a thriller in We Are All Guilty Here that feels relentless in its pursuit of truth. The story exposes how violence hides behind familiarity and how trust can be turned into a weapon. Set in the small town of North Falls, the novel opens with the disappearance of two teenage girls. Years later, the case fractures open when the convicted killer is released. Officer Emmy Clifton is forced to confront a past that never settled. When another girl goes missing, the investigation becomes a race against time and a reckoning with everything the town chose not to see. Slaughter’s writing is precise and layered with clues that feel planned from the very beginning. Every conversation and small observation carries weight. The tension builds with purpose and creates a sense that the truth is always just within reach. Emmy stands at the center and she is shaped by her father’s influence. She notices what others overlook. She responds with patience during difficult interviews and pays close attention to what is said versus what remains unsaid. Her restraint gives the difficult investigation a steady pillar to lean on. The novel does not shy away from brutality. Slaughter explores violence against children with an unflinching lens. The crimes are disturbing without feeling sensational. The real horror comes from how easily perpetrators blend into everyday life. The story pushes the reader to confront how often danger exists in plain sight while being dismissed or explained away. Slaughter successfully portrays that when a parent loses a child, their grief stretches across years while shaping their choices, guilt, and regret. The audiobook narration by Kathleen Early adds a steady and immersive layer. Her delivery holds a serious tone that allows the tension and emotion to unfold without distraction. This is not an easy story. It is intense, unsettling, and uncomfortable. Slaughter moves beyond a simple mystery and examines the systems and relationships that allow harm to continue. Readers who enjoy crime fiction that digs beneath the surface will find this to be a gripping and thought-provoking read.

I’ve only read a couple of the authors previous books and didn’t really enjoy them despite them being in a genre I love. So I went into We Are All Guilty Here with some trepidation but also an open mind. Happily I really enjoyed this one which is the start of a new series. Set in a small town where everyone knows everyone (or so they think) it’s a dark tale of missing teeenagers, sex crimes and dysfunctional families. Excellent character development and a story very well told for the most part, it’s pretty grim throughout. A cynical book you might say. There is a nastiness to a lot of Slaughters writing that didn’t do it for me in the past and it’s apparent here but the story sort of carries it this time. Don’t get me wrong, I love a good gory serial killer or horror story so I have no issue with graphic writing. There just seems to be a pessimism and nastiness in Slaughters writing that doesn’t sit right with me for some reason(from my limited reading of her). It totally overpowered the previous books I read to the point of ruining them. Here it’s not as prevalent and carried as I said in the main by the believable characters and story arc. I really really enjoyed this one. Not quite 5 stars but pretty damn close. I will definitely be checking out the next in the series when it is released.

This is vintage Karin Slaughter: excellent plot, kept me guessing, nuanced characters and complex family relationships. I enjoyed this first book in a new series. Will definitely read the next book!

Which one will come out first? 1. Stormlight Archive 5 2. Winds of Winter 3. Doors of Stone My money's on BrandoSando.

4.25 I LOVE the direction this series has gone in, with the heavy focus on mental health and philosophy in the story. These themes have always been present in the Stormlight Archive since book one, but definitely became the primary driving force of this one! Each character had such an interesting path as they confronted their past traumas face to face, and the way this is all tied directly into the magic system is so creative, I love it. And don't get me started on all the COSMERE CONNECTIONS OMG. Felt giddy every single time my brain made a connection. Also... ADOLIN MY BABY, it's incredible how far he has come and is honestly now one of my favourite characters in this series. The biggest critique I have is that while I love the overall direction of this story, some of the philosophical debates and meanderings did become a bit too long winded for my liking. I loved what we discovered with them, but most definitely could have been done with less repetition, less words, less pages. I do feel a bit unsatisfied with the ending of this one, I had expected to get more actual resolution with our character arcs, since this marks the end of "phase one" of this series. We do end this book VERY open ended, and my first thought upon finishing was "THAT'S IT????". But I guess I'll just have to wait until 2030 to continue the journey.

** spoiler alert ** 4/5 Well!!! This book just cements Kaladin as the true main character of the series and I’m ecstatic for his role in the second arc. This book gave me major The Empire Strikes Back vibes. I didn’t love every character in here, it seemed like some were broken just for the sake of them being set up to be main characters in arc 2, such as Jasnah, but I overall enjoyed the direction this story took. That all being said, nothing really shocked me besides Kaladin becoming a Herald. That had my jaw dropped and I *loved* that turn. I’m so devestated Dalinar is dead but I did really expect that. I also must say I adore wit, as always. Unfortunately I didn’t adore adolin in this one, his POV had too many battles for my liking because it was very much a lot of the same as to what we’ve seen him do in previous books other than Rhythm of War. One thing I will say that did annoy me about this book and it’s ending is just the fact that us as readers are the only ones who have the full picture. We’re the only people other than wit who know what Dalinar did for Roshar, we’re the only ones who know taln did not break other than a few people, only ones who know the truth about Kaladin, etc. Although it’s not realistic for anyone to truly know everything in a story of this scale, it does get annoying when so many key things have to be discovered over and over again. I do think some of the greater Cosmere things went over my head, but that’s fine! But all I can say is Kaladin’s return to Roshar is going to be EPIC and I’m waiting with anticipation for the sixth book in this series.

3.75 stars! 🌟🌟🌟💫! I was expecting to give the book a full 5/5 stars and was almost certain it will be the best book I read all year. I was disappointed. What I did not love: What I loved about the Way of Kings and Words of Radiance was the characters and their personal stories, struggles, challenges, their losses and wins. The vivid and luscious, diverse and multifarious world of Rochar made that immersion manifold. I did not really care about Honor and Odium and Shards and Cultivation beyond references and lores that still kept the focus on things that I loved. I did not feel the need to take a deeper dive into their stories, nebulous mechanisms, rules and provisions. Some things are best left unexplained. Less would have been more here! I do not want to read a book mostly about gods and what makes them tick. I felt like Sanderson ended up including more of the things in this book that I disliked in the previous books. The long drawn out spirit realm sequences, albeit broken into shorter chapters, tested my patience. These spirit scenes that show Rochar’s past, seemed to drag on ad nauseam. While I was looking forward to learning about Zeth’s past, his jaunt through Shinovar is excessively prolonged. The protracted flashbacks broke the flow of the tale for me. Kalidan felt like a supporting actor for most of the book. What I did love: The short chapter length kept the pace and conveyed a sense that things were coming to a head. The fights were fierce and fun. They kept my attention. The duels felt intense and gripping. Each clash full of skill and power and often surprises. They are some of the best parts of the book. The fights felt not just physical but also emotional. The characters’ struggle felt deeply moving. Despite the lengthy backstory and flashbacks, the rich lore of the world felt deep and vast adding much to the tale. I had no trouble staying awake for the last one hundred pages that had me glued. Overall: The book has both good and bad. The fights and lore are great. But the long spirit scenes and flashbacks slow it down. It’s a mix of highs and lows. The last 100 pages is worth slogging through the first 900. PS Thoughts before reading the book: I am equal parts excited and scared to read it! I am seriously afraid Kaladin will try to honorably take the place of one of the Heralds on damnation, maybe Taln. I am also worried about Shalan’s mental health- the girl killed both her parents!I am hoping that her mother is still alive though (? herald Shalash) which might hopefully bring some solace to the poor girl.

See my full ranking of the Stormlight Archive's first arc at Before We Go Blog. Brandon Sanderson nails the ending of this first arc of the Stormlight Archive with Wind and Truth, his longest novel to date. Wind and Truth is organized into ten sections, one for each day before the final boss battle against the evil god, Odium. Although I was skepitcal of this structure for the novel, it actually works quite well to bring organization and a sense of urgency to what could easily become an unwieldy and overly bloated narrative. The journey is undeniably long, but the destination is very much worth the time invested, with a conclusion that made me cry more than I’d care to admit. Sanderson’s writing in Wind and Truth is serviceable. The dialogue veers into YA territory in many parts of the book, without any of the memorable quotes I’ve come to love from the previous Stormlight Archive books. Unfortunately, Sanderson’s attempts at humor also mostly miss the mark, feeling more juvenile than appropriate at this point in the series. I’m glad that Dalinar is featured on the cover of Wind and Truth. His character arc is the best of the series, and he is truly the star of this final volume. The other character arcs in Wind and Truth are a bit more hit-or-miss, such as Kaladin somehow becoming Szeth’s therapist. But Dalinar’s journey alone makes this entire first arc more than worthwhile.

This book was so good! It took me a little while to become immersed in this book but once I did I was hooked in awesome world building and story. The pacing was slow in the beginning and middle, then picked up near the end. Sanderson is such an excellent writer, his writing is descriptive while also engaging and cinematic. The characters in this series are some of my favorite characters of all time. They are well rounded, relatable, complex and all go through challenges. I love Shallan, Syl, Kaladin, Adolin, and Dalinar so much! I also really like Rlain, Renarin and Navani. I wished that there were more interactions between Shallan, Adolin and Kaladin. Szeth’s character development was excellent, I enjoyed learning more about him and realizing how his past shaped him in many ways. The world building continues to amaze me, there is so much detail and complexity to the world. I greatly enjoyed that there was a focus on the past and the history of the world, but I was hoping the plot would move along more in the present. The build up to the end was so well done, there were so many surprises and interesting plot details. The ending was so great, there plot was action-packed and I was on the edge of the my seat the last 200 pages. These characters will stay in my heart for a long time. I can’t wait to read the next book!

This is the end of the first arc in Stormlight Archives, the midway point for the series. By now you know what to expect, and on every front you expect Stormlight to deliver, this book does in spades. Not only that, Sanderson experiments with structure here in a way that breaks the series mold and feels extremely fresh and earned. There are some issues I have with the book that are minor and personal, and largely have to do more with my expectations than the book itself. So I will not hold that against it. I can’t say anything else about the book that isn’t a spoiler, so I will just say I devoured this book in two days. That’s how good it is. There are however two main issues that stood out to me that I feel are worth addressing. The first is the community around these books. Not that the community is bad, on the contrary it is really quite amazing. It feels akin to the Fromsoftware community in the way that engaging with it seems like the intended design. The Cosmere is so vast and detailed that you almost have to consult a wiki or forum. The issue lies with this: due to Brandon’s meticulous plotting and attention to detail, and nerds inability to do anything but agonize over those details for the greater part of a decade, many major plot points of this book were already guessed and considered all but canon by the community. Many of the heavy hitting moments fell flat for me, as I already expected them just so. So take that with a grain of salt - but for me it hampered my enjoyment of the book. And that is no one’s fault but my own. The second, and larger issue, is Sanderson’s attempt at addressing mental health. I realize this is the golden cow of Stormlight - a cast of fundamentally broken characters who progress through each book as they battle and conquer and fail against their past traumas and mental anguish. It really is riveting, and some of the greatest intersections of character and plot development happen in SA for this very reason. But the issue arises mostly in the last few books Sanderson has published. And that is that his approach is becoming more and more shoe horned, and less natural. The word here is anachronistic. You have a group of characters fighting for the fabric of their very world, and I am not exaggerating, they often openly discuss their mental health, identity issues, or what have you as greater trials then the end of the world. And the cast accepts these conversations with more openness and ‘awareness’ than ANY group of real people I have met. And I live in the modern west, not antiquated Roshar. Now I am not saying these aren’t important conversations to have or even that Sanderson’s point is lost on me (it isn’t), but rather his attempt at making these moments land feel tone deaf in light of the world and its events. And they take me out of the magic, almost every time. To quote another reviewer, it feels often like many of the times dialogue was written with an HR rep standing in the room. And I see this pattern developing and growing with each new entry. All in all I love this book, but these things stood out to me too strongly to ignore. I’ll see all you lads in six years.

4.5 stars! I 🫶🏼 Emily Henry sooo much. She is such. a. good. writer. There was soooo much I loved about this book. I don't even know where to begin with writing a review so here are 10 reasons why you should read this book... 1. Miles's messy hair and tattoos 2. the fact that Daphne is a librarian 3. it takes place in summer by the beach 4. the forced proximity of roommates who both just got their heart broken 5. fake dating!!!! 6. a fun friendship 7. so much depth outside of just the romance 8. this quote: “And I know I'm not who you pictured yourself with, but I think I could be, eventually. If you'll let me. So don't go." 9. dramaaaaa with their exes 10. two people who had to find & love themselves before they could love each other

So funny story.. I went in expecting to dislike it but ended up having a really great time 👀

‘If I had to be marooned, I’m glad it was with you.’ Bust out the tweed and toast your awkward roommate if you’ve got one, Emily Henry has a romcom for you. Sometimes, just when it feels like smooth sailing on the raft you call a life, an unexpected fucker of a wave smashes your plans to splinters and send you off course and adrift. Such is the case for Daphne in Emily Henry’s charming new novel, Funny Story, whose life has been shipwrecked upon the shores of a Lake Michigan vacation town with the ex of her ex’s new fiance. You read that right, and these mutual exes are such a smart match they are practically named after each other, Peter and Petra, so out with the tweed and in with the twee I suppose. But, as Daphne learns, sometimes a shipwreck can be a new start to something more beautiful. One of this books biggest strengths in allowing the narrative to wade through sorrows to create a portrait of adults discovering how to carry their own baggage and how their interactions with others are affected by it with a lot of the drama not being a miscommunication trope, per say, but more people tripping themselves up into confirmation bias based on their own personal traumas. It has some grit that grounds the otherwise breezy narrative and the real love story is learning to love oneself in order to love and be loved. It does wrap up a bit overly idyllic but honestly, I felt the biggest cracks in the veneer of the story was when it tried to make things happier than it probably needed to be but I understand why that is the case. With her signature witty banter, wry humor, and characters that are easy to fall in love with as they fall apart and into love themselves, Funny Story is a endearing tale about picking up the pieces only to discover oneself amidst the wreckage, learn to be yourself for yourself, and find a love where you least expect. ‘The same universe that dispassionately takes things away can bring you things you weren't imaginative enough to dream up.’ Alright let’s talk about love and stuff (surprise: the “stuff” is trauma!) I found Funny Story to read as a much quieter novel than most of Emily Henry’s works, but also found that, coupled with a slow-burn plot that lets scenes and character introspection really breathe, to be part of what made it so endearing for me. This will probably take some criticism for being slow but my favorite books are the sort that don’t exactly have what most people call a “plot” soooo this was fine for me. Funny Story reads more along the lines of the coziness in Book Lovers while also being more successful than I found Happy Place to be. Having just read Lynn Painter’s Happily Never After, I felt like this was a successful version of the many things that story tried to be (both books, however, have a thing about eating pizza being sexy which…ok…???) where the characters actually felt their age, the fake dating felt plausible, the third act drama was passably believable for the genre. It does try to tie up too many loose ends and solve all the issues and I don't think we needed that, but I suppose cliches are cliche for a reason and there are expectations in genres so thats more a Me thing. And like, sure there's a lot to pick at but also it’s aiming to be a fun book and it lands that aspect while also managing to have a dynamic look at how past hurts can haunt our self-esteem and hinder our vulnerability when trying to connect with others and that helped hold the story together. One person's breakdown is another person’s novel glue I guess? Wait, I think I just finally understood literature. ‘You can't force a person to show up, but you can learn a lesson when they don't.’ This is a fairly character driven narrative of self-discovery and trauma processing that just so happens to stumble into romance so having the characters be in their early 30s helped bring this to life. Also that everything sucks and they just keep having to go to work and smile because they work public facing jobs–I FELT THAT SO HARD. I’ve found in similar novels that the characters felt far too young for their ages whereas Funny Story captures being an adult but not having the stable career/family/housing/etc that would make one “feel adult.” It's a very Millennial narrative where jokes like ‘are we evil or just immature?’ to laugh off behavior felt very true to life and all these characters seemed to walk onto the page directly out of the sort of single, early 30s service industry folks I’ve known and been friends with. But it also positions the characters in the wreckage of their Round 1 attempt at adulthood where they can no longer pretend they aren’t a product of their past and have to weigh out how their past traumas and coping mechanisms have embedded into their personalities. Especially since both Miles and Daphne are still reeling from hurts caused by the actions of their parents and don’t have a healthy relationship to serve as a compass for their own (and Daphne’s father is still a source of constant disappointment). ‘I don’t want you to look at me like I’m broken,’ Miles says at one point and this cuts to the heart of how these character’s present themselves: eager to show they are alright while feeling far from fine inside and wanting to hide that. ’It’s easy to be loved by the ones who’ve never seen you fuck up. The ones you’ve never had to apologize to, and who still think all your ‘quirks’ are charming.’ Since so much of dating involves understanding each other’s defense mechanisms and unpacking how past traumas inform your interpersonal relationships, being able to be vulnerable is important to intimacy and Funny Story does well by showing how frustrating it can be to open yourself up at the same emotional places where you are currently bruised. Though, speaking of intimacy, readers should know Emily Henry is not a closed-door romance writer (as Ashleigh says it is ‘definitely not PG’) and while the sex scenes are fairly awkward here (I suspect the term “cringe” will get used in a lot of reviews) I think thats part of their charm as these are just…awkward people. Henry wrote a rather humorous article (read it HERE) on how to write sex scenes and the key detail she returns to several times is vulnerability and embracing the awkward, but also using the scenes to progress the characters. ‘The scene has to change things. Because every scene has to change things. And that’s it. As close as I think I could get teaching someone to write (or rewrite) a sex scene. You have to treat it like any other scene, because that’s what it is…It has to move the story. It has to shift the emotional landscape. It doesn’t have to be universally deemed sexy (it can’t; people like different things) and it doesn’t have to avoid the territory of cringe (it won’t, for the aforementioned reason). It simply has to be true to the story.’ While I’m not sure the scenes here really count as plot progression, I found the awkwardness that leaves the characters rather flustered and confused about their relationship to work as part of the character study that seems to be the focus of this book. Its a novel about finding yourself but thankfully its not white folks “finding themselves” by going to India or Joshua Tree listening to The Doors, its just getting high and watching action movies with your roommate and getting some “accidental” action of your own. ‘She’s a walking fantasy and I’m a librarian who actually does wear a lot of buttons and tweed.’ Learning to love oneself in all your faults and failures is difficult, but the joy in the discovery of what makes you “you” comes alive through Daphne quite well. The set up is pretty great and Henry launches you into it rather quickly. I do enjoy how it sort of mimics the set up in Book Lovers where she gets dumped in a very romcom ending “I realized my best friend was my love all along” way like Daphne is the discard fiance that barely gets any lines and seems lame anyways (so I guess shoutout to anyone who maybe identified with Mark Ruffalo’s fiance in 13 Going On 30?). This is just another incident in a long line of feeling not important in the lives of those who claim to love you, and having had an absentee father taught her a few self-defense mechanisms long ago: ‘Trust people’s actions, not their words. Don’t love anyone who isn’t ready to love you back. Let go of the people who don’t hold on to you. Don’t wait on people who don’t jury for you.’ Being free from a relationship she thought would sail her happily from life has also made her reflect on how she never really formed a solid sense of self and instead allowed a relationship to fill in all the blanks for her. ‘I always cleaved to people I love and tried to orient my orbit around them,’ she realizes, which was an attempt to ‘make myself unleavable.’ And guess what? They all left. But now she has a new opportunity to find herself in it all. ‘Im not sure which parts of me are him and which parts are genuinely my own and I want to know. I want to know myself, to test my edges and see where I stop and the rest of the world begins.’ Having also ended up in a Michigan lakeshore vacation town only for my supposedly “got it together” lifeplans to go down like the Edmund Fitzgerald (if you are from Michigan you are required to love the Edmund Fitzgerald and think of the Great Lakes like some fierce god that gives life but takes it away. Any museum is like “Science/Art/History/etc is so cool!” Michigan museums are like “the Lake is a cruel mistress who will kill you and everyone you love!”), this all resonated with me. Too much maybe. But I loved seeing her come to love it and find her own place. ‘I feel embarrassing pride at having become a regular at someplace new all on my own,’ she thinks about becoming a familiar face in a coffee shop. Can confirm that is a cool feeling when you feel utterly alone in the world. Good for you, Daphne, find your place. ‘There’s no place on this earth like Waning Bay.’ Speaking of place, Emily Henry excels at capturing a sense of place and embedding it into her narratives as if the local community itself were a supporting cast character in her romcoms. It helps, too, that her locales tend to offer plenty of comedic relief along with their atmosphere. Henry has spoken at length about the importance of “place” in crafting her novels in interviews, stating that ‘I want my characters to feel like they grew up in the place where [my books are] set.’ In Funny Story, however, we watch Daphne as she has to learn a new place being stuck in a Northern Michigan vacation community, but it is less the way learning a place is about learning to better understand her love interest as it was in Book Lovers and more about learning to understand herself. Luckily she is aided by her new roommate, Miles, who also had to find his way amidst this community after shipwrecking there himself (can relate, buddy). Henry captures these Michigan communities in highly specific and humorous ways while making it still relatable to those unfamiliar with them. Maybe I’m biased and Daphne being a librarian and Miles being a bartender at a cherry themed wine bar is just something I’d enjoy because I work in a library after having myself been a wine bartender at a cherry themed establishment. But aspects of Michigan vacation towns felt so true to life. I laughed at the bar named “BARn” which is so eye-rollingly Michigan. But also aspects like seeing a young couple that are ‘on a first date which might somehow be an actual vacation,’ or everyone having their “corn guy, jam connection or cheesemonger, or someone saying things like being on the water is probably what church is to some folks. But for real, if you need amazing tomatoes, I know a guy. ‘A good librarian makes all the difference.’ The side characters are great as well, like the younger sister who brings in a lot of heartfelt discussions on family dynamics in response to family traumas, or the single-mom librarian. The library aspects are a bit kitschy but charming and I’m glad Henry presents the very real issues of how much blatant sexual harassment librarians face or the random moments of extreme anger or weirdness and how we just…deal with it and move along like a blip in the day. I usually hate when authors add libraries or librarians into plots because it's so stereotypically twee or inaccurate but Henry pulls it off well. Back to the sister for a moment, I thought the age gap between siblings was explored in a pretty comically-true-to-life way and how it wasn’t miscommunication between them but just…lack of communicating at all because you just assume what the other person is thinking. Which, okay real. That plays into the third act drama as well where its less a miscommunication and more falling victim to your own confirmation bias and assumptions. But Miles is sweet. I really liked Miles, guys. Miles feels like people I've met, especially in my bartending days. Also a coworker told me they think Miles is based on me. He’s not, I don’t own crocs (shoutout to the cover artist for including that). Did he do something sort of uncool at the end that Daphne is understandably upset about? Yes. Not great. But also did it feel like...well, something you'd hear a friend tell you about why their mad at a guy? Absolutely. I also don't know if this actually needed a successful romance? Maybe that's just me but the aspect about loving yourself and existing outside the circle of your partner was pretty great and we could have left it at that. ‘A second act I fell into, and the home that I chose, as much as it chose me. I can’t wait. I can’t wait for this whole world I’ve invited to surprise me.’ All in all, Funny Story is a sweet story of summer, libraries and finding joy in a new town and new friend. What I really loved about this book—even when it made me cry because I sobbed at the end—is how it just felt like people interacting with people and stumbling through their own issues instead of having some driving plot pushing people in directions. What I’m getting at is they felt like people instead of chess pieces for the sake of plot. The third act drama is done well too. Though when Henry tries to tell you that Michiganders refer to vacationers as “fudgies” for coming here to get our fudge (which is yum)...no we don’t. But the people from the Upper Peninsula DO in fact call the lower Peninsula “trolls.” Nobody in this novel says “ope” though, which is the Michigan noise for everything. Daphne should have said “ope” during a sex scene, I would have fallen over and then made this novel the State flag or something. Anyways, I enjoyed this and I hope you will too. 4/5 ‘Family. The real kind, who will always love you, even when your decisions make no sense to them.’ UPDATE: I totally bought the Emily Henry merch shirt for this book. Worth it. [Photo: Waning Bay Public Library Inaugural Overnight Read-A-Thon]

damn can’t we get an actual funny story or like a happier story some time? i’m tired of this grandpa (that being said i can begrudgingly admit this was well written and the hero was a real person so let’s all clap for the growth cause usually these dudes are just lady obsessed cardboard cutouts)

4/5 ☆ Well, as the self-proclaimed romance hater, I'm giving this 4 stars, which is probably like 6 stars in a romance lover's eyes. This was such a good story, I loved following it, and it was genuinely just cute. Her writing was just smooth and buttery. I usually don't like the FMC in romances (but I've only really read Ali Hazelwood and all her characters are the same person in different fonts) - but she was really relatable, and I was rooting for her the whole time. Her whole 'finding herself ' journey was so wholesome and heartwarming to follow. I relate to her relationship with her mother and with finding friends. I think I do the same thing, too, but I didn't know how to express it until Emily Henry put it into words. I rarely invest time in people and conclude they'll be an acquaintance. Miles is a top-tier guy, I would totally date him in real life, and he'd give me so many butterflies - I'd also think he was being 'just nice' like Daphne did and not that he actually liked me. That says a lot more about me than it does him - he's perfect. I love Julia and Ashleigh as well - such girls girls, I would love to have friends like them. I'm genuinely so proud of Daphne; it makes my heart so fuzzy and warm. I would have loved to live this romance. I couldn't give this 5 stars (for personal reasons), because I winced at certain moments and was like 'why isn't love like this in real life'. ⋆𐙚₊˚⊹♡ I'm going to read another of her books - which one should I read? ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ── reading log 22/05 1:21pm ୨ৎ they're so sweet together im so jealous why isn't love like this in real life see this is why i have issues - it is NEVER like this in real life ugh men 22/05 9:00am ୨ৎ awww I relate to her relationship with her mum 21/05 1:09pm ୨ৎ NO its all too quick 21/05 11:26am ୨ৎ he's kind of cute yknow 😳 ︶︶︶ ⊹ ︶︶︶⠀୨♡୧⠀︶︶︶ ⊹ ︶︶︶ ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ── pre-reading it's happening... this certified romance cynic is reading her first emily henry book. i will keep my complaining to a minimum i swear ︶︶︶ ⊹ ︶︶︶⠀୨♡୧⠀︶︶︶ ⊹ ︶︶︶ may tbr: ಇ. salt to the sea ಇ. powerless ಇ. house of earth and blood ಇ. everyone in my family has killed someone ಇ. bride ಇ. listen for the lie ಇ. she's not sorry ಇ. love on the brain ಇ. the familiar ಇ. a court of wings and ruin + a good girl's guide to murder + the clinic + a court of frost and starlight + funny story

That last line was so so great. 3.75

considering this latest release is EHs highest rated book, i really expected this to become an instant favorite. but it never quite got there for me. undeniably cute, absolutely. but it didnt give me the same feelings i felt when i read ‘beach read’ or ‘book lovers.’ and i think its because the characters seem a little too perfect to be believable. sure, daphne and miles each have their own baggage, but it never actually felt like their issues were actual issues to the plot. buuuut there are still a lot of things i did like about this. i enjoyed the set up for how the two MCs got to know each other, the atmosphere of the town they lived in and the things they did is fun, the depiction of making friends as an adult is realistic and, as always, EHs writing is really quite something else. so not my favorite, but a solid and successful addition to EHs bibliography! ↠ 4 stars

Beach Read/Book Lovers > Funny Story > Happy Place/People We Meet on Vacation The premise was bound to be fun, I am happy with the ending and appreciated that the male character was emotionally mature and that as always her book isn't only about the romance. My interest did vary throughout the book though. Not my favorite by her but worth reading!

Starting to understand the Emily Henry hype

ARC provided by the publisher via Netgalley i feel like before i can say anything about this book, i just have to let you all know that i was born and raised in michigan (and started this goodreads account in michigan), even though i moved out west after college. but it is also important to know that michigan people love other michigan people! lol like, i am giggling while typing this, but it is also very true and i have never seen another state have this kind of instant comradery before. my family still lives about three hours away from the traverse city area, but i’ve been there so many times, especially during the summer. and this very long prologue of a review is just to say that emily henry really captured the magic of what is a michigan summer and it was absolutely perfect in my opinion. i’m also not sure a book has ever made me miss home as much as the setting of this book, and i just really wanted to emphasize how phenomenally done it was to me, and i would bet a lot of money she has lived there at some point in her life. okay the actual review - i think i can make a dot here: this book is, ironically enough, a story about one person trying to convince another person to build a home and life in a sleepy little michigan city. but let me not forget to type that these two people’s lives have crossed because both of their significant others have decided to leave them for each other! and our main character, after being dumped the morning after her fiance's bachelor party, has nowhere to go because she picked up her life and moved it to where she thought she would finally set up roots. so she moves in with her ex’s new girlfriend’s ex (this feels so hard to type out lol), and each chapter starts with a countdown of how many days until a fundraiser at her work, at a local library, happens and then she will be able to leave. but maybe she can actually still set up those roots after the fundraiser, but in an even healthy and happier way (filled with some good healing along the way). “That's what happens when your life partner leaves you for the nicest, sunniest, prettiest woman in the state of Michigan.” everyone is going to talk about this book on all platforms, so instead of me telling you more about this book, let me tell you some things i really loved about this story with some bullet points (besides the michigan bias, obviously): ➛ there is a very big difference between niceness and kindness and this book really shows that throughout. ➛ as you get older, making new friends can be way harder! and friendship breakups can be just as devastating as romantic breakups! but also, it can be really worth it to let people in, even after you’ve been hurt by doing so with others - maybe especially after that. “You can't untell someone your secrets. You can't unsay those delicate truths once you learn you can't trust the person you handed them to.” ➛ this book also talks about some parental abuse that i honestly do not think i’ve ever read about before, and i know it is going to mean a lot to a lot of people. also the way that miles handles that trauma in the present day was something that really made me feel seen and meant more to me than i have words to put in a review here. “I need it to be okay. Because I need to be okay. As a kid, I just felt so fucking scared and powerless, all the time, and now, I just need to be okay.” ➛ and this is also just such a book about community, and carving out space and safety and love with the people who you trust and want to build a home with. especially when you’ve lived a life of not really having much stability, and the thought of it being taken away makes you scared to start to build it. ➛ libraries will always be the heart of cities, with some of the most powerful tools we have to amplify voices and create change. i am actually typing this up during national library week here, and i just can't emphasize enough how important these buildings, these safe spaces filled with heart, and these librarians are. i would get so emotional when daphne would talk about the kids at her branch, and the books she’d pick because of them. ahhhh, a reminder to just show up for your local library, do donations if you are able (time, books, and money), make sure your library card is updated, just show your appreciation in every way you’re able to. “To me, libraries have always represented the best of humanity. The way we all share knowledge and space, and... and how we find ways to look after each other. It's not a perfect system, but it's powerful.” overall, this just had so much to love. actually, as i am typing this i am considering making this a five star. I’m just not sure if i loved this as much as beach read, but it is for sure a new favorite emily henry of mine. but miles is for sure the best love interest she, or maybe any other contemporary author, has ever written. and i absolutely cannot wait to watch you all fall with both him, and daphne, and their amazing funny story. trigger + content warnings: drinking, smoking, a joke about suicide, brief mention of fetishization (to a side character and in a negative light), parental abandonment and neglect and and instability in past, child abuse in past, mention of loss of parents in past (side character), one sentence mention of cancer (side characters parent), anxiety depiction, and just a story about people going through a really hard break up that has a little bit of infidelity vibes (even though no cheating did occur to them) ♡ evie's amazing spotify playlist blog | instagram | youtube | wishlist | spotify | amazon ♡ Beach Read ★★★★ ♡ Happy Place ★★★

Pre-review: I’m shocked about the fact that happy place and funny story have the same author. This book was so much better than what i thought it would be🙈 —- Pre-read: It’s time✨I’m giving miss Emily one last try🤞🏼 i dnf happy place so i hope this one makes me change my opinion about her books

“You're the reason for the word wonderful. It really shouldn't be used for anything else.” Um... Emily, girl, are you sure you don't know my husband? Because Miles is a carbon copy of him and I have questions... In all seriousness, Miles is basically my husband in two dimensions, and I (obviously) think my husband is the hottest, kindest, most lovable human on the planet, so I loved this book. I dropped a star for some cringey turns of phrase (please never describe nipples as standing to attention like “eager little meerkats” every again, what the everloving fuck lol) and the excessive number of times the trapezius gets highlighted like this is my twelfth grade kinesiology exam. Also, too much moaning while eating, chortling, and padding places. BUT other than those nitpicks, this was truly fantastic, very sweet, wholesome, romantic, and funny. Both Daphne and Miles felt real, and I loved witnessing them falling in love. More of this, less of the hellscape that is Happy Place and People We Meet on Vacation, please and thanks. I read all six of Emily Henry’s adult books so I could analyze why her work is so incredibly polarizing: https://youtu.be/JRfFLKrV7ww Read along with all the winners of the Goodreads choice awards: https://youtu.be/5gC5yHaWnbY Trigger/Content Warnings: cancer, death, loss of a parent, parental abandonment, narcissistic parent, child abuse (emotional and verbal), infidelity You can find me on... Youtube | Instagram | TikTok You can join our book club over on Patreon... PBB Book Club

NOW AVAILABLE!! It really isn’t a funny story when her fiancé Peter, breaks up with Daphne after his bachelor party because he suddenly realizes that he DOES actually have feelings for his beautiful, (but only platonic) best friend, Petra and that he is marrying the wrong woman. But, it is what it is. Daphne has a week to pack up and move out of “their” home, in Waning Bay, Michigan-a place she moved to for Peter. With no family, and just a couple of acquaintances where she works as a children’s librarian, she has nowhere to go. But there is one person who also suddenly needs another person to split the bills-Miles Nowak -who just happens to be her ex-fiancé’s new fiancée’s ex. Got that? They would appear to be complete opposites. Daphne is buttoned up, and has trouble making small talk with strangers. Miles is a scruffy, tattooed guy in Crocs who serves wine at the local wine bar and has never met a stranger. And, they end up forming a tenuous friendship when Miles begins showing Daphne all his favorite places in their quaint lakeside town. When each receives a wedding invitation in the mail, they agree to RSVP yes. Peter calls Daphne and assures her that she really shouldn’t feel obligated to come alone. That’s when it slips out that she won’t be alone, because she’s dating Miles. Except of course, that she isn’t- But, Miles is game to play along. Before you know it, he is seeing that underneath all of those buttons is a very funny woman. And, she is seeing that underneath all that “scruff” is a very warm and caring man. Could Daphne actually start her new chapter by falling in love with her ex-fiancé’s new fiancée’s ex? I loved meeting both Daphne and Miles-her best couple yet-and their chemistry is sizzling! 🌶️ FUNNY STORY is now my FAVORITE STORY by Emily Henry Thank you to Berkley for the gifted copy provided through NetGalley. It was my pleasure to offer a candid review!

Emily Henry has perfected the mix of a swoon-worthy romance with realistic character development in her books. Funny Story definitely feels like more of a traditional 'romance' story than her other books (which I would argue focus a lot more on the protagonists and their journey's of self-actualisation), so if you read romance books purely for the love story and are a fan of friends-to-lovers/forced proximity - pick this one up! (Full review to come soon - but Funny Story is out in the UK on 25 April) ————————— i got an arc!! penguin uk/viking i love u the most

** spoiler alert ** This was on track to be a 5-star read and then the ending KILLED it for me. I really enjoyed Daphne and Miles and the two emotional journeys they were taking. Daphne was adorably introverted (in a way I could never pull off) and Miles was such a cinnamon roll. But wtf was that third act disappointment? Miles completely forgets about her (or knowingly left her stranded, dunno which is worse) and then the first time Petra reaches out to him he's over there immediately. I don't really care that he went after her dad even though it's a nice sentiment. But somehow that totally eclipses these other two BIG REE FLAGS and she forgives him. And I don't really feel like Miles' love for Petra was appropriately addressed and resolved. He kept saying she was the love of his life and then eventually he tells Petra and Daphne that he loves Daphne but to what extent? You can obviously love more than one person in a lifetime, and I don't think EH really closed the door on that relationship. So this is all really sad because I loved the first 75/80% of this book 😔

I want to preface this review by saying: I think it is impossible for me to read an Emily Henry book and not have a good time. Her writing and characters are literary catnip for me and I absolutely eat her books up time and time and time again. With that being said, this one sadly didn't become a new favorite of mine like I was hoping it might. Don't get me wrong, there were many moments between Daphne and Miles that had me grinning from ear to ear and kicking my feet, but I couldn't help but feel like I wanted even more of them together than we got. I feel like Funny Story had a little too much plot and not quite enough romance which feels like a stupid thing to say about a *book* but I think that the girlies who get it, will get it lol TL;DR: this was a lot of fun but I wanted more smoochin' cw: divorce/separation, cheating, death of a loved one, cancer, emotionally manipulative parents, absent parents

4.75🌟 phenomenal

4.5/5 ⭐️ - The tension in this book was EVERYYYYTHING!! The romance was heavy in this one, but I also really loved the aspects of friendship, family, trauma, and learning how to build your own life outside of the person you love like I literally loved every second of it!! I found myself smiling and giggling during this story. Found myself tearing up at the end of this one too. So raw and real. - I wanted to give Daphne and Miles a big hug because they were so pure! But also so honest and human. I feel like everyone will be able to relate to this story. Really loved the aspects of female friendship in this and how it can be a tough but also beautiful thing. - The descriptions Emily Henry used in this book made be literally have to read sentences over and over again because they just HIT. I don’t think I’ve ever read opposites attract trope better than this one.

This wasn’t anything ✨life-changing✨ but FREIDA, girl, what are you lacing these books with? Because I physically could not put this down. Like… I had things to do. Responsibilities. And yet there I was, glued to the couch, eyes burning, fully invested in Blake Porter’s downward spiral. Being a Scorpio and reading this? Oh, it’s personal. Everyone in this book dragged my sign through the mud and I took that personally. Like damn, let us breathe for ONE second. Also… I LOVE watching men lose their minds. Blake unraveled so fast and I was living for it. This was definitely better than her last one. Freida, you’re messy for this and I thank you. I was stressed, gasping, suspicious of everyone, and living for the chaos.

Before read: There’s speed of light and there’s the speed at which Freida releases her books😭 After read: I have mixed feelings about this book ngl😭 out of the three parts in the book last two were good. God the part 1 was so damn slow. I saw the first twist coming but ofc i didn’t think the second twist would be that😭 many of the things were really unbelievable. It’s as though the character in it had some sixth sense or something. And it’s annoying me so much that the character got away easily with so much without anything tying back to them until the end. And god did i mention how dumb Blake actually is? How hard is it for him to find a lawyer and get his name cleared. This whole book is like a butterfly effect seriously. Omg and the writing wasn’t good either. The dialogues gave me the ick😭 like i get the author wants it to be a easy read but this aint it sorry. One single mistake and hell broke lose😭😭 lastly i wanna mention that even though Blake was annoying he deserved better than this😭 oh also the IT guy in the book deserved better. My man’s fatal flaw was being in love with a psycho😭 anyway overall it’s a okay book. This somehow felt like a twisted mix of Freida’s older works, like, the boyfriend and the housemaid for example

The tenant from you know where! 🥵 🔥 An entertaining popcorn read that had some very crazy a$$ characters that had me cracking up and wanting to chat about! Yes, I need to discuss this person. Poor Blake's life comes crashing down and he and his fiance have to take in a tenant to make ends meet. The tenant interviews were beyond fun! 😮No red flags AT ALL! Okay, flashing sirens maybe! It is a popcorn thriller and yes has a bit of extreme happenings, but it was a fast, entertaining read. My favorite and only 4 star from this author. The last twist was pretty unexpected. Thanks to Kaceey for reading and chatting, so fun, haha.... This one is another KU (I'm on a roll) pick. Came out May 6, 2025

I’m quite impressed by how suspenseful this was. I loved the feeling of the clock ticking and the bad events piling up. Wouldn’t like to be the main character.

Plot twist LITTTTERALLY made me spit out my drink

pleasantly surprised but still a basic ass Freida book. TLDR: man loses job. Can’t pay mortgage. Gets a tenant to help pay. Weird shit starts happening. People get murdered. The end. Freida has a recipe. First 100 pages: confusion. Second 100 pages: hysteria. Final 100 pages: explanation. this is another classic Freida play-by-play. I think you could swap this story out with at least 4 of her other books and you’d get the exact same story. HOWEVER, even after noticing the similarities to her other stories, I was still hooked. there are a couple chapters we didn’t need and unfortunately a few loose ends that weren’t tied up (why were Whitney and Malcolm talking to each other in the lounge room?) I don’t even think we needed Malcolm as a character tbh. The plot twist was… how do I say this? Predictable yet not at all. As in, it was kind of obvious what it was going to be but not HOW it was going to unfold. I really liked it!!! I was kinda gagged if I’m honest. I’m at the point where I think Freida is just trolling us and giving us the most basic stories, sitting back and watching us, laughing to herself that she’s making a pretty penny for giving some of the most mind numbing stories - that I’m totally obsessed with. I hope she never stops. I’ll buy every single book. 3.5 stars rounding up. Yes I recommend. It’s fun.

⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ 1/2 Roommates are the worst, am I right? Or are they? Maybe it’s not the roommate that’s the worst at all. Maybe it’s the woman I love who is pulling the wool over my eyes, but really is only interested in being party to my downfall. Or maybe it’s neither of them. Maybe it’s my third cousin, twice removed on my dad’s side who I once saw stealing a Charleston Chew from a convenience store who now wants revenge on me thirty years later for being witness to such a horrible crime. These are the questions that sit at the heart of this novel begging to be answered. I’m kidding of course, but this is how it feels sometimes reading a Freida book… but I’m here for it and I always enjoy every minute. The absurdity is the point, and the mindless escapism is what makes it special. This isn’t her best book, but it’s far from her worst. It sits somewhere in the middle, but is well worth your time if you need a palette cleanser between other novels, or if you just need something easy to read over a weekend. Freida never disappoints in these regards…

4.5 stars! After not loving The Crash, Freida McFadden's previous release, my expectations were fairly low for The Tenant. Though I was pleasantly surprised with the entertainment had from this book! While The Tenant still had the author's classic breakneck pacing and shocking plot twists, this felt moderately different than her other novels. At first, I was skeptical of the main character being a man, as her main characters are typically women. Though she did a great job with Blake's character progression and his subsequent spiraling. The gaslighting towards him was written so well—I was enraged on his behalf. The majority of this book takes place at Blake and his fiancé's apartment. Coupled with the gaslighting, this felt like much more of a psychological thriller, and almost drama, compared to her other books. While I saw an element of the plot twist coming, I was absolutely floored with that ending. Not to give away the reveals, but everything was pieced together so well. If I went back and reread this, I'd see so many breadcrumbs of the twist throughout the story. Definitely in my top three Freida books!

This was another fun, entertaining read from Freida McFadden! I did want to keep picking this book back up when I wasn’t reading it, so that’s always a good sign. However, I will say that I did enjoy Part 1 of the book (Blake’s chapters), more than I liked Part 2 (Krista’s chapters). This story starts off with Blake getting fired from his very prestigious job, in which he just received a promotion. His boss refuses to listen to his side of the story, and now Blake is having a hard time finding a job anywhere in the city. After 62 days of being jobless, Blake’s fiancée, Krista, suggests they find a tenant to lease one of the extra rooms in their brownstone for extra income. Reluctantly, Blake agrees, as his money is running out. The new tenant that Krista and Blake find to move in is Whitney. Whitney seems very sweet, quiet, and she is quite good looking. However, once Whitney gets settled into the brownstone, strange and horrible things start happening- especially to Blake. Is this all a coincidence? Or is the new tenant not as innocent as she appears to be? This book kept me on my toes, and it did have a twist that surprised me. As I mentioned above, it did start off stronger than it ended for me, although I did have fun with it. If you are a Freida McFadden fan, then I do recommend reading this one! (3.5 stars)

Shooketh, stirred, emotionally scrambled. Absolutely feral behavior from the last few chapters. This book crossed a line. Several, actually. The Tenant begins with an ordinary premise: a man rents out a room in his house to make life a little easier. It sounds practical, harmless—almost boring. And that’s exactly why it works. The characters don’t scream “unhinged” right away. They feel… off. Just enough to make you uncomfortable but not enough to walk away. And then the plot twist hits and you’re like: “I did not consent to this.” By the end, you’re not even reading anymore — you’re side-eyeing the pages. Who should read this book? If you like quiet psychological thrillers that politely gain your trust and then immediately abuse it

4 stars! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ This was a fun Freida book! I listened to the audio version - which I highly recommend. Told from the male perspective. A nice change of pace! Blake loses his high profile job in NYC. He and his fiancée decide to get a tenant to help with the mortgage. This poor guy really gets more than he bargained for! Talk about your life spiraling outta control. Frieda is great at presenting psycho characters and this book is not short on them. All of the reasons why I enjoy her books are here. Fast paced and entertaining. A few chuckles. Nothing to take too seriously. Just good popcorn thriller fun! The ending had a great twist too! This goes into my Top 5 from her. I know I won’t have to wait long for her next - which makes me happy!

ooo i really enjoyed this !! i did guess the main plot twist but it was still such a good read, i was interested the whole book and read most of it in one sitting

This was such a good thriller/mystery. I was buddy reading this with one of my coworkers, and she got ahead of me, and I just kept telling all of my crackpot theories, and as always, none of them were right lol. Every time I read one of this authors books I think I can figure out what is going to happen and every time I’m wrong. This one was definitely better than the last two that I’ve read and I think this one is a good one to start with if you’ve never read one of her books. I was kept on my toes throughout, and I didn’t want to stop reading because I wanted to know what happens. I will say the majority of the characters are unlikeable, but I was rooting for them all the same. I can’t wait to read more books by this author in the future!

Typical McFadden fare - nothing all that profound, but instead, lots of gaslighting, multiple twists, and yummy just desserts. I liked that the book starts out with a male protagonist who's clearly in the hotseat. It seems most of the books in this genre is about women getting gaslit. It was a nice change in perspective and pace. Rounding up to 4.

anything freida puts out, ima read!! honestly, enjoyed this! Felt a little bit slow at the beginning, but I totally did not guess the plot twist (which rarely happens for me) home girl was crazy seriously. That’s all I can say with that spoiling it lol. a good twisty book, read super speedy!

anything freida puts out, ima read!! honestly, enjoyed this! Felt a little bit slow at the beginning, but I totally did not guess the plot twist (which rarely happens for me) homegirl was crazy seriously. That’s all I can say with that spoiling it lol . a good twisty book, read super speedy!

Couldn't help but reread this one.

Author Freida McFadden returns with another tension laden thriller leaving readers scrambling to figure out who can be trusted once again. All the author's signature wicked plot twists are here up to and including the final last chapter shocker readers have come to expect. Fasten down the hatches before diving into THE TENANT. You won't be able to stop until the final page is read. Blake Porter is a man on top of the world. He has it all - the perfect fiancé, a lovely brownstone in a desirable neighborhood and a lucrative job in marketing he loves. He's a man on the move upward to better things . . . until he's suddenly fired from his job with accusations of selling trade secrets to the competition. He's stunned and devastated that his boss won't listen to his protests of innocence. Blake knows he's innocent of the accusations, but he's forced to pack his things and get out. Before long, his savings run out, debt mounts, and he's in danger of losing their home. When his fiancé suggests they take in a tenant, he's hesitant but being between a rock and a hard place, he caves and agrees. After a line of misfit applicants, Whitney strolls into their lives with cash in hand, appearing to be the answer to their prayers. However, over the next few weeks, Blake's unease escalates as weird, disturbing things begin happening, testing his patience and shooting his stress level through the roof. Even his neighbors are acting differently towards him. What's happening to him? His fiancé doesn't notice anything wrong and is becoming close friends with Whitney. As events escalate, Blake realizes he made a fatal mistake allowing Whitney to move in. Who is this woman and why is she trying to destroy him? Or could it be his own guilty secret haunting him at night? Author Freida McFadden's THE TENANT is an intriguing, taut thriller that touches on subjects of revenge, privilege, betrayal and dark secrets that come back to haunt you. As always, her characterizations are vivid and realistic. As in most of her books, emotional stress, paranoia and a fear of the unknown play a role in a character's unraveling. McFadden excels at keeping characters and readers on their toes, guessing and searching for answers to an intricately woven puzzle until the very end. The pace intensifies with the increasing downward spiral of Blake's psyche. I enjoyed the point of view of a well-crafted, male main character perfectly portrayed by Blake as a man clueless as to why his world is crashing down around him. THE TENANT is one of the only books by this author that I've figured out before the final reveal. Maybe it's because I've read everything McFadden's written and have learned to read the clues a little better, but I saw the climax coming early on. However, it didn't lessen my enjoyment as I burned through pages to see what else would happen and how it would play out. While this isn't my favorite offering from this talented author, it's still a masterpiece in deception and betrayal. Highly recommended to fans of mysteries and thrillers. Special thanks to Poisoned Pen Press and Author Freida McFadden for a complimentary arc of this title. Opinions expressed are entirely my own. Scheduled release is May 6, 2025. My review first published in Mystery & Suspense Magazine and is now available on my blog Cross My Heart Reviews.

I found this book to be quite funny and entertaining! It reminds me of a cat-and-mouse game between the characters, and I don't have a strong attachment to either of them. It feels a bit like watching a corny TV show, similar to Tom and Jerry. Goldie was caught in the crossfire.

Stephanie is back! After the last terrible book (someone else clearly wrote it), the write character details and language is on point! Stephanie and Lula had me in stitches, and the grave digging experiences are just part of their norm now, like cars and apartments being blown up. The mystery had more than usual to it, and Stephanie's grandma is always a maniacal laugh. the ending, moving the three-part relationship forward between Ranger and Morelli hits a new high, and honestly, I can't see there being another book after this next one. She has to make a decision, and it's time to move on... and it better be Ranger!

Gotta love Bob. This book couldn't have come at a better time. After reading a super depressing Christmas book (how are those two things even in the same sentence?) I needed a good old dose of Stephanie and crew. In this installment, Joe is out of town and so Stephanie is doggy sitting Bob. He is so goofy and hilarious, eating things he's not supposed to and being his generally lovable self--that is, until Stephanie is threatened and then Bob becomes super protector dog. There are the requisite court skippers that Stephanie and Lula search for, and an overarching mystery involving a jewelry heist and missing people surrounding that. And you can't forget many doughnuts, ruined cars, sexual tension with Ranger, and some all around good fun. I left this reading with a huge smile on my face and can't wait to see what comes next. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

Oh my gosh is Stephanie Plum and Ranger finally going to get married? But what about Morelli? Oh no… Am I jumping ahead of myself? Oh… Can we read these books as a stand-alone? Yes and no. Yes, you can to some extent, but you will miss out on the nuances of who is who. (Or if it has been a while since you have read them {like me}, you might be a bit forgetful.) So… It really is best to stick to reading the series in order, and close together, as best you can. On to the review… Stephanie is hired to find the person who the jeweler hired as his security who he believed stole the jewels in the robbery of his store, who is now missing. But… Is that really the “truth” of what happened? And… In the course of all of this… She gets to take care of her boyfriend Joe Morelli’s dog, Bob, who is a hoot. And… Then there is Lula. Are you following me? Well… This is a typical Evanovich story, and that is what happens. So… Hold on tight, and plan on twists, and away you go for this little cozy. And… Plan on a sweet little surprise on the very last page… Which means… Book 31 has a lot of explaining to do! Thanks a lot Janet!

Great read and audiobook! I can always rely on humor in this series. This book is number 30 in a series! Sadly I have only read book 28 and book 30. I have seen the movie and I think it's based on book 1. I planned to one day I will go back to read this series from the beginning. Despite being a long series, I like that I can read each book as a standalone even though I'm sure reading the series from beginning to end would be a lot better because I would get to see Stephanie Plum change over time. The end of this audiobook is cool because the author shared a quote from each of the book readers loved. In this book, Stephanie Plum, once again, a bail bondsman so her job is to find bad guys. In this book, she was to find this one guy but he threatened to jump because he didn't want to go to jail. Then he accidentally fall and ended up in the hospital. He was badly injured so she cut him some slack and didn't cuff him right away. When she came back for him the next day, he was gone, either helped or kidnapped. Someone else came to her service asking her to find another guy because he might have stolen a lot of jewelries from him. Stephanie knew the guy because she went to school with him before. After investigating, she calculated that the two bad guys might be working together and their crimes might be connected. In between chasing bad guys, Stephanie has a fun time with Lula, her coworker and friend, Bob the dog which belongs to her boyfriend who is out of town and fighting off her attraction for Ranger who's constant flirting was not helping when her boyfriend is out of town. There were some twists and turns I didn't see coming. A lot going on packed in one book! Thank you Atria Books for the opportunity to read and review. I listened to an audiobook via Simon Audio and Libby App.

Another fun Stephanie Plum novel. Bob definitely stole the show. Morelli wasn’t present much. There were two surprise parts in this novel, but I won’t give them away. Also, the bonus material at the end was fun - a favorite quote from each book in the series. I can’t wait to read the next Stephanie Plum novel. I highly recommend this book!

__________________ "Good advice is something a man gives when he is too old to set a bad example." – François de La Rochefoucauld Janet Evanovich never listens to me. I've told her in my reviews that she really needs a new plot for her Stephanie Plum books. She has been using the same old plot for 30 books now. Her literary vehicle's tires are bald, its axles are arthritic, its rear end is out of line, and its exhaust pipe droops. I have suggested that if she can't afford a new plot, I would be willing to start a GoFundMe page to help her get a new one. But she won't listen. She never listens. 🤣😂😁😀 Stars. The problem is that Janet Evanovich makes me laugh. I can't quit her Plum books; I just can't.

As the title says this is the 30th adventure for Stephanie Plum. If you’re a fan of the series this is an easy book to recommend. Cases include finding a former security guard who may have stolen diamonds from a jeweler, while she also hunts a fugitive wanted for robbing the same store. Lulu and Grandma Mazur are there to lend a hand. Boyfriend Morelli is out of town but Stephanie is taking care of his chew everything giant dog. This is funny with twists and turns. I started the series in the middle of the books so you can join at any time. If you want you can always go back and read previous adventures. The author of course leaves you waiting for her next book.

Can you believe it? Janet Evanovich's latest book Dirty Thirty and is the 30th book in her long running Stephanie Plum series! The Plum books are my choice for some escapist, light hearted, comfort listening that doesn't take itself serious at all. Familiarity is another draw for me - I know who, and what, I'm going to find. Our lead character Stephanie works as a bounty hunter for her cousin Vinny in Trenton, New Jersey. This time around, Stephanie is tracking down two possible jewelry thieves. Stephanie is easy to like, with a good sense of humor. The supporting cast includes sidekick Lula, a big hearted former hooker. The banter between Stephanie and Lula is always fun. Lula has taken a bigger role in later books and has a case of her own to settle. Stephanie's Grandma Mazur (my fave) is often involved in whatever is going on. The real question though, is who Stephanie will settle down with! For thirty books she has vacillated between Trenton police detective or private security firm owner Ranger. There may be an answer this time - or maybe not. (I will definitely be picking up #31 to see what happens next!) I chose to listen to Dirty Thirty. I'm so happy that Lorelei King is again the reader. She's been the voice of this series for many years. The continuity is wonderful as it feels like jumping right back into life in the 'Burg'. King has a very versatile and expressive voice. She has created different voices for the characters and it's quite easy to know who is speaking. The voice for Stephanie is pretty calm, no matter what's going on. Lula however is always big and loud. Grandma Mazur's has a perpetually happy voice, always seeing the bright side. Each of the love interests have distinct voices as well. Babe. There's many more and they all fit the mental images I've created for all the players. King speaks clearly, she is easy to understand and her pace of delivery is just right. She brings the action, emotions and calamities of the plot to life with her voice, changing up the tenor and tone to match what's going on. A great performance. Hear for yourself - listen to an audio excerpt of Dirty Thirty. (PS. The cases are usually pretty light hearted, but I do have to say I didn't find the 'dog house situation' funny.)

The Stephanie Plum series has always struggled to balance adventure, mystery, and comedy in its stories with the last few books leaning so far towards comedy as almost to reach farce territory. This 30th book seemed to drop most of the humor, not the comedy but the humor, and played things more straight which while welcome seemed to sap most of the energy from the story. I was still enjoying the story well enough but the tired cheating bullshit and the ending kind of soured things for me. 3.75/5

Wish there was more Grandma Mazer, but that ending!🤯

Ahhhhhh I can't believe I've read all 30 books in this series!!!! I've followed Stephanie Plum for over half of my life now, and it's truly been a joy and a pleasure to always come back to this rag-tag crew of Trenton misfits. This was definitely one of the milder novels as far as Stephanie's adventures — and misadventures — go, but I had fun all the same. And whew, that ending! I NEED THE NEXT INSTALLMENT IMMEDIATELY. Content warning: Violence, arson, murder

This may be the best one yet! Dirty Thirty might have made me gain weight because all the eating that Stephanie and Lula do entices me to snack along as they hunt for the criminals. Lula is funnier and Stephanie is in more trouble than ever before. And the ending may just blow your mind! Thanks to Edelweiss and the publisher for the ARC

Another fun somewhat predictable and silly novel in the series.

Best Stephanie Plum in years! And now I’m dying for #31!!

Well readers…You gotta LOVE Stephanie (and she’s back), Morelli, is in Florida, now we have Bob, the dog, the grave diggers, jewelry store, robbery, homeless people, and of course Ranger! The story with these characters is great the plot-well, that’s a different story. Enjoy

4 stars This book was my introduction to author Jane Evanovich. Stephanie Plum lives in Trenton, New Jersey. After she is laid off from her steady job and finding herself broke, Stephanie lands a job as a bounty hunter. Stephanie is assisted in this endeavor by Lula, a plus size black woman and former “lady of the night”. Lula is very outspoken, often making totally hilarious, but inappropriate remarks. As the tale unfolds, Stephanie is trying to find a security guard who worked for a local jeweler but is believed to behind a heist at the shop. Finding the accused will involve/include a fire bombing, trips to a cemetery, a clown 🤡, as well as other unbelievable predicaments. Then there is Bob, Stephanie’s boyfriend’s a giant dog who is a food thief and has been known to take a bite out of gear shifts and couch cushions- I was laughing 😆 out loud! Add in the precarious condition of Stephanie’s romance with an absent lover and let the snickering 🤭 continue. Very entertaining

The Aloysius Archer series has progressed steadily from watching a raw ex-con solve a murder or two while on parole to working as a rookie private investigator under the tutelage of a seasoned professional. Now we’ve reached the 3rd book in the series, Dream Town, and Archer is virtually a solo PI taking on crime in L.A. It’s sink or swim time. The year is 1952 and Archer’s in Hollywood to visit actress and good friend Liberty Callaghan. While at dinner they bump into professional script writer Elanor Lamb. When she learns that Archer’s a PI she hires him because she believes she’s being stalked and feels her life’s under threat. It doesn’t take long for the job to take a turn for the bizarre when Archer finds a man murdered in Lamb’s house and, to top it off, Lamb has disappeared off the face of the planet.. The case draws Archer deeply into the Hollywood set as he crosses paths with actors, set designers and studio execs. He discovers that there’s far more to be worried about than be impressed with in this lifestyle as he uncovers a brutal world of drugs, sex and blackmail. And then things get truly dangerous as it becomes uncertain whether Archer will be able to manage to escape with his life. Once again, the 1950s are brought to life by Baldacci, this time in true Hollywood style. The fashions, the dialogue and the upbeat attitudes that define the times are captured and portrayed in vivid detail. The personality and values that have made Archer such a likable and decent man continue to shine through. But he also continues to evolve and you can see him mature and toughen as he survives each close call he encounters. The Aloysius Archer series continues as a strong PI series made even more enjoyable by the fact that it maintains its authentic look and feel. Just about every aspect about it gives a lot more than just a nod to the classic crime era in which it’s set.

4 stars You can read all of my reviews at Nerd Girl Loves Books. This is a really good historical fiction mystery/thriller. I must admit, I read the first book in this series One Good Deed and did not enjoy it very much. In fact, I couldn't even finish it! This really surprised me, because I normally really enjoy David Baldacci's books. I'm so glad that I revisited the series because this book was so good. It's New Year's Eve in 1953 and Archer is in LA to spend the night with his friend, aspiring actress Liberty Callahan. They are at a fancy schmancy party with the Hollywood elite when a screenwriter Liberty's knows, Eleanor Lamb, approaches them and asks to hire Archer because she feels that her life is in danger. They make a plan to meet the next day, but later in the evening Archer decides to check on Lamb's safety and discovers a dead body in her house and Lamb missing. This sets Archer on a path to find the killer, and Lamb, and pits him against dangerous LA gangs, mobsters in Vegas, and the seedy side of Hollywood. The book starts off slowly, and continues to build tension until the crazy end. The more Archer investigates, the more complicated the problem gets. Baldacci does a great job of snowballing Archer's situation, adding more and more nefarious villains as the book progresses. Most of the minor characters are your stereotypical bad guys, but I didn't mind, as it was still fun to read. The book shines a light on the darker side of Hollywood and fame during that time period, particularly the studio contracts that used to bind actors to studios and dictate pretty much their whole life, which I've read about in other books and was pretty awful to women. If you're looking for an old fashioned complicated mystery, this is the book for you. While this book is part of a series, it's written as a standalone and you don't have to read the other books to enjoy this one. There is enough exposition in it to fill you in on the back story of the characters. I received a complimentary copy of this book from NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing. All opinions are my own.

Dream Town by David Baldacci is as usual easy to read due to the wonderful way the author has with the language. Although I found it to be not as good as the two first books in this series it still captivates and has lots of fun chapters. I hope Baldacci will continue this series since I have alway been a fan of the hardboiled and noir detective genres and we need more books set in a time that is not the present.

I plunged right into Baldacci's PI series featuring Aloysius Archer, WWII vet, set in Hollywood in the 50s. 'It was a town that took every single dream you had and then merrily ran it right through the world's biggest meat grinder.' There was no problem starting with this third book in the series. The atmosphere of the plot is very LA noir with lots of smoking, shooting, deception and general misbehaving. Archer cleverly works his way through the many layers of this mystery, almost getting killed more than once. Being a private investigator is a dangerous business and 'even good guys can make bad choices when things get desperate.' I received an arc of this new thriller from the publisher via NG in exchange for an honest review. Thanks to them for the opportunity.

Super twisty! I didn’t see the end coming at all. I loved the time period it was set in too. Can’t wait to read more.

Our California "noir" PI, Aloysius Archer, is in Hollywood to celebrate the new year with his good friend, Liberty...At a party, Archer is hired by a screenwriter, who soon becomes a missing screenwriter, with a dead body of another PI in her house...The surrounding mystery, pulls Archer into a confrontation with drug runners, casinos and mobbed up button men...Very good celebration of all those who follow in the shadow of Raymond Chandler...Good Stuff!!!

4 stars cause of many reasons 1 so many characters and confusing names to remember 2. Story starts so slow but only pick ups when you have crossed more than 60% of the story 3. David Baldacci broke the heart at the end I won’t say how otherwise it would be a spoiler

Alot going on, but it managed to keep my attention. I liked it.

With the Aloysius Archer thrillers, not only has David Baldacci given us a series written in the old crime noir style, he has introduced us to a lead character with a name practically ripped from the pages of a Ross Macdonald novel. In this latest entry, DREAM TOWN, Archer finds himself stepping out of his friendly hometown confines and visiting his old friend, aspiring actress Liberty Callahan, in Los Angeles to ring in 1953. Archer may be only 30 years old, but it seems as if he has lived a lifetime, having fought in World War II and now working under his mentor, Willie Dash, as a private eye. It’s enough to make him feel like all the terrible things he has seen in the world has made him wise well beyond his years. To begin with, he’s happy to see Liberty, but he knows he’ll be running up against the LAPD, who he views as one of the largest criminal enterprises in the world. They also don’t look too kindly on PIs, especially those from out of town. Archer and Liberty attend a big New Year’s Eve party, which is like a who’s who of Hollywood at the time. There they run into Eleanor Lamb, a screenwriter and a friend of Liberty’s. Since this is an Archer novel, we know this won’t be a normal introduction. Sure enough, shortly after meeting each other, Eleanor asks for Archer’s help as she thinks someone is trying to kill her. Of course, Archer takes the case. To save on Eleanor’s fees, he stays in a spare room at Liberty’s place. On a whim, he decides to contact Eleanor after the party. A man answers the phone wanting to know who is calling at such a late hour. He promptly hangs up on Archer without ever putting him through to her. This rouses enough suspicion for Archer to jump in his car, grab a map and head over to Eleanor’s place to see what’s going on. What he finds, once he wakes up after being knocked out by an unseen perp, is the body of a dead man and no sign of Eleanor. Now Archer begins doing what he does best, albeit in unfamiliar territory --- find clues by talking to as many people as possible. His investigation takes him from Hollywood to Chinatown to some of the seedier places and neighborhoods around the LA area. He also meets quite a number of shady characters and earns a few more scars in the process. When Archer reconnects with Willie, he learns that the dead man was fellow PI Cedric Bender. Eventually Archer crosses paths with Darren Paley, who turns out to be a major player. Willie knows him well and would love to bring him down. This will send Archer and Willie to Las Vegas, where Paley also has some big dealings that could tie into some of the less upstanding ventures Archer had turned up in LA. The bottom line is that Eleanor is still missing, possibly dead, and Archer has no idea if she has any connection to these bad men or why she would be a target of their wrath. DREAM TOWN is a great depiction of the dark side of Hollywood as seen through the eyes of a world-weary PI with a heart who always wants to finish the job and do right by his client. Baldacci has produced another story that is so easy to fall into and get lost in, to the point where it becomes more about the journey than the destination. Reviewed by Ray Palen

It's always refreshing when the old is new again - as in a return to the "private eyes" of the '50s. This is the third in the series featuring Aloysius Archer, a P.I. and World War II vet who plies his trade in Los Angeles. This one is a little darker than the first two, I think, but no less entertaining. Archer works for friend Willie Dash at the latter's detective agency; as this story begins, he's planning a nice evening with old friend and love interest of sorts, Liberty Callahan to ring in the new year. Their dinner is interrupted by the appearance of Eleanor Lamb, a screenwriter and friend of Liberty. When she learns what Archer does for a living, she tells him she thinks someone is trying to kill her and hires a somewhat reluctant Archer to investigate. Later, when he calls Ellie for more information, a man answers but hangs up. Curious, Archer heads for Ellie's house, only to find a dead body inside but no Ellie. Now more curious than ever - and worried that something bad may have happened to Ellie - he sets off on a journey that takes him through the bowels of 1950s Hollywood and the mob-infested casinos of Las Vegas and nearly gets himself killed. And therein lies the best parts of the book; especially since I grew up in the 1950s with my nose in "movie star" magazines like "Photoplay" and "Modern Screen" to get the latest scoops on Marilyn Monroe, Pat Boone, Doris Day, Audrey Hepburn and James Dean (just to mention a few), the behind-the-scenes studio goings-on, not all of which were pleasant, were a treat to read about. As for the plot, I can't reveal much more without running into spoiler territory. So, I'll just say I enjoyed this one (and the previous two) very much and think you will, too.

If you like the series you'll like this. Action, things happening, characters being characters quite nicely, gun play, some twists, some characters unable to continue breathing, good vs evil stuff. All good.

I thank NetGalley and Pan Macmillan for providing me with an ARC copy of this novel, which I freely chose to review. I read Baldacci’s Zero Day a while back, and I said that I was likely to try another one of his books at some point, and after seeing this novel featured and commented upon in several places, I decided to read it. A detective novel set in the early 1950s in Los Angeles promised to be interesting. And I can confirm that Dream Town delivers. In summary, this is a solidly plotted and well-written novel, with plenty of twists, turns and red herrings, providing beautifully observed historical nuggets of the place, the era, and especially of 1950s Hollywood, with a likeable and morally strong hero, and a varied cast of interesting secondary characters. Although with plenty of touches of noir, it reminded me more of the detective novels of the 1930s, and I tend to agree with a review that mentioned Philip Marlowe, down to the clever retorts and especially the moments of insight and reflection Archer, the P.I. protagonist, shares. I won’t discuss the author in detail, as he is too well-known for that. Much of what I wrote in my previous review of one of his novels applies to this one as well. I didn’t realise when I requested this novel that it was, in fact, the third novel in a series about Archer, but I can confirm that it is not necessary to have read the previous two to enjoy this one. I am sure readers who have will be more clued to the nuances of Archer’s relationship with his partner, Willie Dash, and with his female friend, Liberty Callahan, although it is true that this book seems to represent something of a crisis point for Archer, I won’t say too much about that, to avoid spoilers. I mentioned above having checked some reviews, and it seems that there isn’t agreement on how this novel compares to the rest of the series. Some readers think this is the strongest of the three, while others enjoyed the first two more, but it seems this relates to the setting, to the ending, and, as always, it is a matter of personal choice more than any specific flaw of the novel itself. This is a novel with many subplots and plenty of characters, and it is difficult to describe what happens beyond the blurb provided above, not only to avoid spoilers but also because of the many strands Baldacci weaves into this spiderweb of a story. The subplots cover many themes we would expect of novels set in that period, particularly in L.A.: Hollywood, the film industry, and how it worked; the Cold War; contraband, drugs, and a variety of other crimes; police corruption (it made me think of a non-fiction book set in Compton a few decades later that I reviewed recently); Las Vegas, gambling debts and the mafia; gender and power relations in the era (a single woman could not get a mortgage without the signature of a man, it seems, no matter how solid her financial situation); the nuclear era and the fear of the bomb; property speculation; the fate of WWII veterans, and many more. Not all of them are developed in detail, but they are well-integrated into the story and give the novel plenty of backbone. The story is told in the third person from Archer’s point of view, and he is an acute and detailed observer. I had mentioned in my previous review that some readers might find the descriptions (of rooms, places, people, even gestures and facial expressions) a bit too much, but I am sure fans won’t mind, and most of those paragraphs were original and vivid, managing to create a clear (and sometimes humorous) image in one’s mind. There is plenty of action and adventures; Archer moves about a fair bit and gets a beating or two as well. This is not a protagonist-hero as superman, who never puts a foot wrong, and in fact, he is lucky to get off unscathed (or with only a few bruises) considering the situations he ends up in. Thankfully, some people have his back, and although this is a novel full of deceitful characters, betrayals, and two-timing scoundrels, there are also upstanding friends and associates of Archer, and that makes it quite different from some of the noir novels of the period, as those P.I.s tend to be less than exemplary and morally ambiguous, while Archer is... well, a bit of a Boy-Scout, and an honest man. I liked Archer’s friends as well, particularly Willie, his ersatz father, and Jake, a man who’d paid a heavy price for going after the bad guys, but I was also impressed by the number of female characters included in the novel. There are men as well, of course, and one of the baddies (perhaps the most typical one) is a man, but most of the important characters are female, and they are not only important to the development of the mystery itself, but they all have their own lives and professions, and that makes them quite remarkable for the period. They are not all good or bad either, but that is to be expected, and I enjoyed that aspect of the novel in particular. This book takes its time to build up the story and the characters, and in that, it has more in common with classics of the genre than with some of the frantic page-turning thrillers we are more used to reading these days. I did not mind at all, as I enjoyed the writing style, the background, and the detours Archer took us on, and I think it helped with the mystery as well, as most readers will have time to come up with their own hypothesis as to what is going on, but there are so many strands to the story that most people will find one or two surprises along the way. Did I like the ending? Yes, I did. I have mentioned that this book seems to represent a crisis point, or rather, a big change for Archer and his career, and I felt that worked well, although I understand why some people might have hoped for a more conventional all-around “happy” ending. Readers can always check a sample to see if the writing style suits their taste, but I decided to share a few random quotes, to give you a bit of a taster. Here a character is talking to Archer about a movie project and a particular director: No way in hell Bette Davis is letting Danny direct her. It would be like Lassie directing Brando, and that’s an insult, actually, to the dog. One of the women I mentioned says this: No one ever assumes the wives in this town have anything to do other than dress nicely, stay skinny, not dribble what little food we do eat down our fronts, and never, ever drink as much as our husbands, at least in public. Archer always liked to approach a problem from the rear. He had learned in the war that frontal assaults made generals look heroic, but made their soldiers simply dead. I recommend this novel to people who enjoy historical detective novels set in the 1950s, particularly in L.A., especially if they are fond of the classics of the genre, to fans of Baldacci, and to those who enjoy complex mysteries with strong characters and a descriptive and engaging writing style.

Dream Town is the 3rd book in the Archer series from David Baldacci. It can totally be read as a stand-alone. “Archer is ringing in the new year of 1953 with his friend Liberty Callahan. An acquaintance of hers, Eleanor Lamb, stops by their table. When she finds out that Archer is a PI she hires him to look into the death threats she’s been getting. She disappears but Archer has the itch to find out what happened to her. He is knocked out, beat up, shot at and almost buried alive. But he will find the truth.” Baldacci hits the right mix of story and atmosphere in this book. The first book had too much description in it. The 2nd book was a little less. This one works. You do feel like you’re in the middle of one of those B&W gangster movies sometimes. The story is complex because of all of the characters. You have to pay attention. You’ll be surprised at who the bad guy is and what happens to Eleanor. Lots going on but it has that fast-paced Baldacci writing to make it go. Book releases in April. Fans of historical crime fiction and Hollywood will enjoy this one.

enjoyable characters, troubling & unnecessarily confusing story

Dream Town ⭐️⭐️⭐️.5 Genre: Thriller / Crime Fiction Format: Kindle eBook Date Published: 4/19/22 Author: David Baldacci Publisher: Grand Central Publishing Pages: 432 Goodreads Rating: 4.23 Thank you to NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for providing a copy of the book for me to read in exchange for my honest opinion. Synopsis: It’s the eve of 1953, and Aloysius Archer is in Los Angeles to ring in the New Year with an old friend, aspiring actress Liberty Callahan, when their evening is interrupted by an acquaintance of Callahan’s: Eleanor Lamb, a screenwriter in dire straits. After a series of increasingly chilling events—mysterious phone calls, the same blue car loitering outside her house, and a bloody knife left in her sink—Eleanor fears that her life is in danger, and she wants to hire Archer to look into the matter. Archer suspects that Eleanor knows more than she’s saying, but before he can officially take on her case, a dead body turns up inside of Eleanor’s home . . . and Eleanor herself disappears. Missing client or not, Archer is dead set on finding both the murderer and Eleanor. My Thoughts: The chapters are short making for a fast paced book. The POV is from Archer. The author did a fantastic job of describing Hollywood in the 1950s, made me feel like I was right there with Archer. This is part of the Archer series and Baldacci has done an amazing job of creating this character and you can pick up any book in the series to read as a stand alone and be able to follow the character with no issues, the characters were well-thought out and planned very well. The author is able to keep the plot running throughout the story, keeping you engaged and page turning. I enjoyed reading this book.

Name of Book: Dream Town Author: David Baldacci Genre: Mystery Thriller Publisher: Grand Central Publishing Pub Date: April 19, 2022 My Rating: 3.5+ Stars! Rounded up! This is Book # 3 in the Archer series and it is Baldacci book #28 for me ~ yep I am a fan. I especially love the following Baldacci characters: John Puller, Will Robie, and Amos Decker; now have added Aloysius Archer to my list. When I read One Good Deed which was #1 in this series, I was hooked! In this story, Archer, war veteran and now private investigator is here in ‘Dream Town’ ringing in1953 with an old friend. ~ Yes! I live near LA. Although wasn’t here in 1953, but it is fun to visit Hollywood’s 50’s glitz and glamor and other local places with Archer driving his Of course, there is a murder and Archer is on it! This story isn’t a big twist and turn thrill read (true a few twists); I like Archer so did enjoy it. Want to thank NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for this eGalley. This file has been made available to me before publication in an early form for an honest professional review. Publishing Release Date scheduled for April 19, 2022.

Very good noir hardboiled PI story set in 1953 Los Angeles. As it was written very recently, Baldacci has written stronger women characters than those that appear in detective stories written in the 1950s and earlier. (Minorities, however, don’t get the same opportunity). Detective Aloysius Archer seems reminiscent of Lew Archer, Ross MacDonald’s PI who worked Southern California in that same era. Baldacci even inserts a minor character, Ross Chandler, who I’m assuming is an homage to MacDonald and Raymond Chandler, whose Philip Marlowe also worked in Los Angeles. I’m a fan of L. A. based detective novels that feature places I’m familiar with. But the story needs to be good and this is. It is also very complicated, with a lot of characters to keep track of. I have it 4 stars instead of 5 because the showdown at the end has bad people recapping what they did and what they are going to do instead of just killing the good people. But this may just be Baldacci staying true to the detective format he has chosen. I will go back and read the first two books in the series.

As I was reading this book, I couldn’t help but be reminded of one of my favorite leadership quotes by Margaret Mead… “Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world; indeed, it’s the only thing that ever has.” Even more so, how powerful one voice can be. And, how the strength of one person can make an incredible difference. In this case, and in this story, it was about one person who believed in her people. Her past. Her ancestors. Lovely Jackson. And, once again that reminded me of another quote by President Barack Obama that he shared in his book, “A Promised Land”… “One voice can change a room, and if one voice can change a room, then it can change a city, and if it can change a city, it can change a state, and if it can change a state, it can change a nation, and if it can change a nation, it can change the world.” One voice. Which leads to this story. How does one fight corporate greed? And, in typical Grisham fashion he has a cause. And, he finds a way to create a series of characters who rally around an older woman, Lovely Jackson, who is fighting a greedy corporate entity who wants to develop an island, Dark Isle that once belonged to slaves that have their own complicated history. The place she was born. The place she considers hers, because she was the last living person to occupy it. This is a book within a book. Lovely’s book which is being sold at the bookstore Bay Books on Camino Island, about the history that encompasses the island, and this story we are reading, ‘Camino Ghosts.’ Who are the ghosts? And what is the curse? And, can the curse be broken? And, Grisham gives us reoccurring character Bruce Cable owner of Bay Books, who doesn’t play a major role, but still a significant one that kind of puppeteers’ action plays that gets author Mercer involved in re-writing Lovely’s story, and Steven to fight the battle against the corporate entity on behalf of Lovely, and Donna his assistant to do more great things. These characters feel real, excellently fleshed out, along with a great added supporting cast. Readers will also experience the island of Dark Isle coming alive with its own scenic stories, and a courtroom battle which is well-energized. Readers will turn pages enjoying the island history, the courtroom scenes, and wanting to know how Grisham will pull all the pieces together to make it all fit well together. This can be read as a stand-alone, but readers need to know this is book 3 in the Camino Island series.

As the final book in the three volume series, CAMINO GHOSTS is easily read as a standalone story but readers will enjoy a more immersive experience by advance reading Camino Island and Camino Winds, the first two stories. This is a multi themed tale: slavery, black history, curses, dark magic, local politics, state politics, real estate law, environmental law/issues, publishing, book writing and more; something for everyone. The publisher’s blurb is very good so I won’t repeat the actual story information here. Grisham is a fine writer and this story is easy to read, even with the complex plot. It’s well organized with short chapters and a manageable number of characters. Legal content is not as prominent as in many of his books. Lots of research and preparation happen but not much courtroom drama. Strong women are highlighted throughout the story: Mercer, the author trying to do justice to the life story of a lost people and their only living representative, Lovely - the 80+ year old, formidable, surviving former slave from Dark Isle and Diane, the legal intern turned warrior for disenfranchised people. How these women grow, change and emerge victorious over the course of these many pages is cheer worthy. Recommended for those who enjoy historical fiction, Florida and Southern fiction, light political fiction, legal fiction, black history, mild thrillers and stories that are free from foul language, descriptive violence or sexual content📚

I've never read a John Grisham book that I didn't fly through. I couldn't put this book down. This book started out fast and just continued with the fast pace and had me intrigued with his typical legal thriller. I appreciated the backdrop of this story and dealing with books, collecting books, and the book heists. Thieves find out about Princeton's vault, which contains F Scott Fitzgerald scripts. Two men are caught in the heist. Cut to Camino Island,in Florida, to where Bruce's bookstore is. When you have a bookstore, it requires having books, of course. Bruce, well, Bruce doesn't always do his transactions on acquiring them by the book. The back and forth had me guessing up until the very end

Camino Ghost is the third book in this series, and easily the best. When developers try to stake claim to an uninhabited island off the coast of Florida, book store owner Bruce Cable contacts the last known resident, an elderly descendant of slaves and author of a book about her experiences on the island in an effort to thwart the development. What follows is a fascinating tale of slave trading, island curses, and the fight to preserve the island. Featuring author John Grisham’s trademark courtroom battles, absolutely fascinating characters and a story that flows so easily, the plot totally engages the reader from start to finish. I received an ARC of this book from the publisher through NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.

Aside from the horrifying historical sections, most of this book is very pleasant and very polite. It’s a feel good read of mostly good people doing the right thing. Even the people on the other side of things aren’t bombastic villains. While some of those are doing the wrong thing, they’re still unfailingly polite and rather pleasant. I liked our characters. Our perfectly pleasant characters. I did care about our plot, though I was a bit more interested in the past. While the book never, ever ramps up to anything terribly exciting, the story was an important thing and it’s a perfectly pleasant read. • ARC via Publisher

A new entry in the Camino series, this is another page turner. Opening with the wedding of Mercer and Thomas, she is given a book to take on her honeymoon. After reading it, Mercer becomes fascinated with the story of Lovely Jackson, descendant of enslaved people, who had created an isolated settlement on DARK ISLAND. The timing is perfect, just as a developer is trying to build a mega-resort on this now deserted island. It is an opportunity for Grisham to bring the ownership of the island to court. This is something he does in a compelling manner. Though there are many people involved, the story is easy to follow. Grisham pulls all of the pieces together with a very satisfactory ending. My only problem with this novel is that it works beautifully for those of us familiar with the characters, but might be confusing as a stand-alone. Thank you Netgalley for the opportunity to read and enjoy a new Grisham novel.

CAMINO GHOSTS by John Grisham and narrated by Whoopi Goldberg 4.5 stars Whoopi does an admirable job of narrating this story and made it an enjoyable listening experience. This is the best of the three in the Series. We are back at Bruce Cable’s famous Bay Books, bookshop on Camino Island and Bruce is telling Mercer Mann a tale that could potentially be her next novel. A developer would like to build a fancy resort on a deserted island between Florida and Georgia. Lovely Jackson, is the last living inhabitant of the island, and she may just stand in the way of this plan. There is a dark and mysterious air about this island that Lovely Jackson knows about. Runaway slaves came to this island called, Dark Isle, and formed a colony. They lived and died on this island and Lovely will do anything to protect her island and preserve the gravesites of all buried there. The way the past of Dark Isle is woven into the story is very well done. John Grisham knows how to write and tell great stories. Captivating from beginning to end in this unputdownable book. Always look forward to what John Grisham does next.

A Curse from the Past Meets Modern-Day Avarice Some places carry the weight of history like an invisible shroud, whispering secrets of the past to those who listen closely. In John Grisham's latest novel "Camino Ghosts," the idyllic shores of Camino Island once again become the backdrop for a gripping tale that blends sun-soaked beaches with long-buried injustices and spectral warnings. As the third installment in Grisham's Camino Island series, this book plunges readers into a world where the ghosts of slavery collide with the relentless march of coastal development, creating a perfect storm of mystery, legal intrigue, and supernatural unease. The Story Unfolds The novel opens with the joyous wedding of Mercer Mann, a rising literary star, to her boyfriend Thomas on Camino Island's picturesque beach. But even as champagne flows and well-wishers celebrate, a far more consequential story is brewing just offshore. Bruce Cable, the charismatic and sometimes shady owner of Bay Books, shares with Mercer the tale of Dark Isle – a small, uninhabited barrier island with a haunting history. Dark Isle, we learn, was settled by freed slaves in the 18th century and remained a haven for their descendants until 1955, when the last resident, a young Lovely Jackson, was forced to leave. Now an elderly woman, Lovely still claims ownership of the island and its sacred burial grounds. Enter Tidal Breeze, a ruthless development corporation with grand plans to transform Dark Isle into a glitzy casino resort named "Panther Cay." What follows is a high-stakes legal and moral battle over land rights, historical preservation, and the power of long-held curses. Characters That Captivate Grisham excels at populating his novels with memorable characters, and "Camino Ghosts" is no exception: Lovely Jackson: The last living descendant of Dark Isle's original settlers, Lovely is a font of oral history and determination. Her quiet dignity and unwavering belief in her ancestral claim form the emotional core of the story. Mercer Mann: Our protagonist from previous Camino novels returns, now juggling her budding writing career with a newfound passion for uncovering Dark Isle's secrets. Bruce Cable: The roguish bookseller takes a backseat in this installment but remains a delightful presence, always ready with a quip or a scheme. Diane Krug: A plucky law student turned paralegal who becomes deeply invested in Lovely's cause, often serving as the driving force behind the legal battle. Steven Mahon: A seasoned environmental lawyer who takes on Lovely's case pro bono, bringing experience and gravitas to the courtroom scenes. Themes That Resonate "Camino Ghosts" tackles several weighty themes with Grisham's trademark accessibility: Historical Injustice: The novel doesn't shy away from America's painful legacy of slavery and its long-lasting repercussions. Land Rights and Development: Grisham examines the complexities of property law and the often-destructive nature of coastal overdevelopment. The Power of Oral History: Lovely's stories, passed down through generations, highlight the importance of preserving cultural heritage. Environmental Conservation: The threat to Dark Isle's pristine ecology serves as a microcosm for larger environmental concerns. Supernatural vs. Rational: The book playfully dances between pragmatic legal maneuvering and the possibility of ancestral curses. Grisham's Evolving Style Longtime Grisham readers will notice a shift in tone and pacing compared to his earlier legal thrillers. "Camino Ghosts" takes its time, allowing the story to unfold at a leisurely island pace. This isn't to say the book lacks tension – courtroom confrontations and behind-the-scenes political machinations provide plenty of drama. But Grisham seems more interested in exploring the nuances of his characters and the complexities of the situation than in breakneck plot twists. The writing style is vintage Grisham – clear, accessible prose that effortlessly blends legal jargon with everyday speech. He has a particular knack for making potentially dry courtroom proceedings come alive with strategic objections and clever legal maneuvering. Where "Camino Ghosts" truly shines, however, is in its vivid depictions of island life and the almost tangible sense of history that permeates Dark Isle. A Touch of the Supernatural One of the most intriguing aspects of "Camino Ghosts" is Grisham's flirtation with the supernatural. The curse placed on Dark Isle by Lovely's ancestor Nalla adds a delicious layer of uncertainty to the proceedings. Are the mysterious deaths and illnesses that befall trespassers mere coincidence, or something more sinister? Grisham wisely leaves this ambiguous, allowing readers to draw their own conclusions. Strengths and Potential Weaknesses What Works: Rich Historical Background: Grisham's research into the lives of freed slaves and their descendants feels authentic and adds depth to the story. Complex Legal Battle: The intricacies of adverse possession law and title disputes are presented in an engaging, understandable way. Atmospheric Setting: Camino Island and Dark Isle come alive through Grisham's evocative descriptions. Character Development: Lovely Jackson, in particular, is a triumph – a character whose quiet strength and dignity linger long after the final page. Potential Drawbacks: Pacing: Some readers accustomed to Grisham's earlier, more fast-paced thrillers may find the leisurely island rhythm frustrating. Predictability: Certain plot developments, particularly regarding the outcome of the legal battle, may feel somewhat telegraphed. Limited Action: Those seeking edge-of-your-seat thrills might be disappointed by the focus on legal maneuvering and historical exploration. The Camino Island Series "Camino Ghosts" is the third entry in Grisham's Camino Island series, following "Camino Island" (2017) and "Camino Winds" (2020). While knowledge of the previous books isn't strictly necessary to enjoy this installment, readers familiar with the earlier novels will appreciate the continued development of characters like Mercer Mann and Bruce Cable. The series as a whole represents a departure for Grisham, moving away from his traditional legal thrillers to explore a more laid-back, beachy setting. This shift allows him to blend elements of mystery, romance, and local color in a way that feels fresh and engaging.

I listened to the audio book. Whoopi Goldberg narrates the story, the third book in the "Camino Island" series. Grisham resurrects his characters Bruce Cable, the shady book star owner and Mercer the new star writer and Ole Miss Asst Prof. They are hardly used here though as the new character, the 80 year old Lovely, a former Dark Island resident and descendant of the former slaves who once called the now deserted Dark Island home. Change is coming in the wind and Big Time Florida developers want to seize the Island and "Pave paradise and put up a parking lot" - and a whole lotta condos. Will the State allow this, and will Lovely allow for her ancestors graves be dug up and the history there be forgotten? A classic Grisham courtroom brawl will ensue. The 'ghosts" of the island are simply the memories of what happened on the Island when the slaves first arrived. On a side note, once again the author mixes fact and fiction. In 2023 I spent a week in South Carolina in the Low Country on St. Helena Island and the history there mirrors how Grisham describes his "Dark Island". This is a good read, but it drags on at the end as the author ties up all of the ends between his characters. At times he gets a bit chatty too in the conversations.

Enjoyed this third book in the Camino Island tales. I gave it a 4 star rating because you can’t do 4.5. It was a bit slow at the start. We meet Bruce, Mercer and a few of the other Camino Island regulars but I loved getting to meet Lovely Jackson - the older African-American woman and her life that this plot focused on. You could feel her energy and spunk through the words on the pages. I hope that at 80 years old I’m as sharp as she was in the story. I recommend this book. Just know it might be hard to get started. Thanks to NetGalley for the advanced copy. #NetGalley #CaminoGhosts

The Camino Island series is developing quite well and I think it gets better with every sequel. With a bit of legal drama thrown in, it reads nice! 4 out of 5 for me...

Another fascinating tale. Where does he get these ideas? A rich ensemble cast and quirky, spooky twist.

This is the third book in the Camino Island series by John Grisham. Mercer Mann is back on the island at the beginning of the book where she is getting married to Thomas. Bruce Cable, the bookstore owner, gives Mercer a small book to read on her honeymoon. That book was written by Lovely Jackson and describes her ancestors that began on Dark Isle. Dark Isle is a small island not far from Camino Island and is about to be developed by resort builders. Dark Isle is currently uninhabited but Lovely Jackson says her ancestors are all buried there. She holds claim that it is her island, since she is the last person to have lived there and her story of how the island was a refuge for escaped slaves from Africa grabs everyone’s attention. Mercer decides it will make a great book and she begins writing while getting to know Lovely, the lawyer trying to help her and everyone else involved. The developers take her to court to fight over who owns the land - who will come out on top? It was a very interesting story and moved along well. The characters were well written and you could picture the scenes in the courtroom and the visits to the island like you were seeing them yourself. I give this book 4 stars out of 5. Thank you to the publisher and to NetGalley for this digital ARC in exchange for my honest review. The book is set to be published May 28, 2024.

Another great entry in one of the best thriller series going. James Reece is a more nuanced hero than others in the genre. And I love the themes that Carr works with in each book. Also Carr is giving us a glimpse here of something bigger at play that is connecting all of his books and I'm here for it. And man the way Carr finishes this you'll wish you had book 6 right now.

ARGH!!!...I always hated it, growing up, when my favorite TV shows would end with a "continued next episode!...Always unsatisfying...Jack Carr does that to us here, so I gave "In the Blood," 4-stars instead of the 5 it deserves...As always, wonderful insights into our corrupted Deep State of our Republic, as James Reece hunts down the killer, and those who ordered it, of his spotter...Good Stuff!!!

Great suspense and story but too much technical jargon

I have to say that James Reece has an unreal amount of tomahawks. Every book, I swear, the writing just keeps improving. While I enjoy this series it really has a very specific audience (you can guess what that is) and it can take me out of the story with how ridiculous the plot gets. Definitely fun though and I’m looking forward to the next one.

Good action, parts annoying, overall quite good. Lots of gratuitous violence with all kinds of implements of destruction other than shovels and rakes.

A great read.

Jack Carr’s books continue to be guilty pleasures for me. Since the start of the series, I personally felt that Carr had slowly drifted in a more political direction than I could enjoy. I am happy to say this entry into the James Reece books was much more action packed thrill ride than political commentary on the state of our world (while still offering the latter). Some readers will enjoy both the politics and the action, I find myself more drawn to Carr’s ability to write a riveting and visceral fight sequence of which this book has many. As long as Carr continues to deliver action such as the meat locker sequence about 3/4 through this book, I’ll keep coming back for more.

I started watching The Terminal List on Amazon several nights ago. James Reese, a Navy Seal commander is played by Chris Pratt. This is the fifth book in the series and finds Reese resting and recuperating in the wilds of Montana. After a former colleague, an Israeli assassin for Mossad, turns up dead after a terrorist attack in Africa, Reese travels from Africa to Israel to Montenegro to Moscow. The author’s background as a former Navy SEAL makes all of this very authentic. Highly recommended!

this book is pretty much like the rest of the series. It's not high art, but it is fun. It's like Tom Clancy on steroids. Very detailed, both in the tactics and equipment used. almost painfully detailed, at times, with all the brand names used. The showdown between the snipers was well done and the book ends with a pretty wild scenario setting up the next book. Which I will soon read, I'm sure.

A great page-turner. Now that Carr is becoming more established, I would love to see him stretch out a bit more. He has introduced a number of characters, organizations, and scenarios, but then glosses over them to keep the story moving. Carr is so well read, or experienced in these that he could spend more time developing each. I know I would really enjoy it if he did. On his blog, he regularly posts reading lists of books he loves, and/or has used in his own research. I regularly comb through these to learn more and fill in some gaps which are omitted in the novels.

Another strong installment.

Another book by this author that I really enjoyed. He keeps you at the edge of your seat, very suspenseful.

I was very excited for this book after reading the previous books. Seeing chapters of the story finally getting resolved was very exciting. Waiting for that part to arrive was a little difficult for me. The character development seems laborious at times. Still would highly recommend.

Overall, another good Carr/Reece novel. I thought the finish seemed rushed for what was expected to unravel in this storyline. But perhaps that’s how the showdown should occur.

*Why can't I find a 5 star Lucy Score book?! Skip to the end for my theories. Otherwise this book was a great read and my review is below.* "You make me feel things. And after going long enough without feeling anything, feeling something--even if its anger or adrenaline--is better than the nothing." Nash says this, but it honestly could apply to both Nash and Lina. So this is much better than the first one, which is surprising to me since I didn’t particularly care about Lina in book one and Nash came across as boring in that book. However, this book took both characters and spun them into deeply beautiful, complicated, scared, and passionate human beings who are just looking for that one person to bring them out of the darkness and into the light (get it?! title significance?! but its true). Lina and Nash deserve the same hype that Naomi and Knox get in this series. I love them more than Naomi and Knox. They felt more real to me, like these people could exist in real life with these exact problems. And there was only a very tiny third act break up--as in it lasted like two minutes for them before they make up!! Hallelujah rejoice. So neither one did anything extremely stupid to cause some massive issue. Its so nice to read books where there aren’t ten chapters devoted to a breakup you know is going to get resolved and is just difficult to read. This book doesn't have that, and its amazing. Parts of this made me ugly cry. I loved seeing them both go from mindsets where they didn't believe good things in life would ever happen to them to not only believing it, but wanting all those good things together (the epilogues were 10/10 perfect and made me sob). Lina and Nash are the definition of opposites attract. They start out as sort of enemies (in a very loose sense) but it quickly turns into an insta-love that is somehow NOT AT ALL cringe or unbelievable. It's more that Nash finally feels something when he is with Lina, whereas ever since his *accident* (keeping spoiler free for anyone who didn't read book one) he's been facing depression and anxiety and panic attacks and overall feelings of emptiness. Enter Lina and his body finally starts to feel something again. Its heartwarming to see his journey from this constant state of darkness into wanting to live again, all thanks to his feelings for Lina. And Lina is a badass bad girl who falls for the hometown hero cop. PLUS he calls her Angel which just makes my heart melt and is my favorite nickname ever now. Think: opposites attract. bad girl good guy. chief of police. spicespicespice. small town. small town crime mystery. forced proximity. fall and halloween vibes. tons of bantering. tons of cameos from book one. the best character growth and development. the cutest rescue dog! happily ever after. beautiful quotes about life. A solid 4 stars, no more no less. So as mentioned above, I will carry on with my everlasting hunt for a 5 star Lucy Score book. I have read 7 of her books at this point and have finished each (except for one) with the same "great but not excellent" feeling. So when I finished this, I really tried to think about why none of her books have been "perfect" yet all (except for one) have been "very good." I came up with the following reasons why none of her books have been 5 stars: - Every character has the same personality across all of her books. You can basically replace any of her small towns with another of her small towns and the story would still work because everyone talks the same way, acts the same way, has the same quirks, uses the same style of bantering, etc. I know its just how she writes, but can we change it up? I should not be able to read one series and then find the same or identical conversations in another. - The above also applies to the main characters in each book. If you gave me a sentence or activity that someone did in this book, I would honestly not be able to tell you if it was Knox or Nash or Stef or even Naomi's dad. Quirky comeback from one of the girls? Could be Lina, Naomi, Sloan, Fi, Amanda, Liza J, god it could even be Waylay. Couldn't tell the difference. Everyone says the same stuff, with the sole exception of Lucian. - Her spice is good and there's a lot of it, but its not emotional? Is it just me? Its explicit and everything it should be but its never elicited much emotion from me. No idea why. - These books have no reason being as long as they are. This is because we get useless information about useless secondary characters that have no impact on the plot. When Nash was getting his ass tattooed, we learned about the backstory of the tattoo artist. Why? This tattoo artist had no importance in this book. I skip through so much fluff that doesn't mean anything. - MORE TO COME (maybe) PS Lucian and Sloane's book has so much potential to be 5 stars. Seriously so hyped and have so much expectations for that and cannot wait to read it!!!

4.25 stars Last year I read ‘Things We Never Got Over’ and I was obsessed. When I saw Knox’s brother, Nash was getting the next book in the series I knew I had to read it as soon as it came out. Though TWNGO is still my top favorite Lucy Score book, I enjoyed TWHFTL so much! Nash and Lina were so fun together. Their book was full of banter, excitement, and suspense. It also had some emotion and I loved seeing Nash open up to Lina. It took me a bit to connect to them as a couple, but once I did I was a goner for them! And that bonus epilogue was epic! I’m so excited to see that we are getting a Lucian and Sloane book next! I’ve been hoping we would get their story and enemies to lovers is my jam. It comes out later this year so no long wait! Yay! Also, I got to meet Lucy Score at my local book store (Joseph Beth-Cincinnati) which was amazing so here’s a fun picture :) Audio book source: Audible Story Rating: 4.25 stars Narrators: Lila Winters & Sebastian York Narration Rating: 4.5 stars Genre: Contemporary Romance Length: 17h 36m

the epilogue daww 👼🏼 i was living for the knox naomi waylay crumbs in this (they are still number one for me)

Enjoyed this! 4 ⭐️ Honestly, I can see how this book isn’t for everyone. It’s looooong and slow in some parts and both main characters are a bit annoying at times. But I don’t know I fully acknowledge all that but still loved the story and thoroughly enjoyed reading it. Lucy Score’s writing is magic, the banter, the sarcasm, the slow burn. 🥹

ღ 🆃🅷🅸🅽🅶🆂 🆆🅴 🅷🅸🅳🅴 🅵🆁🅾🅼 🆃🅷🅴 🅻🅸🅶🅷🆃 ღ Is the second full length romance book in the 'Knockemout' series and picks up right where Things We Never Got Over ended. Spoken in 'dual perspectives.' This is Nash & Lina's story. I was so excited to jump back into this world, where all the men are hotter than the desert, are overly protective, and soft under hard exteriors, these brothers had a way of crawling under your skin and burrowing deep into your hearts, so to read Nash’s story had me giddy with anticipation when it landed on my kindle. And the timing was perfect. Bad weather had us hunkered down with no power or cell phone reception for days so I didn’t need an excuse to hibernate. This was inhaled, devoured. Lina was his perfect match. She was kind of a badass, she had so many layers to her, making her the perfect person for Nash. And Nash, a man in uniform will make any of us swoon, throw in his determination to convince Lina that they were perfect for each other had me eating out of his hand. I’ve never giggled so much, swooned so hard, throw in the little rescue dog and I was mush. I can not wait for Lucian & Sloane's book next! The little teasers thrown in here and there has me highy anticipating it! If he can't have her nobody can! Email ಇ Twitter ಇ Instagram ಇ Blog ಇ Facebook ಇ Amazon ಇ Pinterest

the slowburn really slowburned in this one

Better than Things We Never Got Over, and I'm excited for the next book now! (They call the hero in the next book a Sinful Suit Daddy - and I immediately decided that I needed to read it.) I really wasn't sure if I wanted to read this becuase the first one was so long - but then a new little romance book shop opened near my house.. I wanted to support them and buy a book, so I bought this. It ended up being MUCH better than I thought it would!! THOUGHTS: - Something in this book that I liked is that our heroine Lina has a pixie haircut. I know that probably seems random, but sometimes I get so tired of a stereotypical heroine with big doe eyes and pouty lips. I think that's also why I thought Falling Hard for the Royal Guard was cute! - I really liked our heroine in the second book of the Knockemout series because she's BA in her own right and doesn't need a man to save her. Even with a health condition that she has to watch out for etc. It just feels nice to read books where heroines are strong/wealthy in their own right -- matching up with guys who, while hot aren't necessarily as wealthy etc. (That should be talked about more.) NOTES: - 🌶️🌶️/5 - The s3x wasn't overly anything - but one thing that did catch me off guard was reading a sexual 'encounter' from the man's POV.. I didn't like that. I like s3x scenes from the third person or the women's POV. Just a preference thing, really, but I'm curious if anyone else noticed it? Find Me On Instagram 🦋 || More Bookish Thoughts & Reviews Here 🖤

2/23/23 post-read: 3.75 ⭐️ This took me forever to rate just because i’m toeing the line between 3 & 4 stars. this book did not give what it needed to give & i also do not enjoy reading cop books (sorry not sorry). buuuutt I will say i did love all the friendships & knoxnaomi luciansloane nuggets we got!!! I did end up enjoying it overall, but the first one was definitely better. this really felt like the middle child that it is 😂 and holy shit i know book 3 is gonna knock it out of the park!!! i am SO excited for luciansloane PLEASEEEE 10/6/22: OH MY GOD BUT THE COVER IS GORGEOUSSSS 8/15/22: just saw that this will actually be Nash’s book… COME ON SERIOUSLY 😭😭 I NEED THIS TO BE LUCIAN & SLONE’S BOOK

Things We Hide From The Light was not as enjoyable as the first book in this series to me, but it wasn’t a bad book by any means! The second book in the Knockemout series follows bad girl Lina and “good” (but troubled) guy Nash. These are characters we are well familiar with from Things We Never Got Over (book #1). There’s definitely a push/pull, love/hate situation going on here. Nash is Knox’s brother and Lina is Knox’s ex from the past who is now one of his best friends. The sexual tension between these two is off the charts 😅 There’s just not as much going on in their story to warrant it being nearly 600 pages. Atleast with Naomi and Knox, there was Naomi’s evil twin sister Tina causing trouble and Naomi becoming a parent to Tina’s child, Waylay. Sure there is some action here with Lina and Nash’s line of work but it could easily have been cut by 100 pages or so and still been as good. Nash is struggling after being shot, he’s gone from being the brave hero, the town’s chief of police that everybody could rely on, to abit of a shell of his former self. He’s trying to overcome some crippling panic attacks and nightmares, caused by the PTSD of remembering the shooting. But he doesn’t want the people around him to know how much he is struggling. His next door neighbour Lina can see his pain, his darkness. She isn’t usually a fan of physical contact, but for some reason it feels fine when its Nash. Could he be her person? They both aren’t making it easy for one another, commitment-phobe Lina and emotionally avoidant Nash. He doesn’t want to end up getting too attached to Lina and her do a disappearing act. He knows she’s one for short flings, she even had one with his brother Knox when they were younger. Knox is against Nash and Lina being together, he doesn’t want to see his brother being heartbroken when he is already struggling so much. Will Lina let down her guard and allow Nash to love her the way she deserves to be loved? Will Nash overcome his inner demons that have been holding him back? He needs to heal before he can love her the way that he is capable of. ”But for once in my life, I wasn't worried about consequences. I wasn't thinking six steps down the road. All I knew for certain was that I wanted her. Even though she'd lied. Even though she'd hurt me. Even though she wanted to fight me on everything. I wanted Angelina Solavita.” I’m really excited for the third book because it’s Sloane and Nolan’s story and they are some great side characters! I love how Lucy Score builds up here characters so well in the town of Knockemout. The characterisation make these long books worth it! Some great action scenes. ACAB except Nash and Nolan 😅😂 Also, the character Grave is 100% Jeffrey Dean Morgan lol - in looks and his cockiness is sooo Negan from TWD

4⭐️ 2🌶 I enjoyed this book!!! Theres something about a plot driven by a little mystery that really keeps me intrigued and engaged, and we fully get that in this book! Of course you get a smoky hot romance between Nash and Lina to go along with it which just made it even more delicious to read. Overall it was a pleasantly fun and cute read!! And would absolutely recommend if you can handle that the spice doesn’t really slap until the 68% point and is almost 600 pages long. Nash has become a shell of a man after being shot and nearly killed. He’s just not the same, he’s pulled back and shut himself off to the world around him. He questions if he’ll ever feel “whole” again. Enter one hot miss Angelina who has come to town for her own secretive reasons, and everything about her has Nash feeling some sort of way, which is something he never thought would happen again. Some downfalls for the book, I think it could have been a little bit shorter, I did feel we we’re introduced to way too many characters and it just felt a little chaotic at times, as well as the pacing also would fall off at moments but overall was pretty decent!! I know for a fact I am going to go FERAL for Lucian’s and Sloane’s story 🤩🤩 counting down till September y’all!!!!

Things We Hide From the Light by Lucy Score Romance | Small Town | Forced Proximity •Police Chief, Nash is recovering from being shot. His next door neighbour, Lina has a secret the could bring him to face danger all over again. •This was a long book with not much that happening. I entered this thinking I was going to hate it more than the first book. But I’m team Lina over team Naomi anyday! Lina had a better personality over Naomi. The end of the book gets very unhinged and kinda ruined the book for me. Feels: eh, a slight improvement from Things We Never Got Over. ★★★★ 4/5

Buddy reading with my bestiee Sienne🎀🫶✨ Kinda finished this book to early😭 But I ATE THIS UPPP I get why ppl would consider this too longg but I really liked it.

“god, you’re gorgeous in the morning,” he said, pushing a piece of hair off my forehead. “best way I ever woke up.” 4.5 glowing stars! lucy score has worked her small down magic again - twhftl was utter perfection, a warm hug of a story that delivered all the same magic, fun and romance as its predecessor. despite this book being nearly 600 pages, it never once felt it as the reader is transported to knockemout, a little fictional town where you can count on things to be a bit wacky but in a good way. “it was a feeling. some kind of magic. a rightness, I guess. it definitely didn’t make any logical sense. on paper we couldn’t be more ill-suited to each other. but there was something so right about how it felt to be with him.” admittedly, I started this nervous nash and lina couldn't possibly compare to knox and naomi and the little family they created with waylay. but the connection they managed to form, built on vulnerability and warmth, ended up exceeding my every expectation. despite only spending a few weeks together, their love jumped off the page and I ate up every word, touch, kiss... our eyes locked and held. and in hers I saw my future. it's not even here yet and I already know things we left behind, lucian and sloane's book, will solidify this series as a forever favorite, a trilogy I will reread for years to come.

Caution: Rated R 🌶️🌶️🌶️ Skip for the wholesome readers ⚠️ This was a steamy good, angsty read. 🥰 Second book in the series. 👍

★★★★ ౨ৎ Tropes ~ small town romance ~ slow burn ~ forced proximity ~ neighbours ~ brother's best friend ౨ৎ Spice Level ~ 4/5 ౨ৎ Nash Morgan He's the police chief and is known by the town as being a good guy. He's always trying to do the right thing and trying to help people. And he calls lina Angel!! ⁀➷ ”best way to wake up in the morning by far” *him waking up next to her* ౨ৎ Lina Solavita She's a fierce + strong-willed woman which you know I'm going to love. She is so independent but has a soft spot for Nash. She calls nash hot shot and I loved it. She was also so confident and fashionable in the whole series. ౨ৎ General Thoughts This was my least favourite in the series but I still loved it so much! These characters just feel so cosy and it's such a comfort read for me. Also I loved that there were more aspects to the story than just the romance and the plots twists were great!

Okay, this book fully redeemed this trilogy for me. I wasn't sure how I was going to feel after reading TWNGO but Nash and Lina were PERF. I was already excited to read Lucian and Sloane's book but this just put that one to the top of my tbr. Literally so excited for it. These books are gonna be a comfort read for me I can feel it.

I love this series so much! I truly enjoyed this story ESPECIALLY the last like 20%!!! I will say the first half definitely dragged a little which is why I took off 1 ⭐️ Although the beginning was slow- I still enjoyed it and kept wanting to read more. Nash and Lina’s story was perfect!! I CANNOT wait until Things We Left Behind

This was an anticipated release for me so I was super excited when I received an arc! And I was not disappointed. This book was swoon worthy, emotional, angsty, suspenseful and oh so good. And I loved the glimpses into Knox and Naomi’s life too. I did feel like the story definitely could have been shorter because I felt like the story wasn’t really moving forward at times and there were a lot of side plots, but overall it was a very enjoyable read! Nash and Lina fit so perfectly together. She is exactly what he needed in his life! Nash was immediately love sick and obsessed with Lina and I loved it. I really enjoyed the mystery/secrecy surrounding Lina’s character, it made her more intriguing. She was a total badass heroine. I was so hooked in the last 10 chapters. I was dying to know how everything was going to unfold and come together! I’m very excited for Lucien and Sloane’s book next!

This story took me FOREVER to read. I think bc it’s something that is such low stakes. But regardless I loved this book. I love each of these characters, even the side characters who are truly c cast characters Songs: Stick Season- Noah Kahan She calls me back- Noah Kahan Fast Car- Luke Combs

I love these books so much. I can’t wait for Lucian’s book.

Okay I much preferred Nash and Lina over Knox ‘The Man Baby’ Morgan and Naomi ‘Has No Respect for Herself’ Witt - who btw were both much more bearable and likeable in this book than they were in their own book. Let’s be real though, most of us are reading this out of necessity so that we are ready for SLOANE AND LUCIAN BABBYYYY. September cannot come soon enough. “Tell me what you need to feel safe with this. With us.” - alright fine Nash was kind of adorable…🤤

i am definitely more fond of this book than the previous one. Knox was a fucking nightmare. in that regard, i really appreciated nash and how soft and sweet he was. i also loved lina, i got her inner struggles and holy shit i dig their romance. but 600 pages? no ma'am

4.25✨ I adored this book so much. I’m officially a Lucy score stan account, if lucy score has a million fans I am one of them. If lucy score has one fan it is me. If lucy score has no fans then I am dead.

Nostalgia is like the water at the bottom of a well, an emotional pool kept down in the dark that authors have long learned to dredge up and allow it to shimmer upon the surface. ‘The stories that are familiar will always be our favorites,’ and reflections of the past sooth our parched souls of the present are at the heart of Ann Patchett’s much loved Tom Lake, a tale of memory and the multiplicities of love set in the cherry fields of Northern Michigan amidst the weary days of the Covid pandemic. Having passed the pandemic myself in the natural landscapes of Michigan just after having left a job for a Michigan cherry company, I found that having waited to read this added another texture of nostalgia as the shut-in days of the pandemic—where ‘days are endless and the weeks fly by’—waning into the past resurfaced along with the reminiscences of Patchett’s focal character, Lara, as she recounts the tumultuous tale of her former romance with a late Hollywood star. Patchett writes with a blissful assuredness full of rich symbolism that sweeps you up and along as her perfect prose washes over you like a warm summer breeze. Reading Tom Lake is ‘like being a leaf in a river,’ as she writes, ‘I fell in and was carried along’ and what a quiet yet emotionally charged journey it was. It also functions as a tribute to Thornton Wilder's Our Town, where we see Thorton’s Stage Manager embodied in the narrative time of the present. The present is the lens through which we can contextualize the past. Ultimately Tom Lake reveals itself to be a big hearted and soft moving novel about love, community, the echoes of the past, and finding peace in the present. It lives up to the hype and settles so sweetly into your soul. ‘The number of things I’d failed to grasp back then was as limitless as the stars in the night sky.’ The calm serenity of Michigan spring and summer blossoms upon the pages of Tom Lake as Lara and her daughters spend their days tending to the cherry trees. I was certainly drawn to these passages, having spent plenty of time myself in the Traverse City region where the novel’s present is set and having worked for Michigan cherry operations (after two years of being a bartender at a cherry wine place I have way more knowledge on cherries than I care to admit). The cherry becomes a central symbol in the novel, a sort of authorial gravitational mass the novel’s many themes orbit around. There is the symbiosis between people and the land that reflects the care and conservancy needed for healthy family life as well as environmental health, the Nelson family relying on the land to do business and Emily’s growing concern over the effects of climate crisis threatening their livelihood. Though the delicate nature of the cherries and the careful cultivation of them is also akin to Lara and her stories, carefully pruning the past and picking its sweetness is not unlike their cherry picking operation in general. Like the cherries, the past can rot away if it isn’t picked in time and the lessons we should learn return to the soil instead of nourishing us. We are also reminded of our vulnerabilities but how something so delicate and vulnerable can be a great source of life. ‘I look at my girls, my brilliant young women. I want them to think I was better than I was, and I want to tell them the truth in case the truth will be useful. Those two desires to not neatly coexist, but this is where we are in the story.’ Cherries come in multiple varieties and so, too, does love as Patchett demonstrates, from the unquenchable flames of youthful desires burning under the summer sun to the calm, sturdiness of marital love and love for one’s kindred. Each of these come together like a patchwork quilt to give an overview of Lara’s life, stitching her past and present together similarly to Lara’s sewing work with thread and needle. Her sewing figures into the larger symbolism of cultivation, repairing what is worn out, mending tears, and maintaining the fabric of life through an act that also reflects her domesticity of motherhood. The dutiful present of her married domestic life is juxtaposed with the tempest of emotions and tragedies of her past, threaded together through the stitching of her storytelling that keeps memories alive and trims away what has been forgotten. ‘There is no explaining this simple truth about life: you will forget much of it. The painful things you were certain you’d never be able to let go? Now you’re not entirely sure when they happened, while the thrilling parts, the heart-stopping joys, splintered and scattered and became something else. Memories are then replaced by different joys and larger sorrows, and unbelievably, those things get knocked aside as well.’ The Covid pandemic becomes a perfect catalyst for such reflections of the past. Lara’s stories become a way to pass the time in the fields and the blank, hollow space suddenly wrought upon society by the pandemic allows her to hear the echoes of the past reverberating in the silence from everyday life ground to a halt. It’s a reminder on how we need periods of rest, periods of nothingness, and how creativity flourishes in the blank spaces of life. Looking back, this was a lesson society should have learned during this period yet instead we pushed forward with even greater demands on our time to spin the gears of capitalism at the expense of the working class. In her book A Field Guide to Getting Lost , author Rebecca Solnit invokes Walter Benjamin on how time spent directionless and exploring—as many were during the pandemic such as Lara lost in her own memories—is a good and healthy activity that brings us closer to the Self. ‘In Benjamin’s terms,’ she writes, ‘to be lost is to be fully present, and to be fully present is to be capable of being in uncertainty and mystery.’ This uncertainty and probing the mysteries of life comes alive in the pages of Tom Lake and we are all better for it. ‘Good marriages are never as interesting as bad affairs.’ The tragic “love story” of Lara and Duke shows how cycles of addiction and the shortsightedness of centering oneself at the expense of others leads to tragedy. Duke’s selfishness is juxtaposed with Lara’s family life and we see how cultivating community leads to happiness as opposed to Duke’s tragic demise, something Lara has a difficult time facing. Yet there is growth to be found in confronting the ghosts of the past. ‘If this were a movie, I'd be drowning in regret now. But I'm telling you, Hazel, it doesn't feel anything like regret. It feels like I just missed getting hit by a train.’ There is a lot of heart in this novel and the use of Our Town becomes yet another major symbol that ties much of the story together. Not only is it the play that Lara and Duke acted in together but the themes of the play branch into the themes of the novel about community, family, and care. I also enjoyed how the present itself figures much like the Stage Manager in the play putting context into the past. ‘But he was teaching you a lesson you’d be wise to learn: you can’t save them that won’t save themselves.’ A quiet, slow-burn of a novel, Tom Lake was a rather lovely read. Full of sharp symbolism, we see how confronting the past can be a painful yet rewarding experience full of lessons to be learned. But from these lessons we can learn how to better cultivate the present and future and fill it with love and community. We must ‘work for the good of the collective, root for the team, get over yourself,’ a lesson similar to the one we tried to instill to survive the pandemic. Patchett’s prose is perfect and while the novel can slog along at times, it fully immerses you in its tale and makes for a rather magical read. 4/5 ‘We clump together in our sorrow. In joy we may wander off in our separate directions, but in sorrow we prefer to hold hands.’

3.75* ⭐️⭐️⭐️ listened to the audio book & loved it

I was very excited to get the advanced copy of this book! I’ve only read two other books by this author but I enjoyed them immensely. This book is set mostly in northern Michigan, and I am a lifelong Michigander.. it also brought up names of cities just a couple miles away from me which was very cool. The story of Lara … who lives on an orchard up north with her husband and three grown daughters .. it’s during the time of the pandemic and all the daughters are home, very busy with cherry picking and helping out since their lives are on pause during this time, as they are working together, they want to hear about their mom’s brief career as an actress in summer stock at Tom Lake..very close to home..and her relationship with a well known male movie star A story about family and relationships..I really enjoyed! Thank you to Netgalley and HarperCollins for the ARC!

It is a relief to pick up an Ann Patchett novel, even one that is Just Fine, like this one. I don't know how her books are so utterly absorbing, but they are. There is not a lot to this book, though that doesn't mean it's short on pleasure. A woman recounts an old love affair to her adult daughters as they pick cherries on their family farm. It isn't as leisurely as it sounds, it is the summer of 2020, most of the usual workers aren't there, but the cherries still must be picked and life must go on. Most of the substance of the book is the story Lara tells us, which is as much a story about her time as an actress as it is about this love affair. Lara has the kind of unlikely fairy tale of a story that doesn't really happen anymore, much to the chagrin of her daughter who actually wants to be an actress, and she stumbles into almost everything that happens to her. Somehow she has never really told her daughters the whole story, and now as her daughters are around the age she was it and they have nothing but time it finally seems like the right time to tell it. This is technically a pandemic novel and yet it hardly is one. This ties into my major complaint with the book, in that it feels strangely sanitized. In the current events part of the plot, everyone is good. Lara loves her husband Joe, who never does anything that is not perfect and kind. She has a good relationship with her three daughters, who may have their own complicated feelings about being at home and pausing their own lives, but Lara is delighted, so glad they are there that she almost entirely overlooks those difficulties. It is not that people like Lara aren't realistic, at one point she is baffled that her daughters question the point of having children because of climate change and yup there are a lot of people like Lara who find this baffling. But Lara's happiness is rather dull. She does not seem all that concerned about the global pandemic or all the people dying. She is that mom who is just happy her kids are home. It's strange to read that presented as the narrative point of view without any interrogation. It is an easy book to read, a light one, too. Bad things happen, but the worst of it is already over. And really, the book seems to say, if you just stay with your family on a cherry farm everything will just be fine forever. Sometimes that is the book you want, and that is what Patchett has given us. It's a bit strange, since her family dynamics have usually been so complex, but perhaps she just wanted a nice, small something.

Wow! What a wonderful story! Firstly, I have to say that I *adored* the audiobook. It was narrated by the exquisitely talented Meryl Streep! I usually feel quite immersed in the stories I read, but Meryl Streep made the book come to life in a way that felt entirely different. She didn’t just read this beautiful book aloud, she truly performed it. The way she spoke the dialogue (and narrative) made it feel as if I was listening to a movie without visuals, which is the magic of written storytelling. I truly can’t praise the audiobook enough. It was sublime! Now, onto the brilliant Ann Patchett. She has such an elegant way of writing. Her vivid descriptions and unique characters transported me into the story from the very first page. The plot gripped me, the setting enchanted me, and the characters soon felt like friends. This book is touching, witty, heartfelt, and tender. By the end of “Tom Lake,” I felt deeply connected to the story and was sad to bid it farewell.

this is one of the better audiobooks ever made thanks to miss Meryl Streep 🙌🏼👏🏼 god i could truly listen to her read the back of the ingredients on a candy bar and be happy 😂 she truly brought the story to life in a great way, because not a lot goes on or happens and it’s essentially a mother recounting her life story to her kids. if you read it via physical copy, i think you’d wind up a bit bored. i loved the last hour or so of the story most, but that’s probably bc it had the most *tea* lol (iykyk). the last chapter specifically was a fun one. the ending alone is what makes this a good book club pick! the themes of this one were also cute. some include: family, enjoying a simple life, appreciating the past but not getting caught up/lost in it, living life without regrets, etc. were all so great. this is definitely more relatable to older adults—i certainly wouldn’t have been able to appreciate it as much if i was in my young 20s. i think this story was fun and somewhat unique. this isn’t a spoiler, but i think the story would have been MUCH stronger and more interesting if you didn’t know who the MC gets married to in the end. like i mentioned, she’s recounting her early life to her children and focusing on her time coming up as an actress and working on plays when she was dating someone who became a very famous movie star afterwards. but the entire time you know she doesn’t end up w him bc you know who her husband was. so if that was a mystery and you were wondering why AND if she broke up w the popular movie star from her youth, that would have been more fun. but, then it maybe wouldn’t have worked with the main plot of her retelling her life to her 3 kids bc they deff knew the dad 😂😅 anyways, i liked this one a lot. certainly one of the best audiobooks out there and such an enjoyable listen. not much happens, but if you go in expecting to listen to a lovely and enjoyable story, you’ll be pleased! *PS, hearing Meryl Streep read a story where one of the MC’s name is Emily after the MC in THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA also being named Emily gave me major flashbacks and i loved it lol

the setup… It’s the spring of 2020 and also the early rages of the Covid-19 pandemic. Lara’s three daughters, Maisie, Emily and Nell, have returned to their family cherry orchard and home in Northern Michigan to shelter in place. While the four of them are picking cherries, the girls beg Lara to tell them about the time in her life when she knew Peter Duke, a famous actor with whom she shared the stage and a romance while at a theater company called Tom Lake. the heart of the story… At the beginning, I kept trying to figure out where the story was going or the point of it all. After a bit, I let go of that and just immersed myself in the characters, Lara’s rich recollections and the elegance of all of it. Her daughters had unique personalities and all shared a love of their home and childhood. But they were highly curious about their mother’s time when she portrayed the role of Emily in the Our Town theater production, first in her New Hampshire home town and later in Tom Lake. They never imagined her life to have been so colorful and were fascinated, as was I. Lara doesn’t keep to a linear timeline so you have to pay attention and she doesn’t share everything with her daughters, though we get the benefit of those details. Her perspectives about that were interesting, thought provoking and illuminating. the narration… This book couldn’t have been narrated by anyone other than Meryl Streep! She was Lara. I expected her storytelling skills to be excellent but her characterization of Lara was just…breathtaking. the bottom line… I’m not sure what I was expecting but this was a gem, even though it took a minute for me to get engaged. I’ve never seen Our Town, theater or film, but it wasn’t necessary to understand Lara’s story despite its significance. Her relationship with Peter Duke marked an important time in her life, defining so much of what she later came to appreciate and the paths she chose to take. I loved her relationships with her daughters and the life she gave them and herself. It’s an extraordinary character study, presented with insight, eloquence and intelligence. And, I’m grateful I let Meryl Streep do the telling. 4.5 stars

In this latest novel by Ann Patchett, readers will find a narrative that goes well beyond the usual pleasures of good storytelling. Beautiful feels almost too simple a word, but it is the one that keeps coming to mind. The characters here never feel like they belong only on the page — they shift and grow in ways that make them feel surprisingly real, like people you might actually know. It speaks to Patchett’s skill that you find yourself genuinely invested in their lives. At its heart, this is the story of a young woman moving through love and heartbreak in search of something she can’t quite name. It is also a family story — an honest look at the ties that hold people together, and the ones that occasionally pull them apart. We work from the moment we wake until we close our eyes at night. Sometimes one of us says something about how it would be fun to watch a movie but it never hap-pens. We fall asleep with books in our hands. I fall asleep with a threaded needle in my hand, sewing face masks out of pillow-cases. And then in the morning the whole thing starts again and we are standing between the rows of trees, telling stories to pass the time. Oh, how we miss the people who have worked on this farm year after year, generation after generation, the kids who went to school with our kids for half the year, every year, from the time they were little, always leaving and coming back, until they come back with kids of their own. The writing is precise and unpretentious, and Patchett never seems to be reaching for effect. You don’t feel like a passive reader so much as someone following alongside the characters through their better and worse moments. There is no explaining this simple truth about life: you will forget much of it. The painful things you were certain vou’d never be able to let go? Now you’re not entirely sure when they happened, while the thrilling parts, the heart-stopping joys, splintered and scattered and became something else. Memories are then replaced by different joys and larger sorrows, and unbelievably, those things get knocked aside as well, until one morning you’re picking cherries with your three grown daughters and your husband goes by on the Gator and you are positive that this is all vou’ve ever wanted in the world. This is a quietly affecting book — one that earns its emotional weight rather than announcing it. It’s the kind of thing that stays with you, less for any single moment than for the cumulative sense of having spent time with something true.

I really feel like I need to watch a production of Our Town after reading this book. But seriously, I really enjoyed this book. I got completely engrossed in the story. And I love the way that Ann Patchett is able to write these stories with characters who feel so real and full but there is still some level of borderline melodrama that keeps you hooked. Watch my full review here: https://youtu.be/H4nCN9UTM3c

The Cellist is the twenty-first instalment in the Gabriel Allon series featuring the titular art restorer and spy in an explosive, all-new thrilling adventure. Viktor Orlov had a longstanding appointment with death. Once Russia's richest man, he now resides in splendid exile in London, where he has waged a tireless crusade against the authoritarian kleptocrats who have seized control of the Kremlin. His mansion in Chelsea's exclusive Cheyne Walk is one of the most heavily protected private dwellings in London. Yet somehow, on a rainy summer evening, in the midst of a global pandemic, Russia's vengeful president finally manages to cross Orlov's name off his kill list. Before him was the receiver from his landline telephone, a half-drunk glass of red wine, and a stack of documents. The documents are contaminated with a deadly nerve agent. The Metropolitan Police determine that they were delivered to Orlov's home by one of his employees, a prominent investigative reporter from the anti-Kremlin Moskovskaya Gazeta. And when the reporter slips from London hours after the killing, MI6 concludes she is a Moscow Center assassin who has cunningly penetrated Orlov's formidable defences. But Gabriel Allon, who owes his very life to Viktor Orlov, believes his friends in British intelligence are dangerously mistaken. His desperate search for the truth will take him from London to Amsterdam and eventually to Geneva, where a private intelligence service controlled by a childhood friend of the Russian president is using KGB-style "active measures" to undermine the West from within. Known as the Haydn Group, the unit is plotting an unspeakable act of violence that will plunge an already divided America into chaos and leave Russia unchallenged. Only Gabriel Allon, with the help of a brilliant young woman employed by the world's dirtiest bank, can stop it. This is a riveting, compulsive and action-packed spy thriller ripe with political intrigue and subtle social commentary on timely topics of global significance such as the virus, the recent US presidential election and the insanity, chaos and destruction of the assault on Capitol Hill on January 6, 2021, as well as political issues like Russian interference. It's decidedly gritty and moves at rapid-fire pace with a plethora of unusual twists and turns. Elegant and sophisticated, provocative and daring, it explores one of the preeminent threats facing the West today--the corrupting influence of dirty money wielded by a revanchist and reckless Russia. It is at once a novel of hope and a stark warning about the fragile state of democracy. Highly recommended.

A Russian defector is assassinated by the thugs in Kremlin and it's time for Gabriel Allon to make them pay! Hatching an elaborate plan to swindle the ill gotten billions of the Russian Oligarchs, Gabriel enlists the help of a brilliant Finance professional, Isabel Brenner. Isabel is also an accomplished Cellist and with her skills she manages to penetrate the inner sanctum of the chief money launderer, Akimov. Please read my detailed review of this intense novel of espionage and spycraft........ From the link below https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-rev... Do Read 📖, Like 👍🏼, Comment 💭 or Share 🚩 🙏🏼🙏🏼 #booksaremagic #booksbooksbooks #bookaddicts #booksarelove #lovereading #lovereadingbooks #bookbuzz #danielsilva #gabrielallon #cia #mi6 #spythriller #israel

In the 21st book of the Gabriel Allon series the focus is on Russia. Putin, super rich oligarchs, money laundering and interference in American politics, as well as democratic governments in Europe. How timely can he get? One more book and I will be caught up on the series, at least until his 2023 book comes out this summer. Somehow these books are much better for me than reading the news.

Legendary Master Israeli Spy and Art Restorer Gabriel Allon is back. Art Gallery Manager and former CIA and Israeli Agent Sarah Bancroft discovers the poisoned body of the reclusive, exiled, and media tycoon Viktor Orlov in London. Russia’s vengeful president is the number one suspect. However, Viktor’s employee, journalist Nina Antonoa, delivered some papers he was found holding and then fled. Was she a pawn or a mole for the Kremlin? Gabriel begins an investigation into the death of his friend and meets with Graham Seymour, head of MI6. MI6 Officer Christopher Keller a/k/a Peter Marlowe and Eli Lavon become part of Gabriel’s investigation. Their investigation leads to Isabel Brenner, a compliance officer of a dirty bank in Zurich and cellist. Gabriel decides to lure the Russians into a trap and forge an assault on the Kremlin. Can he come up with a plan and will they take the bait? As the director general of Israeli’s secret intelligence service, Gabriel once again assembles his Lightning team of shrewd and hardworking operatives: Eli Lavon, a master tracker and surveillance specialist with his bland and forgettable features, a former veteran of Operation Wrath of God, and former owner of the Viennese investigative Wartime Claims and Inquiries that found millions of looted Holocaust assets; Rimona Stern, chief of the Office Collections division and niece of Ari Shamron, former head of Israeli’s secret service; Yossi Gavish, British born and raised, head of Research, the Office’s analytical division and trained as a Shakespearean actor; Dina Sarid, Office’s top terrorism expert and ace researcher and survivor of a Hamas suicide bombing; Mikhail Abramov, born in Russia and immigrated to Israel as a teenager, skilled in weaponry and killing; Natalie Mizrahi, French-born Algerian doctor, fluent in Arabic; Yaakov Rossman, boss of special operations unit, fluent in Arabic, and an expert in Arabian and and Islamic cultures; and two field operatives, Mordecai and Oded. I love this series and have been reading for years. Daniel Silva’s writing is engaging, shrewd, fast-moving, and entertaining. I was quite surprised how this installment including vaccines, face masks, and social distancing as reflected during our continued COVID-19 pandemic times. It even included the January 6, 2021 attack on the United States Capitol in Washington D.C. and President Biden’s inauguration.

I always love reading Daniel Silva’s series of Gabriel Allon, but I didn’t give 5 stars because wasnt so excited than others yet he mention Portugal and Costa Prata in this book, which is good to give some advertisement about our country. Overall was a good book, but wasnt the best of the best of the serie. 4 ⭐️

"Find what you love and let it kill you." -Charles Bukowski Woah, this was fuuuucked up. It should really come with a warning: do not start reading this at night if you want to sleep. For two reasons, actually. One, it is so compulsively readable that it's almost impossible to put it down until you've finished it. And two, it is seriously creepy and disturbing. Warnings for depictions of child abuse and some graphic violence. Perhaps this doesn't need to be said, but Verity is definitely not a regular Colleen Hoover romance. There's a love story, and sex, but it is predominantly a creepy thriller. And a mindfuck, if we're being honest. Verity is mainly about three people - struggling author Lowen Ashleigh, a man called Jeremy Crawford, and Jeremy's wife, Verity, who was recently left incapacitated by a car accident. Verity is a successful writer, but she is no longer able to continue her bestselling series. That's why Lowen is brought in to complete the remaining three books. To do so, she stays at the couple's house so she can go through Verity's notes. But Lowen finds something else in Verity's office. An unfinished autobiography. As she reads, her fear grows. Lowen begins to dig into dark truths about the family and the deaths of their twin daughters. At the same time, she finds herself falling for Jeremy and wondering if perhaps she should reveal the truth to him. I don't want to say too much, but I thought it was excellent. Hoover expertly leads us on a winding trail of lies and manipulation. As the story is essentially Hoover - an author - writing about an author reading about another author, there's this constant sense that someone is lying to you-- but who is it? Now, that's not so easy to tell. I was good at spewing bullshit. It’s why I became a writer. This may seem like a bit of a backhanded compliment, but I think I enjoy Hoover’s fucked-up books so much because I usually find her regular romances kinda fucked up. I like her books so much more when she's writing about trauma and morally-questionable characters than when she's trying to sell me a douche as a love interest. It's a clever book, and I don't simply mean because of its twists and turns. It's clever because of the fear and uncertainty the author creates. That all three authors create. The aptly-named Verity is a novel about fictions and truths, about authors and characters, and about how it can sometimes be hard to separate the two. I found it absolutely riveting. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube

how the same woman who wrote Atlas Corrigan could turn around and write something this fucked up i will never know

4.5 stars A manipulative mind f*ck that will keep you guessing! Verity is a psychological thriller in which the lines between fiction and reality blur together creating an illusion of truth. A struggling author is offered a lucrative deal: continue writing the popular a bestselling series, get out of debt and be in the presence of a sexy man. SOunds too good to be true? Lowen Ashleigh must find out for herself. She heads to Vermont and begins her journey into famous author Verity Crawford’s mind. While digging through Verity’s notes, she comes across a manuscript which appears to be Verity’s autobiography. Lowen gets caught up in Verity’s story that weaves together a tale of obsession, lies, and death. But one must wonder, is Lowen reading fact or fiction? This book sucked me in from the very beginning--it’s addictive and VERY hard to put down. Verity’s chapters were truly batsh*t crazy. Lowen’s narrative was quite interesting as well, but there were times when I was begging for her to pick up Verity’s manuscript again so that I could read another chapter of craziness. I had a theory early on and, while I was correct, I am still left wondering over the truth of Verity’s story. Verity has all of the elements of a good thriller: It’s intense, dark, and very twisted. Best of all, it still has me questioning the different versions of the truth presented! Thank you to all of my Goodreads friends for putting this book on my radar!

Can a novel be - Brilliant and silly, - Straightforward and bewildering, - Engrossing and vexatious at the same time? The answer to the above question will almost always be no. Colleen Hoover somehow managed to pull out the unthinkable through this novel. Verity is the story of Verity Crawford and her family. She is a bestselling author who is bedridden after an accident. Her husband, Jeremy Crawford, hires a struggling author, Lowen Ashleigh, to complete Verity's series. Lowen is offered a good amount for writing Verity's books, and she arrives at Verity's home to research Verity's works and writings before starting her work. What will happen to Verity and Jeremy after Lowen's arrival? Colleen Hoover answers it through this novel Why can we call this novel brilliant? The brilliance related to this novel starts from its cover (2022 paperback edition). There is a lot of thought went behind making this book cover. We can interpret the cover in at least five different ways. (I can't mention each one here as they will be all spoilers and hinders the reading experience of those who haven't read this book yet. But you will understand it when you look at the cover after you finish reading this book and contemplate it for some time). I haven't seen many books with such a brilliant cover with so much meaning hidden behind it before. We can see this same brilliance also behind the author's thought process in many parts of the story. Why can we call this novel silly? One of the main male characters of this novel is Jeremy. The character arc of Jeremy is one of the silliest I have seen in a thriller. Why can we call this novel straightforward? The story and whole plot of this novel can be said in just one single line. I successfully predicted the entire story and plot of this novel by carefully observing the cover and reading the blurb. Yes, the whole plot of this novel is hidden on the book cover. Even though we can have at least five interpretations of the cover after finishing the novel, we will be able to interpret it in only one or two ways before starting it. I have never been able to predict the story of a book with such precision before. We can say that this book is so straightforward. Why can we call this novel bewildering? I was indeed successful in predicting the full plot of this novel. But the funny thing is that it took me the highest number of days to fully understand what exactly happened in the end after finishing this novel. I finished reading it a couple of weeks ago. It took me two weeks to fully understand what happened in this book's last part. I was totally confused after finishing this book (Just like many other readers). The last two chapters are written in a confusing way. I don't know whether the author wrote it in a confusing manner deliberately or accidentally. I read the last two chapters two more times after finishing this book. I checked almost all the reviews of this book on Goodreads, youtube, and all other social media platforms. I also watched many Colleen Hoover's interviews to get the gist of the ending of this novel. After too many interpretations of the climax, I was able to conclude that satisfied my conscience about what actually happened in the end. And ironically, that explanation of the ending was exactly the same one that I predicted from the interpretation of the cover in the beginning. I think a good thriller should either answer all our questions and perfectly solve the jigsaw puzzle in the end or give the necessary clues to the readers that pave the way for correctly predicting what actually happened. The author lost a golden opportunity here to end this novel in the best way possible. I wondered why the author ended this book in a perplexing way after so much effort in the beginning. Colleen Hoover explains the reason behind it in this book's acknowledgments. "I'm sorry the ARCs for this particular book were such a hot mess. That happens when you don't finish the book until four days before release. - Colleen Hoover” Why can we call this novel engrossing? The plot of this novel was simply engrossing. It was unique in its own way. I haven't read any thriller with a similar plot. The author didn't try to go through the easier route of making the protagonist a psychologist or psychotherapist like most contemporary authors. The plot will keep you glued to the book from the beginning to the end. Why can we call this novel vexatious? The flashback described via manuscript was a brilliant opportunity for the author to write a book within a book to flesh out the main characters. She started the manuscript brilliantly. The reader in me was inquisitive to know about Verity's version of the story. But after a few chapters, the manuscript turned into some sort of erotica. There were just sex scenes mentioned in it and nothing else. Ironically, even Lowen gets irritated by it after some time due to the same reason while reading the manuscript. Colleen Hoover also gave an explanation for this in one of her interviews. She said she considered this novel from just the perspective of Lowen and not any other characters. That might be why Verity's perspective in the manuscript is not well written, which will irritate some readers. What I learned from this book 1) How can tragedies affects families? The author shows us how tragedies will break the equilibrium of the families through the way the Crawford family was finding it difficult to cope with the difficult situation. "Some families are lucky enough to never experience a single tragedy. But then there are those families that seem to have tragedies waiting on the back burner. What can go wrong, goes wrong. And then gets worse” 2) Do houses have souls? This is a tricky question to answer as we can't fully answer this question scientifically. But some people say that they get positive energy or vibe when they enter certain houses. The author is trying to discuss this aspect through this novel "My mother used to say that houses have a soul, and if that is true, the soul of Verity Crawford's house is as dark as they come." 3) Does people in bigger cities have lesser empathy? In bigger cities like New York, people will be leading busy life. They sometimes will have lesser time to consider others well being. But that doesn't give us the license to say that they have lesser empathy. It depends on the location and type of people we select for the study. It won't be easy to conduct such a study in cities like New York as it is a cosmopolitan city, and people from different cultures have different empathy levels. We will have to select a large number of subjects to get an accurate picture, making it almost impossible to conduct a similar study. But Lowen thinks that people in cities have lesser empathy. I can't agree entirely with what she is saying. "If I were still living in Virginia, this would play out in a completely different manner. Everyone around would stop. Panic would ensue, people would be screaming, a news crew would be on the scene in a matter of minutes. But here in Manhattan, a pedestrian struck by a vehicle happens so often, it's not much more than an inconvenience. A delay in traffic for some, a ruined wardrobe for others. This probably happens so often, it won't even end up in print." 4) Can New York be considered a paradise for agoraphobics? This might sound like a foolish question as we know that NYC is a city with the world's famous extroverts. How can people with panic attacks associated with places survive in this environment? Colleen Hoover perfectly answers it through this book. "Luckily, a Wi-Fi connection and a credit card make it easy to live life completely indoors in Manhattan. Anything and everything a person could possibly need can be delivered. Funny how one of the most populated cities in the world can double as a paradise for agoraphobics.” 5) What are all the difficulties faced by struggling writers? The author tells us all the struggling writers' problems through Lowen's character. "Your books do okay, but not well enough to secure another contract without sacrificing some of your time. You have to agree to engage in social media, go on tour, build a fan base. Your sales alone aren't cutting it in the current market. I was afraid of this. A contract renewal with my current publisher was all the financial hope I had left. The royalty checks from my previous books have dwindled along with my book sales. I've done very little writing this past year because of my commitment to my mother, so I have nothing to sell to a publisher." 6) What will you do if you are attracted to your friend? The author tells us that if a person is attracted to their friend, there is only involved or not involved, and there is no in-between. We can't say that this concept is applicable to all human beings. There are many exceptions to it. But we can say that in a general case, what the author tried to tell is somewhat true. "If we were friends, I would do something to comfort him. Maybe grab his hand and hold it. But there's too much inside me that wants to be more than his friend, which means we can't be friends at all. If an attraction is present between two people, those two people can only be one of two things. Involved or not involved. There is no in-between. And since he's married...I keep my hand on my chest and I don't touch him at all." 7) Why is it important to diagnose Sociopaths and Psychopaths in your life? It is imperative to understand whether you are dealing with a sociopath or a psychopath in your life. Otherwise, they will destroy your life before you even retrospectively start thinking about them. The author tells us about the dangers of having a psychopath in people's life. "I've been under the impression that that individual might have been a sociopath, but now I'm leaning more toward psychopath. I put the manuscript away and use their computer to refresh my memory of the exact definition for psychopath. I scroll through every personality trait. Pathological liar, cunning and manipulative, lack of remorse or guilt, callousness and lack of empathy, shallow emotional response. That individual displays every characteristic. Psychopaths find it more difficult to fall in love, and if they do, it's difficult for them to retain that love. They tend to move on quickly from one person to the next." My favourite three lines from this book “The world was her manuscript. No surface was safe.” “No one is likable from the inside out.” “Let’s speak to the specialist first because the internet isn’t the place we need to seek out answers for our daughter." What could have been better? The author should have taken a little more time to write the final two chapters of this book in a better way. Rating 4/5 This is a tricky book to rate. We can never call this book a perfect thriller. But still, I can easily say that it will give you a good reading experience, especially if you are a fan of Colleen Hoover's books.

What (and I cannot stress this enough) the fuck. I flew through this book in one sitting, it was that good!

3.85 Stars* (rounded up) Well Darn It! This novel didn’t quite live up to the Hype. “Verity” is a novel that I’ve seen crazy review after crazy review for and after a while, the hype got to both me and my book buddy, such that we decided to make it our New Year’s read. Admittedly, this book is, in fact, Whack (and entertaining at that) - however, I expected the ending to blow me away but after all the insane reviews I read, it was just kind of like “wah wah.” “Verity” is my first novel by Colleen Hoover - it was eye-opening! Let’s chat about how salacious it is. Like wowza! If that’s your thang, you’re definitely going to want to take a bite out of this one. It’s also a super fast read... Maybe it’s the salaciousness… but even I couldn’t tear my eyes away (true dat!, lol). When Lowen Ashleigh is hired to co-author the remaining books in a series for “Verity” Crawford who was in a debilitating accident, she has no idea what she has gotten herself into. Being offered a huge sum of money, she just can’t turn it down. Staying in Verity’s home with Jeremy, Verity’s husband and their son Crew so that she can pour through Verity’s library, Lowen discovers way more than she ever bargained for. “Verity” is weird, wild and yes, quite wicked. It is also disturbing at times, I will not lie, that said, it is highly entertaining. Had there not been so much hype built up around this novel, I think I would have enjoyed it more, such is life I suppose. I think most readers will LOVE this thus I think you should all dive in, the sooner, the better. Thank you so much to Kaceey for this book! Thank you also for reading this one with me - it was one wild ride! Published on Goodreads on 12.31.18.

Here's a book with some bite! It also gives new meaning to the term "if at first, you don't succeed, try, try again." Colleen Hoover has created yet another highly readable, captivating, and fast read that is quite different from her other books. Lowen Ashleigh is a struggling author who is dealing with the recent loss of her mother and the loss of a home when a writing job comes at just the right moment! Bestselling author, Verity Crawford, injured in an accident is not able to complete her successful series. Her husband, Jeremy Crawford has hired Lowen to complete his wife's series. Like Lowen, Jeremy is no stranger to loss. His twin daughters have both died tragically and his wife, Verity, has been in a terrible accident. When Lowen arrives at their home and begins to go through Verity's paperwork and notes, she discovers Verity's unfinished autobiography. Lowen can't stop reading, completely engrossed with Verity's admissions, secrets, and revelations. She wants to keep the journal a secret, but can she keep it to herself for long? There is a creepiness to this book as well as a sense of foreboding and dread. just as Lowen could not put down Verity's autobiography, I could not put this book down! Wanting to know what was going on, I dove into the pages and the lives of the characters. As the story progresses the suspense builds, I just knew something was going to happen! I go long stretches between reading Hoover's book and then wonder why as I have enjoyed all the ones I have read. As I mentioned, this is a little off the beaten path for her and this one also has more graphic sex scenes. Some won't mind, some will. But what will most think of the ending? Yes, that ending. I honestly did not see THAT coming. I thought she did a great job of pulling the wool over my eyes. Will the wool be pulled over yours as well? My only complaint - the ending felt abrupt. Interesting, yes.... but abrupt. Otherwise, this was quite the page-turner for me and I'm glad she tried something new. This one is darker, edgier, and more intense than her other books.

Verity was for me what The Silent Patient wasn’t— a real page turner of a thriller. From the first page to the last. Sinister. Discordant. Creepy. The first chapter is jarring, bloody and chaotic. I felt as thrown off kilter as our reclusive and oddly mousy heroine. You’ll find yourself questioning every character’s motive. And with several narrators, truth becomes an enigmatic puzzle. A modern cross between Rebecca and Jane Eyre but with an ending more likely found in a Hitchcock movie. PS— Why this is in the romance category is beyond me. There’s plenty of sex and relationship stuff, but not my definition of romance. (Reviewed 11/18/19)

An Ode To Colleen Hoover Hoover is in a category all her own when it comes to modern romance with a twist. You see, in case you've never indulged in a Hoover novel, she always has a "hook" (if you're a musician or music lover you'll know exactly what I mean). At some point in most of her novels you will inevitably sit up and go "wooooahhh what in the actual fuck just happened?". She can do it with just one sentence, like with the book Hopeless. The scene where Holder reveals the truth to Sky. I mean, idk about you, but I sat up in the bed and audibly gasped. My point is that she doesn't put forth simple fluffy romances. There's often something more just under the surface that tickles at your subconscious until Hoover is ready to spring it on you, pulling the carpet out from under your feet, making you question everything you just read. Like a Sixth Sense moment, you know what I mean? Over the years I've watched reviewers, and even fellow authors (always female) (shame on you), throw shade at Colleen for every reason under the sun. Most especially about the dynamics she creates between the men and women in some of her stories. Her critics say that the men are creepy, sexist and don't take no for an answer, her female characters are pathetic and weak. You know what I say to that? SO FUCKING WHAT? It's not Colleen's responsibility to only write politically correct scenarios. It's not Colleen's responsibly to coddle you and your sensibilities. It's not Colleen's responsibility to create what YOU feel are likeable characters. So what if you feel that all of her female characters are portrayed as weak. So what if you think all of her male characters are creepy. So. The. Fuck. What. And before some fuckwit comments about it... It's not Colleen's responsibility to provide role models for young men and women to emulate. It's not her responsibility to censure herself and her craft because it may in some way negatively influence a reader. It's not her responsibility to teach young women what they should and should not tolerate from a man. I've never seen any other author take the kind of flack that is thrown in Colleen's direction in an attempt to diminish her loyal following. All I can say to Colleen is that she must be doing something right. She should stop kowtowing to these armchair feminists behind their computer screens. She writes FICTION for ADULTS and if they can't sort out the difference between that and the real world then to hell with them. ____________________________ fic·tion /ˈfikSH(ə)n/ noun literature in the form of prose, especially short stories and novels, that describes imaginary events and people. invention or fabrication as opposed to fact. synonyms:fabrication, invention, lies, fib, untruth, falsehood, fantasy, nonsense ____________________________ In case anybody is still reading this .... I very much enjoyed Colleen's first foray into the romantic thriller genre. The story was gripping to the point that I read the entire book in one sitting that ended at 6:40 a.m. *yaaaaawwwwnn* This book would have easily been a 5 star for me if not for the "I saw it coming" lackluster ending. I feel like the story could have gone deeper and darker than it did. Hoover is just getting her feet wet with this one and I hope she's ready to dive off headfirst into the deep end of a shallow pool with her next endeavor.

First page in and I knew I was going to have a hard time putting it down. I had absolutely no idea what that book was going to be like, I decided I wasn’t going to read anything about it, not even the resume. This was mindblowing ! So shocking and disturbing, its been a good while since a book has had that effect on me. There is not much I didnt like about the story, I couldnt care less with the romance/growing desire between Lowen and Jeremy but everything else was amazing. An breathtaking story within a story, if you love a good thriller, this one might not be for everyone but it definitely wont leave you without a reaction.

An enthralling book that is beautifully written and fantastically narrated! The Paper Palace is a rambling house that is set in the backwoods of Cape Code. For every summer of her life Elle and her family have been vacationing there. Now at Fifty years old we see Elle, in the beginning chapter regretting that she has had sex with her childhood friend outside the house while both their spouses were inside during an evening gathering with the families. I enjoyed the narration a lot. Nan McNamara was spot-on with the storytelling and especially the voice of Elle's mother. This is a slow building drama that is told in a 24 hour type of format as Elle contemplates her love of her husband and childhood friend. There are multiple timelines as Elle thinks back to certain parts of her childhood and life. The backstories are engaging and I'm glad I listened to the audio as I'm not sure if I could follow along as easily if I'd just read it. I might be in the minority but the ending was a bit brusque. I wanted a precise conclusion but got more of an open ended one. It's still a book that I'd highly recommend especially the audio.

The title makes me think of a house of cards. As one falls, the whole thing begins to tumble. Yet, this is a summer house in Cape Cod. A place of history for 50 year old Elle, who relives a lifetime in 24 hours after a sexual interlude with her oldest friend, while her husband and 3 children are inside. A life with an altering event early on, that changed the course of her path. A layered story of stories within this family. The sacrifices made to keep each other happy; the selfishness of poor decisions; And the aging family place where time can stand still. 4.5⭐️

This was kinda a rough read. 😬 It’s good, but hard at times too. 🛑Caution: rated R 🛑Trigger warnings: sexual abuse and rape. Told on multiple timelines, this was an emotional roller coaster. I honestly had to look up the actual ending, to see if my interpretation was correct. 😉

guys, i think i liked this!!! 👀 👇🏼 here are my thoughts—lmk yours!!! this is certainly one of the most polarizing books i’ve ever read—everytime i’ve updated my reading journey, my comments and DMs have either beeen “this is my fave book and i still think about it” or “this is the worst book i’ve ever read” LOL. tbh, those always make for the best reading experiences imo!!! love a book with mixed reviews this would be a FAB book club choice. it’s bound to hit different with a lot of people and offers SO MUCH to talk about. great job Reese!!! sad i missed the hype when it was released but happy i eventually got to it. one thing i did not see prior to reading are the trigger warnings on this book… they are pretty heavy and in my opinion the author could have handled this content with better care. in fact, a big critique of mine about this book would be that i felt like we were given unnecessary trauma dumping and lots of vulgarity for no reason? that said, this book had me hooked from page 1 and i couldn’t put it down. it did kinda jump all over the place and in the first 30% i wasn’t really sure why we had as many past passages but when you get to “it”…. you’ll understand why. 🤯🤯🤯🤯 infidelity plots are always a bit hit or miss and can be icky but i didn’t hate it here. it gave more second chance/right person wrong time/be with your soulmate vibes vs “lemme cheat just cuz”. and the ending !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ????!!!????!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!???!! !!!! !!!! !!!?????!!! oh i could talk about that ending in a full ass ESSAY lol. some readers debate it and think it’s open ended but i think it’s clear as DAY! our MC is not likable but it makes for a good story! worth the read but won’t be for everyone (clearly LOL) and beware of trigger and content warnings another critique—the sister plot felt underdeveloped to me, especially with the conclusion. i wanted a bit more there would KILL to see this adapted!!! the author writes HBO series and it’s so obvious to me—v well done and enjoyed her writing style! it would translate so well 🎬🎬🎬

4 ⭐️ rating for the pacing trouble in the second half of the book. And just the overall excessive nature and overkill writing of the abuse. It was just too much for me personally. My knee jerk reaction after finishing The Paper Palace was to proclaim off the rooftops that I hated this book. Let me explain. This carefully woven web of secrets, lies, abuse, heartache, death, and tragedy feels like one of those pop up punching bags but instead of you actively hitting the punching bag, YOU ARE the punching bag. Life kept hitting down Elle, time and time again, throughout her life. So much could be said and even speculated about when it started for Elle. The author briefly touches on her Grandmother’s and Mother’s life and at first, I thought this was their story, but the author carefully placed these snapshots that helped you understand Elle. The experiences in our life truly do shape us into adulthood and unfortunately, some of those experiences are tragic and heartbreaking and many times, out of our control. We see and perceive things from our own lens. The Paper Palace was seen through Elle’s lens. I really struggled with Elle. Her contradicting, the lies and deceit, the complicated mess that she was. Don’t we love heroines when they overcome their hardships? Their experiences? Their abuse? The “I need closure” part of me was so angry when I got to the end, but honestly, it made sense. It was like Elle’s life was now just beginning. I’d love to catch Elle in a coffee shop, in ten years, and ask her how things worked out for her. Did her choice make all the difference? Did it help her move on from her broken childhood? Did it help bring things full circle and was she able to become a healthy version of herself? Elle became very real for me and by the end, I had very real feelings of anger and resentment towards her. But after sitting on my thoughts, and as I thought about her experiences, I understood. I get it. We all are products of our childhood and unfortunately, it takes a lot of work (and pain) to come out from those on the other side and be better in spite of everything. Note if you are wanting to read The Paper Palace: The content throughout this book is explicit and hard to read. There is abuse that carries throughout the entire story, from childhood and into adulthood. When I started reading, I envisioned myself reading a memoir of someone who was telling us about her life. Elle was nothing but honest…with us. She struggled to be honest with the people around her and it was very hard to sit back and let everything unfold. If you were wanting to pick this book up, I would just say, take it in stride. It is raw and emotional, but it is very honest. And the answer to everything is in the second to last paragraph in the book.

3.5 stars rounded up to 4 **TRIGGER WARNING** A Traumatic string of sexual abuse/rape t's a perfect July morning, Ellie, a fifty year old happily married mother of three awakens at "The Paper Palace" - the family summer place which she has visited every summer of her life. But this morning is different: last night Ellie and her oldest friend Jonas crept out the back door into the darkness and had sex with each other for the first time, all while their spouses chatted away together inside. Now, over the next twenty four hours, Ellie will have to decide between the life she has made with her beloved husband Peter or the life she's always imagined with Jonas. The Paper Palace is the name of the summer resort that Ellie's family have been visiting for years. The story is told in a dual timeline: the present day and back in time from Ellie's childhood. It descriptively written but also gut churning at the same time. The pace is slow to begin with and I did struggle to get into it, but as soon as the secrets and lies started to reveal themselves, I was hooked. This is not an easy book to read and it might upset some readers due to some of it's contents. I would like to thank #NetGalley #PenguinGeneralUK and the author #MirandaCowleyHeller for my ARC of #ThePaperPalace in exchange for an honest review.

NOW AVAILABLE!!! hawkins' debut thriller The Girl on the Train came out hot on the heels of the film-adaptation of Gone Girl, when the psych suspense market was craving MORE LIKE THIS, PLEASE, and it became a runaway bestseller that everyone either loved or loved to hate, but its success ushered in a WAVE of twisty suspense novels trying to hitch a ride aboard the gone girl on the (gravy) train, so many of which unabashedly featured the word "girl" or "woman" in their titles. her follow-up, Into the Water, was a much quieter release, and wasn't even a mystery, IMO; it was a character-driven investigation of a situation that happened to have a body count, in a similar vein to ivy pochoda's exquisite These Women. (i reviewed both of these books for l.a. review of books and i used plenty of capital letters. links to hawkins and pochoda, if you're interested) A Slow Fire Burning is a return to the twisty twisty murder myst'ry style that put hawkins on the map, with a large cast of unlikable, unreliable characters full of secrets and hidden agendas, carefully clipped clues and misdirection. there aren't any trains this time, but there are SEVERAL boats. it also features a mystery novelist character who gives a little meta-commentary on the genre as well as roadmap to the novel itself: It was a book that exposed the way the sympathies of the reader might be manipulated, laying bare how quickly we jump to conclusions about guilt and innocence, power and responsibility. there's even a novel-within-the-novel, giving the book an unusual shape hawkins seems to anticipate will invite criticism, which she cheekily addresses, using the novelist character: "I thought it was so interesting, the way you turned the whole thing around, you know, telling the story backward in some parts and forwards in others, letting us see inside the killer's head—that was so brilliant! At first you, like, you don't know what's going on, but then it's just like...woah. So cool. I loved the way you turned everything on its head, playing with our sympathies and empathies and all that business." "Really?" Theo laughed, faking incredulity. "I thought everybody thought that was a terrible idea." "Well, I didn't. I thought it was clever. A new way to tell a story like that, makes you think, doesn't it?" the title, however, does not describe the book—this fire burns fast—a highly engaging page-turner that whisks the reader to and fro—edging close to the truth before shifting the focus away each time in a delicious flurry of NOT YET, MY LOVELIES! unsympathetic characters, unintended consequences, unexpected connections...and murrrrderrrrrr. i dug it. come to my blog!!

It's London in the 2020s, it's the canals and the big houses around Islington and Clerkenwell. One, now old, woman suffered a horrific abduction when she was 15 years old. One middle aged divorced woman suffered a horrendous loss when she was a young mother. One woman in her 20s suffered a brutal hit-and-run as a child that resulted in brain damage causing behavioural issues. All three women have many secrets and tell some lies, and ideally would like some sort of justice... or even better, revenge! Daniel is found murdered on his canal boat. All three women knew him, did one of them kill him? I loved, loved, loved this whodunnit on so many levels. I love it! With some truly remarkably complex yet realistic characterisations of people across many generations; intriguing, beguiling and most of all interesting, even after finishing the book I want to know more about them. Yet, a big YET, despite the book being character led, Hawkins uses the characterisations to create a beautifully weighted read. I read a fair bit of crime fiction but only now and again do I find a non-Scandinavian writer that can compete with our Nordic Noir geniuses and this is one of them. This is the work of an assured writer in her peak. 100% deserves its existence as an INSTANT bestseller. 9.5 out of 12 masterclass Four Star read, where simmering pain, injustice and most of all revenge, is a slow fire burning. 2023 read

Paula Hawkins writes an ambitious thriller with multiple characters, all in one neighborhood in London. Her setting is in an area near a canal with moored houseboats. The title, “A Slow Fire Burning” reflects the emotional simmering of the female characters, all who have reasons for revenge. In an interview with NPR, Hawkins admits that while she was walking near her London home, which is near an area of moored houseboats, she often contemplated where would be a perfect spot to hide or dispose of a body. Hawkins liked this area because both wealthy and poor are living amongst each other in an unusual setting. And we know that Hawkins loves her unstable female characters whom the reader feels frustrated and sympathy with, in equal measure. The central character is Laura who is a hot mess. “It’s not my fault” is her motto. As the story opens, she is seen leaving a houseboat in the early hours of the day the man who occupies the houseboat is found dead. Laura is carrying more emotional baggage than is imaginable. She’s not the only distressed female in the story. Miriam finds the dead body of Daniel, and through the story, the reader learns of her horrid past. Carla is the aunt of Daniel, and she is a grieving mother whose young son died tragically. Theo is Carla’s ex-husband; he is an author and a bit of a slippery character. Hawkins provides a map of the neighborhood with the homes of the different characters. I referred to that map often. Who killed Daniel and why? I found it ambitious in that each character had reasons to be the murderer, depending upon the chapter. Each character endured tragedy and trauma; each has a suspicious pedigree. No one is an unreliable narrator, yet in reflecting their pasts, we wonder what the truth is. Each of us are a bit of unreliable narrators of our past, or, I should say we “color” our past to reflect what we want. What Hawkins is great at, is exposing the “shady” parts, or the “grey”. That said, I enjoyed the story once I got the characters fully formed in my mind. There’s a lot going on in this one. It’s not a straight-forward story.

There is a murder because of course there is. Tenuous connections, deception, and betrayal embroil members of a family, a pitiable young woman, and a meddlesome middle-aged spinster in the investigation that ensues. Moving back and forth in time, the characters’ backstories are slowly revealed as Hawkins turns you every which way but loose. There is even a book within in a book. I was held breathless.

Oh yes, it was good. Hawkins, who finally came through and published her third novel after a three-year hiatus, proved why I found her debut so compulsively readable - this was very similar, and in my opinion just as good! I really think this would make a great movie as well. Bravo, Hawkins, and welcome back!!! When a young man is found brutally murdered in his houseboat, an investigation immediately ensues and we are introduced to three main suspects, all females who each seem to have plenty of motive, opportunity and means to commit the heinous crime! Was it the young, pretty, traumatized girl who just can't stay out of trouble? Or was it his nosy, lonely, middle-aged neighbor with a horrific past and plenty of built up anger? Or was it someone very close to him, perhaps a relative? This was a very dark story as a whole, and I don't even know that the murder mystery in itself was what I was most intrigued by; the characters however were another thing! Even though all of them were incredibly damaged to the point it was sad and depressing, I was intrigued with their stories and felt an incredible sense of empathy for them. That being said, I believe my favorite character in this one was 80-year-old widow, Irene. She seemed to be the most rational and least pessimistic of the group, and that was refreshing. With a limited cast, a whodunnit reveal it is rarely shocking anymore, but the reasoning behind the crime itself was something that actually made my jaw drop! Needless to say, Hawkins is a master in her portrayal of damaged people! The combination of intriguing mystery and fleshed out and equally intriguing characters was superbly executed and really elevated this rating for me. I recommend this one for anyone looking for in parts a character study, mystery, suspense/thriller - you won't regret it! I do believe Hawkins is back with a vengeance, and I cannot wait for her next novel. I'm hoping I won't have to wait another 3 years to read more work from her! :-)

(4.5 for the audiobook) A slow burn for sure (& some pretty miserable topics,) but I couldn’t put it down! This was my first by this author & im excited because I really enjoyed her writing.. The characters drew me right in & the ending didn’t disappoint.

Everything is material. And comedy equals tragedy plus time. Isn’t that how it goes? I have been patiently waiting for this book since before it had a title and a cover, as soon as it was announced back in 2019. Kinda cool that I definitely don't have commitment issues when it comes to books because I definitely would have missed out if I forgot about this one. A Slow Fire Burning is more of a drama-filled contemporary with a mystery on the side than a thriller, but this time around it didn't end in disappointment because I know and love Hawkins' books and I knew what to expected, no matter what the labels and various blurbs advertised. Plotwise speaking, I've honestly read much more original stories in the years I've started loving this genre, but while this is true, it's also fair to recognize that Hawinks' strength mainly resides in her characters who are some of the best flawed characters I've ever come across. This book is a clear example of why, whenever I wanna shake myself up a bit and read a book about people I'd eventually hate but paradoxically feel sorry for, Hawkins is always a guarantee. book #29 ◾this hashtag is something I self-indulgently created for fun when I decided to thin out my immense tbr list as a new years resolution starting from books I added on GR back in 2017/2018/2019, and since I can't seem to do anything quietly and I'm well known for being an overachiever, I had to go and turn it into an official thing. Feel free to check out the shelf with the same name if you don't mind keeping up with this insanely over-hyped adventure I got myself into. Take it as a chance to rediscover some books from a few years ago that might have accidentally flown under your radar, or to simply share with another fellow reader your very own reading experience. Happy reading and stay penguin-y!◾ To Be Continued...🐧

Another great read by author Paula Hawkins. A young man is found gruesomely murdered in a London houseboat and there are no shortages of suspects. Three women Laura, Carla and Miriam all knew him and all three are full of resentment. Laura is a fiery woman who had a brief relationship with the man. Miriam, the inquisitive neighbour who knows everyone’s business and is hiding something. And Carla his grieving aunt who is already trying to come to terms with the recent death of yet another family member. Was one of these women seeking revenge. Lots of twists and secrets that are all slowly unleashed as the reader learns the truth. Well written with interesting characters make fascinating reading.

Thank you so much to Paula Hawkins, Riverhead Books, and Libro.fm for this twisted domestic thriller. It was such a joy to listen to on audio and I really loved the narrator. The book is about three women that are connected to the death of a man on a houseboat. The first is Laura, a woman with previous issues with the law, who’s one night stand with the victim leaves her suspicious. The second is Carla, the victim’s aunt who is surrounded by death and misfortune. Finally, there is Miriam, a nosey neighbor keeping secrets from everyone, including the police. They are all connected to the victim, all have a grudge, and all want revenge for something. Thoughts: I love how twisted Paula Hawkins books are. There are so many possibilities of what happened and who did what and I love that. I couldn’t help but feel for Laura in this book, and empathized with the situation she was in. I also felt bad for both Carla and Miriam for how lonely and unfortunate their lives are. None of the characters are necessarily likable, but they are interesting to read about. The book was so well written and only made better by hearing it on audio. This book is a slow burn, which is perfect because the story is about a slow build of anger, jealousy, resentment, hate, and fear. This story has a book within a book, which is one of my favorite literary devices. Even though you know the ending from the beginning, there are tons of twists and red herrings and the ending is still surprising. The web Hawkins weaves is intricate and I enjoyed the multiple viewpoints. It is not as fast-paced as Girl on the Train, but I really enjoyed it, and I can’t wait to see what she writes next. 4-stars for this book.

The newest of Paula Hawkins creations truly is A Slow Fire Burning. While initially slow, Hawkins builds a web of unlikable characters that keep the plot twisting and turning until, like a runaway train, you crash into a fiery ending. A twisted tale of secrets, lies, resentments carried, revenge plotted, and culminating in murder... this thriller is sure to be a scorching end of summer treat. Though Hawkins always gets mixed reviews, I will tell you that she is one heck of a story teller, and you can’t go wrong reading A Slow Fire Burning! I’d go ahead and pre-order this slow roasting thriller now as Hawkins plans to fan the flames of this gem August 31, 2021. I am so grateful to #NetGalley, #PenguinGroup #RiverheadBooks ( @riverheadbooks ) and the bonfire building wordsmith herself Paula Hawkins for sending me an electronic ARC in exchange for my honest opinions. You can see a full review on http://oceansofbooks.com on August 31, 2021. I will definitely recommend this title as it’s sure to be a summer hit.

I had a good time with this one. While there were characters that I wasn't especially fond of, I didn't abhor them either. Paula Hawkins again visits the theme of blackout drinking in this one, which makes me wonder if she has been in this state and worried about what could have occurred with this theme that keeps coming back through her writing. Girl on the Train was an "experience with a psychopath" view that resonated with me strongly when I first read it. Even if you guessed it, the mystery had so many moving parts that it was well thought out and well executed. I like the ending contemplation and how all the tiny threads somehow came back together. Another well-done novel by Paula Hawkins. She takes her time to set the scene, but every detail is essential in some way or another. **Paula: I love the book entry sections the most, and you should go darker with a future novel and pick up on that thread. It read brilliantly! Solid 4-4.5 Stars for me.

How'd I just notice the faces on the cover?? Anyways, I absolutely LOVED this book

*https://www.instagram.com/mrsb_book_r... 🙏A very big thank you and shout to my fantastic buddy read partner @bmichie31 who was amazing. What a full discussion we had about this one, especially in regards to the mental health status of the cast! 🔥Slow Fire Burning is a 2021 release by international bestselling author Paula Hawkins, which I turned to fairly soon after finishing her latest novel, The Blue Hour. This marks the fourth book I’ve read by this author and once again, she’s delivered a story of intricate relationships, unreliable perspectives, a high level of uncertainty, hidden truths, psychological revenge and suspense. 🔥Hawkins presents us with a full cast in her 2021 release. These protagonists are truly a complex and messed up bunch. Hawkins gradually reveals why these figures are complicated, raising issues of childhood trauma, medical crisis, loss, family reflection, plagiarism, abduction and murder. I couldn’t help but feel a great deal of sympathy for certain cast members of this tale, while others I found myself wishing they would book a session with a psychiatrist asap! There are moments too of sheer heartlessness and other episodes where acts of benevolence warmed my soul. The book intricately explores themes of trauma, rejection, infidelity, murder, tragic accidents, cover-ups, death, betrayal and revenge. There was definitely no shortage of intense, thought-provoking topics to unpack with my fellow buddy reader. 🔥The setting was another highlight for me. The houseboat and boat canal backdrop added a unique atmosphere that felt atmospheric and isolating, perfectly fitting for the tense plot. While the story was filled with twists and turns, it’s the way Hawkins dives into the emotional and psychological impact of these events that stands out. I also enjoyed the book within a book format, where excerpts from the novel written by one of the key cast members incorporated within the narrative. It added an extra level of depth to the plot. 🔥Overall, Slow Fire Burning was a solid 🌟🌟🌟🌟4-star read for me.

When a mother dies in a tragic accident, nobody thinks much of it. But when her adult son dies several weeks later due to foul play, things begin to look suspicious. This is a slow burn thriller with absolutely superb narration by Rosamund Pike. There are quite a few characters, multiple timelines and a book within a book, so the audio was difficult to follow at first. Once I got a grasp of who's who and the timeline, I was completely emersed.

4/5 I was super hyped for this — and WOW did it ever deliver. It threw me for a loop, keeping me invested and guessing from beginning to end. It centers on three women who are all known by the victim Daniel, who at twenty-three is found brutally murdered on a London houseboat. •Laura, his one-night-stand, who’d had a traumatic brain injury. •Carla, his grief-stricken Aunt. •Miriam, his nosy neighbor full of secrets, who found him. •And for more twisty fun we have a fourth possible suspect, Theo his Uncle, a writer, who’s also full of secrets. Dun Dun Dun… Told in multiple POV’s, there’s quite a number of damaged, sketchy and unreliable characters — sporting anger, jealousy, revenge and deceit, so many troubled souls that I had no idea who the culprit was. They all had a motive for murder… with the exception of the sweet eighty year old lady, Irene. After all, she is eighty, she wouldn’t be able to hurt anyone right? Figuring out WHO did it was a mystery in itself, especially finding the characters were all inadvertently connected to one another. This has a book within a book. It gets down and dirty exploring the destructive nature of past trauma’s that become the slow fire burning within each character. And let’s not forget the red herrings mixed throughout giving me something more to chew on. Bravo to Paula Hawkins who has written a clever, character driven story with murder, mayhem, and a handful of suspects putting me in mind of my favorite old-school Hallmark rerun — Murder, She Wrote. (one more thing — I absolutely loved the complicated family relationships 👍🏻) A Slow Fire Burning is a win-win for me. Recommend! *At the beginning I had a bit of trouble keeping the characters straight. It’s slower paced at first, but is well worth it so stick with it. (the title suits perfectly) ***Caution for death of a pet.

Waiting out COVID-19 from the Galapagos Diana O'Toole has always been a planner. She has serious life dreams, and she is steadily making progress. Her career is promising, and she has a hunky doctor boyfriend. She even has a travel list, and she is planning on visiting the Galapagos Islands. Timing isn't always ideal, and the pandemic breaks out just as she lands in the Galapagos. What will Diana learn about herself from this time? How much of life should be planned? The first half of this book was dynamite, definitely 5-stars. It was incredibly engaging, and it would cut from times in the Galapagos to back to certain time periods of Diana's life. I had a ball looking up the different animals from the Galapagos and all different pictures of the islands. The second half of the book was extremely slow paced and felt like running through sand. It was far too long. I would rate the last half of the book two or maybe three stars. There is a twist that I never saw coming which was pretty delightful. I'm definitely looking for more from Jodi Picoult! *Thank you, NetGalley, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and unbiased opinion. 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

4.5 stars Wow, I'm not sure how to put into words what I just read. I will start off with a bit of a warning. If you're not in a place where you can read about the experiences of Covid from many different angles, then I'd recommend you steer clear of this one for a while. The trauma of the pandemic is very real, and the author does an incredibly good job of conveying it to the reader in a visceral way. I have not read a book by Picoult in years. I became disenchanted with her issues-driven writing that always felt like it had an agenda. I suppose this one is similar, but it doesn't seem to be forcing things down my throat. I had seen so many stellar reviews for it that I took the chance to pick this one up and wasn't disappointed. It takes a LOT to surprise me. I maybe read one or two books a year that truly knock me off kilter with a surprise. This one might be my one for the year. This book features Diana, an art acquisition specialist at Sotheby's with a long term boyfriend, Finn, who is a surgical resident. The two are planning a bucket list trip to the Galapagos in March of 2020, and Diana found an engagement ring hidden in the dresser so she is pretty sure Finn will propose during the trip. Yet Covid has begun to hit New York City with a vengeance, and Finn has to stay and work, it is all hands on deck. He encourages Diana to go on the trip without him and she reluctantly agrees. As soon as she arrives on the small island, the world goes into lockdown and she's unable to return home. Communication is spotty. She gradually gets to know some of the residents of the island, and becomes very close to them. The book is so much more complex than my short synopsis can convey. There are parental abandonment issues, re-examination of life choices, and myriad other issues that the pandemic brought to the surface for many, if not all of us. The reason I didn't rate this a full five stars was because I didn't really like Diana most of the time (sometimes she is sympathetic, but other times she is very selfish) and I hate infidelity in any form. I get that she was struggling being so isolated and far away, but to me it isn't an excuse and so a half of a star taken away for that. However this book overall is incredibly insightful and thought provoking, as well has having a jaw dropping moment that I won't forget anytime soon. If anything, this book should make everyone really think about the choices we make in life and why we are making those choices. The pandemic has allowed many of us to reassess what is truly important in our lives. This is a meaty book, filled with emotion and anguish, and like I said at the beginning, it's not a book for everyone at this time. I really appreciated the author's note at the end and it gave me so much perspective about the choices that the author made in her writing of this novel. This would make a fantastic book club choice, there's a lot here that begs to be discussed and dissected. Edited to add: I think she missed a golden opportunity to add an Easter egg here and call the singing group the Scarabs or something beetle related rather than bird related. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

If books were retail establishments, Wish You Were Here would be The COVID Store. Not a Walmart or Tesco, where you can grab a quart of COVID while you’re there to stock up on a cart-full of subjects. Nope, this is all COVID/all the time. While many recent contemporary novels have included the new pandemic world to varying degrees of specificity, none to my knowledge have immersed readers quite so completely into one character’s experience dealing with its ramifications. The book begins just as the first wave is hitting New York hospitals. Diana, a 29-year-old art historian, must decide if she should go on vacation to the Galápagos without her boyfriend, Finn, a doctor who needs to stay put and help manage the crisis on the front lines. She goes, and she ends up getting stuck there. Of course there are worse places to ride out COVID. The scenery is lush and inspirational, the people are captivating, and the overall experience is perspective-shifting. While Diana is meeting new friends and finding her true self, Finn is back home risking his life every day as a first responder. And I hated her for it. I contemplated throwing this novel across the room many times. “If I even finish it, this is a 2-star read at best,” I thought. But then… I’ve got to hand it to Jodi Picoult, I don’t think I can name another book that gave me whiplash quite like Wish You Were Here did. She sure got me! By the end, I was captivated. Diana had dug herself a pretty deep hole in my eyes, but I opened up to the possibility of her redemption. It’s so rare for me to allow a second half of a novel to make up for the first that I have to give Picoult credit. Reading through other reviews, Wish You Were Here is clearly a polarizing reading experience. It’s just not a “meh” type of book. Prepare for impact if you do pick it up, though what impact it will have on you personally is hard to say. Recommend it for your book club and get ready to watch the sparks fly! People gonna have opinions on this one. Blog: https://www.confettibookshelf.com/

What can I say about this that hasn't already been written? Jodi Picoult is the master of research and her writing is top-notch here! I listened to the audiobook and the narrator was perfect! Part One was hands-down a 5 star. It "wowed" me!! Part Two was good and fascinated me but I feel it was a little bit too long. If you're ready for a Covid story 😷 then this one is for you. Be prepared to go on a gutsy journey about survival, courage, love and loss.

“Wish You Were Here” is Jodi Picoult’s 26th novel and expected to be seen on Netflix in the future. In this story, Picoult addresses the virus, to make sense (if there is any sense) to the pandemic. Picoult chose to use the Galapagos to center her story. Her protagonist, Diana, is on the edge of 30; she’s single and living with her surgeon boyfriend in NYC. Diana and her man, Finn, are set to enjoy a beautiful and needed vacation to the Galapagos. Unfortunately, the virus becomes an issue right before they were to leave. Finn insisted that she still go, even though he has been told by his hospital that he cannot. It’s a non-refundable trip, so Finn suggests that she go without him. She’s uneasy about traveling without him, but decides to go since she’s a modern woman. In her previous novels, it was evident early what her “issue” was that she’s illuminating to her readers. As I read this, I kept wondering, “What is she trying to say here? What is her thing?” Well, it seems that her theme is that we were all thrown into this crazy life, heads spinning, wondering what is true and what is media hype in what seemed was overnight in time. She doesn’t go into politics, which I appreciated. But she did go into the confusion we felt. She also illuminated what the front-line workers endured. Diana and Finn live in NYC, which we all know was ground zero early in the pandemic. Picoult uses Finn to provide the reader with the horror that hospital workers bore. Diana gets stuck at the Galapagos. Through Diana the reader learns about the islands and island life, and more importantly, she learns about herself. My best part of this story is the information provided by Finn. The daily horror that these frontline workers endured is striking. No one knew anything. No one knew how to care for the sick. Picoult did a fabulous job giving the emotional stress that we all went through. Picoult is easy to read and she confronts controversial issues. In this one, she writes about the disorientation, the fear, and the chaos that the world braved during the beginning of the pandemic.

I am a huge Jodi Picoult fan. The books I have read by her that I rated four or five stars include My Sister’s Keeper, Mad Honey, Small Great Things, The Pact, Nineteen Minutes, and The Book of Two Ways. I tried reading Wish You Were Here several months ago and set it aside. Then a good friend of mine read it and recommended it, so I started listening to it on audiobook. I almost stopped listening to it on audiobook because it felt like a romance story, and I typically don't like romance books. Then BAM, the plot took a huge sharp turn, and I was hooked until the very end. The story takes place during the pandemic. Finn is a doctor in New York City when COVID hits. Finn and his girlfriend, Diana, had scheduled a vacation to the Galapagos islands and she believes he is going to propose. Because Finn is needed at the hospital, Diana goes ahead and travels to the Galapagos right before countries started shutting down. There are several stories in this book about those who do and do not survive COVID. About twelve years ago, my mom was put into a medically induced coma due to a life-threatening illness. The stories she shared about her memories while in the coma had some eerie similarities to the stories in Wish You Were Here. I'm very glad I listened to the entire book. As always, Picoult's author notes at the end provide insight into the thorough research she conducted before writing the book.

Nearly perfect, but I didn't buy the ending.

3.5 stars Diana O’Tool and her boyfriend Finn are preparing for a romantic getaway to the Galapagos Islands. Diana has been working hard claiming the ranks in the cutthroat art auction world. Finn is a surgical resident whose future is promising. The night before they are set to leave on their dream trip, Finn tells Diana to go without him. There go her dreams of a proposal on their getaway. Finn just can't leave, there is a virus out there and everyone is needed at the hospital. So, Diana goes, she doesn't turn back when she is told that the island is quarantined for two weeks. She can't stay at the hotel they book but finds a room with a woman and quickly makes friends. While there she begins to question her choices, her life, and her relationships. This book is set during the beginning of the pandemic and shows what doctors were up against. The character Finn writes to Dianna and tells her about the struggles and how hospitals are doing the best they can with what they know and how the treatment protocol changed constantly. When I came to a certain section of the book I was stunned. Put it in the I did not see that coming camp. This book will hit close to home for many. Writing about something that we are all still experiencing was courageous. Some may find it difficult to read this book while others will devour it. Jodi Picoult is a reliable and prolific writer. One can count on her to deliver and add the personal touch. She doesn't shy away from tough subjects and did her research in writing this book. She captured the uncertainty, the disbelief, and the shock of the beginning of the pandemic. This is a great book for book clubs as there is a lot to discuss in this book. Not sure what I think of the ending but overall found this to be enjoyable and a worthwhile read. Thank you to Random House Publishing group - Ballantine and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own. Read more of my reviews at www.openbookposts.com

An interesting story about alternate life/reality. 🤓 It gets into the whole pandemic and quarantines, which was downright depressing. 😖 But it does beg the question of alternative timelines 🤯

4.5 ⭐️ Wow! I am not a fan about books pertaining to Covid, it was too weird a time for me, and I mostly prefer not revisiting. This was different. The whimsy and originality took me to an unexpected place, with the realm of metaphysical themes would be something I’m also not used to reading. I enjoyed it all. Diana was a young woman who swallowed me up into her world, the author's vivid scenes showing human emotion, raw desire and heartfelt breathtaking love scenes drew my breath, many times. Hearing them read by a smooth narrator was a transcending experience; I mean this! The twist was unexpected, I nearly became disappointed and assumed it would form part of a larger cliché, again, I was pleasantly surprised I stayed on track and enjoyed it all. The author’s notes provided a good insight, as always JP researches and presents an always topical idea in a thoroughly strong way. Don’t miss this as the background and the way in which she gathered data and information was interesting. There was love, some suspense and a magical feel to this story, which took me one step closer to reading all of this authors books. Some have been hit and miss, but I loved this one. Deftly narrated by Marin Ireland. It made me wonder how Australia dealt with their patients, the lever of care in the novel was exceptional, but I know how stretched to capacity we were here in , and I’m not sure if rehab was so highly offered here. I did not know anyone terribly ill, I was one of the lucky ones. I highly recommend! I listened to this via the Borrowbox app and my public library.

Superb storyteller! The storyline was interesting and well structured. If you don’t want to read about the pandemic this book is not for you. The author’s note was also interesting, as she speaks about her own experience with the pandemic. I do recommend the audiobook narrated by Marin Ireland. I read this book entirely during my return flight from São Paulo to Toronto.

I was so hesitant about this book, borrowing it once from the library then returning it unread, then deciding to give the audiobook a try instead. The reviews were promising and I generally like Picoult, and yet I was pretty sure I wasn't ready for a book that was heavy on pandemic story-lines. I will say, I probably should have gone with my gut and waited a bit longer to read this, because, despite being vaccinated and boosted and living in a city which always took Covid precautions seriously, it was not an easy read. In large part this was because one of the characters is a NYC resident, which my own sister was as well during the height of the pandemic, and which felt a little too close to home. That being said, Picoult handled the issues she tackled with care, compassion and thoughtfulness and I cannot really think how she could have done it better. It was bold of her to choose this plot, and I cannot but commend her efforts. There was something a little predictable about parts of the story, yes, but all in all, it held my attention from start to finish and I liked how Picoult makes it pretty obvious where she stands in a time where taking a stance is more important than ever. If you feel ready to read something with a Pandemic plot, I can certainly recommend this, but if you are on the fence, I say wait a while longer. Find my book reviews and more at https://maliayz.wixsite.com/princessa...

I have been reading a lot of books during this pandemic. But surprisingly, even though a lot of these books have been published during the pandemic, none have addressed it. Until now. Jodi Picoult carries out an impressive level of research for her oh so human look at the pain, losses, lockdown, heartbreak, grief, loneliness and isolation experienced by people as the horrifying nightmare of Covid-19 took hold and shut down so much of the world. And... I can understand if this is too soon for many readers to read about... But...I found this to be an absolutely riveting read, highlighting the incredibly courageous work of the frontline medical staff, whilst providing an insightful glimpse into the beauty and nature of the Galapagos Islands, its people, history and culture. And...Even as I mention the Galapagos Islands, this isn’t going to be a typical travel tale. It is an ingenious twist that she weaves into the narrative that I won’t reveal, as it will be entering into spoiler territory that isn’t my right to give. Ultimately...This is an emotionally poignant, thought provoking novel, of what it is to be human during this time. It is about the love, resilience, bravery and hope in the face of a global pandemic that broke so many lives.

As the immortal John Lennon once said: “Life is what happens to you while you’re busy making other plans.” And weren't we all smacked in the face with the truth of that statement in March of 2020 and thereafter? Jodi Picoult's new novel deals with how the pandemic disrupts one young couple's plans. The plot: As her 30th birthday approaches, Diana thinks she has done well ticking off items on her life's planning list. She has a great job with Sotheby's where she is poised for a major career promotion, she's in love with Finn, a surgeon in residency at New York-Presbyterian Hospital, and they are about to leave on a dream vacation to the Galapagos Islands. But the night before they are to leave, Finn comes home with the news that all leaves are canceled as the hospital prepares to handle an influx of Covid cases. Their tickets are non-refundable so he suggests that Diana go without him. And she does! However it's one problem after another for her, beginning with lost luggage. And as a water taxi brings her to the island of Isabela, there seems to be a mass exodus of tourists who want to get home before a lockdown begins. Diana makes the questionable decision to stay. It's a poor choice as even the hotel where she's booked a room is closing! Where will she stay, what will she wear, how can she even communicate with the outside world without a reliable cell phone connection?! What she does have is the beautiful island with its incredible wildlife and scenery and luckily she finds she can rely on the kindness of the local people. As the weeks pass and life is stripped to essentials, she begins to rethink her life's goals. However guilt intrudes as emails from Finn get through and detail the horrors he is facing at the hospital. Perhaps she never should have left him to deal with this on his own. And worse, she learns that her mother, who has early-onset Alzheimers, has contracted Covid in the nursing home where she's living. But there's nothing much Diana can do until lockdown restrictions are eased. Then at about 60% into the story, Picoult delivers an amazing twist. No spoilers here but I LOVED IT! If you are ready to relive what we went through during the worst days of the pandemic, then I highly recommend this book to you. Read it for the wonderful descriptions of life on the island of Isabela if nothing else. I received an arc of this new novel from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Many thanks for the opportunity.

Diana O'Toole has her life perfectly planned out. Marriage, kids, a career in art history at Sotheby's. Key in her plan is her boyfriend, Finn, a surgical resident. She's sure he's going to propose during their upcoming trip to the Galápagos. But before they can go on the trip, COVID hits, and the world shuts down. Finn cannot leave New York: he's required to stay at the hospital. Not wanting their nonrefundable trip to go to waste, they decide Diana should go without him. Once there, she finds the entire island under quarantine and realizes she's stranded until everything reopens. Without her hotel reservation or even usual shopping open, Diana finds herself reexamining her life and all she has planned. This is certainly a COVID themed book, which hits you hard, but it's very well-done. It's told from the perspective of Finn, as he struggles in his New York hospital, and Diana, as she finds herself stranded in the Galápagos. She occasionally writes him postcards and he sometimes writes her emails. It's a fast read, and very "Picoult"--all twisty and emotional, with our protagonist, Diana, questioning her life and her choices. Also meticulously researched--the Galápagos, Diana's art history career, and all the COVID aspects. Overall, this one makes you think. I found it moving and timely and worth the read. 4 stars. I received a copy of this book from Random House / Ballantine in return for an unbiased review. Blog ~ Twitter ~ Facebook ~ Smashbomb ~ Instagram

Wish You Were Here is an excellent story about the coronavirus pandemic. A couple has a romantic trip planned for the Galapagos. Finn can no longer go on the trip, because he is a surgical resident and is needed to help with the coronavirus pandemic. Diana ends up going on the trip alone. The trip is nothing like the romantic trip she plans. A disaster of a trip turns into her questioning her life choices and debating what kind of life she actually wants. She meets locals while struggling to contact her boyfriend back home. She only gets occasional emails from him. I highly recommend Wish You Were Here. The story is unique and relevant to today since it's about the coronavirus pandemic. I really enjoyed reading about everything Diana went through and how that caused her to reevaluate her life. I liked all the characters and seeing how they reacted to different situations. Wish You Were Here has a typical Jodi Picoult twist that I didn't see coming. Thank you Ballantine and NetGalley for Wish You Were Here. Full review coming soon: https://justreadingjess.wordpress.com/

People seem very divided about this book, which in itself is an accurate depiction of how our divisions came to light during this pandemic. And also, and perhaps more importantly, how we came together. A virus came that turned our known world inside-out, and Ms. Picoult uses a young woman to illustrate how a microscopic organism forever changed her reality. If you're not ready to hear a COVID-related plot, as I imagine many are due to how recent many of our losses are—you might want to put this one on hold for a bit. I felt she did an excellent job researching the medical side of the disease. My husband works in an OR, and the young physician in this book could have been one of thousands across the globe, sacrificing sleep, time with their family, and their own safety to battle the virus. Overall, I thought this book could use used more trimming and while I never warmed to Diana, I was intrigued by her storyline.

4.5 stars Jodi Picoult is known for not being afraid to tackle difficult subject matter in her stories, which I definitely appreciate as a a reader who loves a good story that is well written and also teaches me something. As one of the first novels to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic head on, Picoult did an awesome job conveying so much of what many of us have been experiencing over the past 18 months (and counting). Of course, there’s no doubt that everyone’s reaction to this book will be different depending on each person’s comfort level and “readiness” to take on a story about a pandemic that we are all still living through. As some one who was severely impacted by COVID in very personal ways — both as a survivor when my entire family unfortunately got COVID back in late 2020 (we have all since recovered, but some “scars” still remain) as well as having lost loved ones to the disease (relatives and the parents of close friends) — I honestly wasn’t sure at first whether I wanted to read it at this moment. But I decided to give it a try and in the end, I’m glad I did, as it became a salve of sorts for me, especially knowing that I wasn’t alone in some of the things I experienced. With that said, there were also moments where the situation unfolding was “too close to home” to the point of feeling surreal — while I expected this given the book’s subject matter, it still jarred me a bit. That being said, the reading experience was still a good one. For me, this book’s biggest draw was the subject matter, as it’s not often that we I am able to read a book where the fictional story mimics a reality that I (alongside so many others) am experiencing currently. Given how fresh and raw this subject is, I was curious how Picoult would tackle it — in the end, I definitely appreciated her approach. Having said that, this book actually isn’t just about COVID — at its core, it is also a story about a woman’s journey of self-reflection and an exploration of whether the life she has is what she truly wants. The woman at the heart of the story is Diana O’Toole, who is an art appraiser at one of New York’s premiere auction houses while her boyfriend Finn is a doctor-to-be currently doing his residency at a major hospital. Together, the couple have a dream trip planned to the Galápagos Islands, where Finn plans to propose to Diana and they can take the next step in the plan for their mutual future. The day before they are supposed to leave however, Finn is called back to the hospital where the situation is “all hands on deck” due to an influx of patients with COVID-19. Even though Finn now has to stay behind, he encourages Diana to still go on her own so as not to put their non-refundable trip to waste. Diana reluctantly agrees and heads off to Galapagos, however right after she gets there, the island is locked down and she becomes stranded, with no word of when things will re-open. On an island where WI-FI and a working internet connection are near nonexistent, Diana is completely isolated from the outside world — not only that, she also does not know the language and due to the required quarantine, there are very few people around for her to even ask for help. Diana ends up befriending a local family that takes her in and acquaints her with the beauty of the place they call home. Spending time with the family leads Diana to re-examine her relationships with both Finn and her own mother (who lives in a care facility for dementia patients) as well as reflect upon the choices she’s made in her life his far. I actually really liked all the characters in this story, whether major characters or minor ones. All of them were so well-developed and truly came alive for me, but if I had to choose a favorite, that character would absolutely be Rodney -- not only did I love him as a character, I also really enjoyed his chemistry with Diana...definitely made me wish I had a best friend like him!). This is a book that I believe will be easy to like, as all aspects of it were so well done. Yes, there were some parts where the writing could've been a little tighter and I feel like there were some missed opportunities in some spots, but overall, I enjoyed this tremendously and wholeheartedly recommend it. Oh and I do want to mention that the "twist" in this book definitely made my jaw drop, as I totally was not expecting it (and that's all I'm going to say about it...you will have to pick this one up and read it for yourself if you want to find out more). Picoult has said in interviews that this book was unplanned and she was inspired to write it about 8 months into the pandemic after reading an article about a man who got stuck in Machu Picchu because COVID had shut the entire place down (her editor didn't even know until she received the draft in her email). For a book that basically came about accidentally, this one turned out really well. Though this is definitely a worthwhile read, I do understand that not everyone may be ready for a book about the pandemic yet, so of course, do what works best for you. Received ARC from Ballantine Books via NetGalley.

This time it’s a body strategically placed on a bench at a children’s playground. NYPSD Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her team examine the scene and aside from being disturbed by the murder and location, they notice how the victim is obsessively clean and perfectly made up. But, her clothes are of a much earlier era’s styling and there’s a sign next to her saying “Bad Mommy.” Even without the highly skilled profiler Charlotte Mira’s assessment, they understand they’re dealing with a killer who has mommy issues. As they begin their investigation, they deduce that there are other missing women who match the profile of their victim. It becomes a race against time to find these women before they transition from good mommy to bad. The procedurals in this story were complicated and involved so many variables it was tougher to keep up. Since the setting is 2061, it was interesting that the era of focus was nearer our own this time or one where I was familiar, somewhere around 2003 - 2009. The reaction to some of our fashion choices was pretty funny and nostalgic. Because the case involved missing women, I became much more attached to the victims than I normally do, silently rooting for the team to find them as we were getting the point of view of one of the abducted women. Also, the format included a new aspect, a “before” and “now” point of view from characters critical to the story. While it was initially strange, I came to love it, looking forward to the next one. The revelation of the killer was a stunner, one that set me on my heels right away. Up to that point, I hadn’t a clue so it was a game changer for the team. I always love the Interview segments and this one was particularly interesting. It took a while for the story to fully engage me but when it did, I couldn’t stop reading. I enjoyed it but didn’t love it, even with Mavis’ renovation updates. Still a good time to be back in this world with my favorite characters. 3.5 stars Posted on Blue Mood Café

3.5 stars - I thought this took a while to really get going, but I absolutely loved where it ended up. It was particularly satisfying because I thought we were spending time on a particular character group for one reason and then it totally got undermined by the end!

Well, it was a decent read. My problem with this series is that it's become to repetitive for me. Almost formulaic. Each story seems to check a box: Mystery - that's a given (genre) Roarke will ultimately help with EDD and possible break some locks. Eve will dream of her childhood that somehow relates to the crime. Roarke will need to remind Eve to eat and will feed the team. Roarke will need to dress her or Eve will think about how she's not fashionable and let's Roarke pick her clothes. Eve will mention some saying or quote and talk about how it doesn't make sense. The obligatory steamy scene or two. Eve will have words with the butler dude. I've forgotten his name at the moment. The cat will be mentioned. Eve will use the workout room or pool. Mira will be brought in and there will be a mention of her gatekeeper/admin somehow. Mira will always have a few minutes to talk Eve through a case. Peabody will bring up something about her freeager upbringing. The EDD guys will be mentioned for their attire. Side characters will be rotated in. Her bestie who hasn't been her bestie in years, the reporter, the former LCC and wife we haven't seen in a while until now, Trina, etc. Oh, and Dallas usually has to catch a runaway criminal in the cop central. I think this is the first book hat hasn't happened with in a while. I could be wrong. There's more for sure. But each book has it and it's stale dating the series for me. But here is one thing to note. Since I listen to these books, I can't check for myself. However, I'm almost certain Eve and Roarke have spent more than 3 Christmas's together in 54 books. Yet she says their third anniversary is coming up in this one. I'm not sure why after 54 books, only three years have past. That seems highly unlikely. I think JD/NR timeline is way off. Which I'm not blaming her for. But someone needs to take notes and push this further. I'll be honest and say, this maybe my last of the series. I was hoping for something more and I got less with repetitive scenes. Dallas's life needs to be shaken up. I can't understand why we are stuck with her not having kids after 54 books. Plenty of cops have kids. I get Dallas's trauma may cause her to feel that way. But Dallas needs some character development or movement or this series should end.

Enjoyed it as always!

Good tense thriller

Fifty-four books in and this series shows zero signs of slowing down or stopping. Great news for me as this is hands down one of my favorite series. I have loved every single book in this series, some more than others, but have yet to be disappointed. Reading an In Death book feels like spending time with my favorite people. It is critical, however, that this series be read in order. Abandoned delivers everything I have come to expect with this series. An interesting case investigation, creepy villain, snark from Eve, time with Peabody, moments with Roarke. Dr. Mira’s husband, Dennis, also makes a brief appearance, as do Mavis, Leonardo, Louise and Charles. The villain was a tiny surprise, and I am still scratching my head trying to figure out how Eve focused on this person to begin with. The intensity ramped up very quickly when the bodies of two of the missing women are discovered and my anxiety was in high gear over a third being found alive. In addition to J.D. Robb’s brilliant storytelling skills, I have to give major kudos to Susan Ericksen’s audio narration. I prefer this series in audio because of Susan. She brings the characters’ thoughts and feelings to my ear so poignantly I feel I am in the room with them, which makes the reading and listening experience much more thrilling. My Final Verdict: I highly recommend this series to fans of mysteries, suspense and thrillers. I am trying not to rush through reading the next seven as I want to savor each one, but they are very hard to put down.

Nice installment in this series with a creepy villain. I'm always happy when Peabody plays an active role in the investigations.

3.5 Hats off to Nora (aka J.D. Robb) for somehow still being able to keep this romantic suspense series set in futuristic NYC fresh and interesting even 54 books in!! I confess listening to the audiobook version isn't my favorite. For some reason the narrator just does not do it for me. I also think I'm getting a little tired of all the slang in these books. That said, I was still entertained and kept guessing on how the mystery would shake out. It was fun seeing Peabody and McNab get to build/design their dream house. Roarke and Eve are #couplegoals and I will always love reading about their scenes together. If you haven't read this series yet it is definitely worth your time (even 54 books later! And yes, I have read EVERY single one! #cantstopwontstop)

RATING: 4.5 STARS How am I on book 54 of this series and still loving it? Other than the Baby-Sitter's Club and Sweet Valley High I don't think I have read so many books in a series without getting annoyed. I feel so crochety so am glad I am still reading this series and loving it. I love the balance of gritty and humour between the characters. Dallas and Peabody are my favourite buddy team! ***I received a complimentary copy of this ebook from the publisher through Edelweiss. Opinions expressed in this review are entirely my own.***

Mystery Another successful book in the series. I did like this book more than some of the recent books in the series, but they have become more of a police procedural detective novel than a "Whodunnit" mystery. Meaning, you know who the guilty party is, and it's a matter of Eve and the gang finding the killer before they can kill again. In this case, three women are abducted by a man looking to replicate his mother. The first ends up on a bench in the playground, dead, with a sign written in crayon saying Bad Mommy. This is when Eve and Peabody get called in. As well as all our old favorites, Feeney, Nadine, etc. What was a bit different about this novel, which I personally liked, was the Then/Now POV. We don't often get that in an Eve Dallas In Death book. We read the story of the supposed bad mommy and then how it plays out. There is a pretty good twist at the end that pushed this from a 3* to a 4*. Hard to believe that this series is still going and that I'm still invested. Bring on #55 Nora!

The one with a split personality Also the one where Jaime and Quila met 😍

As always Eve digs until she and Peabody figure it out. Roark and the usual crew work their magic, too, until they get their man. Lots of twists, of course, but this one is personal for Eva and Roark.

Lt. Eve Dallas is called to the scene of a ghastly murder early one morning. A young woman with her throat slit and then stitched up and covered with a ribbon was posed on a children’s park bench. She was dressed in an old style but perfectly dressed and made up, down to the perfume on her. A crude sign, written with kids’ pastels pronounce her as ‘Bad Mommy’. It looks like the work of a crazed psychopath with a ‘Mommy’ syndrome. The detectives working the case cannot fathom the motive or the mindset of the murderer. It then becomes clear that the murderer may have other women, either in his custody or already dead but not discovered yet… As time runs out for the suspected victims, Dallas and her team work overtime to identify and apprehend the murderer. Will they succeed before another victim turns up? Please read my detailed review from the link below: https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-rev... Do Read 📖, Like 👍🏼, Comment 💭, or Share 🚩 🙏🏼🙏🏼 #abandonedindeath #jdrobb #bookmagic #bookreview #lovebooks #bookrecommendations #bookreviewer #bookreviewblog #bookreviewersofinstagram #booklover #books #bookreviewing #bookreviews #bookreviewblogger #bookblogger #lovebooks #suspense #booklovers #thriller #crime #mystery #murdermystery #generalmystery #generalthriller #MYSTERY & DETECTIVE #THRILLER #POLICE PROCEDURALS #CRIME & LEGAL THRILLER #GENERAL MYSTERY & DETECTIVE #GENERAL THRILLER & SUSPENSE

Fans of Daniel Silva and his super-spy/GOAT art restorer, Gabriel Allon, are in for a treat. In a seemingly lighthearted romp that eventually turns both high stakes and deadly, Allon and his host of compatriots (including thieves, spies, afficionados of fine art, police muckety mucks, and a best friend who just happens to be the Pope) are on the hunt for a heretofore undiscovered portrait by Leonardo Da Vinci. Mr. Silva makes liberal use of a dry, acerbic, tongue-in-cheek kind of wit to keep us smiling while turning the pages. And he takes us all over Europe and especially to Venice and Rome. It’s a very enjoyable tale of skullduggery in and around the Vatican, perfect for a summer getaway.

Wishing he would not insert feelings on Green Energy, Illegal Aliens, open borders etc...The story was good and did not need the author's opinion on political issues. The same with the book prior to this one.

I enjoyed this. They are art heist mysteries.

Liked learning about art world/the Catholic Church/bring taken around europe. Love an art heist too

I am a fan of this author and series, they are the right combination of history, art, art history and restoration, travel, intrigue and spies. In this book when a body is found floating in a canal and Gabriel identifies the body belonging to young art expert an investigation to find out why starts. This book took us through Italy and Vatican City to Denmark, Amsterdam and London, I loved the range of locations, the scenes with Gabriel’s wife and children and how the story unfolded. There was lots to learn and absorb.

What’s there to say. It’s Gabriel Allon. Go effing read it. No two ways about it. Already waiting for the next one in July 2026

I love Gabriel Allon so much. But, I loved him more as part of the Israel intelligence apparatus than as a private citizen even when he’s helping other governments or entities. I mean, it’s still exciting but does seem like more of a stretch to include the other characters I love. This was pretty solid for GA as an art restorer/mastermind. I was sad when it ended! But, one distraction for me, as a Catholic, was all the political stuff about the Church. And it was political. I get the Church is this huge target but it is slightly annoying when non-Catholics write about how they wish the Church to be or the perfect Pope (so human, so good looking, so benevolent). I’m 58 and we haven’t had a perfect Pope yet even though I’ve had my favorites. Anyway, I still loved the book but wish Silva would lay off the politics just a bit. Can’t wait for the next one!!

Another good book from Daniel Silva. This time, Gabriel has settled into retirement working as an art restorer and living in Venice with Chiara and his kids. He was present when a dead body was found in the waters and therefore he was roped into intrigue involving a possible Da Vinci painting. This story might not have as much action as previous books. It's much subtler but Gabriel still used his skills to help root out corruption in the Vatican.

The first half dragged a bit with lots of art history details but did pick up.

Good read as a standalone but if you've read the earlier ones, particularly the latest ones, then you'll find it similar, at least the broad outlines. Please read my detailed review here: https://www.aniblogshere.com/books-re...

4.0 / 5.0 I am glad that this book returned back to the basics, nothing crazy, no crazy political issues raised the plot has tuned down alot from the last few plots. Silva went back to the basics with this plot which I greatly enjoyed, the talk of the art, the restoration the charm of each characters I enjoyed my read alot. I like how simple the plot is, and with a simple plot you always have the chance to add in twists, turns and other characters. Its great to see the return of a few characters which are staple to Gabriel Allons. Maybe its the talk of a Leonardo, the talk of the art or understanding how embezzlement works but this book I found thoroughly entertaining. If you like your art, if you like the restoration of art this book is definitely a book you should read (its not everyone's cup of tea). The plot follows Gabriel who was awarded a commission to restore one of the most important paintings in Venice. During his lunchbreak, he spots something in the water of a mysterious woman floating in the waters of the Venice rivers, this leads to a desperate attempt to recover a lost masterpiece by Leonardo da Vinci, and before you know it the Pope is involved. Its an action packed read from start to finish where once you start you want to finish and get to the end! Definitely worth a read!

Rated 4.01 The theme of the book is corruption in the Catholic Church, especially in the papal bureaucracy – the Curia. I would have found it enlightening to read the Author’s Note, which is absent of spoilers, before reading the story. Protagonist Gabriel Allon’s ties to Israel and the Mossad are in the past. Now he is an Italian art restorer and teacher, and a retired spy operative, who has maintained relationships with many of his past colleagues, but his primary relationships are with his family and the Pope. Having read all the Gabriel Allon books as they were introduced, I found An Inside Job formulaic. The story was only mildly engaging and a little predictable; it was a quick read. I enjoyed the art history education. To reunite with an old friend, I may continue to borrow Daniel Silva’s books from the library as they are published, but the thrill is gone. I read the entire book, but I was glad to reach the end. Gabriel Allon has been awarded a commission to restore one of the most important paintings in Venice. But when he discovers the body of a mysterious woman floating in the waters of the Venetian Lagoon, he finds himself in a desperate race to recover a lost masterpiece by Leonardo da Vinci. The painting, a portrait of a beautiful young girl, has been gathering dust in a storeroom at the Vatican Museums for more than a century, misattributed and hidden beneath a worthless picture by an unknown artist. Because no one knows that the Leonardo is there, no one notices when it disappears one night during a suspicious power outage. No one but the ruthless mobsters and moneymen behind the theft -- and the mysterious woman whom Gabriel found in a watery grave in Venice. A woman without a name. A woman without a face. The action moves at breakneck speed from the galleries and auction houses of London to an enclave of unimaginable wealth on the French Riviera -- and, finally, to a shocking climax in St. Peter's Square, where the life of a pope hangs in the balance. An elegant and stylish journey through the dark side of the art world and the Vatican's murky finances

I love the Gabriel Allon series and plan to read forthcoming books, but I'm finding the ones in which he is no longer with the Israeli intelligence a bit flat, formulaic, and contrived. As tough and dangerous as Allon's work as the Israeli head of the Israeli intelligence organization HaMisrad [עברית: המשר and referred to as The Office], it was more plausible, especially since it made references to events that were taking place in the world. Some of the books were even prescient. Now it's just another story of while Gabriel was restoring this work of art or that one, there was a case for which he was called away to help with his expertise in intelligence. Also, I really miss the characters from HaMisrad. They were memorable and colorful people who had suffered personal pain and part of overcoming that was helping their countrymen from future attacks. Now we get a repetition of how his second wife, Chiara, is beautiful, intelligent, a fantastic cook, and owner of the restoration company that represents him, and that she is the daughter of Venice's chief rabbi and how their faux jumeaux are intelligent beyond their years. And the luxury cars, the high end wardrobes, the fine dining in Venice's restaurants, etc., etc. IMHO, it would be terrific if HaMisrad would convince Gabriel to return to Israel to help as the country faces an existential threat. Not only could we see him in action during unprecedented times and circumstances in the Middle East, we would be able to catch up with the characters still at HaMisrad.

As this series shifts from the intense spy-versus-spy action of earlier stories to a more relaxed, almost cozy mystery style focused on the art world, it feels reminiscent of Stuart Woods’ Stone Barrington characters, particularly in its exploration of the luxurious lifestyles of the rich and famous—even within the Papacy. "An Inside Job" reunites readers with familiar faces and dives into the mystery of a woman found dead in the canals of Venice and the potential discovery of an unknown Da Vinci painting at the Vatican. Gabriel Allon, now a renowned art restorer, showcases his masterful four-dimensional chess strategies to untangle the layers of this captivating case.

There’s just something about a high-stakes, conspiracy-packed mystery that I find easy to fall into. I know, I know—they all follow a certain rhythm; you can feel the twists coming, you know there’s going to be corruption and secrets stacked on secrets... but who hasn't daydreamed of having a crazy adventure like that at some point in their life? I mean, corruption in the Catholic church? A lost da Vinci painting? Jetting off to cool locations? Italian mobsters? Intrigue, scheming, and themes that hit a little too close to current events? Count me in. I ate this up. Thanks to Harper Perennial, an imprint of HarperCollins, for the gifted copy for review!

Bot this was a hard book to give a rating to lol. It kept going around in circles in my head as I read this book lol. I have read all 2o books lol. For starters this is not a typical Allon book. It is light and much leaner than recent books more like a earlier book in the series. I think it is the only book where his former boss is not mentioned thank god lol. His agency and his key support group played a very small part in this book it was mainly him and a friend from other books in the series. I was also glad to see his own personal religous and political views were kept out of the book for the most part-3 or 4 books ago he was getting some severe back lash for that and I was in that group. i was almost ready to give up on the series. Like I said this book is a lot leaner and has a quick pace to it. There is not a lot of your typical intense action that comes with this series-very low key. If this was my first book in the series I might have found it boring. I always say read a series in its proper order. I saw a couple of complaints where the book was bogged down in religion too much.I kind of agree with this-there was a about a 15 page section wow where I did not need lol. I will say it was a nice read and flowed well. The story was pretty good but not a normal story for this series. I gave it 4.0 stars on the dot, it was good enough to get that. I am looking forward to the next book in the series. This book also started the forshadowing in a big way of Allon retiring. I would like to see him have to deal with a bad Jewish/ Israel person or a double agent Jewish / Israel person .I am not sure he as the balls for that lol. I do say go ahead and give this book a big spin you will not be let down especially if you are a fan of the series.

For almost 2000 years, the Jews have been blamed for the death of Jesus. What if the gospel of Pontius Pilate, the Roman prefect that ordered the death of Jesus on the cross, existed? What would it reveal? The gospels are taken at face value by millions of people, yet many scholars and historians question their accuracy. For example, the author wrote that four of the gospels differently described the Sanhedrin trial of Jesus. Gabriel Allon, head of the Israeli secret intelligence service, is vacationing in Venice with his family. Gabriel is brought in to investigate the death of the pope, the disappearance of a Swiss Guard, and a missing letter and book. Alleged Islamic terrorist attacks are occurring in Berlin during a contested Chancellor election. Anti-Semitism is on the rise. The conclave is convening to pick the new pope. I have read the entire series and always look forward to the latest addition. Gabriel and his team get the job done no matter the barriers or timetable. An enjoyable read, but I found, without spoiling the details, that some of the scenes were implausible, especially within the Vatican. What if blaming the Jews for the death of Jesus is the longest lie that was perpetuated by the role of the Catholic Church? Would the awful and hateful Antisemitism that has continued to plague the Jews to this day exist? The author did a lot of research and listed many books and articles in his acknowledgments.

Another spellbinding story from Silva’s masterful pen. I was disappointed, though, to see his Dan Brown-esque dismissal of the historicity of the Gospel accounts. In the author’s note he writes: “Christians who believe in biblical inerrancy will no doubt take issue with my description of who the evangelists were and how their Gospels came to be written. Most biblical scholars would not.” I do hope Silva and readers of this novel will be intellectually honest enough to engage other scholarly—and, in my estimation, more historically careful—perspectives. I suggest starting with Michael J. Kruger’s work (“The Question of Canon,” “Canon Revisited,” etc.).

Entertaining enough but like many I felt the author 'phoning these tales in' lately: especially with the last few novels. Also seemed too be a blend of Da Vinci Code and Angels & Demons. The evil Camerlengo plotting against the Pope with another alternate Christ-version conspiracy. Not saying I'm either way as the whole bible was written but other people at other times so who knows the real truth. Plus all the women around Allon are gorgeous and he's always so cool and collected almost conceited these days.

I truly enjoyed this book, but then I like reading about the Vatican and church history. Sure, this is fictional but the discussions on the Gospels and how anti-Semitism has deep roots in Church history are fascinating to me. We see Gabriel Allon being forced to go on vacation by his wife but being pulled into Vatican and European politics when his old friend, Pope Paul VII, died suddenly. Murder is suspected and Gabriel used the resources available to him as head of Israeli intelligence to investigate. In so doing, uncovering the plots and machinations of a neo-Nazi order planning to take over powerin the Church and in countries all ovet Europe. Can this be read as a standalone? Probably, but to understand fully how Gabriel gets to where he is and his mindset, having read through the series is beneficial.

This was pretty different and tame when compared to the author’s usual high stakes terrorism plot lines. Nevertheless, I enjoyed reading it. And I especially loved the afterword where he gives a detailed explanation separating fact from fiction, along with many references to other history books which I wouldn’t mind looking up one day.

Well, I went through this Gabriel Allon book pretty quickly, it's good to see Mr. Silva step away from the repetitive past few thrillers (not that this one is completely new ground). With the suspicious death of the Pope, his private secretary realizes that a letter he was writing to Gabriel Allon has vanished, along with the Swiss guard who was on duty that night. Allon happens to be vacationing in Venice, so off he goes to match wits with another secret Catholic society trying to take over the world. Anti-semitism, anti-immigrant far right politicians, Church cardinals being bribed, German industrialists with hidden Nazi ties, and a missing apocryphal gospel by Pontius Pilate - it's all there. A tad predictable, a tad preachy, a tad repetitive, but overall a fun read, much more fun than the last 3-4 books. And we get to see how Allon might be spending his retirement...

Having read every single one of the books in this series, I couldn't wait to start this new one. As usual, I alternated between listening and reading and I have absolutely no problem with George Guidall as the narrator. But, I did have a couple of issues with this latest installment. Having followed Gabriel since the very beginning, I really have come to respect him and am so happy to see him at this point in his life with Chiara and the twins. I know that in his position now with Israeli Intelligence, things cannot still be as crazy as they have been in the past and he is getting older. I think where this lost me was that it went too in depth into facts - facts regarding historic church documents and facts regarding religion. It was not the quick reading adventure that I've come to expect. While the plot was interesting and we had bits of excitement, they were few and far between. Will that stop me from reading the next book? Absolutely not. But, I just hope that we can get back to a little bit of the Gabriel Allon that we have come to love.

I started this twentieth book in the series as soon as it arrived and finished it in less than 24 hours. This latest installment finds Gabriel back in Rome after his good friend, the pope has died and his good friend, the pope’s chief of staff believes it was murder. A fast and wonderful read, which I will share with family at the beach! Highly recommended

The Order is the 20th book in the Gabriel Allon series… Allon, head of the Israeli secret intelligence service, is brought to investigate the death of a friend, the Pope. There is a disappeared Swiss Guard, a missing letter and a book. Meanwhile, far-right politicians are on the rise all over Europe and their strong supporter, the legendary Order of St. Helena, is trying to select a puppet Pope. So Allon needs to uncover the truth before the next Conclave begins. Although it is not the best book in the series, I enjoyed it...

I really thought I had the twist called from the beginning and was dead ass wrong. She got me 😅

Yeaaaaah… you’re all gonna have to read this.

me reading the ending: “you know what? hell yeah!”

Yalll. I read this in 24 hours!!!! I really thought i had a figured out..i had MULTIPLE theories and not ONE was right! Plot twist was SO GOOD!! What a ride

Wow! I’m addicted to McFadden’s writing—her unpredictable, mind-blowing twists, brilliant sense of humor, and fast-paced, short chapters that keep me hooked! I love her books! I know reading is subjective—you don’t have to like her characters or may even find them naive, questioning their intelligence with harsh adjectives. Honestly, I don’t care! For me, I enjoy the inner thoughts of her seemingly naive characters, which often make me laugh because of the sarcasm and dark humor in their thoughts and actions. (Criticizing heroines for panicking and making mistakes is like questioning why blonde women in horror movies always die first or how the 'final girl' manages to survive, even if she’s not a genius!) The story revolves around Sydney, a 34-year-old accountant living in a nice New York apartment. Recently heartbroken after her breakup with her detective boyfriend Jake, Sydney’s financial situation doesn't match her unlucky love life. She dives into the dating pool through a popular app, but her recent dates have been disastrous. Her last date, Kevin, even attempted to assault her on the street, turning into a stalkerish nightmare. Thankfully, she’s saved by a mysterious stranger that night, but she doesn't hear from them again—until fate brings them together after her best friend, who lived in her apartment, is brutally murdered. We also get flashbacks of Tom’s past, though his identity isn’t revealed immediately. Tom, a nice and sweet high school boy, befriends an awkward outcast nicknamed Slug, and falls in love with Daisy, the police chief's daughter. But Tom’s darker instincts slowly drag him into a whirlwind of tragedies, including the deaths of young women in his neighborhood. How will Sydney and Tom’s paths cross? Has Sydney unknowingly invited danger into her life? If you want to know more, hop on McFadden’s fright train and read this in one sitting! It’s guaranteed fun, as always. McFadden’s thrill rides never disappoint! Anyway, I enjoyed this book! Interestingly, I even enjoyed the flashbacks to Tom’s story. I found Sydney, the main heroine, tolerable, especially since I laughed out loud every time her mother called with awkward reminders about her biological clock ticking! The smart twist left me speechless—even the sharpest reader wouldn’t see it coming. I also enjoyed the ending! The pacing was great, as usual, and the way Sydney’s present-day POV intertwined with Tom’s past was surprisingly well done. Overall: I’m giving this 4 stars! It’s a captivating, heart-pounding page-turner—highly entertaining popcorn reading! medium.com instagram facebook twitter

When a new Freida book drops, everything else you're reading goes straight to the back burner—naturally! This one? Bloody fantastic. The dual timeline narration is what makes it shine. It cranks up the tension bit by bit, and then—boom! It hits you like a ton of bricks with that killer ending.

—— 4.✰ stars. “After all, the less time I spend with the chief of police, the better.” bitches, I don’t know if my slump is cured but holy shit I read this in 3 hours lol. Freida never fails to make me read. Her books are no masterpieces, but if you chill and read they are the definition of FUN. ➷ plot: we follow two timelines, present timeline, with Sydney as our main character, she is tired of going into fail dates, and one day she bumps into this perfect guy, and she thinks she found the one, but is he really as perfect as it seems ? On the other hand, past timeline we follow Tom, a high school boy that is in love with a classmate, Daisy. He is obsessed with her and wants to make her his girlfriend. I tried to explain the plot the less spoilery possible! It doesn’t seem much but the less you know in Freida’s books, the better! ➷ my thoughts: since it’s a thriller I never really talk about the characters or other important things to avoid ruining the plot for other people. I really liked and enjoyed this book. Do I think is that good to have a 4 star rating? Probably not, but god I HAD FUN. And the plot twist GOT ME. I was so sure I got Freida this time but she said, not today bitch, I’m getting you. The book keeps you suspecting everyone, trying to connect the dots and the timelines, with an incredible EASY writing and pace to follow. My main advice on this authors books is to flow, to think the less amount of theories possible and just enjoy the twisted ride. I will keep reading all the books she releases. Not all of them are good, but they just FLY by. if someone wants to start reading Freida, I would recommend to start with the housemaid ( only the first book tho) and never lie.

THE BOYFRIEND is my favorite Freida McFadden to date. I said what I said. I've really been enjoying thrillers that infuse dating/romance/dark f'd up partners lately (I wonder why) and THE BOYFRIEND fits the bill! The story is centered around Sydney Shaw, a mid-30s year old woman living in New York trying to navigate online dating. When a date goes awry, Sydney ends up meeting someone who ends up being everything she'd want in a relationship. He is charming, handsome, confident, and a physician. As the two begin to date, Sydney starts suspecting that her new relationship isn't as stable as she thought it was, especially when a string of deaths start popping up. These murders involve women around her age demographic. I almost gave this book 5 stars because it was so much fun, but I immediately clocked what was going to happen (for the most part) early on. That didn't take away from my enjoyment, but I wish the secrets were held a bit better. This book is juicy and fun in all the best ways, and I did get tricked with one of the twists, so I was pleasantly surprised at some of the developments. This is an easy read for sure and won't be anything you haven't seen before in thrillers, but the way the story is told really is a fun journey. I definitely would recommend any Freida fans to pick this one up because it really is a fun, mindless, escape. I definitely needed this read to take my mind of ~life~ lately. This book will be perfect for a vacation read or a rainy day read because you will get lost in the story. I have mixed opinions about this author, but I definitely do not with THE BOYFRIEND.

4 Stars! 👑THE QUEEN IS BACK YA'LL!!!!👑 The way i devoured this book in a couple of hours is proof enough of how good it was. It has been proved. Freida never sleeps and throws out banging thrillers one after the other. Her writing itself is enough for you to not stop reading. It just sucks you in. And to top that off her twists are mind blowing. This was another one of her classic thrillers with: 🗡️ Complex characters🧑‍🤝‍🧑 🗡️ Dual timelines⌚ 🗡️ TWIST i never saw coming 🤯 🗡️ Fast paced 🏃‍♀️ 🗡️ Killer Epilogue 🤭 I won't lie i did think by the halfway point that it all seems pretty obvious and that this was like a lot other thillers i've read before. I was going to give it a 3 star at most. One thing I did not like is how the women are portrayed to be ignoring all the red flags and blindly trusting the guy. But i should know not to doubt Freida or judge her books atleast until i read the whole thing. The twist just changed my entire perspective of this and i won't stop gushing. I just can't. Everyone needs to read this rn!! Slump or no slump it'll get you back on track and remind you why we love reading so damn much!!📚 ~~~~~~~ girl you just released a book and you already have two more lined up😭like I really wanna read all of them keep em coming.. But you do sleep and do other things right??? Where do all these fantastic plots come from? 😭🥰 anyhow can't wait to read this one❤

Why does Freida McFadden write women who hate themselves ??? This started horribly as I think I wasn’t a fan of the narration, it significantly improved when I switched to paperback. And I ended up really enjoying it for the easy to read factor. There was a great twist as always - dare I say, I think this is one of Freida’s better books. But do bare in mind with this author, they are very much popcorn thrillers, so manage expectations :)

౨ৎׄ ˖ ݁𖥔🩸 ݁𖥔˖ . ─── 4.0★ 〬𓂂 🔪ׄ The Boyfriend is a story i really enjoyed. Although the pacing can feel a bit slow at times, it's clear that every detail is carefully planned to connect all the pieces and lead you to the final plot twist, which leaves you completely shocked. I didn’t see any of it coming, really. Freida makes you distrust everyone. One thing that characterizes Freida McFadden is her ability to keep the reader’s interest. Her chapters, although very short, always end with a small mystery that leaves you wanting to read one more... and then another. This makes the book addictive, even when some chapters might feel a bit “boring” since not much happens, but in each chapter, there’s a clue. I think the ending plays with the perceptions you have of the characters and makes you question what you thought you knew from the beginning. The big plot twist reveals how certain details that seemed insignificant or disconnected make sense in the last chapters. It’s an ending that leaves that “WHAT?!!!” feeling, but at the same time, it makes sense when you look back at the clues it left. Overall, The Boyfriend is a captivating read, full of unexpected twists that are worth it. While the story's buildup takes its time, the final result makes the wait worthwhile. I would definitely recommend it.

𝘕𝘰𝘣𝘰𝘥𝘺 𝘦𝘭𝘴𝘦 𝘥𝘪𝘦𝘴. 𝘌𝘷𝘦𝘯 𝘪𝘧 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘺 𝘥𝘦𝘴𝘦𝘳𝘷𝘦 𝘪𝘵? 𝘞𝘦𝘭𝘭, 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵’𝘴 𝘥𝘪𝘧𝘧𝘦𝘳𝘦𝘯𝘵, 𝘰𝘧 𝘤𝘰𝘶𝘳𝘴𝘦. I honestly don’t even know how I feel right now 😵‍💫 This is my fifth book by the author and every time I’m so sure I’ve figured it out… and every time I’m wrong. AGAIN. 😭 The pacing was pretty slow until maybe the last 25% — and then boom! Anxious, tense, couldn’t stop flipping pages.🖤🥲 At first, I thought Sydney was smart, but somewhere along the way I started screaming at her like: “GIRL, USE YOUR BRAIN!” 😩😂 But after that shocking twist?? Okay, fine… I take it back. Also, I did feel bad for Tom at some point. Then again… it's fiction sooo 😏 Let’s just say I was lowkey happy with how things turned out. Especially because I liked Jake from the start.❤️ Overall, an entertaining and twisty read that kept me second-guessing until the very end. 🤍❤️ જ⁀➴♡ |𝑃𝑟𝑒-𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑 I couldn’t decide what to read next, so I just picked the first book that popped up on Pinterest—let’s see how this goes! ✨ ❤️🤍

I wanted to love this book and give it a glowing 5 stars, but Sydney’s frustratingly naive decisions made it impossible. Seriously, how many red flags can someone ignore? Time and time again, I found myself yelling at the pages, wishing she’d ask the obvious questions or dig deeper instead of just brushing everything off. It felt so unrealistic that it pulled me out of the story at times. BUT—and this is a big but—the twist? Absolutely mind-blowing. I had theory after theory, confident I’d figured it all out, and then the story hit me with a curveball I never saw coming. The unpredictability and constant tension had me flying through the pages just to see how it all unraveled. It’s rare for a book to keep me guessing like this one did, and I loved every second of it. In the end, the clever plot and jaw-dropping twists made up for Sydney’s questionable choices (mostly). If you’re a fan of stories packed with surprises and suspense, this one is 100% worth the read. I just wish the main character’s decisions felt more believable—then it would’ve been an easy 5-star winner.

I’m on BookTube now! =) ”Mystery Man is staring at me, that half smile playing on his lips. The electricity between the two of us is palpable. Sometimes I’m not sure if a guy is interested in me or not. But from the way Mystery Man is looking at me, I know he’s interested.” So, this was my first Freida McFadden book and it definitely won’t be my last. I had fun with this! Yes, me reading a thriller and actually enjoying it is rare, but this was a nice change to the genres I usually read! In addition, it was the first time I enjoyed both timelines and wanted to continue to read them in equal measure. Normally, if there are two timelines in a book I tend to prefer one over the other, but this time around I was as curious about what happened in the past as I was about what happened in the present. That’s no small feat and I’ve to give Freida kudos for her engaging writing style that kept me not only interested but also on my toes! “I'm scared that she will allow me into her bedroom when her parents aren't home so that we can finally be alone together. And I'm terrified that the moment I get her alone, I will wrap my fingers around her pretty, white neck and squeeze the life out of her." The interesting thing is that both timelines were told from a different perspective. In the past, we get Tom Brewer’s POV who is a teen and finally dating the girl of his dreams who happens to be the daughter of the chief of police. All those chapters were extremely intriguing because a girl has gone missing and the entire city is looking for her. Tom’s thoughts and feelings regarding her disappearance are very suspicious, but we never get something concrete. We just get his thoughts and feelings, but they are somewhat filtered and that makes Tom a very unreliable narrator. "He never even promised to try to cut back on work. He told me in that sincere voice of his that his job was the most important thing in his life and that any woman who was with him needed to understand and respect that." The other timeline is told from Sydney’s POV and plays a couple of years after the happenings of Tom’s story. We follow Sydney Shaw who seems to stumble from one bad date into the next. Her last one with a guy named Kevin almost ended in a disaster. Thankfully she was saved by a mysterious stranger who disappeared into the night without even mentioning his name. The next day Sydney discovers her bestie Bonnie murdered in her own flat and every thought of dating instantly vanishes. After a month of no one finding the culprit, she decides to start dating again, though, and as chance would have it, Tom’s and her path cross after a couple of weeks. Things proceed quickly from there on out and Sydney is happy she found a perfect man like Tom. "But there's no point in insisting on an answer. One thing is very clear - Tom is not willing to tell me the truth." Or well, almost perfect. Tom seems to be hiding things from Sydney and he’s very elusive and doesn’t want to commit to a true relationship. In addition, he’s a doctor and was near their block in the night Bonnie died. Apparently, Bonnie was starting to go for a serious relationship with a mysterious doctor she met on a dating app. He turned out to be the prime suspect, but no one ever saw him or knew who he was. It couldn’t have been Tom, right? Right. That would be too much of a coincidence. We sit there on my sofa for a moment staring at each other. I can’t say he’s wrong. “The past is the past. You can’t change it.” “Sometimes you can make it right though.” Well, thankfully Sydney’s ex Jake Sousa who is also the detective trying to solve Bonnie’s murder case, is set on looking out for her. Maybe old feelings are resurfacing. Who knows? Meanwhile, Tom’s timeline in the past gets more and more interesting, setting a fast pace that makes you question everything you know. Is Sydney dating Bonnie’s murderer? Is the Tom of the past the same Tom in the future? Was the murderer someone else entirely? Maybe Kevin her stalker or another person Sydney doesn’t even know. Is she in danger now? ”There’s something very wrong with me. My mother and Daisy might not see it, but Alison sees it, and so does Slug. I don’t know what to do about it. But Alison was right about one thing: I’m dangerous.” I was such a sucker for Tom the unreliable narrator and I’m proud to say I figured out a couple of things even though I wasn’t able to pinpoint all of them. XD The ending was still quite a surprise and caught me off guard. I can’t say I understood why Sydney continued to date Tom and even if I’d be desperate I wouldn’t date a person who might be a murderer. I mean, I get it, he was a handsome doctor and apparently, they had great sex, but yeah, Tom not telling her the truth and always inventing excuses for everything would have been such a red flag! And this even without her suspicion of him being Bonnies murderer. Maybe she enjoyed the thrill? To each their own. *lol* After a kiss that practically melts my bones, Tom murmurs in my ear, “You want to take this to the bedroom?” “What about your meeting?” “Sleep is overrated.” “What about our tequilas?” “All I want,” he whispers in my ear, “is you.” Okay then. As for the ending: (view spoiler) Conclusion: “The Boyfriend” turned out to be a perfect palette cleanser for me! I so rarely read in the genre of thrillers, but I think I might go for more books of Freida McFadden in the future. This is exactly the kind of thriller story I can read and enjoy. Something that keeps the reader guessing and wondering until the very end. It definitely worked for me! 4 stars! _____________________________ “The Boyfriend” might have been my first Freida McFadden book but it definitely won’t be my last! I rarely read thrillers but this one was fun! XD Freida’s writing style is really easy to read and it was nice to try to figure it all out. The two timelines certainly made it interesting! Full RTC soon! It probably will be a short one but I really enjoyed the book! ______________________________ I think I never read a Freida McFadden book before. “The Boyfriend” is actually going to be my first and I’m very curious if I’ll enjoy it or not. There seem to be a lot of Freida McFadden books out there so I suppose if it turns out to be a win, I’ll have enough stories to read. XD Also I’ve been reading so many e-books lately and it’s nice to hold a paperback in my hands again. I missed this. *lol* Cross your fingers for me! My first thriller in a long time! ;-) Find me on: My Blog Instagram

Just a fantastic author. No, she's not the best writer in the entire world, but she may be the best storyteller when it comes to suspense, character creation, shocking scenes, and clever connections. I really enjoy how her mind works and would love to just meet her in person for coffee. To think of all these killers and personalities, I'm in awe!

This book hooks you right from the start! Has an everyday/ relatable feel when you meet the present day cast of characters. There are a few POVs with two timelines, but very easy to follow. Audiobook was narrated by both a male and female narrator for their respective characters. Definitely recommend the audio version as it was very bingeable and easy to listen to. In true Freida fashion- I thought I knew exactly what was happening and I was wrong. I didn’t have an accurate clue until about 80% in, but at that point I was just salivating to see how things would turn out 😅

Unbelievable! After a series of big flops and DNFs and losing all trust in the author’s work, I really enjoyed this one! I didn’t even know this thriller was coming out! I know right?! I couldn’t stop reading this one and Freida wins this round. This one is popcorn delicious but you will not enjoy it without some drinks. But it will not provide the drinks you need. So yes don’t expect too much but just go for it blindly. The twist will not surprise you but the best part would be the unpredictability as you go on reading. The characters are either all stupid or psychopaths and they are like “is it?” They will be like “whoa maybe”. Unrelated genres but book recommendation wise, I am sure if you like Colleen Hoover’s writing, you will definitely like this one. One is kinda sloppy romance good to read fast and the other is sloppy thriller good to read fast as well. So yes no story telling as most times when it comes to thriller reviews but I would like you to know what to expect when you choose this one.

Freida McFadden never disappoints! The Boyfriend is a chilling, creepy thriller with countless twists throughout. I was instantly intrigued and continued to be invested as the puzzle pieces came together. The alternating timeline and different POVs added to the suspense as the tension increased. Every time I thought I knew where the story was going, I was shocked as it went in a direction that was completely unpredictable. The narration added a layer of intensity to this macabre, spine-tingling thriller. Thank you, NetGalley and Dreamscape Select for my audiobook.

** spoiler alert ** 4.5 ⭐️ IM SO CONFUSED??? The whole book I thought Kevin was ‘Slug’ and the ending didn’t confirm anything 😅 I feel like I’m going to be thinking about this for a long time Update: Nevermind I just clocked that Daisy killed Slug when they were kids…. Still confused on who Kevin is though

4.5⭐️ my girl Freida does it again! I usually can’t guess her twists but I did guess most of them in her last book The Teacher so I was hoping to be stumped this time around. I had two working theories throughout the entire book and in the end I was wrong! As much as I love being an amateur sleuth it’s always nice to not guess the plot twist in the end! In true Freida fashion this was another binge worthy popcorn thriller that had me glued to my kindle. From the moment I picked it up I couldn’t put it down. Definitely recommend it if you’re looking for a palette cleanser thriller with some slasher vibes for spooky season!

25 year old Colby Mills leaves the farm where he lives with his aunt and sister Paige and has taken a long overdue holiday in Florida. He feels great responsibility for his aunt who along with her husband took Colby and Paige in when their parents were killed. Once, Colby had dreamed of a music career but then his uncle’s death and other events left him holding the farm together and helping his aunt and sister. But this time he has managed to get away and is playing a gig at a Florida bar. Nothing had prepared him to meet 21 year old Morgan. Love blossoms. But Morgan has her own music dreams, of going to Nashville. Beverly is also on a journey. With her young son Tommie she is fleeing from her abusive husband Gary. After careful planning she arrives in a small town to begin a new life. That is unless Gary finds her. During the course of a week, these three people have their ideas of love put to the test. This book, bought for me, has been sitting on the shelf for a few weeks, tempting me while I tried dutifully to ignore it and read the library books here. The lure of a new Nicholas Sparks book finally won out. I liked both Colby and Morgan, and all the music info and shared every aspect of fear with Beverly. I never wanted to put this book down once I started-and was positive this would be a five star read but then I had some issues with aspects of the ending that just did not ring true to this reader. So dropped the rating back to 4. Up till then I adored it. And it was a really good read. Now I will return to the book I put aside to read this one.

*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.com ‘Hold on to Dreamland Forever, not just today Someday Dreamland will be ours Hold fast, don’t fall away’ Famous around the globe for his bestselling books and films based on his novels, Nicholas Sparks presents his readers with Dreamland, his latest release. Two worlds collide in this engaging new Sparks tale, holding the reader completely captive with this risky love and life story. Dreamland unveils the lives of two core protagonists in this poignant new journey tale from Nicholas Sparks. We meet Colby, a man who has big dreams of making it in the music world, but family pressures and obligations have got in the way of his career goals. But out of the blue, Colby agrees to take part in a gig that will change his life forever. Colby’s temporary dalliance in the music world leads him into the arms of Morgan, a star on the rise. Morgan soon inspires Colby to reignite his passion for music and she encourages him to take a chance on a new life with her. As Colby and Morgan forge an unforgettable bond, Beverly is a woman on a drastic journey. Escaping her violent husband and protecting her young son from his abuse, Beverly must forge a new undercover existence in a town where no one knows her name. With the constant threat of her husband finding out where she and her son are hiding, Beverly lives on the edge. Will Beverly find her safe haven? How will the lives of these three souls intertwine as their dreams collide with their past ? Nicholas Sparks is one of my unquestionable auto buy authors. Although Dreamland was published in September, I reserved this latest Sparks release for the Christmas period. It is always a book treat to read a Nicholas Sparks novel and I’m happy to report that this was another fine read by the global bestselling author. Told over seven page turning parts and sixty-eight engrossing chapters, Dreamland is the twenty fourth release from Nicholas Sparks, an author who needs no introduction. Utilising an alternating form of narration between a man named Colby and a woman named Beverly, Sparks presents two vastly different viewpoints. It is hard to see how and when Sparks will make the character linkage, but I placed my complete trust in one of my favourite writers. Eventually I was presented with a huge collision between the lives of Colby and Beverly. I loved how Sparks managed to bring these two contrasted protagonists together in a crushing turn of events. Poignant, sad, full of meaning and sacrifice, Dreamland was a moving read. I found most of the novel addictive and it really ramped up towards the last third of the story. I couldn’t turn the pages of Dreamland quick enough in the latter addictive stages of the novel. Dreamland features a very immersive narrative style which allowed me to develop a lasting bond with Beverly. I was less enamoured by Colby and Morgan’s story, but they were still well rendered protagonists. I was itching to get back to Beverly’s journey each time Sparks made the switch back to Colby. I’m not sure why I found Colby’s story and romance plot less attractive. Beverly’s story had me riveted, as it featured some crime and mystery vibes. I was reminded of the movie Sleeping with the Enemy while following Beverly’s tense story. Sparks really involves the reader in Beverly’s narrative, so we feel an overwhelming sense of urgency, despair, nervousness and fear. Tying in themes of grief, loss, health, mental illness, parenting, family care and domestic violence, Sparks illuminates some rather heavy ground within the format of a highly accessible contemporary narrative. With periphery ideas on music, careers, love and hope, Dreamland is a bittersweet tale. Do have a few tissues on hand as in true Sparks style this double story is both happy and sad, but Dreamland will leave your heart full. *Thanks is extended to Hachette Australia for providing a free copy of this book for review purposes.

North Carolina storyteller Nicholas Sparks returns with a poignant love story about risking everything for a dream—and whether it’s possible to leave the past behind. DREAMLAND —is an emotional story of family, loss, and love. North Carolina Colby Mills put his dreams on hold to run his family's dairy farm, giving up his musical career. When he gets the chance to play a gig at a bar in St. Pete Beach on the Gulf Coast of Florida for a few weeks, his family urges him to go. He enjoys his laid-back time on the beach doing what he loves best - MUSIC and meets Morgan Lee from Chicago, whose life is the opposite of Colby's. She has everything at her fingertips, from talent, money, family, and education. Most of all, she is pursuing her dream of music. Even though the two are opposites, they bond over their love of music. Colby is not jealous of her opportunities but encourages her. He writes music and is talented, and Morgan sees this in him. They fall in love. She wants him to go to Nashville with her. However, Colby knows this romantic fling cannot last because he is called back to the farm with family obligations and an emergency. How will the two be able to develop an ongoing relationship from a distance? Can they make it work? In another parallel story (the author does a sly flip twist here) A woman, Beverly on the run from her abusive husband with her son. Her money and time are running out, and she is desperate. How do these storylines connect? Fate will bring them together in an unforgettable story. You have to feel for Colby with the world's weight on his shoulders but still with a great attitude. I liked his character. DREAMS LOST AND FOUND> I have read all Nicholas Sparks novels and am a fan; however, this was not my favorite. I am not a fan of country music, but this novel reads like a country music song for some reason. An NC native and have resided in Florida for over 20 years (east coast), I always enjoy the gulf coast and The Don Cesar, St. John's Pass, Indian Rock Beach, cycling, etc, and nice to revisit in a book. Sure, NS fans will enjoy this one, but for me, I kept waiting for something else to happen. However, will continue to pick up his books in the future. Thank you, #RandomHouse and #NetGalley, for an ARC to read, enjoy, and review. Blog Review Posted @ www.JudithDCollins.com @JudithDColins | #JDCMustReadBooks Pub Date: Sept 20, 2022 My Rating: 4 Stars Sept 2022 Must-Read Books

4.5 stars I read this book in less than 12 hours. It was just so good that I didn't want to put it down. There were two different storylines. First, you have Colby, who is on work/vacation and meets someone. This was such a cute and fun romance, and I loved every minute of Colby's story. The second story was a little bit darker and heavier. This was Beverly's story who was on the run with her 6-year-old, trying to get away from her abusive husband. The entire book, I was questioning how these two stories would come together. I just didn't understand how they could intertwine with each other. I was buddy reading this with @whatsalexreading and it was so fun to talk about our different theories together. This honestly made the entire book so much more enjoyable for me. If you are a Nicholas Sparks fan, then this book will not disappoint you! It was the perfect combination of a light and easy read with a more heavier read. While I did enjoy Colby's parts more than Beverly's parts, I still loved the story overall. I received this book for free via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.

This was a hard book to figure out and I’m not ashamed to say I never did figure it out until they spelled it out for me in the end. One part of the book is about Colby, who is a farmer. He also enjoys singing and playing his guitar. Colby leaves the farm for a brief vacation in Florida where he is singing in a bar each night. He meets a young girl and they fall madly in love. Of course there are complications to their relationship as with everyone. The other part of the book is about Beverly who is on the run from her abusive husband. She has a little boy and the reader feels very sorry for her. But the question remains is how are these two characters ever going to meet up before the book is over. It all becomes clear at the end, although it is confusing at first. All in all it was a very good book that I enjoyed very much.

Dreamland by Nicholas Sparks is told in dual perspectives. In the first perspective you have Colby who is an inspiring musician who works on a farm. In the second perspective is told by Beverly who runs away from her abusive husband with her 6 year old son. As I read this book I tried and tried to figure out how these two stories were going to intertwine. I have read all of Mr Sparks books and I can’t remember another time that he has done this so I was surprised by this read. I really enjoyed both perspective but felt like in the one It was a little to insta love. Thank you Netgalley and Random House for a copy of this book for an honest review.

This was a different book for Nicholas Sparks. For those wanting a different novel from him, I think this one may classify as one of those. There were some of the classic 'ingredients' of a Nicholas Sparks novel such as the settings, general tone, depth, and romance but there was something unique about this novel that differentiates it from the others. Personally, I love Nicholas Sparks' classic storytelling so although I did really enjoy this novel, it wasn't what I would consider a favourite written by him. However, I do respect him writing away from his norm along with the mental health representation that this book includes.

During the first half of this book I thought; meh, the story is okay, but not outstanding. I kept wondering how the storylines would intertwine. Luckily I kept pushing myself to read on and it came to a conclusion that made it all crystal clear. Although this book didn't make me cry, it was an emotional ride. I only can't say if the mental rep in this one was done well and haven't found a own voices review either.

I have read every single one of Nicholas Sparks books, and this one was very unique to me. The book flashes back and forth between two completely different stories. Colby is a 25 year old farmer, who is offered the opportunity to spend several weeks in Florida performing his music at a popular resort. While there he meets Morgan, a recent college graduate with hopes of going to Nashville and making it big. In seemingly another universe, Beverly is on the run from her abusive husband with her six year old son Tommie in tow. Beverly escapes in the middle of the night, with not much to her name, and struggles to provide for Tommie, while flying under the radar so that her husband cannot find her. The entire book I was like, these two stories must tie in somewhere, and I could not figure out how. They eventually do, with about 20% of the book left, and I would never have guessed the outcome. I really loved this book. I feel that it was a different type of creativity that I do not recall seeing from Sparks before. However, this is a 4.5 star read for me. I could not give it a full five stars simply because I did not buy the insta love between Colby and Morgan. Thank you to NetGalley and Random House for the digital ARC! I have been a Sparks fan for almost 15 years, and getting to read one of his novels before it was released was very exciting.

A captivating storyline that was intriguing to read. Of course there is a romance… it’ Nicolas Sparks…but there is also so much more. A strong cast of characters that are likable right from the start. Add in a few unexpected twists that you won’t see coming and I found this one hard to put down. Highly recommended for all the “Sparkies” out there and even those who are not. Read this one in 48 hours! Thank you #NetGalley, Random House & Nicholas Sparks for the ARC. My review is strictly voluntary.

Dreamland has two POV’s, one that focus on Colby, and a different one focusing on Beverly. Reading through the first half of the book, I was sort of confused, as to how these POV’s would connect. But when we get closer to the last quarter, there is a major twist that throws us for a loop. Personally I preferred Beverly’s story it was scary and tense, with a surprising twist 5⭐ but with Colby's there was something missing. 3⭐

Nicholas Sparks' latest work, Dreamland brings us all those things his fans have come to know and love about his work - romance and heartache, sprinkled with some drama and a dash of mystery. I tend to enjoy characters and settings he creates and Dreamland was no exception. It was an enjoyable vacation read even with some of the heavier topics it covered. Colby Mills, a small town North Carolina boy whose dreams of a music career got derailed when he had to take on running his family's farm, is spending a week in Florida for a short term gig playing at a beach bar. The last thing he expects is the way meeting Morgan Lee ends up spinning his head. And his musical creativity. They might be from two very different worlds but will their magical connection and mutual love of music be enough to bring them truly together. Meanwhile in another part of the country Beverly is on a run with her son, trying to outrun her past and create a safe future for the two of them. One week can change the course of many lives... This is a great beachside/poolside/vacation read, as well as a story that I think majority of existing Nicholas Sparks fans will love. I really liked how the two stories came together, although I definitely enjoyed Colby and Morgan story-line better. If you're in the mood for some heart strings tugging romance then this is a read for you! A big thank you to NetGalley and Penguin Random House Canada for gifting me an early copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review!

Colby Mills has always had a deep love for music. He decides to try a new gig in Florida playing in a bar. Then he meets Morgan who has a music degree and aspirations to move to Nashville. These two hit it off romantically and musically and form a fast connection. Simultaneously Beverly is on a different kind of journey as she flees an abusive husband with her young son. What could possibly tie these three people together? As usual Nicholas Sparks has written another great novel, DREAMLAND. I enjoyed the music theme a lot and the characters were perfectly developed and very likable. A pleasant quick and easy read, I would highly recommend. Thank you NetGalley and Random House for my ARC in exchange for my honest review. This review will be posted to my Instagram Blog (@coffee.break.book.reviews) in the near future.

"Someday Dreamland will be ours, Hold fast, don't fall away." I remember the last book I read by Nicholas Sparks was Every Breath, and even though it was not as good as A Walk to Remember, it was still good. And here is the latest book by the author, Dreamland, and sadly, I have mixed feelings towards this book. Dreamland has two different storylines (Colby and Beverly), and I felt like I was reading two separate books, one with a romance and the other with a suspense thriller. For the entire book, I was questioning how these two distinct storylines would come together and when they did with about 25% of the book left, I was surprised as I did not see it coming. And that explained the questions I got from Beverly's story. I have mixed feelings about this book, mainly because I like Beverly's story and feel uninterested in Colby's story. For me, Colby's story was so uninteresting and felt flat. Colby always puts his family before his dream until he meets Morgan, who is likely to remind him about his dream. I am sorry that I did not feel the chemistry between Colby and Morgan. It felt rushed and instant love, even though Colby kept denying it. Beverly's story was so good, and I immensely enjoyed her storyline. I wanted to know how she handled her problems, and her story kept me reading this book. Although I preferred Beverly's chapters over Colby, I still liked this book. I will say that the ending brought everything together nicely, and the epilogue was really fulfilling. I also liked the book's true meaning about the power of love and family 💚 Thank you, Times Reads, for the review copy 🫶🏻

Cute, easy-to-read storyline. Reminded me a lot of some of his other books. Did not anticipate the surprise twist near the end!

I... I don't have the words. I'll try to write a review but bear with me. First, let me just say that if anything happens to Ruhn and Hunt I am going to riot. And yes, that's a threat. Ok, now to the review. This book stressed me. I can't even count the number of times I had to put it down and walk away for a minute because I was scared to read what happened next. Every time I thought I knew where the story was going, a whole other layer of complications and magic and worldbuilding was added to the mix. It was a rollercoaster in every way. While I did predict the outcome to several plot twists, like the identity of agent Daybright, there were a billion other twists that I didn't see coming, like that ending for which nothing could have prepared me for!!!!. And honestly, it's because half the time most of those twists were coming entirely out of left field and it was all Danika's fault! I was getting second-hand embarrassment for Bryce every time something new was revealed about her supposed 'best friend'. Danika had a whole secret life, filled with so many secrets and people that Bryce never knew about. After a while, it kinda felt like SJM just wanted to introduce new things and didn't know how so she threw them into Danika's bag of secrets and called it a day. But, whatever. What I was really here for, more than the plot twists, was the characters! Gosh darn it, I love all of these characters so much!!! I really wasn't kidding about rioting if anything happens to them. Ruhn was my favorite. I picked him out in book one as my comfort character in this series and I am way too invested in this man's well-being. Ruhn, Declan, Flynn, Ithan, and Tharion. I loved them. I loved the dynamic and I loved how Ruhn's house just kept getting more and more crowded and they all just accepted it like it was nothing. That brood of highly competent, badass idiots are all my babies and they better come out unscathed. Then there was Bryce and Hunt. I love them. The banter, the chemistry, loyalty, and love they have between them is everything. Nothing will ever come close. I was worried about Hunt, I'm not gonna lie. Sarah has a tendency to bait us into falling for one guy, just for another dude to come in for the win. But no, Bryce and Hunt were everything together. There's nothing else to say. Overall, this was great. I loved it. Not as much as I did the first book, I have to admit. But I loved it. And no, this wasn't really a review. I didn't even mention the plot of the novel, but if you've made it this far you probably already know what it's about. I just needed to gush about these characters for a bit since no one in real life will get excited and talk about these characters with me. So yeah. That is all. Go read this book. Talk about it with me in the comments. That ending left me with too many emotions. Goodbye. But before you go! My final question to this all, the one that has bothered me since book one and plagues me to this day: how does a faun dance ballet? Like actually though? You can't be on pointe with hooves and bent legs. Every time they mentioned June dancing my brain almost spontaneously combusted trying to conjure up a visual! At this point, I just assume that Juniper is to ballet, what Feyre is to painting and I'll leave it at that!

There’s a kindle shaped hole in my window thanks to that final sentence So much of this book was filler and I was completely unsurprised by the big reveal, but even so, this world is my home and I was happy to be there

reading vlog coming this wednesday😌☝🏻 update: reading vlog is up! https://youtu.be/qzcnDVoq2Gs

OHMYGODOHMYGOD SCREAMING SHAKING OMG OMG THAT ENDING I KNEW IT. I KNEW SMTH LIKE THIS WOULD HAPPEN SDFDSGS IVE NEVER BEEN MORE HYPED FOR THE NEXT BOOK😩 im heartbroken, excited, and reeling so much from that cliffhanger THE WAY IT ENDED CC3 better come out next year because any longer is just too cruel😭😭 RTC ______ im getting major FOMO seeing everyone read HOSAB, like I NEED MY COPY😭 ______ [Sep. 30, 2021]: OMG WE HAVE A COVER AND IT LOOKS SO EPIC?? LIKE THE DETAILS?? AND THE COLOURS?? IM IN LOVEE WITH THIS [May 6, 2021]: TITLE REVEAL AHHH AND OMG OMG ITS CONFIRMED, WE'RE GETTING HOUSE OF SKY AND BREATH ON JANUARY 25, 2022😭😭 https://www.instagram.com/p/COit-FzjTh7/ [April 27, 2021]: the release date says January 25, 2022 but idk if that can be trusted bc Sarah didnt actually announce it on insta😭😭 PLEASE BE TRUE. i need that 200% more Tharion asap

All right, nearly 1000 pages long journey I had was....hmmm... I'm still feeling like somebody hit me in the head several times... Action scenes, marvelous world building, characterization, plot were still promising. First three quarters were a little slow, I even thought to give three stars but last quarter things get so heated! It was worth at least five blazing stars ( five and half to be fair) And then that ending happened.... That mind freaking ending ruined me! Now I know how the camera crew fell when they daily tape Johnny Depp and Amber Heard's defamation case : incredibly agitated, absolutely disturbed! Look at the below to see how I feel right now:

FINALLY finished this

4.5 ⭐️ OMFG that f*cking ending has shaken me to my core!!!!!!! Honestly, there were some highs and lows in this story and I’d probably rate it a solid 4-stars but that ending is what bumped it up!! I don’t know how I’m going to be able to wait for the next book!! 😭😭😭😭😭 UPDATE: It's been almost a month since I read House of Sky and Breath, and holy gods I'm still in shock!!! I still haven't processed everything that happened nor have I been able to collect my thoughts to write an in-depth review. ⁠ ⁠ So in the meantime, and without giving anything away, here's everything that had me SCREAMING!⁠ ⁠ 🖤 Hunt + Bryce⁠ ⁠ 🥵 Daddy Ruhn⁠ ⁠ 🔥 Day + Night⁠ ⁠ 😤 Danika's secrets⁠ ⁠ 🐺 Ithan + the mystic⁠ ⁠ 🖕 F*ckboi Tharion⁠ 🥺 Sadboi Cormac⁠ ⁠ 😈 The Asteri⁠ ⁠ and finally . . . ⁠ 🤯 THE ENDING!!!!!⁠ ⁠ ⁠ ⁠ A reread is definitely in order, but I don't think I can read this 800-page monster right now. I'll probably wait a month before CC3 comes out so it's fresh in my mind. But let me tell you, that cliffhanger shook me to my core so I cannot wait till the next book comes out!⁠ ⁠

4.20! “Our love is stronger than time, greater than any distance. Our love spans across stars and worlds. I will find you again, I promise.” I honestly do not want to rate this a 4.5 or above because there were parts that i had to drag through and some minor things that affected my reading experience because when i rated it higher my heart did not agree so we are sticking with a 4.20 for now but honestly except for the last 40% this can no way be compared to the first one because that was just amazing! . Sarah's writing was brilliant, her ability to introduce new characters and make us fall for them was amazing, the cliffhangers that she wrote were exceptional and most of the angsty romance that she builds with a plot intertwined with it is what makes me love her. Though there was a chunk of the book that was slow near like 30% till 50% this book still amazed me. “If you’re looking for How Not to Be an Asshole, it’s shelved between Bye, Loser and Get the Fuck Out.” The characters, there are so many tho 😭😭 imma try my best to cover them all. so first we get Bryce our FMC. She is quirky, witty and has a sharp tongue. No matter what happened despite her dumb decisions and her way of overusing alphahole she still managed to keep me trapped because i loved her in this book so much. Yes sure there were points where i was slightly annoyed with her but i cared for her so much that as soon as she was in slight danger it got me worried like girl please sit back down. The way she does things that people tell her not too 😭😭 and i also feel so bad for her. Her bestie literally gaslit her the entire two books. “Hunt’s voice was a thunderclap as he said behind her, “Light it up, Bryce.” Hunt our MMC. Y'all I loved him even more than Bryce. He was an Alphahole but he was one smooth Alphahole (credits to RuNyx so she doesnt sue) he was everything literally everything. The perfect book boyfriend and one of the best sjm has ever written and he better be endgame because he isn't i will riot so hard sjm you will see. ALSO PLS NO 😭 the way Hunts pov was left on a cliffhanger had me crying. He did not deserve that. “Ruhn looked at his sister and said softly, "You brought so much joy into my life, Bryce." It was perhaps the only goodbye they'd be able to make.” AHHH Ruhn was easily my favorite character in this book you do not know how much joy it brought me to read his POV. I loved every single moment we got with him and him as agent night was so amazing also so hot his romance with agent day was so steamy even tho there was minimal spice but ruhn omg everything that he did was just amazing. If there is one guy who can make you laugh, cry and fall in love its Ruhn. if anyone says otherwise slap them (JK...or am i?) “Your cat’s a sweetheart, by the way,” The sidecharacters, Starting with Ithan holstorm. Whyw as he the cutest cinnamon roll ever? like he was so sweet and caring. I was not expecting him to be like that but he really surprised me. Every one of his scene made me an inch closer to loving him. Also that cat scene 😭 amazing. . Tharion. Why do people not like Tharion because he brought so much fun to the story his cunning ways and his witty replies had me choking on my water. I loved that sarah added his Pov because his storyline was actually very intriguing. . Declan and Flynn. Their bromance alone was the best part about the book. I loved their team fuck you 😭😭 The whole banter that they had with those fire sprites and the tension radiating between flynn and ariadne was so fucking hot i cant wait for their storyline because oh my days. . Ariadne, we barley got her in this book but the scenes that we did actually get were so amazing i cant wait to see more of her in the next book she looks like such a strong character that i know i will love. . Fury and juniper. Juniper was barley in this book but i want to see more of them both in the next book especially more action but also want them to be safe. . DAY and Hypaxia. I loved day and i wasnt really shocked with who she was because her identity got spoiled for me but i actually love her storyline alot and as for Hypaxia i really liked how caring she was but there was one moment where i really had to reread that scene because wtaf! . Danika and Cormac. Cormac kind of did grow on me but Danika i wanted to slap her in this one like bitch?? the audacity. . Jesiba and Aidas. I know it I JUST KNOW IT they will pay such a vital role and will literally start of hofas with a banger. “The male blinked. His eyes were the same shade of violet blue as Ruhn’s.” The plotline of this book was divided among several characters but i liked how every one of them pointed towards the same direction so it honestly a really brilliant idea because I did not go bored and i know if it was just Bryce's i wouldve gotten bored but this way i didnt and the plot was actually something that i loved the most also its not as prominent and fun as it was in its predecessor because it was more like setting up for something big. Also the last hundred pages were intense as fuck. "Ruhn Danaan knew three things with absolute certainty" The romance between hunt and bryce got so hot in this one like I wasnt expecting it t get this steamy. I loved how Hunt put up with Bryce and the communication between them was stellar it was literally the most amazing romance with the least red flags also the things hunt said to bryce idk if i felt 🥺 or 🥵. Day and Night literally stole the show i was expecting them to be amazing and they delivered on that part., every moment of them together was a joy to read. Also it isnt confirmed or anything but im rooting for Ariadne and tristan so much. PLS MAKE IT HAPPEN SJM. ____________________________________________________________ SPOILERS AHEAD: OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMGOMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMGOMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OM GOMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMGOMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG “Hello, Bryce Quinlan. My name is Rhysand.” THIS HAD ME SCREAMINGGGG LIKE AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH PLEASE SEND HELP! ~~~ Listen listen i love bryce and hunt and i believe that they are endgame but im only reading this for day and night 😋😋

I finally finished they behemoth of a book and I'm not sure how I feel. First, someone accidentally spoiled the big surprise at the end for me, so that shock value did not happen for me and I think that would have made me raise my rating for this book. But I knew what was coming, so I wasn't as blown away by the ending. I really enjoyed how this book followed a bunch of different characters and we actually got to see their perspective (still 3rd person) in the story. I felt more connected to these characters and felt like I was getting a lot more story. That being said, there were A TON of characters in this book and it was really hard for me to get them straight, especially when things were being uncovered at the end. I didn't remember how was who and that made it hard for me to keep everything straight. Everyone ended up also having multiple names they went by and characters referred to them by various names, which made it even more confusing. When keeps me from giving this five stars, though, was the end. I felt like we were waiting and waiting for this big culminating event like in book one and it kind of felt lackluster? Like, sure we learned a lot, but I wanted so much more action and crazy like what happened in book one. There is definitely a huge cliff hanger and I'm concerned for the future of some characters, but I wasn't as emotionally impacted as I wanted to be. I still really enjoyed the story and was interested in the story the whole time, I just wanted more action and impact in the end.

I’ll be processing this one for the next 2-3 business days xx

Help what just happened

PUT MY NAME ON THE DEATH ROLL AND COMMEND MY SOUL TO MALEK BECAUSE I AM DEAD AFTER THAT ENDING. REBECCA!! I NEED YOU TO PICK UP THE PEN RIGHT NOW AND START WRITING THE NEXT BOOK. This was literally INSANE. I’m never going to recover from this I fear. I love this world so so much. These characters are so special to me! Xaden was HOT in this book. Every word out of his mouth had me feral. I need to marry this man, reading about him isn’t enough. Violet was iconic as always, and I was living for Tairn and Andarna! And Ridoc!! I loved him so much in this book. All of that being said, was this book perfect? No. The first 100 pages had me SO confused. It was info overload and I couldn’t remember half of the people and places from the first 2 books. I was starting to think I was a little dim. I really wish it was easier to get into, but I ending up loving it SO much. I literally don’t know how I’m going to wait for the next book to release. I know Rebecca needs a break, but so do I. I’M UNWELL. 😭

1.) Fourth Wing ★★★★★ 2.) Iron Flame ★★★★ listen, i know this is not the best story in the whole entire world, but you cannot deny the impact that we are seeing each new release in this series. from breaking first week records that we haven't seen in twenty years, to every barnes i follow on insta having a midnight release party, to the sheer buzz and excitement of theories on all social media platforms being so beloved by at least my algorithm - this series is different and it makes the reading experience so much more fun for me. i have said this for years, but that feeling of awaiting that highly anticipated book to hit your kindle, while you feel like you are buddy reading it with the rest of the book community? that feeling is unmatched to me, and i know it biases my enjoyment of the story, but that’s okay! And upon finishing this last insane chapter, after all those pov shifts, i had such a good time while reading this and i absolutely cannot wait for the next book and all the hype and excitement all over again! okay, let me actually try to write a semblance of a mini review, but i promise more gushing in the last paragraph. onyx storm picks up right where iron flame left off, with all the characters dealing with the ramifications of that last very serious battle. some are harboring secrets from the others, some are discovering that they may have another magical signet, but all of them need a lot more clues if they wish to someday live in a world that feels more stable and safe. and this story actually goes in a questing way, where we see violet and most of the gang going from place to place to try to decipher some clues and maybe get some answers on how to fix multiple problems. (listen, i am trying to be vague!) but a venin with hair much like violet’s is making everything even more difficult, on top of xaden’s dreams that seem to be getting more and more intense, and it really gives you a setting of a perfect storm brewing more and more every chapter. as always, the dragons are the best part of this book. i cried at two parts of this book. 1.) over andarna and 2.) over xaden and how he was reacting to sgaeyl. that’s my baby and that’s mother. tairn is also always perfect, and i fear i am for sure shedding tears over him soon. but i truly think the voices of these dragons are just perfect, i love the mystery that is surrounding them, and the whole storyline that is added in this third installment about the dragons was for sure the highlight of this entire series so far! the only negative things i will say is that a character death did put me in a bad mood haha, but i also know i can just be a little sensitive about that. and that i feel like rebecca didn’t do the best job at recapping all the events from the previous books, which i know i could have fixed with rereading, but i highkey was very confused as to who was who with all the side characters at the start of this. but i was flipping to the front and remembering whose dragon was whose with speed! let me do a little quick section on theories and theorycrafting - this section will have spoilers, so please do not read if you have not read onxy storm! first, i think we got rhiannon and imogen’s povs before xaden’s because rebecca wanted us to feel really disoriented figuring out what just happened. i think the biggest one is who is “brother” and i think the only ones, out of the four missing riders, that is could be are garrick and bohdi, but if i had to put my money on one i would guess bohdi. aaric, who is my favorite side character, and knowing his signet now does have me scared for his life, but i think he is missing because he and my second favorite side character, ridoc, are giving the dragon eggs in exchange for help. andarna and learning more about the irids was the highlight of this book for me, just because i think this is where we are starting to see the main story really start to take place. i think the connection of them channeling from the sky and the venin channeling from the ground is a huge symbolism dot that is going to be further explored. dain and sloane are crazy but that ship is sailing, and even i let out a breath i didn’t know i was holding after he said “eyes here” (im in a cursed “look at me” dramione brain rot right now, too, so forgive me.) but yeah, dain is for sure more powerful than we, as the readers, know and that siphoning scene was intense. speaking of, if mira would have died, i would have stopped reading so… praise bless. and lastly, i saw the most unhinged theory of what if the marriage isn’t to xaden but to bohdi. the gasp i am still gasping even while just typing this lol. i would hate to see it, but i also would love to see it. i am just so obsessed with the six gods, and the six countering powers, and the six different colors of dragons - i feel like my mind is constantly spinning with new theory after new theory. okay friends, i think that’s everything! this ended up being longer than i intended, but i hope you enjoyed! again, the whole atmosphere surrounding the hype for this book is just a happy place that i like being in, and then you add theorycrafting to it, and i just start foaming at the mouth. but i really did have a good time reading this, and i cannot wait for what is to come! content warnings at the start of the book: onyx storm is a nonstop-thrilling adventure fantasy set in the brutal and competitive world of a military college for dragon riders, which includes elements regarding war, hand-to-hand combat, blood, intense violence, brutal injuries, gore, murder, death, animal death, injury rehabilitation, grief, poisoning, burning, perilous situations, graphic language, and sexual activities that are shown on the page. readers who may be sensitive to these elements, please take note, and prepare to face the storm… additional trigger + content warnings i found while reading (please use caution because of potential spoilers): a lot of talk of loss of a parent in past, talk of self sacrificing, mention of cheating in past (not the mcs), panic attacks, illness, vomiting, and death of a queer character blog | instagram | youtube | wishlist | spotify | amazon

I just realized I never wrote a review for this book… lol. So, here it is! Since this is the third book, I’ll keep it simple: Did I like it? WHY YES, OF COURSE! It was amazing, but there were a few things that irked me, which is why I gave it 4 stars instead of 5. Don’t get me wrong this book was 123456 times better than Iron Flame, and I enjoyed every single page. But the ISLANDS?! 🏝️ If you’ve seen One Piece (the anime series), I felt like I was stuck in a side quest, hopping from island to island to find the "King of the Pirates" except in this case, it was about gathering supporters for their cause. Lmao. It really threw me off from what we were doing prior and then after.. it felt out of place but hey, that’s just my personal POV. Another thing that made me hesitate was all the world-building. Yes, when you expand a world, you need to build more, but I just fear it got a little too out of hand, making my reading experience a bit confusing. That being said… I LOVED XADEN with all my heart. ❤️ His character development was delicious, but that cliffhanger and all those open-ended questions?! 😭 How the heck are we getting two more books?! I’m scared… I just hope that with all this world-building, things start going more smoothly from here. 🤞🏼 ⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆.⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆. ummmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm ur kidding right? the way I been stuck at 25% just because of my mood agh. ➳ 𝗽𝗿𝗲-𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱｡ꪆৎ ˚⋅ no one talk to me on January 21st i'm going to be busy. the book has officially arrived at my doorstep oh and i got libby's audiobook thank god for libraries i swear ANYWAY DND!!!!

never thought i'd be a dragon nerd, but here we are.

girl fym “what you asked me to”

I won't bother with a long detailed review for this. There are literally thousands and I doubt I can add anything new to the table. I liked this more than I thought I would. It was much better than Iron Flame imo. Was this a filler book? Yes. Was it basically a book of side quests? yes. Was it still entertaining? For me, yes. 🤷 The politics did get a bit confusing and the book was longer than it needed to be, but other than that I still had a good time. Violet was actually kind of a badass in this book, Xayden was hot and tortured as usual😅 The standout for me though? Aaric 💥 The ending did have me confuzzeled and bamboozled. Cheap trick Rebecca but still an effective one because slap a bell on my neck and hear me bleat BAAAA🐏 I will be herding after you to book 4 🐏 quick disclaimer: I read ZERO reviews for this book (positive or negative) because I wanted to form my own opinion without subconsciously retaining someone else's opinions. I know many many manyyyyy people hated this and I wasn't a fan of Iron Fame, but I really was as objective as possible here and ended up being entertained which is my main goal while reading.

the last 150 pages of the book saved the rating for me but this was a set up / filler book for sure??

No. No no no no noooooo I need this like I need oxygen. Pleaseeeee Rebecca i’m begging you don’t make me wait too long 😩🫴🏻 04/23/24 OMG OMG OMG WE HAVE A TITLE LADIES…WE HAVE A TITLEEEEEW

hmm. lol fr tho i truly don’t know what to think of this book. because yes on one hand i DEVOURED this in one (two) sittings and nearly cried at some parts. The way Violet developed into such a strong and beautiful character is one of my favorite things about this series. HOWEVER there are so many cons still. it’s got such a plot-driven approach compared to the first book which i adored but the execution and particularly the writing style in a good chunk of this book takes you out of the experience and straight into the pits of hell. (yes it kinda gets that bad). i thoroughly enjoyed reading about their journey but how many times must i hear violet say and act a certain way only for a switch up to occur right after bc of xaden…??? ALSO HOMIE BECAME MR LOVERBOY TO THE MAX …. i don’t like it. (sorry not sorry but i like my men to be a bit more mysterious idk im fcked up ik) ugh. need to collect my thoughts once more before i continue on this review but on stars-wise im certain on it being a 4 star read on the dot. it’s great but got issues. ————————— pre-read review: in the words of baby taylor swift: “i… am… HAPPY” I HAVE IT GUYS ITS IN MY HANDS IVE GOT MY COPY IM SO MF EXCITED PREPARE TO BE SICK OF MEEEE ONE MORE SLEEP AND THEN ITS MINE IM GOING CRAZY AND TEXAS CANCELLED CLASSES TMRW SLAY desperately waiting for January 21st to come sooner

Update March 2025: So, who's still thinking of Broccoli and who's lying? 😂 _____ If I had to pick a single word to describe why I liked this book, it would be ✨ Aaric ✨ I'm still processing but I'll start from these best-to-worst rated 💯, ✅, 🆗, ❌ points: 💯 Aaric: he's definitely my new favorite! I don't mean it as 'he needs to be switched with Xaden as love interest for Violet' though. If anything, I'd rather read a Xaden-Aaric romance 🤔🤣🫠🤷‍♀️. I do hope he will have a memorable love story in the series of his own in the series if Xaden's off limits 😂😏 Anyway, he's absolutely perfect, maybe even too perfect at times, but we might see some endearing weakness in the future. But for now... Everything he said did something to me, and I need more. 🫠🙊😅 1) That's one cool signet my *future king* has! 👀 (yes, I think he'll be endgame for king. He's just too king-coded) (view spoiler) 2) His dry humor 🫠🧎‍♀️🧎‍♀️🧎‍♀️: 🔖"Any chance you have an affinity for public speaking?" I ask Aaric, undoing the first button op my flight jacket as the heat builds. "It certainly runs in your family." "Was it the shunning of my birthright in favor of a high probability of death that gave me away?" he responds, his tone dry. I take that as a NO. 🔖“I prefer keeping my mouth shut until I understand the rules of whatever game is aiming for my throat. Helps me judge the character and acumen of my opponent.” He looks at each of them in turn. “Honestly, I find you lacking, and I’m not sure I want you for an ally. You have no army and you’re stingy with the very thing that should be free to all—knowledge.” 🔖Calixta begins to speak in Zehylish. I blink. It’s a lilting, flowy language where one word seems to run into the next. Dain replies slowly from my right, the words coming out like he’s in pain. Aaric sighs from beside Xaden, then proceeds to speak like he was freaking born here. Dain looks ready to murder him." 🔖“Where were these language skills when we were translating journals last year?” He looks at me like I’ve gained another head. “I was raised to be a diplomat. Diplomats don’t speak to dead people.” “You didn’t think we should know you speak fluent everything?” I arc a brow. “And nullify Aetos’s reason for joining…what is it Ridoc calls us? Quest squad?” 💯 Ridoc: I agree that Ridoc was the star in this book. Without his moment this book would have been too slow to get through, and Ridoc was used whenever comic relief was needed to aid the heavy slow pace from becoming unbearable. He has a funny dirty mind, but he's also very observant. Loved all his long overdue moments, and seeing how playful he's with his dragon was the best thing. Made me realise how much we underestimated the personal connections between riders and dragons. Unfortunately, his was so cool that it made the glimpses into other riders talking to their dragon not quite as interesting. 🔖"You and Riorson bicker like you've been married fifty years and neither of you wants to do the dishes." "Agreed," Ridoc says. "And it's always the same fight." He lits his hand to his chest. "I'Il trust you if you stop keeping secrets!" He drops the hand and scowls. "It's my secretive nature that attracted you, and why can't you just stay out of harm's way for five fucking minutes?" 🔖“Oh gods, just stop flirting and fuck already” Ridoc says. Every head slowly turns in his direction. “I said that out loud, didn’t I?” he asks me in a hushed whisper. “Oh yeah, you did” I reply, patting him on his back. “Garrick’s going to blow you off the mat.” “Now that I might enjoy, depending on the method he chooses—” Ridoc winces. “I’m going to stop talking now.” 🔖🐉“Why are you such a dick?” Ridoc flings his arms out sideways. “I brought one pair of boots—” Aotrom lifts his head, then sprays water through his teeth, completely soaking Ridoc from the tips of his hair to the toes of his boots “Not fair!” Ridoc wipes the drops from his eyes as Aotrom walks from the water up the beach and disappears into the woods. “I’m still winning. That doesn’t count!” he calls after his dragon. A pause, and he yells, “Because we’re on a mission!” He shakes his head and slogs toward me, his boots squishing with every step. “Do I even want to know?” “He’s getting me back because I won the last round.” He flashes a grin. “I bought enough itching powder to fill a bucket, then dropped it between his scales on the back of his neck right after flight maneuvers a few weeks ago. He had to submerge his entire body in the river to avoid everyone in the Vale knowing I’d gotten the best of him.” “You guys are weird.” “Are we?” Ridoc tugs at the laces of his boots. “Or are the rest of you the weird ones?” He shrugs, yanking off his boots and setting them in the sand in front of Andarna. 🔖“Oh, and just so we’re clear, that strike up there wasn’t”—he gestures between us—“you know. Us.” He flinches. “I mean, it was us because I pissed her off, but it wasn’t us…us, if you know what I’m saying.” I fight to keep from rolling my eyes. “Well aware,” Xaden replies. “First because I trust Violet, and second”—he glances at Ridoc in a dismissive once-over—“it wasn’t a big enough strike.” Seriously? I scoff. “Huh.” Ridoc tilts his head as if deciding something, then shakes it. “Nope. You and I are not back to dick jokes yet. Not that we were ever there. I’m still pissed.” 💯 The ending: What does it say about me that I loved being toyed with, reading the erased-memory/lost-time cliffhanger ending? And Imogen being part of it? Most of all the mystery about the "new brother"(see spoiler) will keep me thinking about it for days, which is something I really love in books (view spoiler) 💯/✅ The Aaric/Xaden budding bromance 🔖“I’m trying really hard to be diplomatic, but let me put this in terms you’ll understand. Your king kidnapped our asshole of a prince, and there’s a large part of me that wouldn’t mind him staying here and annoying the shit out of you for the rest of his miserable life, but that would make things difficult back home for someone I have…complicated loyalty toward, so I’m going to need the prick back.” 🔖Looks like you won’t be needing that basket after all,” Xaden says as we make it back to where Mira waits with Ridoc, Garrick, and Halden. “We found ourselves another prince.” Halden’s jaw hits the ground as his widened gaze locks on his little brother. 🔖“Prince or not, you’re a fucking first-year and we both know I can put you into the ground. And no, you are not your father, nor your brother, which is precisely why you will not fight. We need you to live. Your kingdom needs you to live.” Xaden grabs the collar of Aaric’s uniform and pivots, forcing him back into line next to me. “Tell them I’m ready.” Color rises along Aaric’s neck. ✅ Violet's "history" with Halden was hilarious ✅ The broken furniture theme 😂 🔖"Yes, the table is broken. Now, what do you need?” “You two totally broke it, didn’t you?” Ridoc asks on the edge of laughter. “Like that armoire no one was supposed to notice getting hauled out of her room during first year?” ✅ I loved seeing this more vulnerable side of Xaden (aka Duke of Angst) “You already hold my soul and now you want my pain? Getting greedy, Violence.” He brings my hand to his mouth and brushes a kiss over my knuckles before letting go." ✅ The different isles and customs ✅ Drake, Mira and Broccoli 🔖“I think we’re off course,” Drake says, fighting to hold the map with one hand and the squirmy kitten in the other. The paper’s been folded so many times, holes have worn through the corners. “Give me that.” To my surprise, Mira takes the kitten, not the map, cradling it against her chest with one hand. “Her name is Broccoli, not that,” he mutters. She looks at him like he’s sprouted whiskers. “You named a kitten Broccoli?” “No one really wants broccoli, but it’s good for you, so seems fitting to me.” He shrugs. “Why not Carrots?” Mira asks, scratching under the kitten’s chin. “She’s orange.” “Just to frustrate you, Sorrengail,” Drake answers, glancing up from the map. ✅ The "Dedicated" plot and the Gods. Even if we have very little info on what it all means just yet (view spoiler) ✅ Violet's second signet (reminded me of the Wheel of time) 🆗 Mira and the sister combo angst and plot: it was meh. She can't die since she's part of that weird-parents plot (I have a feeling I might be disappointed by whatever will unfold), but when she was about to die and didn't, I was actually disappointed... It's not like I hate her, but it seemed right that she would die in that situation... ❌ Secondary characters. They are all bi-dimensional and hard to tell apart. I know there is a threesome among the first years, or was it fliers? In the squad but I can't remember anything about it or any other of the background mentions/people. Why just not leave them completely in the background and make it less confusing? It's giving mixed signals on their presumed importance. Even the ones who have been there since the beginning are faded placeholders. Sawyer was never distinctive, now we can say he has one leg less and one scrive girl more so we can tell him apart. Rhi... I used to like Rhi in the first book, now she's been demoted to generic background character too, apparently, and I don't care as much. MORE LISTS: The "I can find a way to get over the loss of these" (I respect them but I'm not emotionally overly-attached) - Sawyer - Mira - Rihannon - Any of the vague fliers I can't yet remember the names of (view spoiler) The "pretty please don't kill" list (Liam level) - Brennan - Jesinia - Bodhi - Garrick - Cat The "high chances I'm out if these die" list - Xaden - Aaric - Ridoc - Imogen The rest is still undecided. Violet ofc can't die so I'm not including her. __________ Reading So, "I was today years old" when I found out that sign language is not a general scribe practice, but it's just Jesinia being deaf. 😶🤫🥲 I thought every scribe had to sign unless given leave to speak. It worked so well with the idea of silence in libraries and the concept of composure that was described "This composure shows how earnest they are about their work, and how dedicated they remain." I even did a full re-read and I have only found out about this cause of a random discussion post... 😶 It's cool that there is inclusivity, but I liked it more when I thought it was a quadrant-wide thing 😔 Pre-read Fashionably late, I'll fancy myself the Saint of procrastinators and latecomers. 🪽 By now, everyone who rushed through this due to FOMO should have already finished it, and we rebel souls can start our interested-but-on-our-own-terms era in peace 😂 Please tell me I can now update in peace without ruining it for other people 😭 I feel this is gonna be pure suffering, and I NEED to make update-notes so I will possibly be able to spare myself another round of re-reads once #4 is released. 🫣🥹

Exhaling a loooooong breath. 😤 Here we go. Spoiler-free ⬇️ PS: This will be long. FYI: I am emotionally hung up here... I should've known this would happen. Ratings: - First 25% = 2 ⭐ all over the place - Middle 50% = 3 to 4 ⭐ depending on the section - Last 25% = 5 ⭐🎆 The balance is precarious, but it is there. Overall rating= 3.5 ⭐rounded up. Overall thoughts: This is my least favourite book in the series... But also, the most intense emotional ties in characters. Some aspects were underwhelming, others were so short-lived. I struggled in the beginning but there was a moment in chp 13 where things shifted. I enjoyed the worldbuilding and world discovery, but I was overwhelmed in places and I needed a companion guide for this world... 📔Gods bless FantasyFangirls for theirs. It was an emotional trip, and a "trip". You could feel Rebecca's passion for this project and her spirit come back the more you read it. It wasn't present in the beginning, but the last 50% is her again. Audiobook: With the first 25% being a jumble, and having been listening for a week to the graphic audios of FW and IF, the start was pretty rough. It did get better as the book got better and as I got used to it. But wasn't the most enjoyable. I'd still listen to it. What worked amazingly: - Character development for literally Every. Single. Character. They all took their space, without overstepping on others, and without feeling rushed or unrealistic. 10/10 💞 - Xaden, okay I'll elaborate. His journey was compelling and heartbreaking. He was intense. It was intense. And although we don't get his POV, we get his truth. Being on that trek with him... How dark can the world get before it taints our souls? 🖤 - Violet's focus and confidence are shining in this book. Her relational growth, emotional growth, and her behaving with the mind of a scribe and the heart of a rider are one of this book's highlights. 💜 - The potential. While I hope that books 4 and 5 don't have any fillers, I hope even more that the potentials that this book opened are really fulfilled. OS is a medium book, bridging the 1 story to the world story; it probably introduced all the elements that will help win this war, knowingly or otherwise. I can't wait to see what Rebecca does with this. 🚀 What wasn't working in the book: - The first part was so messy, that I felt stupid for not understanding half of what's written. Mind you, I just finished my re-read so I am very much in the world. 1️⃣ - ⛓️‍💥Rebecca was aiming for mysterious and foreshadowing hints, but they presented as her interrupting a conversation mid-way just to build anticipation. That left me frustrated. 🔇 - While it was only natural for politics to take up more place in this book, it was also a huge dump of names, locations, strategies, and battles that were not as mapped out as they should be. 🆘 - 🔮Too much was going on, and yet not enough. There was travelling, readings, and finding items/pieces of the story, but I ended up with more questions than answers, and many half-truths/facts. What ruined Onyx Storm? But I will not be condemning Rebecca over this, hence my rating, because I believe this happened for 2 reasons: If you'd rather hear me say it than read it: Instagram - TikTok 1) This is Rebecca's first fantasy endeavour, and at some point, she took on more than she was able to. However, she did realise her limits and I look forward to her taking her break before she can come back fresh to continue writing this series. 🔃 2) The fandom ruined this. It is incredulous that I and almost every single one of my friends decided to put ourselves on a self-imposed social media ban, and binge-read OS because WE DO NOT TRUST THE FANDOM! We don't trust each other not to spoil the book, or ruin it for each other. And In this craze, the fandom went out of its way to come up with crazy theories and read too much into things. It became a lab dissection instead of a journey, and I hate that this affected everyone's experience. 🕳️🕳️🕳️ ⚠️‼️SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS‼️⚠️ Most emotional and favourite moments - Xaden channeling to save Sgaeyl, Tairn, and Violet... His entire chapter. I was sobbing. And Sgaeyl sticking by his side. "Do not do this to save me!" - How fucking dare they pull my dragon from the sky, snare and hurt the one who anchors my existence. - Andarna leaving, and Violet letting her go... I am upset that it was so short-lived because her comeback wasn't given proper attention. I would have preferred she come back in book 4. - Aaric stepping up. - Jealous Xaden and Protective Xaden - Violet bringing him back from the edge every time... - Xaden letting himself go and being with Violet. I could feel his struggle so clearly on the page, his yearning, and need for her. "My power, my body, my soul-it's all yours. Take whatever you need." "You are every fantasy I'll ever have." - Quinn's death, but mostly Imogen's POV. - Garrick-Imogen "I'm not leaving you!" - and "I'd better find some fucking way to do something"..... Not Garrick too!! Guess we know what Imogen will be doing in book 4 now.... - I am worried about Tairn's silence and withdrawal in this book. He's there but not as intensely as I am used to. I think he is hurting, for Violet and for Sgaeyl, but it's also emotional for him - "I will not lose her as I did the one who came before!" And. WTF was that ending??? Before the book was even published, I KNEW that OS will end with Xaden walking away. But all of that??? I guess we have a Duchess now who took her memory away so that she can't hurt the love of her life. -- Pre-read: We ride at midnight into the dark era, ready your flight leathers and reading goggles. 👓 Also, group therapy 🫂 spots are still open, for more information call 📞 2-107-WHY-00-WHY 📞 WE GOT an official PLAYLIST PEOPLE!

The Judge’s List by John Grisham was a pleasant surprise. I listened to the audio CD that was performed very well by Mary-Louise Parker. There had been several positive reviews for this book and I hadn’t read a Grisham book in a very long time so I decided to take the plunge and listen to it. The Judge’s List was the second book in The Whistler series. I hadn’t read the first book in this series but it did not take away from my enjoyment of this one. It can definitely be read as a stand alone book. The Judge’s List was an intriguing, twisty and suspenseful legal thriller with a well developed plot and great character development. John Grisham’s talent as a masterful storyteller was evident throughout this book. Lacy Stoltz was known as the Whistler. She was employed by the Florida Board of Judicial Conduct where she investigated corrupt judges. Lacy was good at what she did but she might have overstayed her time in this position. She was getting bored and yearned to do something where she could earn recognition for herself. Then a woman named Jeri Crosby entered her life. She was secretive and appeared to be very nervous and frightened. Jeri believed that one of the sitting judges in Lacy’s jurisdiction was a serial killer. In the history of the Florida Board of Judicial Conduct there had never been a judge suspected of committing murder. Jeri believed her father had been murdered by this judge. Could Jeri convince Lacy to help her prove that this sitting judge committed several murders while acting as a judge in the state of Florida? The Judge’s List by John Grisham was fast paced and kept me guessing throughout the book. The characters were colorful and complex. I was quite satisfied with the ending as it pulled everything together. Overall, I really enjoyed listening to this book and recommend it highly if you enjoy legal thrillers.

Turnover was ridiculous and morale was somewhere between low and non-existent at Florida’s Board on Judicial Conduct. Well, you’ve got to admit that if Aileen Cannon is a real-life example of the judiciary shenanigans which the BJC would be required to examine, low morale ought not to come as a great shock! But I digress … kinda! THE JUDGE’S LIST is the story of Jeri Crosby’s obsessive hunt for a serial killer spanning more than twenty years. With intuition and detective skills that would rightfully embarrass the FBI and any number of municipal police departments, Crosby has accumulated a barrel full of circumstantial evidence suggesting that a well-respected, practicing Florida judge is a relentlessly patient, ruthless, sociopathic, and very skilled serial murderer with over 10 kill notches on his gavel. His knowledge of police procedure, forensics and, of course, the law has been a shield that kept even his existence as a serial killer off police radar. Knowing that her information would be summarily dismissed by police agencies as unfounded and meaningless, Crosby has lodged an official complaint against the erstwhile judge killer with the BJC. Lacy Stoltz, in her position as interim Executive Director of the board, has 45 days to assess the complaint and determine how to proceed. The clock is ticking and Stoltz and Crosby are only too aware that their names have been added to the killer’s target list of future victims. In past novels, John Grisham has had the ability to make his thrillers pertinent to the real world and to current affairs dealing with issues ranging from elections to racism or capital punishment, for example. THE JUDGE’S LIST does not achieve membership on that elite list. But, you can be assured that it is a high-speed, compelling and completely gripping legal and suspense thriller that will entertain you from first page to last. Like so many other thrillers of this nature, the story details aren’t likely to stick with you for very long but it will be an easy and assured pleasure to recall how much you enjoyed the reading while it lasted. Paul Weiss

I have totally burned out on books about sociopathic serial killers. But I must say Grisham handled this differently than other books on the subject. In this story we know who the killer is and he is a Judge. The book is about a woman who has investigated the Judge for twenty years and is trying to convince the protagonist, Lacy Stoltz, to bring him to justice. The real action of the book takes place near the end. The story is not as good as his earlier books, but Grisham is still a master storyteller. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book is eleven hours and thirty-six minutes. Mary Louise Parker does a good job narrating the book.

A Good Book “The Judge’s List” there’s a really good book for Omegle situation is and all of its surrounding the accusations of a judge in this South. How many ways is a typical Grisham book however this one tends to get a little lost in the middle but finishes very strongly with a surprise ending. Strong characters are presented and a somewhat predictable plot line. A good book – not great. I recommend.

This is the second book in ‘The Whistler’ series by author John Grisham. I really enjoy a good legal thriller and there is no one better than John Grisham when he gets it right. This is a very good read, excellent characters, good plot and expertly written. Three years ago Lacy Stoltz investigated a corrupt judge who was taking millions in bribes from a crime syndicate. She got the criminals locked away and suffered in the the proceeds by been attacked and having her life threatened. Now Lacy is looking for a change in life. Lacy meets a woman who goes under several aliases to protect herself. Jeri Crosby’s father was murdered 20 years ago, a case that remains unsolved and all potential leads have gone cold. Jeri has suspicions but needs proof, she believes the man responsible is a Florida judge who comes under Lacey’s jurisdiction. A man with a brilliant mind and always a step ahead of law enforcement. He has a list, with the names of his victims and targets, all unsuspecting people unlucky enough to have crossed his path and wronged him in some way. The problem Lacy faces is how does she pursue him without becoming the next name on his list? Fast paced entertaining legal thriller.

For my first Grisham, it was entertaining! Love a good thriller with a female lead. Lacy investigates a claim made by a woman named Jeri that a sitting judge might be a serial killer, who Jeri suspects murdered her father twenty years ago. As you can image, it was a crazy twisty cat and mouse chase. The anticipation was definitely there, but portions of the story were slow. From what I’ve heard about Grisham, his recent books have been falling flat. He definitely knows how to write a legal thriller, but The Judge’s List wasn’t really a thriller or a mystery. We KNOW that the suspect is the sitting judge. That is made clear very quickly. We needed more mystery and suspense. Unfortunately, I think the ending was very unsatisfying and frustrating. Lacy is pretty one note and the real star here was Jeri. I really thought her character outshined everyone else in the book. I still think this book was worth the read, and I would suggest definitely reading it. I ended up doing the audiobook for most of it and although the narration was done by Mary-Louise Parker, her narration fell very flat. Every character sounded the same which made it feel like one big blobby narration. Review: ⭐️⭐️⭐️ Genre: legal thriller

Lacy Stoltz is an investigator for the Florida Board of Judicial Conduct. She meets a woman named Jeri who has been tracking her father’s suspected murderer for 2 decades. She suspects this man is also a serial killer and has killed again and again. He has never been charged with any crime. How is this possible? He must be highly intelligent, understands forensic evidence, and knows a lot about the law. That is because this man, Ross Bannick, is a Judge! Will Jeri ever get enough evidence to get this Judge off the bench and behind bars? You can add THE JUDGE’S LIST to the very long list of great John Grisham books. I am a big fan of legal thrillers and this one delivers. The writing was perfect as always and the story held my interest. The concept of a judge being a serial killer is crazy, but Grisham had me believing it! Many thanks to Doubleday Books and NetGalley for my ARC in exchange for my honest review. This review will be posted to my Instagram Blog (@coffee.break.book.reviews) in the near future.

It has been one of my annual late Fall rituals. The leaves are falling. School is back in, College and Pro football are in high gear, and it’s time to open the new John Grisham novel, “The Judge’s List”, and re-visit the law in action through the eyes of a challenged do-gooder. This time out, Grisham changes it up a bit. Although this new book involves some aspects of the law and legal issues, it is more of a Michael Connelly or David Baldacci crime thriller, written with that unique Grisham storytelling touch. “The Judge’s List” re-introduces us to Lacy Stolz, an investigator for the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct (BJC). Her job is to respond to any complaints dealing with ethical or judicial misconduct by members of the court. Lacy was one of the protagonists in his previous 2016 legal Thriller, “The Whistler”, investigating a corrupt Florida judge who was taking bribes from a major crime syndicate. Although she helped catch the judge and members of the syndicate, her partner killed, and she barely survived being attacked herself. Now, three years later and closing in on the age of forty, she is still working for the BJC and waiting for her big legal claim against the syndicate to settle so she can move on to better things. Then things change when Lacy gets an anonymous call from an unknown woman. Not just any woman, but one who is so scared she is using burner phones, multiple aliases, and unbelievably paranoid. After agreeing to meet with her several times, Lacy learns that the woman’s name is Jeri Crosby and she has an incredible story, that if true, will rock the sanctity of the Florida legal system. Jeri has been stalking a man for twenty years that she passionately believes is a cold-blooded serial killer, who kills those that have angered him in some way. It doesn’t matter how serious or minor the reason. The killer is patient, willing to wait to more than a decade to seek revenge on those who angered him. His pattern of murder and weapons used is the same every time and Jeri has been obsessive in her research of his relationships to every victim, which adds up to at least seven or eight victims that she is aware of. But she knows there are probably more, because her father was the potential third victim, and that started on this journey that she cannot stop until he is stopped. And to make the situation more complicated… According to Jeri, the killer is a Florida judge, under the jurisdiction of Lacy’s own BJC. Because Jeri distrusts the police, and even the FBI, she files a complaint to the BJC through Lacy, thinking that will protect herself. The good news is that she has motive and intent, but the bad news is that she has no hard evidence or proof. Everything is circumstantial. And what Jeri and Lacy don’t know is that the killer is an expert not only in the law, but also in investigations, forensics, evidence, and not leaving a trail. He’s constantly one step ahead of law enforcement and now he is setting his deadly sights on Jeri and Lacy… Over the last several years, it seemed to me that Grisham was shifting his writing from pure legal thrillers to more plots addressing his personal feelings of injustice within the American legal system. His themes have been more aimed on exposing serious societal issues like the death penalty, wrongful convictions, race inequality, and how the law can be abused by those in positions of power. Grisham is definitely an advocate of the underprivileged and mistreated, and well, this book allows him a large soapbox to stand on and deliver both a legal drama combined together with resolving the inequalities of an imperfect legal system. However, this time he has chosen to branch out and try his hand at writing a crime thriller rather than a courtroom-centered legal drama. He doesn’t do too bad, primarily for two big reasons. One, his premise and set-up is enticing and good. The plot is interesting and pulls you in easily and fast like most of his books do. The second reason is that his writing style is just so dang good. Grisham is a master writer and his writing style just demands your attention is such a fluid and effortless manner. His descriptions are brief, focused, and vivid. His dialogs are sharp and flow like a Robert B. Parker Spenser novel at its best. More importantly. Like Stephen King, Grisham is a pure in heart storyteller, and his storytelling skills are pretty flawless – smooth and flowing prose with no wasted or unnecessary words, a constant focus on moving the conflict forward. Now, that doesn’t mean there was not some areas where the book could have been better. There were some weaknesses, most of which come from stepping into a different genre. For example, it took Lacy a long time to be drawn into Jeri’s situation and it never felt like she was really ever fully invested in the investigation. Also, you could see where Jeri was headed in the storyline pretty fast, and the way she acted at times made her less sympathetic. I wanted to like her more, but I struggled at times more than I wanted to because of her being so overly protective one moment and then so outrageously stupid the next moment. I know it was because Grisham needed her to interject twists and turns into the storyline, but sometimes I wanted to say, seriously dude! Stop it. I guess my biggest complaint (and it is not a major one) is that her silly behaviors were what provided the most conflict and suspense into the storyline. I also found myself conflicted by the ending. I need to be careful here and not give anything away for those who haven’t read it yet, so I will tread lightly. I know that Grisham was trying to surprise his readers with an unexpected outcome, but I am not sure he stuck the landing. I’ve been thinking pretty hard for the last 24 hours about how I felt about it and I am still feeling less than satisfied with the overall outcome. Enough to deduct a half star for it, even if it puts me in the minority of most readers. Sorry, but that’s my current state of mind. Overall, this was still a pretty enjoyable and entertaining book, another of his usual page-turners from beginning to almost the end. Although it wasn’t stretching too far from his home turf, it turned out to be a safe risk that turned out pretty well. Let’s face it. Grisham sets such a high bar that sometimes it’s hard to review his work with full objectively, since beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. I believe that that the key to Grisham’s continued success is his exemplary power to tell a captivating tale and this one was, although not one his absolute best novels, was still one that checked enough of the reader’s boxes (story, characters, and setting) for me. My rating – 3.5 out of 5 stars. See you again next year, John…

More fun from Grisham. He said in promotional materials that he wanted to write a thriller in which the villain is a sitting judge, and he has managed with his usual wit and style. Looking forward to more in this series.

4⭐💖 This was pretty good. We follow a judge that's a serial killer and the people tracking him down. The story was fast paced but I would have liked a different ending.

Lacy Stoltz is the lead investigator for the Florida Board of Judicial Conduct (returning again after the 2016 bestseller The Whistler) and gets an anonymous call to look into the merits of a complaint against a serving Circuit Judge in Pensacola. When she meets the complainant Margie (an alias), she is given an outrageous-sounding complaint that the judge is a serial killer, killing his victims over a period of 20 years. Margie has no proof, only circumstantial theories. All the victims she has identified had some time or the other offended Judge Ross Banick. Lacy, understandably, is reluctant to take up the complaint, murder investigations are not in her purview. Then a couple of more murders happen where the modus operandi is the same as the others, and she is intrigued enough to look into it and if found to have some merit, then she will hand it over to the police or the FBI. Someone tips off Judge Banick of the investigation and things take an ugly turn… Please read my detailed review from the link below https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-rev... Do Read 📖, Like 👍🏼, Comment 💭, or Share 🚩 🙏🏼🙏🏼 #johngrisham #thejudgeslist #bookmagic #bookreview #lacystoltz #bookrecommendations #bookreviewer #bookreviewblog #bookreviewersofinstagram #booklover #books #bookreviewing #bookreviews #bookreviewblogger #bookblogger #mystery #thriller #suspense #legalthriller #serialkiller #bookworm

After reading The Whistler last year and enjoying it, actually right before the release of The Judge's List, I was counting down the days to this book's release, and it was just as good as The Whistler! 3 years after the events in The Whistler, Investigator Lacy Stoltz is ready to resign from the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct. That is until she meets Jeri Crosby, a mysterious woman with many aliases. Jeri's father was murdered 20 years ago, the killer was never caught, and has become nothing but a forgotten and cold case. But Jeri believes she knows who killed her Father all those years ago, a sitting Judge, in Florida under Lacy's jurisdiction. According to Jeri, this Judge has a blacklist of people who have wronged him, and has killed many of his victims, leaving no clues behind and disappearing without a trace. He knows the legal system, including forensics and Police procedure. Jeri comes to Lacy for assistance, not wanting to go to the Police in fear of being put on the Judge's List. Lacy is skeptical where she has never dealt with a matter such as this. But she reluctantly agrees to investigate, knowing that in doing so she is also endangering her own life. Another winner by Grisham!

Well, Jeri is phenomenal!!!

** spoiler alert ** This book was better than the first book: The Whistler. I really liked it except the ending. I was hoping for a better conclusion. But I guess that's how things happen and it was quite a fair ending pertaining to reality. Anyway, the book was good. One thing I absolutely hated was how Jeri was an idiot and decided to endanger not only her life but Lacy’s as well. I mean why the hell are you contacting the killer? You talk about him being so smart and all, why are you contacting him even anonymously???? What an idiotic move? She should be glad he didn’t kill her or Lacy but still what the hell? Not only that but why was she bothering Lacy that much? With personal questions? Like relax. Meanwhile here she was trying to hide everything about herself. And asking to be friends. I kinda hated her. She was paranoid and that was understandable but the stupid things she did really made me angry at her.

This legal thriller centers around Lacy Stoltz, a veteran investigator for the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct. When she receives an anonymous tip about a respected judge who may be involved in a series of unsolved murders, Lacy is drawn into a complex web of revenge. The anonymous tip who introduces herself by the alias Margie believes presents circumstantial evidence that her father, a law professor, was murdered by the judge twenty years ago shortly after graduated from law school. She also attests that the judge possesses a list of individuals who has wronged him in the past often waiting years to plan his revenge, i.e., to murder them by strangulation. Margie is secretative because fears that the judge will identify her and kill her before she obtains her own revenge through the courts. Although the judge possesses resources that the ordinary citizen don't have, I did think the wealth of his nefarious tools was a bit unbelievable. Other than this flaw, the story moved quickly. Although I read several of Grisham's novel several years ago, I tired of this genre. However, I'm glad I picked up this one and, hopefully, a few additional ones in the future. Grisham does know how to keep you on the edge of your seat.

This book follows The Whistler and we find Lacy Stoltz being called to investigate a sitting judge for serial murders. No one has suspected this man of any wrong doing, but Jeri Crosby, one of the alleged victim's daughter, has meticulously researched this man for the past 20 years. But she is deathly afraid of him and doesn't want her name released. Lacy goes to her supervisor who states that the Florida Board of Judicial Review does not investigate murder and tells her to drop it. But Jeri is desperate and soon Lacy is drawn in. The idea of a judge being a serial killer is definitely a first but in Grisham's very capable hands, this was all very tense and believable. Definitely a great legal thriller!

Grisham fans champ at the bit every time he releases a new book. It’s obvious why; he has written more than thirty novels, all of which have been international bestsellers. This one is a little grislier than others I’ve read… it is about a serial killer, after all, but it has the key hallmark of a great Grisham novel: corruption. It is dramatic, suspenseful, and fast-paced, with likable characters (except for the murderer, of course) and I tore through it. Thanks to the publisher and NetGalley for providing an advance copy of the book in exchange for an honest review. 4 stars. Genre: Legal Thriller For fans of: James Patterson, Scott Turow, Lisa Scottoline, Michael Connelly, and Phillip Margolin

This book was a gift from secret Santa. Thank you Santa! 🎅🎄🎁 I haven't read whistler #1, but this can be read as a stand - alone. This is NOT a legal thriller, though the title has a 'Judge' in it. So what is the Judge doing in the book? The plot is exactly what the title says- it is about a judge who has a long list of people he kills. There is no mystery here. It doesn't even have Grisham's usual heart-wrenching human stories. The plot is far-fetched, but Grisham's story telling hooked me from page 1. The first half of the book tells how the daughter of one of the victims found about the killer- Judge by stalking him relentlessly for 20 years and the next half is how the judge goes about finding who found his secret 'list'. It was just a game of cat and mouse. One of them is even called 'Jeri'. I am surprised that the Judge was not named Tom. The timeline is inconsistent, going back and forth, suddenly jumping into how one of them was killed, talking about the motive for another, not in any particular order. I had become a fan of Grisham's narration style in 'The Partner'. In that book it worked well, as it was uncovering new things as the story progressed. But in this book, we were not finding anything new. I enjoyed it, even though I have complaints (listed above). This book is strictly for Grisham fans. Just lock your brains in the freezer, sit back and enjoy !

CAUGHT UP by Navessa Allen — A Dark, Dirty, Fun AF Time 💋🖤 Rating: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ (4/5) Spice: 🌶️🌶️🌶️💥 (3.5/5) Mafia Men + Camgirls + Found Family Chaos = YES. OKAY LISTEN UP. This book? It didn’t just hit, it body-checked me into the kink club wall and whispered “you’re gonna love this.” AND I DID. If Lights Out was the flirty, chaotic bestie, Caught Up is her dark, broody cousin who shows up late, looks dangerous, and leaves you emotionally wrecked but weirdly grateful. 💀 THE VIBES? 🖤 Dark, yes. But not grim. 🥀 Spicy, but not just for the sake of spice. 🖤 Feral, but with FEELINGS. 🥀 Mafia men being emotionally constipated? ﻿﻿☑️ 🖤 Camgirls with confidence and boundaries? ﻿﻿☑️ JUNIOR aka Nico Trocci Walking red flag. Violent softie. Mafia heir with a stalking problem. He’s been watching Lauren for years (👀yes, it’s creepy, we’re rolling with it) AND GUESS WHAT?? He’s her top subscriber. She doesn’t know. Until she does. And THEN we combust. He's intense, haunted, obsessed—but also??? So vulnerable it hurts. He simps in a "I bought your sex club so I could protect you" way. You’ll be like “sir, therapy?” and also “sir… hello 👀” LAUREN Camgirl. Kink club queen. Unapologetically hot and confident. She owns her sexuality like a weapon and never once wants saving. She’s the kind of heroine who heals without erasing her fire. She’s real, she’s funny, and she makes Junior beg. As she should. THE SPICE? WE LOVE AN UNHOLY CONFESSIONAL SCENE. There’s tension for days, hot voyeur moments, subtle dominance, and actual emotional intimacy. Honestly, it’s the kind of book where the build-up is almost better than the act. Almost. THINGS I LOVED: 🖤 Found family chaos (Taylor & Ryan?? I need a spinoff immediately) 🥀 Junior & Josh bromance? HAD ME GRINNING. 🖤 Healthy kink rep + sex positivity 🥀 Mafia dinners straight out of a Shakespeare tragedy 🖤 Genuinely hilarious side moments (pet drama, roommate shenanigans) 🥀 “He killed her dad but he's in love with her now” energy that somehow… works? BUT OKAY… This book wasn’t perfect. The second chance arc felt a lil rushed. Like dude, you ghosted her for 10 years and we’re cool again in chapter 3?? 😬 I wanted a bit more grovel. More ache. MORE DRAMA. Also: not as laugh-out-loud funny as Lights Out. This one’s hotter, darker, more obsessive, but if you’re coming in expecting Josh-level chaos? Lower that bar, bestie. AUDIO NOTE: Teddy Hamilton + Kaci Hollowell? Elite combo. Chemistry was CHEMISTRY-ing. I binged the audiobook like I was possessed. 🖤 Mafia Romance 🥀 Stalker Romance 🖤 Camgirl Romance 🥀 Morally Gray Hero 🖤 Second Chance Romance 🥀 Found Family 🖤 Kink/BDSM 🥀 Protective, Possessive & Obsessive MMC 🖤 Opposites Attract FINAL THOUGHTS 🖤 Caught Up gave me mafia mess, found family love, kinky chaos, and a morally gray simp king who said “I’m yours” with his whole chest. It’s not cute. It’s not clean. It’s dirty, intense, feral—and I couldn’t look away. Was it better than Lights Out? For me… yes. Different vibe, but it ate.

I liked a lot. Did I like more than Lights Out? No. Did I still enjoy? Yes ! If I can say one thing is that Navessa knows how to write funny light characters and situations. This book is not as funny as Lights Out and no character is as funny as Josh, but the Lauren’s friends are funny and free spirit and so is Lauren. Lauren’s grandma is also a little funny even though she barely appears but still she’s funny. So Lauren and Junior met in high school and she was obsessed with him. They had a little fling and something happens and he disappeared on her and nobody believed she was with him, she became the liar of the school. Then fast forward a 10 years later Junior is living his mobster life which he hates, let’s not forget he is Ali’s cousin and is now really good friends with Josh, so yes I LOVED seen them in this book. So Junior hates his life, he is intense, has a bad temper and tendency to violence. His been stalking Lauren for years and she has no idea. Lauren on the other hand loves her life and her friends, she is a CamGirl and she loves what she does. I honestly LOVE to see a sex worker been represented in a nice way, Lauren loves what she does and doesn’t want to change. She is also part owner along with her friends of a kinky club and ooooooohhhhh 🔥🥵🔥🥵🔥🥵🔥🥵🔥🥵🔥🥵🔥🥵🔥🥵🔥🥵🔥🥵🔥 This books explores a little of what goes on in the club and the different kinks plus her personal kinks. She’s very open about her sexuality and has no shame about it and I LOVE THAT!!!! Believe or not this book is not as spicy as it sounds, yes there is the club and a lot talk about sex and kinks but not too much showing on page. Overall it was good . I am actually excited about Tyler’s story that I think will come next.

⋆˚꩜｡ he ain't no josh but i really enjoyed this book! ⋆˚꩜｡ pre-read i'm in the mood for dark romance!

Rated 4.5/5 stars! I don’t even know what to tell you beyond Navessa Allen lines these pages with drugs, I swear 😂 How can a book feel wholesome and so entirely un-wholesome at once? The relationships in this book just made me feel feral, not only on the romance side of things but friendships too. Sure it’s a dark romance, but there’s so much light and joy in the pages too, from its raging sex positivity to the lighthearted relatable moments between pet-parents or roommates. It’s spicy, it’s chaotic in the best way, and it’s everything I hoped for after loving Lights Out. I’m obsessed.

what a fun a ride this was !! Definitely not as good as the first one but I loved it and can't wait for book 3 A full review later !!! ⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆.⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆. i forgot to log in.. but im listening to this audiobook AND IT IS SO GOOD. JUNE?!? What?! That’s like right there !!!!!

Caught Up had an impossible task: following Lights Out, which I absolutely adored. I went in with high expectations, but around the 60 percent mark, I realized it is not fair to compare the two. Josh and Aly were lightning in a bottle, a totally unique pairing both in this world and in dark romance as a whole. Junior and Lauren are entirely different. They’re more serious and more reserved and the story they are in reflects that. This is a different book entirely. It does not have the same humor or emotional lightness as Lights Out, instead leaning into heat, tension, and intensity. It burns sometimes so intensely that the attempts to build in conflict felt a bit forced, and character motivations occasionally drifted off course. That said, I really enjoyed this. I love Navessa’s writing and the way she explores themes of freedom, being seen, and what it means to choose your own path. Did I love it the way I loved Lights Out? No. But I still found a lot to appreciate here, and I know fans of Lights Out and dark romance in general are going to have a great time with it.

this was so fun!!! in true navesssa fashion, we fall for a man surrounded in red flags but what a fun time! I loved Lauren and her confidence and security of who she is and her job. It was also fun to see her be the one opening the MMC's eyes to his sexuality more. My goodness Juniorrrrr - he is obsessed and wants what he wants, and goes for it. Now.... this is NOT lights out. Which I appreciated. if you are looking for lights out 2.0 you will not find it. this is a mafia romance with comedic relief. The side characters (imo) were where most of the humor lied, not with the MCs like in L.O. so please know that going in. if you are expecting it to feel like lights out, I think you may be disappointed. It was a fun read, I think perfect for a day by the pool or vacation! Can't wit to see what's next 4 out 5 stars thank you zando for ARC

This book singlehandedly has me starting to consider the appeal of BikeTok… 🥲 Girl, this one was steamy. 🥵 This story felt much different than the first book. We lost a lot of the humor which was one of the things I loved about Lights Out, and it was definitely more intense. That said, it was still just as great of time in its own way!

Really enjoyed Caught Up—Navessa Allen has to be one of my favorite spicy romance authors. I loved how this tied into Lights Out but can completely be read as a standalone. While this is a darker romance, it's not DARK dark. Definitely had a dark romantic comedy feel! Navessa Allen does an amazing job of adding both emotional substance and plot to her romances. I loved the second chance romance and seeing through Junior's perspective how Lauren had completely come out of her shell since they were first together. And I liked how part of Junior's character arc focused on his complicated relationship with his father. And oooo the spice was great! I like how SHE was the one who introduced him to certain things because usually it's the other way around. The tension in second chance romance, when the trope is written well (as it is in Caught Up), is always top tier. Junior and Lauren had sizzling chemistry, and I couldn't love it more. Though I do gravitate more towards Josh and Aly from Lights Out. I also preferred the Lights Out plot, but this was an excellent dark romantic comedy! I would definitely recommend this, especially if you're just getting into dark romance. Thank you so much to Zando Slowburn for an ARC of Caught Up. As always, my reviews are one hundred percent voluntary and all opinions are my own :)

3.75⭐️ If you like obsessed and possessive men, you need to read/listen to this asap! WHAT TO EXPECT: ✨ dark romance ✨ she’s a cam girl ✨ he’s in the mafia but wants to get out ✨ second chance ✨ morally grey, stalker, obsessed, possessive MMC ✨ sex club (sex positivity) ✨ 4/5 🌶️ (cam work, voyeurism, BDSM, partner sharing - not MCs, sex in a church confessional) ✨ "touch her and die" ✨ family drama ✨ HEA ✨ TW: too many to list so read the author’s TW page 😅 My Thoughts: Audiobook: 5⭐️ Story: 3.5⭐️ The audiobook was super well done - easy to get into and definitely worth the listen. The story was good overall. I wasn’t obsessed, but I had a good time with it. Compared to Lights Out, which had more of a dark comedy vibe with a hilarious MMC and fun banter, Caught Up leans more into the drama. It’s intense, steamy, and emotional, with way less humor. Nico and Lauren’s relationship is built on their history - they hooked up for a few weeks in high school, they ended on terrible terms, and he’s been quietly watching out for her for over a decade. I loved that part! I mean, who doesn't love a guy obsessed and protective??? But even with their backstory, I wasn’t totally sure why they liked each other now. Their connection felt more physical than emotional, and I didn’t fully buy into the "love" part. HOWEVER, you cannot deny their chemistry. And the spicy scenes were SPICING! Those scenes were hot, super sex-positive, and well written. The VOYEUR ROOM. 🌶️ The CHURCH SCENE 🥵 The spice absolutely delivered and was hands-down my favorite part of the book. The mafia angle was there, but mostly in the background. I didn’t necessarily mind that it wasn’t front and center, but I did expect it to play more into the main plot. I think it could’ve added another layer to the story. Even if it didn’t totally blow me away, I had a good time with it. And I’m excited for Tyler and Stella’s story!!

** spoiler alert ** 3.5 ⭐ You know what? I don't know if this is an unpopular opinion or what, but I enjoyed it just as much as the first book (in fact, I gave it the same rating). The plot of this book, for example, seems more fun to me than that of Lights Out (in fact, I remember that in the first book the plot simply revolved around going to the hospital and Aly's house, and so on in a loop). Perhaps the only thing I didn't like as much about this book is that it ended with a spicy chapter and that the plot wrapped up in almost a chapter and a half. It seemed quite rushed to me, and I felt it needed another chapter. That said, the prologue was perfect; I loved seeing them all together. I can't wait to read Tyler and Stella's book. Oh, And why didn't Navessa include a spicy chapter in a motorcycle? I think she missed the chance, tbh.

I LIKED this one BUT didn't LOVE it like I did Lights Out. I didn't feel as connected with Junior and Lauren as I did with Ally and Josh. I wanted MORE- not sure what of but just MORE. I do have to say that listening to this made it because Teddy Hamilton is just ridiculously fabulous as we all know. All that being said this was entertaining. I found myself at the edge of my seat wondering when Lauren was going to give in to her desire for Junior. I liked Junior's touch her and die vibes. I liked the mafia aspect but did want a little more of that. I felt like Lights Out was edgier if that makes sense. I did like the sensuality in this book - the tension at the club was STRUNG TIGHT. Very much a voyeuristic vibe that I enjoyed with the club and Lauren's job. I liked how supportive Junior was of all things Lauren did AND that he had been her literal number one supporter since day one. I liked how Lauren empowered Junior to go out on his own and get away from his father and all that toxicity. When these two did get together, it was electric. I love how committed Junior was to Lauren and even though there was bad blood from when they were younger there was a GOOD reason for the bad blood. Junior was such a morally grey GOOD man. Lauren is living her life. Her work is THRIVING to say the least. She feels like she is making headway for women and men in her industry to not have the stigma it has had for all these years. All is well until she runs into Junior Trocci. The boy (now man) that she was in love with all those years ago who ghosted her when things went south. And now he is here looking at her like she is a snack. Like he still wants her. Like nothing bad went down between them all those years ago. Well who does he think he is? And why is she still having this reaction to him? The way he acted led her to have YEARS of therapy. Yet for whatever reason he is making amends and wants to see her. He wants to support her. He wants to join her at her club. He wants to play and watch. He wants HER. But should she let her heart open again? Is he here with ulterior motives? Or is everything he is saying true? Either way she can't help it. She is falling for this man who shows her a side that no one else really gets to see. The side that has dreams outside of the mob. The side who can love and support and cherish. The side who makes her toes curl in the BEST way. The side who is willing to try almost anything once. But then a miscommunication comes between them. And Lauren has to decide how much she trusts Nico and his intentions. And if how she feels about him is worth fighting for. Nico has always had one woman on his mind, Lauren Marchetti. The one who got away. The one he let go to save her. The one who he was threatened to stay away from. But now there are no obstacles in his way. And he is determined to make things right between them and to show her what they could be. He doesn't expect a warm welcome when they see each other again. But he also doesn't expect to see the hurt still there. So now he really has to apologize and make things right. Which he does. He wants a chance. A REAL chance. So she offers him to come to her club with her. To see what she likes and they can go from there. And that night is an experience Nico didn't know he would like. But he realizes he likes it even more because Lauren is with him. He knows her walls are still up. He just has to prove to her what she means to him. So he opens up. Tells him all the things he has been doing behind the scenes for her. How much he supports her in everything that she does. And he wants her to succeed. Their connection is unmatched. He has never felt like this before. He just has to make it through a little bit longer to get on the other side of his dad. And when a misunderstanding comes between them Nico is that much more determined to show Lauren his love for her. Because he has ALWAYS loved her. Even when she didn't know it. Can I just say that the church confessional booth scene was ALMOST key word ALMOST as hot as the knife scene from book 1. IYKYK. Our girl Navessa can get creative with these *bedroom* scenes and I am here for it. I liked the cameos we got of Ally and Josh and how much they supported Nico and his quest to get away from his dad. And I liked Lauren and Nico. I liked their banter. I liked how they were real with each other. I liked how down bad Nico was for her from the jump. I also LOVE that Tyler was in this. Yes THAT Tyler. And that it seems like he is going to be the MC for the third book- hoping I am right on that one. Anyways even though this didn't blow my socks off like book 1, I still very much enjoyed it and found it entertaining. But seriously LISTEN to it- Teddy is just SO GOOD!

Okayyyyy 🤭😮‍💨 This one was Fun!!! If you loved lights out (the first book of the series) you’re gonna LOVE Caught up . I think I loved it even more than lights out! 🙊 I laughted out loud many times while reading it but also the spice 😮‍💨❤️‍🔥 this one was hottt One thing I love in romance books is when the mmc is Obsessed with the fmc and Junior is OBSESSED with Lauren🤭 I also loved the relationship between Lauren & her friends. The “we ride at dawn” scene was so funny 🤣 I’m already super excited for the next one !!! Thank you so much Zando for the arc 🥹❤️🫶🏼 Read this if you love Dark rom-com Second chance romance Mafia romance Man obsessed Spicyyyy 🌶️ ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️.25 🌶️🌶️.5

As a fan of the Harry Bosch series, I enjoyed Connelly's latest police procedural story. Renee Ballard is the main character, and she works The Dark Hours, meaning the midnight shift. She enlists retired cop, now private detective, Harry Bosch, to help her solve the two crimes she's investigating. Ballard is a loner, a surfer, and a good cop, but she doesn't always let department policy get in the way of finding the bad guys. She has a few narrow escapes, plus a new love interest. She also adopts a puppy, Pinto, a cute chihuahua mix. I didn't like a lot of the police jargon but it provided authenticity, a trademark of the Bosch series.

This is the twenty-third book in the Harry Bosch series, however, in the last few, Renee Ballard, a young female detective, has been taking a greater role—this is the fourth book with her in a major role. In all but one of these she is partnered with Bosch. She was first introduced in the 2007 book The Overlook. In this book she is the lead and Bosch is only a minor supporting character. Ballard is a feminine clone of Bosch. She likes working alone and she is almost constantly in conflict with her superiors. This mystery involves a couple of serial rapists, but while tracking them Ballard is called to the scene of a murder. When the department heads try to hand off the murder case to another department Ballard continues her investigation hoping to solve the case before the handoff while simultaneously working the rapist case. This two case story line seems to be popular with the Bosch books of late. I don’t remember the earlier books having that type of story line. This story occurs at the beginning of 2021 and includes several references to some of the happenings of the time. There are several comments about these circumstances by Bosch, Ballard and others. The “Defund the Police” idea is described as having a detrimental effect on the police department. It is said that the police have become reactive instead of proactive. They want no unnecessary interaction with the public. When Ballard mentions that she is thinking of leaving the police force, Bosch points out that true reform must come from inside the police department and she should stay and become part of that reform. There is also mention of the importance of wearing a mask due to the Covid pandemic. But in another eery coincidence as I write this on the anniversary of the Jan. 6th insurrection, Bosch and others express their shock at the Capitol being invaded by Americans when that event occurs during the story. I doubt if many readers pick up a mystery like any of Michael Connelly’s books expecting some social commentary. The fact that I agree with many of these views does not negate the distractions they brought to the story. At the end of the book Ballard has resigned from the police department, but there are hints that she will return. She is an interesting addition to the mystery genre and I will look forward to the next book by Michael Connelly hoping he continues her story.

The pandemic is in full swing in Los Angeles and much of the force is burned out. But LAPD Detective Renée Ballard is not letting herself be one of those officers. In fact, she's picking up the slack of her fellow coworkers. Ballard is working a rapist case deemed the "Midnight Men," whose lead seems like she could care less about the case or the female victims. And New Year's brings Ballard the shooting of a former gang member. While she should pass the murder on to homicide, Ballard tries to work it as long as possible when she realizes the shooting is linked to a cold case of Harry Bosch's. As Bosch and Ballard team up again, they start to realize where their cases intersect. And as they do, they come on the radar of a killer who would much prefer to stay hidden. "She knew this could be the solve she needed to save herself." Harry Bosch will forever be my one true love. I love him dearly and always will. Ballard is definitely growing on me, and I really respected her in this book. This is a really timely read, as Connelly does not shy away from the pandemic, riots, anger toward the police, and police apathy and burnout. As always, we get his superb knowledge of police procedures, excellent research, and two wonderful investigators in Bosch and Ballard. I've never watched the Bosch show, but I feel like I can picture Bosch and Ballard so clearly due to Connelly's wonderful writing and world building. THE DARK HOURS finds Ballard in a tough place. She may love doing the actual police work, but she does have growing disillusion with her job, department, and the people. But, as she says, Bosch is her true constant. (I feel you, Renee, he's mine too!) She's going through a lot and always fighting an uphill battle against the jerks who seem against her at every turn. But Ballard is tough--much like a certain Harry Bosch--and watching the two of them solve cases is pure joy. Both cases presented in HOURS are complex and interesting, especially the New Year's shooting of Ballard's that links to Bosch's cold case. The two zig and zag around L.A., making connections and generally keeping us on our toes. It's wonderful having their two minds together. Overall, this is another great mystery, featuring two excellent characters, and since the ending leaves us hanging a bit, I look forward to another book. 4+ stars. Blog ~ Twitter ~ Facebook ~ Smashbomb ~ Instagram

I have to say I have read every book in the series and that Michael Connelly is the best fiction writer in the universe lol. This was another good addition to the series and always a bummer when done with one of his books. Last year he wrote two books so one can always hope for two in 2022 lol. The two main characters were good as always and the carried the story. I however did not get into the one case of the two that involved murder-was somewhat complex and for me it missed the mark a little bit for him. The rape case was a good moving case and was good . I am glad Harry was more involved in the second half of the book. The two characters make a good team. I think this writer could write about a telephone book and it would be great.The ending kind of had three parts to it, the first part I was not wild about but the two other parts were good. The ending in a way was open ended for him but we have a good sense where it is going to go-she is following his footsteps and history lol.I give it around a 4.2 and say give it a big spin.

Ballard is back on her loved late shift and working on a serial rapist case when she is called to a nearby crime scene. What appears to be an accident is soon recognized as murder and the events that follow lead her to partner up with the retired Bosch to search for the killer. Most importantly, Connelly does not sidestep issues. He incorporates Covid, Black Lives Matter, the disturbed social and economic conditions, and calls to defund the police. He walks a tightrope between the view that LAPD, feeling unappreciated by the public, are being forced into a reactive rather than a proactive stance, and the recognition that the problems in law enforcement run much deeper than many believe. Another Michael Connelly procedural that never lets up from beginning to end. A great read!

Ballard & Bosch, a dynamic duo, unlike the cop shows of old 3 channel tv, or even modern cable and satellite. The dark web scares the hell out of me, how 'bout you? Take a listen to learn more....

Connelly's plotting is completely formulaic, with most of his books ending the same way. Still, I liked the LA pandemic setting, and Ballard's perspective on it.

Whilst Renee Ballard may perform many feats of bravery within these pages, the action is fraught with tension as she is driven by forces that do not always include backup from her fellow cops who resent her. Go for the ride, as it is one heck of a roller coaster. Thank God for Bosch and his assists, otherwise she may not have survived the many harrowing situations she finds herself in. This book includes the latest newsworthy situations throughout the Pandemic and the civil unrest throughout the country. Just the 4th Ballard book in the series and looking forward to seeing her join forces with Bosch in future. I can't describe the plot as it would spoil this great book for other readers.

On the one hand, it was another good case (actually two) for Ballard and Bosch. On the other, it was a horrible indictment on how screwed up our world has really become in LA and the rest of the country.

sick and twisted and hard to swallow…. and I loved every moment. this book is very confronting. I can do almost anything - and when I saw the trigger warning at the start I rolled my eyes thinking “it’s Colleen Hoover… it can’t be that triggering” WOAH was I wrong lmao. This was so full on, yet so captivating. Some parts were making me very uncomfortable, but it’s not getting less stars for that. The story is captivating, the writing style is fine, the pacing is great, but even with how thrilling it all was, it was very very basic writing. Almost no descriptive language (which might be CoHo’s thing, I’m not sure). In a way it’s good cause my brain can imagine any scenario, but sometimes it’s nice to have a picture painted for you or to let your imagination run wild. I LOVE that everything was going a million miles a minute right up until the very end - the worst part about a book is when the ending happens but then there’s 4 chapters of ~tying up loose ends~ and explaining how happy everything has become. None of that here, a very short epilogue. So many jaw-dropping moments throughout, some were predictable but still exciting to see happen. some I had NO inkling they were even on the horizon. I binged this book and couldn’t stop. LOVE LOVE LOVE. Updated to add: although I said the writing was basic, the fact that it was written from 3 different perspectives as the story was moving along was SO GOOD!!!! It might be my favourite way to read a book, it makes it SO much more interesting! Does that type of writing have a name? If so, I need more books like that.

I think this has to be the second book by COHO that I actually adored... After reading Ugly Love, I fell in love with COHO's writing, so I decided to do what every other bookworm would do when they fall in love with a new author: I bought all her books. I made a huge mistake though... Every single other book that COHO has written has been a mess to my eyes. Somehow she was able to make a come-back with this new story, because MY GUACAMOLES ARE HOT AND SPICY THIS TIME! This story has everything that melted me, but also everything that made me detest it. It was a mix of 50-50 with this one. I do recommend this story to everyone who follows my reviews, but for those who are looking for a "safe" book... this is a total... What else can I say... It was sweet, dramatic in a way that it is acceptable to read, and also it has a nice ending. I think that COHO's European vacation did her good with this story because I sure enjoyed it! Order Links: Amazon Amazon UK

If you look past all the smut the story is really great.

TITLE: Too Late AUTHOR: Colleen Hoover GENRE: Contemporary Romance RELEASE DATE: MY RATING A murder, an arrest, an attempted murder makes TOO LATE one thrilling un-put-down-able- read!! I've pretty much read all of this authors books and have cray cray loved each and everyone of them so am keen to see why this has so many mixed reviews..This is nothing like what I expected from this author, it's got an underlying darkness to it which has me racing through the pages.. TOO LATE: This story focuses solely around Slone, Asa and Carter and is told in their POV'S. Twenty year old Sloan is mixed up in the underworld of crime drugs being sold by her boyfriend Asa at her local college campus where she attends school. Sloan is stuck in a toxic relationship with Asa and his precision planning inside his devious mind keeps you glued to the pages, his drug intake makes him unpredictably unstable at the best of times, then add Sloan to this equation he's borderline possessive of her, he keeps tabs on her wherever she goes, in his own dysfunctional overbearing way he does love her. Love shouldn't feel like added weight. It should make you feel light as air. Asa made everything in my life heavy. Luke makes me feel like I'm floating. Despite his good looks, he has his faults, he's cocky, quick tempered and hard to handle. But he loves me, he loves the hell out of me, I'd be lying if I said I didn't love him in return. He's all I have. ENTER Twenty five year old Carter (Luke) is undercover attending college to investigate the drug deals going down at the College Campus that Sloan attends. Until Carter came along Sloan was so deep in Asa's lifestyle, even though she hated it he had her over a barrel when it came to her brothers medical bills that Asa was covering.. Undercover work wasn't really what I went into the force for, but it's what I'm good at. Unfortunately, I've got a really bad feeling about this one. These characters are giving me whiplash with their infidelity antics..BUT like a train-wreck you just can't stop looking at as you drive past this book is having that same effect on me, for the life of me I can't stop reading it.. “Sometimes…I wish that just once, Asa would have to watch you f#ck me. It’s the only thing that would kill what’s left of his soul. I sometimes wish he could be forced to watch you take what he thinks belongs to him…” My mind is in such turmoil, this book wow!! what doesn't it cover, drugs, infidelity, murder, deceit, attempted rape, undercover cops, abuse, the dark, the grit, the feels, -> hate, anger, disbelief, shock, TOO LATE has everything you would wish a book to have, you would be forgiven if you didn't know who the author was because this book has just taken her to the next level.. It's a wonder my nails are still intact, the build up of anticipation near on killed me, each chapter was a semi cliff hanger, I'd read a chapter then think ok next one I really need to sort dinner out, then bam your hit with a chapter cliffy and on and on it went.. Someone please tell me it doesn't seriously end like it did on a cliffy with no other book in sight..no mention of another book..Gah

Too Late by Colleen Hoover ⭐️⭐️⭐️ (3.75 stars) Tropes & Themes: 🚩 Toxic love triangle 🖤 Obsession vs. real love 😵‍💫 Morally grey everything 🚨 Dark romance 👮‍♂️ Undercover cop 💔 Coercive control 🔥 Taboo spice 🏃‍♀️ Escape from danger ⸻ So I finally read Too Late after hearing people rave about how “different” it is from Colleen Hoover’s usual stuff, and wow… yeah, they weren’t kidding. 😬 This book is wild, disturbing, and honestly felt like I was reading someone’s fever dream at times BUT in a way I couldn’t stop reading?? The story follows Sloan, a college student who’s basically trapped in a toxic, controlling relationship with Asa, a powerful drug dealer. She’s stuck because of financial reasons and because he literally won’t let her leave. And honestly, Asa is one of the most terrifying fictional characters I’ve ever read like, textbook narcissist, emotionally manipulative, and extremely dangerous. 🚩🚩🚩 Then we meet Carter (aka undercover cop Luke), who moves into Asa’s circle to bring down his operation… but ends up falling for Sloan along the way. Cue the forbidden love, undercover mission, and emotional whiplash from all the things that go down. It’s basically Netflix thriller meets Wattpad fanfic 😅 ⸻ What I liked: ✅ The pace was quick and addictive. I couldn’t put it down even when it made me uncomfortable ✅ Carter (or Luke?) was a breath of fresh air and gave me the “quiet, protective, respectful guy” vibes I love ✅ I appreciated that CoHo didn’t romanticize Asa at all, he’s truly evil and that’s made very clear ✅ The rawness and chaos of the story kept me engaged, even when I didn’t like it ⸻ What I didn’t like: 🚨 This book is DARK. Like, trigger warnings galore dark (SA, abuse, manipulation, drugs, etc.) 📝 The writing felt unpolished more like something she wrote for fun and decided to release later (which I think she did?) 😬 Some of the spicy scenes were straight up uncomfortable and felt unnecessary 🧠 I felt emotionally drained after reading it tbh 🤷‍♀️ The plot got a bit ridiculous toward the end and felt rushed/wrapped up too neatly considering how serious everything was ⸻ Overall Thoughts: This definitely isn’t for everyone and if you’re not in the right headspace, I’d say skip it. It’s raw, disturbing, and feels more like CoHo’s experimental “what-if-I-just-went-feral” book than a traditional romance. But if you’re in the mood for something dark, messy, and morally complex, it will keep you turning the pages. ⸻ Rating: 3.75 stars 📖 Addictive, dark, and deeply unsettling 🖤 Not romantic in the traditional sense, but compelling in a car-crash-you-can’t-look-away-from way 😵‍💫 For fans of chaotic drama and unhinged vibes Would I recommend it? Only if you’re into dark romance and want to read something that feels more like a psychological thriller with a heavy dose of 🚩🚩🚩. You’ve been warned.

This isn't your normal Colleen Hoover book. It's Dark, it's Smutty and I loved it. The story is about a girl who is in a relationship with an abusive boyfriend who is also a drug dealer but who instantly falls in love with a boy who seemed to be everything Asa isn't but who still has so many thing in common with him. OK we basically know from the beggining that Asa is the bad guy in this tale and I completely agree, but it's not really his own fault that he is the way he is. First off he grew up in a poisonus houshold in wich his father taught him that all womans are whores and liars. His mother was either high on pills or beaten up by his dad. He never truly knew what real love is because he never felt it himself and as a little boy his only dream was that when he grew up he find a woman who isn't quote a whore. somebody who told him that she loved him and would never leave him and who would bake him coconut cake. And on top off that all he inherited his father's mental illness. So I can't really blame him for who he turned out to be but I also don't make excuses for him. He deserves to be locked up or get help! He should gotten that help when he was little because no child deserves a shitty childhood, but better late than never... I actually liked the Epilogue and don't understand why others didn't take it so well. It was really originaly done. 4, something /5 Stars beacause it was really well done and had me interessted from the beginning till the end. P.S.: I never was in an abusive relationship myself but I never truly understood the woman that stand by the man that physically or mentaly abuses them and don't leave. But PLEASE DON'T LET ANY ONE ABUSE YOU IN ANY WAY!!!!! STAND UP FOR YOURSELF AND LET THE FUCKER KNOW THAT IT IS NOT OK TO TREAT YOU THE WAY THEY DID! MAKE IT REALLY CLEAR TO HIM! FOR THE GOOD OF YOU AND OTHER PEOPLE AROUND YOU!!!

A good easy simple COHO book.

4.5/5 Stars. Be forewarned that there are a lot of triggers for domestic abuse, rape, verbal abuse, overall shitty parents, etc. I really really enjoyed this book! I understand that some people may not like it because of the triggers but I enjoyed the characters. I’ve said this on many of my reviews on books written by Colleen Hoover, but there’s just something about her writing I adore. Like with this: I can understand why people can’t stand Asa. Even my thumbs try to type “Ass” instead of “Asa,” because he is in fact, an ass. He’s a complete garbage human being. Although, I applaud that I have such intense feelings toward him. One of my favorite things about Colleen Hoover’s writing is how she takes you into the mind of the villain. She makes the reader understand their behavior and sympathize for Asa. Don’t get me wrong, as they say in the book, “sympathy is as far as it goes. You can sympathize with someone and still wish they were dead.” I just choose to focus on the positives and turn my hatred feelings for Asa into appreciation for Colleen Hoover’s writing. I don’t feel a huge need to elaborate on Sloan, (view spoiler). They were great and I love their characters and stories. There were quite a few epilogues after the initial story, but I was 100% ok with them! I continuously wanted more content and I loved the ending. If the book would’ve ended at the initial ending (chapter 45) I don’t think I would’ve been as satisfied. In fact I’d probably harass Colleen on all social media platforms begging for more. It was great. If you aren’t easily offended and just love dark romances that pull at the heartstrings, then I’d suggest picking this up. It may be harder for anyone that is still suffering and sensitive to domestic abuse as well as rape victims.

As usual, it's prevalent to CoHo to make a book with multiple POVs. I like the idea, at least we can have knowledge on each sides of the story. Still, it's confusing, but engaging. How sad it is to be stuck in the same old place, and you have nowhere to go, no one to ask for help, but the person you don't ever want to be with. Sloan, a girl who has unconditional love for her premature brother, that she'd do anything for him. She's the sister you'll want to have. All she ever wanted was to be able to support Stephen. With Asa, she can, but also with Asa, she'll never get a chance for solitude. She's fragile, broken. Let's talk about this Asa fucking asshole. That jerk. I loathe him. He's nothing but an anchor to Sloan's ship, not letting her move. I pity him. He's a lying, cheating, son of a btch. Brain washed by his jerk of a father. I have no more words to use to express my hate for him. Carter, oh not a word can describe my feelings for him. He's perfect! Really, physical features, his humor. The way he acts. His choice of words. His respect for Sloan. Him being softhearted. I just adore everything about him. CoHo's characters are always perfect for each other. There are always too much sweetness, too much drama. Nonetheless, it only makes them more appealing. It makes the story more intense. Even if Sloan and Carter are throwing hurtful words to one another, it's still flawless. Like everything they'll do, you'll love it. Though Colleen's books are pretty much the same on that part, you'll still crave for it. 4 stars because I needed a protagonist, a woman, who is strong enough to stand up for herself. To be brave enough to walk away and face the consequences of her choices. I needed someone who has a strong voice. Not someone like Sloan who instantly fell in love to a guy who respected her. Who's so into a guy's sexual appeal. Not someone like her who screams save me I like the second epilogue, she just showcased bravery, that must have been done earlier. At least she grew brave and strong. Also, that part was truly sexy. The book, is unfortunately, almost very cliché if it wasn't for the undercover thing. Still, CoHo books always give me this unexplainable feelings that up until now I can't make up a word for it. It was too intense, too dark, too terrifying, too sexual . THE FIRST EPILOGUE ALMOST MADE ME HATE COHO. I literally felt my heartbeat stop! Overall, I'm really glad to have this book of her read. by the way, You can read Too Late on Wattpad. Colleen Hoover, you always leave me dumbfounded!

This one was a rollercoaster in the dark that I loved! Creepy, sick, intense and full of drama. The fact that we had 3 differing POV's the entire book was AMAZING, I loved that aspect and loved seeing the different thought processes of each character throughout the same plot. Ofc I built a strong hatred towards one in particular, but I was still looking forward to reading his perspective and it kept the plot super interesting. Despite the trigger warnings this was a definitely page turner and the twistedness (lol) had me reading quick AF to see where it was all going. Totally binge worthy, fast paced and I was very stressed in some parts (we love to see it). Definitely one to read with caution, but once you're in it there's no slowing down.

I couldn’t breathe the entire time I was reading this book. The chapters from Asa’s POV were entirely chilling and twisted. My heart ached for Sloan, and I wanted her to be free from Asa so badly. I wish I could have read this live on Wattpad!

“𝑰𝒏 𝒂 𝒅𝒊𝒇𝒇𝒆𝒓𝒆𝒏𝒕 𝒍𝒊𝒇𝒆”—𝑰 𝒄𝒖𝒕 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒐𝒇𝒇, 𝒑𝒓𝒆𝒔𝒔𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒆𝒗𝒆𝒏 𝒄𝒍𝒐𝒔𝒆𝒓 𝒖𝒏𝒕𝒊𝒍 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒏𝒆𝒄𝒌 𝒄𝒓𝒂𝒏𝒆𝒔—“𝑰’𝒅 𝒌𝒊𝒔𝒔 𝒚𝒐𝒖.” Wow, I don’t even know where to begin oh wait, I do… the TENSION is off the charts 😮‍💨 It’s obviously got a lot to do with Enzo being engaged to Venesa’s cousin. Yep, the forbidden vibes are ON. 🔥 The story is straightforward: Enzo, part of a wealthy NYC mafia family, gets engaged to Aria Kingston, the most powerful family in South Carolina. To make sure everything goes smoothly Venesa’s uncle asks her to keep an eye on Enzo… but turns out, Enzo never took his eyes off Venesa 👀🥵 And just to be clear, if you’re expecting a Little Mermaid retelling, this might not be your cup of tea. This series is not a retelling. The author adds fairytale elements into a modern story to give villains their HEA, and it works so well. every. single. time Can we talk about Venesa?! I think she’s why I stayed in love with this book the entire time. She’s no damsel in distress! She’s confident, loves to bargain, and is all about making her own deals 💅 She’s outspoken, wants no man, and is fiercely determined to finally feel accepted by her family after years of proving herself. “𝑫𝒐 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒌𝒆𝒆𝒑 𝒚𝒐𝒖𝒓 𝒏𝒂𝒎𝒆 𝒇𝒓𝒐𝒎 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒎 𝒕𝒐𝒐, 𝒐𝒓 𝒂𝒎 𝑰 𝒔𝒑𝒆𝒄𝒊𝒂𝒍?” 𝑺𝒉𝒆 𝒍𝒂𝒖𝒈𝒉𝒔, 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒊𝒕 𝒕𝒖𝒈𝒔 𝒎𝒆 𝒊𝒏 𝒍𝒊𝒌𝒆 𝒂 𝒔𝒄𝒂𝒓𝒇 𝒂𝒓𝒐𝒖𝒏𝒅 𝒎𝒚 𝒏𝒆𝒄𝒌. “𝒀𝒐𝒖’𝒓𝒆 𝒂 𝒎𝒂𝒏, 𝒉𝒐𝒏𝒆𝒚. 𝑰’𝒎 𝒂𝒇𝒓𝒂𝒊𝒅 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒓𝒆’𝒔 𝒏𝒐𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒔𝒑𝒆𝒄𝒊𝒂𝒍 𝒂𝒃𝒐𝒖𝒕 𝒂𝒏𝒚 𝒐𝒇 𝒚𝒐𝒖.” If you love forbidden romance and stories where the villains finally get the spotlight, trust me, this book (and this series) is for you. I adore the Never After series and will forever recommend it to anyone who loves fairytales with a twist. ✨ Tropes 💜 forbidden romance 💜 mafia romance 💜 forced proximity 💜 strangers to friends to lovers 💜 family secrets 💜 touch her and you ** Thank you Emily McIntire's team for gifting me an eARC copy in exchange for my honest review --- The way I BINGED SO HARD THIS BOOK. ⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆ I eat up every single book of hers, i can't wait to do the same with this oneeee ⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆ I AM SCREAMING - i got selected to read this as an eARC omfg the way that I need someone to pinch me RIGHT NOW this doesn't seem real

4 stars! 🌟 “In a different life”—I bend until my mouth is centimeters from hers—“I would do anything to make you mine, and I’d bring you any person who’s wronged you and make them beg for death at your feet. All you’d have to do is say the word.” Ughhhh, WHERE DO I EVEN START?! This book was everything I didn’t know I needed and SO much more. From page one, I was on fire—the tension? Immaculate. The vibes? Perfection. And the chemistry between Enzo and Venesa? Chef’s kiss. 👏🔥 Like, how do they even make a forbidden romance with a twist of mafia feel THIS good?! I was glued to my phone screaming "No, but YESSS!" the entire time. 😩 This isn't your average Little Mermaid retelling, folks. Emily McIntire took that inspiration, sprinkled in some mafia spice, and served up something dark, dangerous, and oh-so-delicious. 🍷 ✧ Forbidden romance 💘 ✧ Mafia romance 💕 ✧ Villain FMC 🖤 ✧ Antihero MMC 💓 ✧ Forced proximity 💗 ✧ Family secrets 🧾 ✧ Slowburn tension 🕯️ ✧ Touch her and you die ☠️ Let’s talk about Venesa for a sec—she CARRIED this book. Bold, cunning, unapologetically badass—she is the villain I can’t help but root for. 🙌 And Enzo? Broody, sexy, and has this protective streak that made me melt. 😮‍💨 I was flipping pages faster than Venesa can make a deal with her uncle, I swear. And the plot twists?! I mean, I predicted a couple, but others?! I was like NO WAY—cue gasping. 😱 The writing sucked me in so deep, I felt like I was living in the heart of mafia madness. 🔥🔥 That said, it was a little long. Like, trimming down some scenes would’ve really kept the pace tighter. But hey, that's a small thing compared to the total vibe of this book. AND, hold up, can we talk about how far this series has come?! 🥹 I rated the last book ONE star (still recovering from that trauma, btw), but this one?? Solid 4 stars. Growth, people—growth. 🙌 So, if you’re all about dark, forbidden mafia romance with strong women and fairytale twists, this one’s for you. Emily, you crushed it AGAIN. 👏🔥 Image credits: Pinterest. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- Okay, so I’ve had a total mixed bag of feels about the Never After series—let’s just say the last one was a HARD pass for me! 😩 But OMG, I’m absolutely BUZZING with excitement for Hexed! This dark and delicious twist on The Little Mermaid has me all ready to swoon over the forbidden romance between Enzo "Loverboy" Marino and the enchanting Venesa Andersen! 😍✨ The combo of mafia drama and steamy tension is just what my heart needs right now! 💖 Emily, I NEED this book ASAP because I can already tell it’s going to be one WILD ride! 🧜‍♀️💜 Bring on the magic and the chaos—let's go!

I ate this UP 🤩

4.5 ⭐️ 4 🌶️ ✨ I'm fucking gone while I watch her. The world could light itself on fire behind us, and I don't think I'd care. ✨ Emilyyyy, QUEEEEN! What in the world did you put in this masterpiece? Like, is it possible to be enchanted through a book, because I was absolutely captivated from page 1 and devoured this beaut in 1.5 days. 😫 I could feel the chemistry between Enzo and Venesa THROUGH the pages, and the tension was so intense my fingers burned. To see Vanesa go from feeling unseen and desperately seeking approval to embracing herself as a sexy, bad a** b*tch and how Enzo helped empowering his Piccola Sirena, was truly inspiring. I. Ate. It. Up. ❤️‍🔥 Oh, and can we talk about the constant plot twist for sec? Jesus gurl, the number of times I was side-eying my kindle was unreal. Jessica had it coming tho... 🤭👀 I am not kidding when I say the acknowledgements had me in tears. Emily, your McInculties got you, always. You’re such a strong a** woman and we will always have your back ready to shout about you from every rooftop. 🫶🏼 Thank you so much, Emily and team, for giving me the opportunity to read this arc, I'm still recovering. 💜 ✨ "That's a dangerous thing to say to a man like me, piccola sirena. ✨ Tropes: 🖤 Mafia Romance 🥀 Villain FMC + Antihero MMC ❤️‍🔥 (VERY) Forbidden Romance 💜 Forced Proximity 🧜🏼‍♀️ Little Mermaid Inspired ✨ Nickname - Piccola Sirena 🔥 Slowburn Song: 🎶 Play with Fire - Sam Tinnesz, Yacht Money

Never After series, COMPLETE!! I can now give you guys my final ranking, which is: Hooked > Wretched > Scarred > Crossed > Twisted > Hexed Mind you, all but the first two I rated 4 stars, so there's only very slight differences between them that affect my ranking, mainly how much fun I had while reading & how well I connected to the characters. Anyway, the Little Mermaid references were the best part of Hexed. McIntire's clever use of them reminded me of Hooked, which seemed to be the most like the original story so far. I really appreciated them, even though I'm not a huge fan of the cartoon myself. I also liked the romance, and the narration, the story was so-so, not my favourite in the series, clearly. But the effort the author put into it is apparent. I'm glad that I not only picked this series up, but also finished it (I have over 100 unfinished series...I'm working on it), two of the books became ultimate faves, the other four were still great reads, and I'm excited to dive into whatever Emily McIntire puts out next.

i LOVED this. i am obsessed with how Emily throws in all the little easter eggs and nods to the original story while making it completely different?? the little mermaid but make it dark mafia romance and ursula is the heroine (kinda??) 🐚🌊

ENZO<3 so touch her and die but not in a cringe way. he is sooo genuinely in awe of her i love it. he worships the ground she walks on.

The absolute chemistry between Venesa and Enzo was on fire. The slow burn was really slow, but when they come together? Whewww. 🥵 This was definitely more romance than mafia business, but the plot wasn't lacking at all. The plot twist was pretty unexpected til the very end. The tid-bits that related this retelling to the Little Mermiad were suttle, but as always, I loved the parallels.

4.5 stars! The little mermaid is my favourite Disney movie so of course I ate this all up and all the references too were perfection. This was such a slow burn but so worth it when they finally were able to act on their feelings. The girlies with a praise kink will love this one. Mafia romances might be on my future tbr cause of this book

A dark mafia retelling of two villians finding love despite the odds in this crazy world. Featuring a sea witch with southern charm and mafia city prince from New York, tangled in a weave of favorite tropes. How utterly delicious… I adored how well-developed each of these adorably crazy characters were! Our main characters, Venesa Andersen a southern sassy assassin, trying to stay useful to her mafia uncle. And Enzo “Loverboy” Marino. God I hated his nickname. At first I thought it was just dumb. Until I read his dual perspective and realized he wasn’t a prick. I guess I just been reading a lot of “ knows he’s hot arrogant boy jerk” trope and this was a hot different kinda man. OK first I love the setting. The writing made this strange pairing of characters into an Ariel retelling in the most fun-elegant teasing light of touch way with a dark bloody stage. The retelling and the references were spot on for telling it from the villain's pov. Subtle little mermaid retelling and the references and names. So so good Our journey bounced between a small town southern coast place that as a reader, you just wander around and of course a couple businesses are owned by the mob. isnt’t that just fun? It worked so well within the -I love my cousin’s mobster fiance trope. As a reader, I literally felt like I was walking through the town and I could picture our main character’s life before the book (main plot sneaking around trying to kill people while thinking her cousin is a brat). I hate it when books feel like the main character was just suddenly born an adult into the first page, with no real background of what their life was like before. This book did not feel one dimensial in its characters. Even her cousin, i adored how twisted her cruel brat went the next level . 😂😂 Calling Archier a guppy was inspired. (view spoiler) I love Bastian. Bastian was inspired, brilliantly written character. Also the torture scenes were also awesome. The instalove worked I think on this plot. And now… my critiques. Disclaimer I must say that I enjoyed the writing SO much, the closeness to the characters grew with every page that I was left… wanting. And i mean this in the best way. More plot. Like a painting heist or mob war? We could’ve gotten something more exciting as an ending action. Something for readers to get more insights from earlier Venessa taking mob deals and overhearing stuff from (view spoiler) But then she didn’t look into it at all Sloppy to move plot along. It felt sooo ignorant that a small town assassin thought her tiny family could keep up with fucking new york? Like the power comparison doesnt even kinda make sense. So either she really dumb, or the author had to be sloppy. Hmmm coastal southern town Vs New York…which mafia do YOU think would win? Also Enzo accepted he didn’t know murder details. As a mafia know everything kinda guy? That was so left field like “DONT PAY ATTENTION TO THIS” that it felt sloppy to their characters Predictable. I wasn’t really surprised by any of the actions. Looking back at the major plot points and scenes in the book, I was impressed at how character’s backstories woven into the current situation but was not surprised by any of the reveals. I did get a bit let down that the end was (view spoiler) One would have been fine but both?? Predictable There wasn’t enough poison !! For a girl who is supposed to be a poison assassin, there was not enough poison or fun reveals going on and she literally got jumped so many times. I wish they leaned more into what she was going to provide. Also his reaction to her killing his brother was lame. Like we already he didn't care about his brother and his brother was a crappy shady person. I wanted more plotting!!!!!! I wanted a drowning scene where she saved him like a mermaid again at the end with a big battle and he could make a joke of her only coming to find him when he’s dying or something (cuz he kept he’d always find her) I wish the background Cabin scene happened sooner. The sudden introduction for a supposedly established safe house felt like such a random added detail. It should’ve been introduced wayyy sooner so then the readers remember it with Vanessa. Instead I was like WTF did that mean, what about the lair? and also that locked me in Bastian was good. But it was so well written, funny, and great characters. And he was so soft just for her, that I was dying reading their points of view.

4/5⭐️ My fav of the series <3

we as a society need more villainesses

I thought there is no more books in this series, and I'm glad i was wrong!! Tge slow burn and the way the relationship was developing is my favourite part of this book! Venesa is a badass and i love her a lot!! She is a killer for her uncle, a Mafia king who is called the sea king! I cried whenever Aria treated her terribly, and the way she wanted her uncle's approval! Enzo is not the main character i was expecting, sure he is a gentleman in a morally grey way and i love that about him, but there was something lacking, it felt like the book was mostly focused on Venesa and her healing journey and happily ever after than their relationship together! Though i do love it every time he stops someone from disrespecting her! Aria is another breed of disgusting people!! I HATE her! And what she helped Rusty do to Venesa when they were 16? Girl i was livid!!! I hate them all. Favourite scene is the satisfaction of revenge!

anything this woman writes i will read. i am so so so proud of emily for writing this while going through chemotherapy. she has remained so strong and is an amazing writer! this def has just moved up in my rankings of favorites for this series, because i ate it up and left NO crumbs in 24 hours. i love a good mafia plot. i love a hot mmc and fmc together. ugh. TOO good. emily if you see this - you rock! <3

This one is my favorite book in the Never After series so far. McIntire truly outdid herself with this dark, twisted Little Mermaid retelling. Venesa is one of the strongest, most compelling FMCs in the entire series, cold, intelligent, morally grey, and shaped by trauma in a way that feels raw and believable. I loved watching her step into her power instead of softening for love. Enzo was the perfect match for her: dangerous, loyal, and emotionally layered. Their chemistry was intense, forbidden, and slow-burning in the best way. The romance felt earned, not rushed, and I appreciated that neither character had to lose their darkness to be together. The mafia setting worked incredibly well, adding high stakes, tension, and violence that enhanced the story rather than overshadowing the romance. The Little Mermaid parallels, especially the symbolism surrounding voice, sacrifice, and control, were subtle but clever. At the beginning, I actually felt sympathy for Aria. Her instability and desperation made her feel tragic rather than purely villainous, which added an extra emotional layer to the story as her arc progressed. While the pacing dragged slightly in the middle, the payoff was absolutely worth it. The final act was ruthless, satisfying, and empowering. Also loved the epilogue!

4 Stars 2.5 Chili Peppers Tropes: Fairytale Retelling Mafia Romance Forced Proximity Forbidden Romance Touch Her/Him and Die He Falls First Slow Burn "You can't erase memories from a brain by whispering sweet words." The Little Mermaid is one of my favorite movies so I knew I had to read this. I will admit, it was very slow for me in the beginning and I couldn't get into it. But then it picked up and I couldn't put it down. "In a different life..." "I'd love you out loud." I liked Venesa and felt for her in some ways. I also liked Enzo. They really were made for each other. Aria, on the other hand, I hated her from the beginning. She was a stuck-up, snotty, thing I can't say because my review will get flagged. But you know what I mean! This was my first book by Emily, I know I know, gasp! But it will not be my last! **Also listened to the audiobook while reading**

Didn’t love it more than scarred but I did like it.

— 4 stars 🐚🪸 ”you have changed me. irrevocably. i don’t want you in a different life. i need you in this one and all the ones we’ll have after.” enzo and venesa’s soundtrack ₊˚⊹🧪 hexed is the sixth installment in emily mcintire’s never after series, and my personal third read of the series. though it wasn’t quite a five star read for me, it still delivered an enjoyable, gripping story. this book was one of the more plot driven entries, offering a refreshing take with a female villain lead and weaving a compelling dynamic between forbidden love, loyalty, and betrayal. while not my favorite of the series, it sits comfortably between my thoughts on hooked and twisted, bringing both strengths and weaknesses from each. — plot: unlike the more atmospheric twisted, hexed was very much plot driven, and for the most part, it worked. the story was fleshed out, characters outside the main couple were given meaningful roles, and the forbidden aspect of their relationship tied in nicely with the larger narrative. i appreciated how mcIntire took her time building the world and weaving the subplots into the main storyline. — venesa was easily the highlight of hexed. she’s dynamic, complex, and the perfect embodiment of a morally grey female villain. what stood out was how round her character felt; she had depth, clear motivations, and genuine development throughout the story. venesa wasn’t just a flat “bad girl” trope; she was layered, powerful, and driven by her own sense of justice and revenge. watching her navigate her ambitions while being forced to confront vulnerability gave her a strong arc that i genuinely appreciated. her character alone was enough to keep me invested. “you can't ever count on a man, but you can always count on the poison that will kill him... or whatever that saying is.” — enzo’s character development was enjoyable as well, especially in how his loyalties shifted over time. his internal struggle between duty and desire added much needed tension to the story. that said, while i liked him, i didn’t love him. compared to the soulmates level chemistry i felt with julian and yasmin in twisted, enzo and venesa’s dynamic didn’t hit quite as hard. their connection was compelling in a forbidden love, can’t have you way, but it lacked the slow burn build up and tension that really makes a romance hit emotionally. (even if the first smut scene was 300 pages in, they had feelings for each other very early on.) from the very start, they were drawn to each other, which worked for the plot, but didn’t leave much room for that slow burn angst. ”she's poise and grace in the face of adversity. polished on the outside. and it gives me a thrill to know she's capable of being so bad at the flip of a switch.” — romance and chemistry: this brings me to the romance: good, but not great. their chemistry was there, but it didn’t scream power couple energy. they felt more like two very broken people who found comfort and desire in each other rather than a destined, soulmate level match. and while that worked for the story, it didn’t give me the same level of emotional payoff as other couples in the series. think more “we understand each other’s darkness” than “fated lovers”. as a bridgerton season 2 lover, i appreciated the “i want you but i can’t have you” dynamic, and hexed definitely scratched that itch, but it still missed that extra spark that would’ve pushed it to a five star for me. — the pacing faltered at the climax. the final twists, especially the reveal of who killed who, felt brushed over too quickly. after so much build up, those pivotal moments lacked the weight and drama they deserved. the deaths toward the end, particularly in the first epilogue, felt anticlimactic. with characters who were hyped up to be so dangerous and untouchable, seeing them taken down in just a few pages was underwhelming. for a book that invested so much in creating tension, the payoff didn’t quite match the setup. -1 ★… i deducted one star because the romance lacked the emotional build up and tension i wanted, making venesa and enzo feel less like a power couple and more like two broken people who happened to fit. the final twists and character deaths felt rushed and anticlimactic, especially after so much build up. plus, the long break in my reading hurt my connection to the story, which dulled the overall impact. (i started this book in december, got 400 pages in, then never picked it up again until may bc school started back 😭.) ₊⊹⁀➴ in conclusion, hexed was an enjoyable read that kept my interest and made me want to continue the series. venesa’s character alone was worth the read, and the forbidden romance trope was done well enough to satisfy, even if it didn’t fully deliver that all consuming chemistry i love. the plot was engaging, even if the climax stumbled a bit, and the book’s sheer size allowed for more layered storytelling compared to earlier installments. it didn’t dethrone twisted as my favorite, but it absolutely sits above hooked. if you’re a fan of morally grey female leads, forbidden romance, and plot driven dark romance with a dash of bridgerton season two tension, you’ll enjoy this one. as for me, i’m cautiously eyeing scarred next, even if the fantasy element makes me a little nervous. and i’m STILL manifesting that princess and the frog inspired book from mcintire. give me new orleans and my tiana and dr. facilier dark romance PLEASEEEE. ➸ never after book 1 review ➸ never after book 4 review

I was super disappointed in the last book in the series but I wanted to give her another shot. I’m so glad I did. This is by far the best book in the Never After Series. Enzo was perfection and his dirty mouth was 🤯🤭I really liked the plot and thought it was well thought out. I’m a sucker for a good mafia. It wasn’t really dark compared to what I’m used to reading in regard to mafia books, but it fit the story. I also liked how badass Venessa was. She was a strong FMC despite everything she went through and her sass was everything I love in an FMC.

I palm her cheek, keeping her tethered to me with my other arm. “When are you going to realize I see you? Always?” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 🌶️🌶️🌶️.5 This was a super fun tension filled forbidden dark mafia romance! I really enjoyed this. The little mermaid elements were super fun though out the story! such and easy read all the way though! Tension Banter Spicy Touch her and 💀 Forbidden Romance Trama Right person wrong time

The last installment of the Never After series and honestly, Emily never disappoints! Or I'm actually a bit biased because The Little Mermaid is my favorite but whatever because I still enjoyed reading this! I was even willing to sacrifice my sleep just to finish it but ya girl needs one so. The ending was so satisfying And the extended epilogue is so cute too please. I was also excited to read about what will Emily do to (Sephora) Jessica! But anyway, this not going to be a favorite though because of how I feel about that little bit of cheating (although I feel like I didn't mind that much because Aria is such a bitch). But the rest is just chef's kiss and I looove how unhinged they are.

Nice to meet Agent Pendergast, his niece Constance and Coldmoon again. Several people are murdered in Savannah and the blood is completely drained. What happened to them? High time to involve Pendergast and his crew. We see a cold case of the FBI, observe a film team shooting a documentary on haunted Savannah (The Savannah Vampire) and have a shady hotel owner (brilliant inset tale). Who is connected to those murders? The story was well told as ever, only the story involving the film team was a tad chewy (the characters not likable or remarkable either in my opinion). When the story took off it soon became pulp horror at its very best. The Relic (one of their former novels) meets American Monster meets The Time Machine (don't want to give any spoilers). Preston/Child always were on the brink of horror but in this novel they definitely crossed it. What a wild ride. There certainly are more refined works with Pendergast involved but this one was highly entertaining. The ending definitely will lead to another volume, I'm sure about it. Really recommended but some might not fully like the twist the long going series has taken. I will continue though!

Bloodless, the 20th book in the Pendergast series written by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child, has an intriguing plotline that weaves together a few popular trends: time travel, DB Cooper's mysterious case, and sci-fi monsters from another world. I've enjoyed the books in this series because of their historical plots and great thills... sometimes they veer too far into the science-fiction world, as this one did, but I still appreciated the strangeness of what was lurking beneath the surface when all the plots collided. Another buddy read with a good friend, and we're now current in the series... the next release is in early 2023, and we are both super excited because it returns to Dr. Leng, the start of it all many books ago. Feels good to catch up.

Dropped the ball on this review and now I have to think back to four months ago (it was like 30 books ago). Hey, I’m an aging bookworm now. Pendergast involvement equals immediate ⭐️⭐️⭐️ and I think it ended in a real cliff hanger so that’s another ⭐️ (not because I love those kind of endings but because it was related to Constance and maybe we’ll finally learn more about her unique back story). Murky memories include schlock reality TV crew, a haunted cemetery, sham experts, and some fairly creepy scenes. Another solid entry and for the first time in awhile, it has me ready for the next book already—come on gentlemen, let’s get those chapters written. 😎 (Reviewed 9/6/21)

Well that was a refreshing change of pace, by that I mean Pendergast is back. The last few Preston/Child novels , for me at least have felt very tired as if it was time to retire the character, maybe they just needed to hit upon the right story. This is it.

I’ve read all 20 books in this series and have always liked the characters of Pendergast, Constance... and the recent addition of Coldmoon. This story is based mainly on the 1971, mysterious hijacker D.B. Cooper who parachuted from a commercial airliner with a bundle of cash in the remote northwest and is never heard from again. The story takes up here a half-century later, with Aloysius X.L. Pendergast and colleague Armstrong Coldmoon being sent to Savannah, Georgia, to investigate a “most peculiar incident”: a body has washed ashore with not a drop of blood left in the corpse. The story also becomes creepy at this point with the reader being reminded that old city of Savannah has always been known to have some strange, unexplained events take place. This does well to add to the already haunted feel of the storyline and taking it into one of more horror than crime. All of Pendergast’s adventures are weird and wonderful fun, and this is no exception.

Second Preston & Child novel this year. Did I call it, or what? We begin with a somewhat familiar scene: that of the mysterious D.B. Cooper's infamous getaway. What with this book and the Loki series on Disney+, pop culture seems to have rediscovered this hijacker. Was there a recent article or documentary or something? It's kind of a weird coincidence. After that scene, we pick up where Crooked River left off. Agents Pendergast and Coldmoon are ready to go their separate ways, when a last minute assignment sends them to Savannah to investigate a bizarre series of killings in which the victims were completely drained of blood … In terms of denouement, this has to be the most deliciously over the top P&C book to date. No further details, because I don't wish to spoil anything. But, for the record, Preston and Child are completely insane, and I mean that in the best, most loving way possible. They have outdone themselves with this one. Yes, D.B. Cooper figures into the story eventually, and I was able to figure out the secret of his disappearance before it was revealed in the book. That was, though, about the only development I saw coming. Everything else … wow! Yes, many of the characters in this book have a history from previous P&C novels. But knowledge of those adventures is not essential to the enjoyment of this one--though it does, admittedly, enhance the experience. So feel free to begin your journey here. I can testify that their books are habit-forming, and wanting to read them all is a strong possibility. From what I've heard, this book is the first of a projected trilogy, but it ends on a quite satisfying note. Highly recommended!

Bloodless corpses are turning up in the ghost haunted city of Savannah. The public begin to attribute the gruesome crimes to the Savannah vampire as Pendergast begins to investigate the mysterious happenings. Are the macabre killings somehow linked to the D.B. Cooper skyjacking from 1971? An interesting change of pace from the last several novels with a surprising ending.

I still can’t believe these 2 authors can keep coming up with new and interesting scenarios but they always do! I know some don’t like the supernatural vibe although actually it becomes more of a sci-fi vibe as there is an explanation. That ending truly shocked me. I wonder what will happen next. This series has been amazing from the beginning and unlike other series that I started when I was much younger, I haven’t lost interest at all! I still love the Pendergast series. I almost caught up. I may have to wait just a bit to read the next. I like to have a Pendergast novel to look forward to at all times. 😊

There are some strange murders in Savannah and FBI Agents Pendergast and Coldmoon are sent to investigate these cases. Soon incredible things happen in the city that is under attack by a strange creature. In this book we acknowledge the Time Machine and the ground is prepared for events in the next book The Cabinet of Dr. Leng. The book is fascinating on the brink of horror. Pendergast as always is smart, cool and mysterious. If you are ready for a book that will rise you adrenaline level, go for this one.

4.5 stars. I've mentioned before that one of the reasons why I loved the Pendergast series by these authors was how they marry what seemed to be the impossible with the plausible, i.e. supernatural and science. Once again, Preston & Child took risks in their bold narratives because this one was totally wild and unexpected. The setting in Savannah was deeply atmospheric and lent itself beautifully to the horror vibes that the story was angling towards. I can't say anything much more than that because it will completely spoil the plot. I recognised that some readers might find it a stretch too far, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.

Bloodless is the latest installment in Pendergast series, a gripping. fast-paced thriller that brings readers deeper into the mysterious world of the eccentric FBI Special Agent Aloysius Pendergast. The novel blends suspense, intricate plotting, and unique characters to deliver a satisfying experience for fans of the series. Although one can read this novel as a standalone, having read earlier books in this series adds depth to the reoccurring characters. Before Pendergast and his partner, Coldmoon, can return to their respective lives after their precious case in southeast Florida, they are diverted to Savannah, Ga, where a series of bizarre and unsettling deaths have occured. The victims appear to have been drained of blood without any clear motive and no signs of struggle. The murderer has been named by the social media as the "Savannah Vampire." Although Savannah is known as the most haunted city in the US and is tourist draw, these recent murders have effected the tourism. This novel is a homage to the authors' first novel, Relic. However, rather than set in NYC it has been set in Savannah. Although some of the geographical landmarks have had their names changes, most of the downtown streets and squares have are accurately named. Knowing he city well since Savannah is my home away from home, I was able to track the protagonists as they transversed downtown Savannah. This was an additional treat in reading this thriller. The novel's climax has been written in such a fashion setting plot for the next one or two novels, which should have new readers continuing to read this series.

I’ll be honest. I have loved this series since the beginning but the ending of this one, really bordered on the sci fi. It took me out of the world that theses books are in because they are usually quite grounded. It was okay for an ending, but didn’t seem logical to get to for Pendergast. I did still enjoy the novel and will continue to read the series but i am uncertain of this one.

*4-4.5 stars. A very bizarre plot, reminiscent of the first book in the series, Relic, that I loved. The story starts out even more strangely with a rehash of D.B. Cooper's hijacking of a Boeing 727 aircraft in United States airspace between Portland and Seattle on the afternoon of November 24, 1971. How, you might wonder, does this fit in with a horror story set in Savannah, Georgia in the current day? The answer to that is quite extraordinary. The plot: Special FBI agents Pendergast and Coldmoon, along with Pendergast's ward, Constance Greene, are supposedly heading home after solving their latest case in Florida when they are unexpectedly rerouted to Savannah where there have been two grisly murders by exsanguination. The Savannah Vampire at work? Or something even more incredibly evil? The agents and Constance are staying at The Chandler House, an historic hotel on Chatham Square, where the hotel manager was the first victim of the killer. He and Miss Felicity Winthrop Frost, the elderly and reclusive owner of the hotel who resides on the uppermost floor, had a close relationship but were heard arguing shortly before his demise. Perhaps Constance can gain the old woman's confidence to learn the reasons why? Also on scene is a team filming a documentary about the haunted places of historic Savannah. And an author on a mission to debunk all that. And Satanists dabbling in rites. And a narcissistic Senator running for reelection, demanding quick answers about the murders as the body count mounts. The novel is a great addition to this long-running series. The setting is equally quaint and atmospheric, just dripping with Spanish moss and eerie, foggy mists. Certain characters are inscrutable, clever and terribly brave; others are amusing and ridiculous. The ending is quite exciting and movie worthy. At least one of the last chapters leaves the reader wanting to know more--hopefully answers will be forthcoming in future editions. Can't wait! I received an arc of this new horror thriller from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Preston and Child are always entertaining.

Bloodless is a wild and wacky Agent Pendergast adventure. Just after concluding their last assignment together, Pendergast and his reluctant partner Armstrong Coldmoon are shanghaied into heading to Savannah, GA, where two bodies have been found, completely exsanguinated. With Constance Greene tagging along, they head down there where they run into - a local legend of the Savannah Vampire some believe is responsible for the attack; a documentary film crew out to find the haunted mysteries of the town, and upon stumbling across the Vampire legend believe they've struck gold; an author/journalist who has disdain for this very same crew and intends on debunking them; an elderly woman with a mysterious reputation who owns and resides in the hotel in which the agents are staying; a dead man who figured out how to beat the stock market every time; quantum physics; and to top it all off, the 50+ year old legend of D.B. Cooper. Somehow, all these things, plus a few others, manage to come together for an audacious and thrilling story, although it did go overboard in ridiculousness in the climactic chapters, but remained entertaining. And best of all, it was the first real honest to goodness horror novel in the series since Relic. 4.5/5*

I love Pendergast and I always await eagerly a new addition to the series. Although the books are known for their quirky, dark murders I was not prepared for this one. From the seemingly irrelevant beginning with the highjacking of an airliner by the infamous D.B. Cooper, to the bizarre vampire like killings in the lovely city of Savannah, Pendergast faces a foe that defies the imagination. Think outside the box on this one. It will leave you shaking your head and wondering; what next? Highly recommended!

Its been a while since I read a Preston/Child book. Great fun, it went pretty fast, hard to put down. I'd forgotten the supernatural direction that they go. Interesting characters, easy to care about. Preston is in Scottsdale for a book signing with Poisoned Pen Bookstore tomorrow night! I wanted to read Bloodless so I'd be ready for this next one!

I've been following Pendergast series for years. It had its ups and downs but the recent entries were all good. Bloodless is the best one in years!

Scot Harvath is on vacation from the events of the last book, hanging out in Norway with his new lady love. He's bopping around town, when he sees the face of a man he assassinated not too many years ago. What could this guy, or his double be up to? Of course, he's up to no good, and Harvath has to go to extremes to ferret out the guy's mission. Top notch.

READ MY FULL REVIEW AT Best Thriller Books After enduring some of the worst moments imaginable in the past few books, we find Scot Harvath on leave from the Carlton group, enjoying the Norweigan summer with Sølvi Kolstad, the Deputy Director at the Norwegian Intelligence Service. Harvath is torn between the peace and comfort he has found over the past few months with Sølvi and his job, really his calling, back in the US. As he tries to soak up the last few days of his time with her, someone from his past is spotted where they shouldn’t be… above ground. Scot is tasked with unraveling the mystery of how a man he personally killed is walking around and why specifically he’s doing so in Olso. Black Ice is a riveting novel and the events are so timely that it seems like Thor can see into the future while the rest of us are just now catching up through current news stories. The real world dangers in the Arctic are deftly outlined and explained, though in a fictional form, but as I read today’s headlines I can picture Harvath plotting how to protect the US and our allies. Make sure to check out the full review

Scot Harvath is not back, he is on vacation with his girlfriend in Norway. Black Ice by Brad Thor is another great book from an author I sadly missed when he was here researching in Sweden, Norway and Denmark. I tried to get in touch but no luck. Scot is planning dinner when he spots a ghost from his past. This leads to a discovery of some nefarious things going on in both Kirkenes and Svalbard. The idea behind the russians is similar to that one in Kodnamn Aurora by David Bergman. They are trying to secure a northern passage and domination of raw material. As usual it was a quick read due to a well written book and hard to put down. Harvath has evolved a lot since the beginning. For a while I thought it was going in a bad direction but Thor managed to fix that and the series is really back on track.

It is always refreshing to read a new Brad Thor novel. With the passing of author Tom Clancy back in 2013 the literary world was left with a gaping hole of political thriller writers with a conservative sensibility. Thor has more than picked up the gauntlet and filled this void and his Scot Harvath series continues to make in impact with themes and stories that are an ideal fit for the world of political turmoil we all currently live in. BLACK ICE finds, at least initially, a far more mellow version of the Scot Harvath we have grown to love throughout this series. He has had to deal with a lot of change --- both in the political climate that has changed his role as a special agent as well as the personal loss of his friend and mentor with his organization, The Carlton Group. Readers of this series also understand that Harvath is an ex-Navy Seal and ex-Secret Service member who has a special set of skills that has found him in demand for projects few others could accomplish. First off, let’s break down the title of this novel and the significance the term plays throughout this novel. The rapidly melting sea ice in the Arctic Waters --- a Blue Arctic --- will create new opportunities and challenges for world powers that seek to exploit the area, specifically the United States, Russia, and China. Since the current value system of the U.S. vastly differs from those other two World Powers it will become imperative that we prevent them from using such natural resources to wrest power from our country. There is a great action sequence at the beginning of the novel where Harvath is in a helicopter with two other men that is about to crash in the very same Arctic territory. We will see this sequence in detail later in BLACK ICE --- and it’s one of the best action sequences I’ve read in a while --- but first we must go back 72 hours prior to this event to set up the plot. Scot Harvath is having a great summer in Oslo, Norway, with his true love, Solvi, and things could not be better since he stepped away from his previous line of work. That is until he literally sees a ghost, a man who Harvath had personally killed years earlier appearing before his eyes. America’s top spy is quickly called back into action in a race against not only time but also the combined efforts of China and Russia. He is brought up to speed on what those countries are plotting and it involves control of the Arctic Shelf and threats of nuclear power being utilized in that region. China is seen as the largest threat here, especially since the ‘ghost’ Harvath saw stepping from a taxi earlier was Colonel Jiang Shi of the People’s Liberation Army. A really bad guy with a lot of power who Harvath swore had been eliminated from the political chessboard. The race to get icebreaker ships into the Arctic has become a reality and it seems the U.S. is way behind in this area. Harvath turns things on and seems to run on automatic pilot in situations like this, an intelligent killing-machine who is willing to do anything to achieve the goals of his assignment. He relies upon his loyal band of colleagues that have been there for him throughout his super spy life, and it is great to see the old gang together again. China’s goal is to disrupt radar technology in a mission labelled “Black Ice” and Scot Harvath may be the only person standing between them and success. BLACK ICE is a slow burn of a novel that spends a lot of time establishing the players and the moves being made in this political game. However, once the last third of the novel kicks into gear we get to see Brad Thor at his best with action sequences that will literally chill readers while simultaneously taking their breath away. Scot Harvath is the only person for this job, and he is the hero we need to do whatever it takes to maintain our security and safety in the face of so much adversity in the form of our political rivals. Reviewed by Ray Palen for Book Reporter

Well, I'm actually hesitant about starting this review. First of all, let me say that Scot Harvath is one of my absolute favorite book characters. I have read and listened to every one of Brad Thor's books and have gone on all of the journeys alongside Scot. I have cried - especially just recently - when Scot lost absolutely everything and everyone that he loved. Yet, life does go on and I was happy that he was able to move forward and especially when he was able to met out his own form of justice. Okay, that is a long way of saying that I'm a fan, but I am also a reader. So why am I hesitant? The premise of this book was interesting. I can honestly say that I learn so much about geo-political relationships and strategic situations from Mr. Thor. He brings things to my attention and because I am curious by nature, afterwards I end up looking for more information on subjects that I am not familiar with so that I can be more informed. The fight for artic land and ship channels is one that I have been hearing about for the last couple of years and it was intriguing to have the book plot revolve around that. Unfortunately, for once, the plot of the story really wasn't front and center. I never thought I would complain about Scot's romantic life. So, I guess I should learn to stop saying never. To me, the relationship between Scot and Solvi seemed forced. And there was just so much emphasis on it that it ended up pulling me out of the story. Do I have a problem with Scot having a significant other? Absolutely not. But, honestly, his wife JUST died. I mean, seriously was murdered right in front of him. They were married less than a day and then his life exploded. So do I think it's a bit soon? Umm.....yes. But, in life, things happen so if he met someone that he was able to move forward with, okay. But then with what happened at the end of the book, that was a shocker. What in the world is the rush? So, that is one issue. The other thing that was different was that as I mentioned before, the plot itself seemed to take a back seat to other things. We get to meet a new character that supposedly was close with the "Old Man" and in order to hear about how he got his nickname we are told this really LONG and involved story that was interesting but again, it didn't quite fit into the flow of the storyline. Just superficial information. Then, Scot calls his "team" to join him in Norway but I'm not sure why. They really didn't end up doing anything. They didn't help him when he was in serious trouble.....either time. Nicholas provided some support, but he could have done that from anywhere. Again, pieces of things that normally fit very well together but for once, didn't fit. Does this mean that I didn't like the book? No. I did. Even a bad Brad Thor book is better than 90% of all other books. And it wasn't bad. It was just unexpected. I went back and forth between a 3 star and a 4 star rating and decided to go with 4. Mr. Thor has built up a heck of a lot of credibility with me. I listened to most of this on Audible and as usual, felt that Armand Schultz did a wonderful job. One thing though - it mentions that there is a bonus conversation with Brad and Armand at the end of the audio version. For whatever reason, my audio version did not have that. I would really have liked to hear the two of them talk about the series. Oh well. Now, it is time for the wait again. That awful time after the yearly book has been finished and we know that it is going to be another year until we get the next book. But, I will wait because as I said in the beginning, I am a fan.

I think I have my next thriller author. I liked how everything was tied up in a neat bundle.

In the frigid ring of the Arctic Circle, a nefarious scheme of geopolitics is being played. By two of the most notorious power hungry countries in the World - China and Russia. Amidst the melting ice, lies one of the richest veins of minerals and fuel. Also a sea route which is shorter than most other available to these two countries. All combined, they are about to seize control of the Arctic region and move the US out of there.... Only the indefatigable Scot Harvath stands in their way, cutting short his vacation in Norway. One day he spots a ghost in Oslo! A Chinese super Spy he'd killed not long ago is exiting a cab just ahead of him!! How's that even possible?? Please read my detailed review from the link below https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-rev... Do Read 📖, Like 👍🏼, Comment 💭, or Share 🚩 ??🏼🙏🏼 #bradthor #scotharvath #espionage #spynovel #politicalthriller #book #Books #bookreview #bookrecommendations #bookreviewer #bookreviewblogger #bookreviewer #booklover #bookworm #LoveReading #lovereadingbooks

READ MY FULL REVIEW AT Best Thriller Books An intriguing, fast paced novel with depth that both entertains the reader and facilitates Harvath’s transition to the next phase of his life. Make sure to check out the full review

Another classic Scott Harvath melodrama featuring the good guys versus the bad guys...Bleeding Hearts" need not apply...Russia and Communist China trying to extend their influence into the Arctic through operations in Norway and luckily, Harvath is enjoying some R and R, spending time in Norway with a new romantic interest over the Summer...Always a page-turning thriller!!!

It started off slow (lost 1 star), but then it picked up. I've been a Scot Harvath fan for a while.

A nice change of pace from the usual desert-based, terrorist smashing, Harvath stories.

Scott Harvath has been recuperating and taking a break from the world of espionage. He and his new girlfriend, Solvi have spent the summer in Norway spending as much time together as they can, while getting to know each other. Scott is at the point where he has to decide if he is returning to the game or resigning altogether. Scott foils a robbery at an ATM of an old woman. But while he is there he sees a man step out of a taxi that looks exactly like a man he killed some years ago. What is going on? And just like that, he is back in the game. Scott must travel to the Arctic circle to find out what is going on. There seems to be a Chinese spy working with the Russians. This spells trouble. But the arctic is not an easy place to work and he is stuck working alone trying to handle a dangerous mission. His newest friend, Mercer, warns him about going to Svalbad- an area in the far north and prone to horrible weather and lots of polar bears. What an adventure!

I did enjoy this book. It was a little refreshing like the last one where it did not go way over the top and have too many unbelievable fighting scenes. I did enjoy the plot and of course the characters. One thing I feel the author needs to make sure he does not do too much at one time. There’s another series I have read with Dewey Reyes and they have the whole book around a couple of days. They will have this character go all around the world and fight everywhere and next thing you know it’s over and it’s all been within about 48 hours. In this book there was a lot going on am in a single day then you have Scot having a formal dinner in the evening. Of course this is after he was in a fight, got captured, traveled, and many other things. Keep it a little more realistic.

I always enjoy a new Scot Harvath novel. He has an unwavering sense of right and wrong and terrific instincts. While enjoying a well-deserved summer break, he spots a face he recognizes and follows, reporting his findings. This leads to a much bigger investigation into a threat no one was aware existed. There is a lot of coincidence going on here. There's also a great deal of exposition to set up this scenario (Tom Clancy would be proud). It tends to bog down the story. It is nice to see the story set in one basic (unspeakably cold) location. I like that he isn't threatened by Solvi's skills or intelligence. He needs some happiness in his life. Not family friendly due to profanity and violence. This is an excellent addition to the series.

A warrior believes in an end she can’t see and fights for it. A warrior never gives up. A warrior fights for those weaker than herself. It sounds like motherhood to me. Kristin Hannah's books seem to get pigeonholed as "women's fiction", whatever that means, but the three books I've read from her - The Nightingale, The Great Alone, and this one - have all been, for me, nothing short of survival stories. The theme of women surviving impossible times runs through all three of the books I've read by Hannah. She often focuses on cross-generational bonds, between older and younger women who usually have complex relationships with one another. The Nightingale focused on the women left fighting their own war at home in France during the German occupation. The Great Alone follows a mother and daughter into the Alaskan wilderness, as they fight off threats from outside and within their small cabin. The Four Winds is set during dust bowl era Texas, and focuses on Elsa Martinelli and her daughter as they try to survive the complete destruction of life as they knew it. You know, before reading this book, I thought I understood what happened during the dust bowl and the Great Depression. I read The Grapes of Wrath some years ago and we skimmed over it in school. But clearly I did not appreciate the horrors that took place, especially in the dust-ravaged lands of Northern Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Colorado and New Mexico. I did not know, or did not remember, that people slept in gas masks or else woke with their eyes crusted shut and their throats caked in dirt. I did not know how many died from dust pneumonia. In this book, Elsa has carved out a piece of paradise for herself-- a loving family, a land to farm and be proud of, and a mother-in-law whose initial suspicion quickly turns to affection. Then the land turns on them. Everything dies. There's no food to feed themselves, never mind the few animals they need to keep their farm going. And then Elsa's son becomes gravely ill, and she must decide whether to stick it out and hope for an end to this hell, or leave on a perilous journey west to California. It's just a real great story about a family trying to survive. I loved Elsa immediately, her fire and her weaknesses, and I wanted so badly for her to get her family to safety. The trials never stop, though, and after doing a bit more outside reading on the dust bowl, I can see there was nothing remarkable about Elsa's story, even if, to me, it sounds completely outrageous. The Four Winds is not a short book, but I ate it up. I was so absorbed in the story that I felt annoyed every time real life disturbed my reading. This book just cemented Kristin Hannah as a must-read author for me.

Another Kristin Hannah book that absolutely ripped my heart out by the end 😍 idk why I expected different! Elsa marries into a family with a lot of land as the Great Depression & the Dust Bowl hits them hard. It’s super character driven with a very slow pacing plot (which is a reason it’s not rated higher), but I connected to Elsa early on! She goes through SO MUCH (as did so many people during this time) and proves through everything just how much she’d do for her children + how much bravery and strength she has. I love Kristin Hannah’s writing & following Elsa/learning more about this time through her perspective

4.5⭐️?? Every page of this book was devastating

This is America during the 1930’s. This is America after the stock market crash. This is America of the dust bowl. This is America of the forgotten farmer and the unemployed turned migrant worker: homeless, poverty stricken experiencing starvation, cruelty, and despair. This is a book that urges us to look back and lament. Given what is going on in my country this is an America perilously close to a precipitous edge. Let’s hope that these hard times don’t become the “worst hard times.”

The book tells the story of a girl named Elsa. When she first appears in the book, she seems as fragile as glass. She was well-protected by her family because the doctors said she was ill, leading to many restrictions in her life. At the age of 25, she suddenly breaks free from these restrictions. One day, she puts on a beautiful dress, goes out, meets an 18-year-old boy named Rafe, and has sex with him. This event changes Elsa because she becomes pregnant. There's a part of the story I don't quite understand: Elsa's parents, who had always been protective of her, abandon her upon learning about her pregnancy. They don’t even visit her after she has the baby, which seems incredibly heartless, making me question whether Elsa is their biological daughter. Fortunately, Elsa's in-laws treat her very well. As a mother, Elsa faces various challenges and proves to be much stronger than the doctors had suggested. What captivates me about this book is Elsa's struggle with life. She faces numerous hardships. When she first arrives at her in-laws' house, she knows nothing about housekeeping, not even how to make coffee. However, over time, she learns everything she needs to know - fetching water, mending clothes, milking cows, etc. To survive, she learns all these tasks. For someone born in the 1980s and as a third-generation Chinese immigrant, the hardships mothers endured are a part of my early memories. Elsa’s first challenge is her relationship with her husband. Getting pregnant was a mutual decision and responsibility, and her husband initially wanted to be a good husband. However, he becomes indifferent, resorting to drinking to escape reality. He later leaves the family, abandoning Elsa and their 2 children, seeking a different life away from his hometown. The second challenge is the misunderstanding from her daughter, who blames Elsa for her father's departure. This forces Elsa to battle life’s struggles while trying to mend her relationship with her daughter. The third challenge is simply surviving. Elsa follows the path her husband took when he left, only to find that working over ten hours a day earns her just 50 dollars - about 5 dollars an hour. This meager amount is insufficient to support herself and her two children. She has to work relentlessly to make ends meet. Despite these challenges, she perseveres. The overall tone of the book is quite oppressive. It feels as though Elsa is perpetually suffocated by her burdens, and her story made me feel very depressed. None of these hardships were what Elsa wanted, but she had no other choice. Beyond its narrative, the book also highlights the plight of interstate migrants in 1930s America. These migrants faced severe discrimination and worked under slave-like conditions. The stark contrast between their living and working conditions and the America of today is shocking. The title, The Four Winds, suggests that no matter which direction the wind blows, one must ultimately face reality. Escape is futile. 3.9 / 5 stars

Started out loving this book, great voice (which is the most important part of writing) great craft, endearing characters, and excellent setting. Vivid writing. The setting easily has equal weight with a main character. More so, it’s a great antagonist. I thought this would be the best of the year for me, that’s how vested I was in this one. But the story turned into a little bit of a slog only because the constant depressing tone. The people in the book, (none of them) can ever catch a break. The writing is lovely and engaging but it’s like watching a slow-motion train wreck that never ends. As a reader I began to feel battered with the constant barrage of evil put upon these characters. The biggest one, the weather, which handed off to a more tangible one Mr. Welty. Don’t get me wrong this is a solid four-star book and I’ve already picked up her others, cause this gal can really write. I only dropped one star because I was depressed at the end and because of the giant MAR, (motivation, action, reaction). The main part of the story ARC is how the main character Elsa is emotionally abused by her parents to the extreme. They don’t love her. Elsa carries this emotional disfigurement throughout the story like a large monkey on her back that she can’t shake oof. As the story arc concludes Elsa finally finds true love (which in this reader’s opinion should’ve been a great ending with the fulfillment of the theme). But just as she discovers this love her lover is jumped by a group of evil men with bats. They kick and beat him. Instead of reacting to meet the stories motivation, react by going to him and being repelled, she jumps up on the back of the truck and takes his place with the bullhorn. She did this as if love didn’t matter (the stories main theme). Plot took precedence over theme. David Putnam author of the Bruno Johnson series.

"Sometimes those who give the most are the ones with the least to spare." - Mike McIntyre No, I did not tear up.... I had dust in my eyes. Home and family often go hand in hand. But that was not initially the case for Elsa. She lived in her parents’ home, but never got to be part of the family. An illness caused them to keep her inside, away from the world, watching her sisters marry and her family socialize. Books kept her company, but she wanted more. A sense of Belonging is a deep-rooted need that we all have. A sense of belonging is what Elsa needed. At twenty-five years old, she was a spinster. Discouraged to go out, to wear bright clothing, to socialize or go to dances. Wanting to feel in control of her life, she decided she was going to make her own choices. Sneaking out of the house gave her a sense of freedom. Right or Wrong she felt that with Rafe on a hot Texas night. The consequence of her time alone with him would change both of their lives. When the dust bowl ravages Texas, thousands are out of work. Crops are failing, animals are dying, and people are facing hardships, illness and poverty. Faced with dire consequences, Elsa must make a choice, stay on the land or go west to California in hopes of having a better life. Will California be the land of dreams? Will she and her children have a better life? Kristin Hannah has created a historically accurate and emotion evoking read. Like some of her other books - this is a BIG book. It will take some time to get through and yet, it will suck you in and pull on your heartstrings. I found myself turning to Wikipedia to learn more about the dust bowl, the cotton fields in California, communism and anti- Okies sentiments. As I mentioned this is an emotional roller coaster of a ride. Just how bad were things during the dust bowl? Just how depressing was the Great Depression? Kristin Hannah has crafted a novel that shows what life was like, how people endured and what sacrifices they made. Beautifully written, moving and thought provoking. Read more of my reviews at www.openbookposts.com

Beautiful.. Heartbreaking.. Set in the 1930’s Great Depression, Dust Bowl Such a tragic time in history. Great characters. This is a story of hope, resilience and fighting for what is right. A story of America and the American Dream. 4+ stars Thank you to Netgalley and St Martin’s Press for the ARC!

“A warrior believes in an end that she can’t see and fights for it. A warrior never gives up. A warrior fights for those weaker than herself. It sounds like motherhood to me.” This book was so great! Four Winds was an excellent and heartbreaking story about survival, family, resilience, poverty, love, courage and how the Dust Bowl affected so many people in the United States. This book also illustrates the determination and grit of a family and how their lives have been changed by the Great Depression. ”Love is what remains when everything else is gone. Love. In the best of times, it is a dream. In the worst of times, a salvation.” I was immersed in this historical fiction book from the very first page. The plot kept me engaged throughout the book and the pacing was great. The writing was descriptive, beautiful and easy to follow. I loved how the author was able tell a heartbreaking part of history through the perspective of a strong and relatable woman. I appreciated that the author illustrated many important topics in this book including the Great Depression, the fight for minimum wage, family dynamics and more. Most of the characters were relatable and they all went through their own challenges. I loved Elsa, she was a relatable, loving, brave, determined, resilient, and protective person. I’m in awe of how brave and determined Elsa was, I’m so proud of her. Elsa’s character development was excellent, I enjoyed watching her become more confident and brave character throughout the book. I really liked Loreda, she was brave, proactive, independent, protective, and resilient. Loreda character development was great, in the begging she was critical of her mom, but by the end she realized how much her mom sacrificed for their family and was proud of her. I also liked Ant and Jack a great deal. I loved how Jack treated Elsa and Loreda, and showed them how to fight for fair wages. I felt so many emotions while reading this book including sadness, happiness and anger. The ending was so heartbreaking, I cried so much. This book and the characters will stay in my heart for a long time. “It wasn’t fear that mattered in life. It was the choices made when you were afraid. You were brave because of your fear, not in spite of it.” I recommend this book to anyone who enjoying historical fiction, excellent characters, great storytelling and important messages.

finished the sept botm so quickly - will share my rating later but heart isssss broken

4 stars! “A warrior believes in an end she can’t see and fights for it. A warrior never gives up. A warrior fights for those weaker than herself. It sounds like motherhood to me.” Taking place during the Dust Bowl era, this story follows Elsa Martinelli. A wife, mother and a farmer, she works hard every day and doesn’t expect much else from life. When her family is hit even harder by their circumstances and some health issues, Elsa must decide if she can be brave and forge ahead for the sake of her children. “Courage is fear you ignore.” What an incredible and epic story! This is our modern day Grapes of Wrath. What struck me most when reading this book was how events 90 years earlier can parallel much of what is happening current day. I listened to the audiobook and was riveted every single second of it (Julia Whelan is a powerful narrator). At its core, this is a story about survival and the lengths we will go to save the ones we love. I can’t recommend it enough. “It wasn’t the fear that mattered in life. It was the choices made when you were afraid. You were brave because of your fear, not in spite of it.”

4.5 stars This book is the fourth or fifth I have read by this author and it's definitely my favorite. I fell in love with the female lead character right away in this historical fiction novel as you couldn't help but want to root for her. The story takes place in the 1930s during the Dust Bowl Era. Elsa and her family are experiencing the same hardships as so many other farmers from that time period. Fair warning, this is a bleak and depressing read and it was very similar to the reading experience I had with Laura Ingalls Wilder's book, The Long Winter, in which I kept asking myself how much more can these poor people take? But before you are left with the impression this is a total downer of a story, it also presents the opportunity to witness characters' strength, grit, determination, courage, etc. in doing what they could to survive when the odds were certainly stacked against them. A terrific idea by the author to feature this time period in her book. You can actually see quite a few parallels between the story and things going on in this country and around the world in recent years. Elsa is a character worth knowing and I highly recommend this one if you are a fan of historical fiction novels. Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher for providing me with an advance digital copy! All thoughts expressed are my honest opinion.

I loved The Four Winds. The Four Winds is an excellent story and told well. I am a big fan of Kristin Hannah and The Four Winds lived up to my high expectations. Elsa is a wonderful character. She would do anything for her family even when they don’t appreciate it. Elsa grew up with a family that didn’t love her. Then she married into a family that didn’t want her that became the family she always wanted. The relationship Elsa has with her in-laws is what she always wished she had with her parents. Elsa is not happy in her marriage and doesn’t know how to fix it. She loves Rafe so much but he has never felt the same way about her. Elsa struggles so much through the book but doesn’t let anything keep her from fighting for a better life for her family. Loreda, Elsa’s teenage daughter, is very difficult and constantly frustrated with her mother. Elsa’s son, Ant, has health problems that make Elsa’s decision to stay or leave more difficult. Elsa has never really had friends but makes a true friend in an unexpected place. I highly recommend The Four Winds. Thank you St. Matin’s Press and NetGalley for The Four Winds. Full Review: https://justreadingjess.wordpress.com...

This is a Great Depression story. Lots of hints of Steinbeck’s Grapes of Wrath. Also, while it was set earlier than the Great Depression and a couple thousand miles away in Chicago, I was also reminded of Sinclair’s The Jungle. If either of those books interested you, you will either enjoy this book as well or might think it is a poor attempt at telling a story about the times. It is hard to tell how one might respond when delving into a genre that was covered by the classic writers. I am in the “enjoyed as well” camp. The book is well written, and the story well told. Having recently read some Steinbeck, I could feel Hannah’s attempt at a similar storytelling technique without just producing something that was not unique or not creative on its own. Still, some hard-core critics might find it too similar and just a rehash of similar stories already told about the era – I will leave that up to you to decide. I am glad I read it and if you have been a fan of her other works, I think you will enjoy this one as well.

3.75💫 heartbreaking in true kristin hannah fashion. im glad i audiobooked this one because it was a little slow at times, but still so good. I honestly don't know many details about the great depression other than the most basic facts, and this really furthered my knowledge on what happened, how it affected the economy, how it affected different people in different states, and how long society was truly in despair. this also touched on the dust bowl era that hit around the same time as the great depression and how that continued to devastate families who relied on farms to provide for their living. honestly, this whole book was depressing. i dont think there was one happy moment, but i sometimes love books like that. what elsa and her family went through in texas and california was so heartbreaking and hard to listen to honestly. i just kept thinking out the real people who actually experienced this in real time and i got so sad. i think this is one of her saddest books. i definitely recommend this to people who enjoy kristin hannah and historical fiction because it gives so much insight on the reality of what happened and how people treated others during this time.

I LOVED this one - really well done. Lots of people said it was super depressing and it's certainly hard, but I didn't feel like it was utterly bleak.

3.75 stars** 53 books in this series and still going strong! Even though I enjoyed it plenty I rated it a bit low. I don’t know, I felt like something was missing from this one. I liked that it was a case within a case and as always the brilliant way Eve and the gang solves it. I guess I was looking more of a wow factor, especially at the end. Nonetheless it was still a solid read and I can’t wait for the next installment in February. Thank goodness I can Re read my favorite ones meanwhile.♥️

Not bad. Not bad at all. In fact, 4.5 stars to Forgotten in Death. I never read the entire series, so I don't know what is considered spoilers and what is common knowledge. But though J.D. Robb and I go nearly a decade back, as a writer and reader relationship, I have never been a staunch fan of hers. So you must understand how surprised I was that the book, dismissed by some as lacking in Eve-Roarke magic, had me under its spell maybe for that very reason. Forgotten in Death is a hybrid of sorts. There are dualities more than singularities in this book more than most times. The rich/poor contrast, the male/female familiarity (and one person in particular, so macho looking, bearing the brunt of Eve's skill - that was brilliant), the love/hate one, the American/Foreign tension... it's all here. And it's all current affairs echoing in the book. I have the feeling that the latter is aligned with many bona fide fans of the book when I reveal that the most recent victim drew more sympathy for me. That's how it hit me. Am I going to be a fan of J.D. Robb for the first time since I've been reading thrillers? Since I've been an adult? The target audience of J.D. Robb is going to be much across the age and gender strata if things go like this. If things go like this, I may have found in the aging Robb, an inimitable author. PS - The one liners in the story are really something aren't they?

This was an "In Death" book where the emphasis was on the mystery element, and that mystery was very engaging for me. We've got a recent murder and a 30 year old murder that are discovered at virtually the same time. Are they related? If so, is it the same whodunnit for both? This one doesn't have as much overall character development, but we still got lots of lovely moments with our favs who we know and love. I feel like both 2021 entries in the series have been a return to form over the previous few, so that feels exciting to me as a lover of these books

Somehow I got behind reading this series by several books. It always amazes me how J. D. Robb keeps coming up with fresh story ideas after fifty-three books. What attracted me to the series is that it’s placed in New York City in the future and the protagonist is a woman lieutenant detective. The book seems a bit slower moving than others in the series and there are less of the supporting characters featured in the story. I enjoy the supporting cast of characters as they are unique and different than expected. This book starts off with Lt. Eve Dallas heading into work and sent to the site of a murder. Before long she has two more murders in the same area. One is a forty-year-old cold case. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book is fourteen hours and seven minutes. Susan Ericksen does as excellent job narrating the series. She has been the only narrator, so she has become Eve Dallas to me.

Lt. Eve Dallas is called to the scene of a murder - a homeless woman's battered body tossed in the dumpster like yesterday's trash. While working the scene, she gets a call to another scene - walls torn down in an old building under renovation reveals the skeletal remains of a woman and her fetus. Two cases, at least thirty years apart with unknown victims - one homeless and desolate, the other with items that indicate wealth. As always, Eve treats both cases and victims the same. She stands for them both working tirelessly until she identifies and then reaps justice for them equally. Questions arise about the murders close proximity to each other and as Eve digs in, it becomes clear they may share a connection. Forgotten In Death lives up to its name . . . Eve will leave no victim forgotten. The cases take center stage in this book, and I enjoyed being privy to Eve's complex thought process as she and her team work both cases. As always, one of my favorite parts of any case is in the interview room where Eve excels in breaking down villains. And I'm a huge fan of the character relationship development and while there may be slightly less in this book, it's still a pleasure to spend time with all the support characters. I was especially surprised and delighted by the interchange between DeWinter and Eve and loved the introduction of DeWinter's exceptionally bright daughter who I look forward to seeing more of. Peabody and the IHP driving Eve crazy and tender moments with Eve and her Irishman Roarke made for a well-rounded story that has something for everyone. Highly Recommended. *Special thank you to St. Martins Press for an arc of this book. **Reviewed at Cross My Heart Reviews

My first ever audiobook!! Comments on the experience below. Very typical In Death instalment. Nothing super special here. No major plot points or character moments for anyone and the murders themselves; while mildly interesting at times, weren’t anything to really write home about. But always happy to indulge in my guilty pleasure series. This was however my first ever audiobook. And I’ll confess I didn’t listen to it all on audio. Knowing I might struggle with the audiobook I also ensured I had an ebook copy from the library so I could carry on reading if the audio wasn’t working for me. The narrator was okay. Hates the way she did some of the voices. But this is book 50-something (I think) in series, I’ve read them all over the years, and so these characters already have voices in my head. That makes it a bit more challenging for someone else to voice them. The actual concept and listening (ended up at 1.4x for most) was decent. I didn’t lose track or rewind more than twice. Although I will admit I read the last 100 or so pages on my Kobo because I wanted to finish it up. The primary thing for me about audiobooks is going to be that it’s always quicker to read than listen. However, I can’t read and do certain things; so audiobooks do have that advantage at the end of the day. I’ll definitely try another audiobook but think having my back-up copy in ebook or print will need to remain an option. This wasn’t necessarily a roaring success of a trial; but it wasn’t a disaster either. I could see myself getting used to audiobooks for certain situations and stories.

NYPSD Lieutenant Eve Dallas is called in the early morning when the body of a homeless woman is discovered in a dumpster at a construction site, with her head bashed in. Shortly thereafter, the skeletal remains of a woman and unborn fetus is discovered behind the wall of an old building about to be demolished. Is this a coincidence or are the murders, 40 years apart, related? Since no one knows the identity of the deceased, there is no one to claim the bodies/remains of the dead. But Eve promises to herself to get justice for these victims because no one else would… In a breath-taking novel of great police work, this is a winner that you must read if you are a thriller or crime novels fan! Please read my detailed review from the link below: https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-rev... Do Read, Like, Comment or Share #jdrobb #noraroberts #evedallas #bookreview #bookreviews #booklovers #thrillers #books #bookrecommendations #suspense #mystery #thrillerbooks #murdermystery #crimenovel

4 stars - Crime/Mystery/Suspense/Thriller/Futuristic/Sci-Fi

Book 53: I wouldn't have guessed that I would follow a series this long. But, I still enjoy these characters and reading how Dallas and her team investigates and solves murders.

A nice one, and much better than the previous couple of entries in the series. I tend to like best the regular crime cases, not the huge conspiracies, not the ones coming out from Eve or Roarke's past. We have two cases here, each interesting in its own way. It's not clear if they're connected in more than the physical location of the bodies, and I liked how that turned out. Interesting characters, interesting investigations, and the stories of the victims were really heartbreaking. There's the visiting with regular series characters, as usual, although in this one it was more restrained than in other books, and this was all the better for it. All in all, this was solid, but not brilliant. Very enjoyable to read, but probably not one I'll come back to specifically.

Look, I read this a few weeks ago, so I'm a bit hazy on the details. I do remember really liking this one a lot. I liked the intersection and balancing of the two cases. I always enjoy seeing Eve come down hard on corruption. Also, I love watching Feeney and Roarke bond over tough electronic challenges. Oh, and I enjoy that the Commander basically wanders down to the Serious Crimes unit with popcorn to watch Eve and Reo take on the suspects. Basically, this was a solid installment in a series that I generally find fairly solid.

No, and again no to the new translator! I don't like his style at all. The story itself brought the usual Roberts-Robb standard, not outstandingly good, but a thoroughly enjoyable read, a good distraction.

I'm torn. I really liked this but I think I'll have to read it again. Some time I get so excited about a new "in death" book that I feel it doesn't always live up to my excitement.

As usual, JD Robb's Dallas/Roarke series leaves me with a sense of satisfaction and happiness. The familiarity of the characters and the ongoing storylines makes this such a compelling series that even after 53 (yes that's right 53) books, I'm still enamoured. Forgotten In Death as usual examines family dynamics, the mindset of the killer and Dallas and Roarke fight for the underdog. A soothing, easy fast read thoroughly enjoyable form beginning to end.

I enjoy a good mystery solved by strong leads & their lively entourage :)

Fast paced two forgotten people found dead how do they connect? Or do they? Eve is find out.

I love every one of these and enjoy every minute of reading them. I relish all the little inside jokes and quirks and seeing many of my favorite characters. It didn't take me even 24 hours to devour this one. That's how it works, so it's a good thing the author is prolific.

4.5 stars 🌟 What can I say about this book other than it was another winner in a very excellent series? When you get to the 53rd book in a series, and that book somehow STILL keeps you interested and excited, the author is definitely doing something right. Maybe its me, but I don't think that I'll ever get enough of Eve and Roarke. I'm sure that I will still be excited when book 99 comes out and I won't even hesitate to push the "buy" button. I absolutely love it when the story has the duo working together. Roarke adds that mystery "something" because you just know that Eve's "by the book" mantra and the constraints she puts on his resources only make him that much more creative to get Eve the information that she needs. And anyway, he owns half the world, so a HUGE portion of crimes sometimes happen to be committed in buildings that he owns..... This story finds Lt. Dallas finding 2 different murder scenes in the same day. One of the bodies is a very old murder that just happens to be found on the site of a building that Roarke has just purchased. And by old, we are talking like 35 years or so. To make it worse, the woman was pregnant when she was shot and her baby was a fully developed fetus whose bones are found with the mothers. One thing about Lt. Dallas, the dead become "hers" so the fact that one murder happened in the now and the other in the past doesn't make a difference in her resolve. She is just as determined to find the people responsible. I enjoyed this story. There is quite a lot that happens in a very short amount of time. There are also some great secondary characters in this book. Of course the team is involved - Peabody, Nadine, Mira, The Commander, McNab. And there is also a very, very awful bad guy. You just feel like saying "yes!" when this person is caught because they are just that awful. So, this book is another winner. I do want to also mention that the narrator of this series - Susan Erickson - does such a fantastic job. She is so very consistent and I honestly can not even imagine Peabody done in any other voice. Of course, she does a great job with all of the characters, but Peabody is a character that is completely distinctive. Now the wait begins for book 54. (Wow, that's a statement I can't imagine saying again....)

Go Tell the Bees That I Am Gone by Diana Gabaldon is a continuation of Outlander and is the ninth book story about a special bond between James Frazer and Clare that lasts no matter what. In this book, we also learn about Rodger's and Briana's time travel on their own. Here we notice that most lives go on Frazer's Ridge, a new house and tenants. James is aware of the future and makes decisions accordingly. I've listened to this book on Audible with spectacular narration and enjoyed it so much.

I love outlander with all my being. These books might well be the reason I am an English major. However... this series should have concluded ages ago. This book itself is a megalith, and the story quite complicated without apparent reason since the author wants to complete the series soon. In my opinion a great author not only knows when to start writing and to keep doing so but also when to finish... and I think Diana Gabaldon might not know how to do the last. Also, there were so many characters and events,(majority of them unlikable tbh), that it took from Claire and Jamie's story. Which wouldn't be a bad thing, if they were not the reason people actually pick up this book. Generally, outlander seemed to undergo a romance to a historical fiction transformation. The spice and romance was nowhere and the text is most about army and battles... and bad men making awful decisions. Of course it was full of suspense and beautifully written, but if we were to compare book 1 to book 9, these books don't go together in any way, shape or form.

Having finally caught up with the Outlander books last year, I didn't quite have the wait as others had. But there was a real sense of reunited with characters who's journeys we've been following for a long time. You know what your getting into with these tomes and it was nice to spend time with Claire, Jamie, Brianna and Roger again. Bee's is set firmly in the American Revolutionary War and Gabaldon gets a very detailed sense of the time period, in some instances moves very slowly in description. I must admit thr various book references of popular works of fiction by the likes of Tolkien and Dr. Seuss raised a smile and firmly reminded me that our favourite characters had previously lived in a future time. At times Gabaldon felt like she was filling out a huge page with her repetition especially with 'Jesus H Roosevelt Christ' that Claire would continually use (would make for a great drinking game!) whilst would skim over more interesting minor plot lines. But like all the other books in this series, it's the final few chapters that really draw you in. The book leaves on a minor cliffhanger to what apparently will be the final instalment, I've made it this far that I'm definitely keen to read the final piece.

Finally. After a long Droughtlander filled seven years, saved by an awesome Starz series, we have the new Diana Gabaldon “Outlander” novel – “Go Tell the Bees that I am Gone” – in our reading hands. And never have I been more-happy going into the holiday season… Thank you, Diana, thank you. So where do I start with my review of “Go Tell the Bees that I am Gone”, the ninth book in Diana Gabaldon’s bestselling “Outlander” series, which is also a highly-rated television show getting ready to air its sixth season on Starz? How do I put into coherent words the ongoing thoughts and emotions running through my head after finishing this continuing grand opus of historical adventure with a unique twist of science fiction? I think that transparency requires me to simply start with - “My name is Scott and I am an Outlander fan…” Over the last two to three years, I have obsessively devoured all eight books in this unbelievably creative and awesomely well-written series, enjoying each of them immensely. There are so many elements, including history, time travel, mystery, adventure, drama, and yes, there’s romance too. Each book is epic and overwhelms with rich background, complex plotting, authentic characters, and strong dialog. All of those elements blend together in one of the most unique and multi-layered mythologies I have ever experienced. It is one that cannot be compared to any other series in any genre. And each book just continues to build on the previous one in an amazing tapestry of storytelling. Multiple plotlines find ways to surprise and connect in wonderful ways. I can only speak for myself, but I am living proof that men can read and tremendously enjoy the Outlander series. For those who are not already diehard fans, Claire Randall is a 20th century doctor who survived going back through the ancient stone circle back and forth in time. There she met Jamie Fraser, an 18th century Scot who was involved in the Jacobite uprising against England and they were forced to marry. She later returned to the present to bear and raise his child when he was assumed killed in battle. Twenty years later, when their daughter, Briana is grown, Claire discovers he survived and she risks everything to return through the stones to Jamie. Later, Brianne and her husband, Roger, join them in the untamed frontier of North Carolina as they build a new future together as a family while the rebellion against England has grown into a war for independence. When “Go Tell the Bees that I am Gone” begins, the American Revolution is in high gear as the British armies continue to wear down the rebel armies. After being reunited with their daughter, Brianna and her family, Claire and Jamie try to settle down into a peaceful family life on Fraser’s Ridge. However, the war is spreading from the larger cities into the backcountry of the Carolina’s, where loyalists are terrorizing rebel supporters and burning down their homes and destroying their farms. Things are getting worse for Jamie. As a landlord, his tenants are becoming divided in their loyalties between the crown and the colonies, and Jamie is going to need to act fast before he and his family are outnumbered by those who support the British. For Brianna and Roger, returning to the past brings them danger as his new ministerial calling pulls him unexpectedly into the middle of the rebel battle to retake Savannah. Brianna also faces her own personal challenges that include dealing her half-brother, William, and the anger he’s working through following the discovery of his true father and perceived betrayal from Lord John. As the Revolutionary War pulls Claire and Jamie’s family into the front lines of an important battle, they will be forced to face not one, but two enemies from the past. One who is trying to take Fraser’s Ridge away from them, and another one, who has a far deadlier outcome planned for Jamie and those closest to him… Covering the time period of June, 1779 through February, 1781, Gabaldon moves these four inter-connected storylines – Claire and Jamie, John Grey and William Ransom, Brianna and Roger, and Ian and Rachel – forward, building on family history, conflict from the colonies struggling in their war for freedom, and hidden enemies that threaten the peace at Frasier’s Ridge. It’s an expansive, but easy read, moving back and forth (a bit disjointedly) between the various storylines, and clocking in at 969 pages in my Kindle reader. Like previous books, Gabaldon introduces and returns to previous storylines, characters, and plot elements over the first several hundred or so pages, setting up several emotional payoffs layered throughout the book, including moments in the spotlight for each of her primary characters. After finishing this opus and taking time to process it, I noticed various feedback on social media from other hardcore Gabaldon and Outlander fans. It seems that there are more than some that are disappointed in this outing. Some have felt that the book was slow and not a lot happened, compared to previous books in the series. Some have also commented that it was disjointed and jumped around a lot between characters and moments in time. I can see those trains of thought, but only to a degree. My fear is that this may be a reflection of expectations increasing exponentially (and unfairly) during the buildup of the seven year long wait for this ninth book to finally get released and it appears that my thoughts may be more in the minority. First of all, while reading this book, I felt several similarities to book 5 – “The Fiery Cross” – in which several plots and characters were introduced and set-up for later development. The same approach was used in this book as well as a lot of reflection on past events that led the characters to their current moments in time. The first couple of hundred pages or so were spent on getting everyone together and catching up on the current events. The next several hundred pages focused on introducing new characters, bringing back previous characters, and developing plotlines against the backdrop of trying to survive the daily life of frontier living and the ever presence influence of the war. Finally, the last two to three-hundred pages brings those plots together, providing some closure, and some key revelations that serve as a wait-until-the-next-and-last book in the series for resolution. Yes, there were reasons to say it was slow and less eventful than other books. Yes, there were reasons to argue it was a bit disjointed at times. Even with all that less than positive feedback, I enjoyed it. I enjoyed it all. I liked how the daily challenges of living on Frasier’s Ridge paralleled the struggled of the war. There were rushes of wartime action and then moments that slowed down and focused on the family and individual members. I loved the time Brianna spent getting to know William better, the unraveling of Frank’s book in terms of determining Jamie’s outcome, Ian reconciling his family past, Jenny’s unique new relationship, and especially the private intimate moments that Claire and Jamie enjoyed together. I think that having more shorter chapters in this book (155 of them, which I think is the highest amount in any of the books) helped contribute to the feeling of it being disjointed and hopping around between characters more than usual. Still, I have no qualms in saying that Gabaldon has many masterful strengths as a writer, including plotting, character, scenes, and dialog. Her plotting is well-planned, multi-layered, detailed in whatever time period is involved, and full of many twists that lead to future surprises and outcomes. For example, this time Gabaldon brings plot secrets that have been percolating for two or more books previously to a high boil. She grabs your attention and requires every one of your senses as you delve into her world. Her characters are rich, complex, and humanely flawed. Each have their own unique personalities, motivations, and attributes. You cannot stop yourself from loving the good guys and hating the bad guys, but more importantly, each and every character is authentic and three dimensional. You can picture them clearly in your mind with real features and smell the sweat on their brow. What I especially appreciated was how Gabaldon reflects the length of love in a long-term relationship. Claire and Jamie are older and not as strong and nimble as they once were. They have grandchildren and family to take care of and worry about. They have made enemies and are in constant worry about the ravages of war being thrust upon them. Others may not agree, but I find Gabaldon’s ability to make their daily activities in the past interesting and inspiring. To me, there’s magic in the challenges they face, whether it be nature, mankind, or beast. And although there weren’t as many earth-shattering or character-shocking moments in this book, it still kept my full attention without a problem. Overall, “Go Tell the Bess That I am Gone” is another excellent and enjoyable outing for Gabaldon. One that builds on the history and foundation before, and hopefully sets up for a final book that will be memorable. Although this one may not the best in the series, it is not the worst. However, for me, there is no worst book; no book in the series is less than 4-stars out of 5 for me. For me, she has found a way to create unforgettable characters that I have come to know and deeply care about. I am not afraid to admit that I have shared some deeply personal moments with them, including laughter, struggle and challenge, pain and sadness, and tears of joy in the things that matter most – family, sacrifice, honor, and love. I think that down the road after the tenth and expected final book in the series is out, this one will stand the test of time better, and the initial negative feedback that is currently being expressed, will gradually fade away. Now I join the rest of Outlander fandom and wait ever so patiently for the next five years or so until that final book gets published… Until then we’ll rely on the show…

‘Go Tell the Bees That I Am Gone’ by Diana Gabaldon is a frustrating novel! While well written, it is basically a recapitulation of the previous 8 books in the Outlander series for 700 of the 832 pages! > : @ Well. At least a number of small plot threads left over from previous books are neatly wrapped up. And there are the usual detailed descriptions of domestic life in America, this time during the Revolutionary War, which are obviously based on meticulous research. Readers who are fans of in-depth historical descriptions of daily life in the eighteenth century and who love the style of domestic-genre fiction reads will be ecstatically happy with ‘Go Tell the Bees That I Am Gone’. Plus, Claire and Jamie are still powerfully in love despite that decades have passed since they married. Also, a battle takes place between American rebels and British loyalists which is a turning point in the Revolutionary War, which I had never heard of before. But a STUPENDOUS cliffhanger begins in the last hundred pages. The book stops without conclusion in the year 1781… ( > _ < ) Apparently, we fans are promised a book ten, not yet available, which will be the end of the series. My rating does not reflect my disappointment with this novel, which is HUGE, but instead I am rating it four stars because of my admiration for the author’s research and writing talent. And maybe also because I am irrationally committed to finishing what I started after sticking with the series for so long, irritated as I am with what seems a book to me that simply treaded water for 700 pages…. If you want to start the series, start here: Outlander

It took a while to be pulled into this story, but once I was - I was in for the over 900 pages ! The novel follows the stories of three main characters and how their lives cross, and there’s a slew of other characters in England from 997 CE to 1007. This was a chaotic time filled with violence and power struggles over land and other riches. The power of men vs men, men vs the church, men vs their king, men vs women, slavery, the have and the have nots, deceit, violence, brutal punishments, lies, love, lust, religion, revenge, strong and weak characters - phew ! It’s all here, but so is the power of decency, family, of love. Edgar, from a family of shipbuilders, survives with some of his family from a vicious attack by the Vikings who ravage and burn their village, including their home, their lumber and the ship they were building. They become farmers in order to survive, and Edgar eventually becomes a builder. Lady Ragnhild, “with the wonderful red hair”, of a noble Norman family feels fortunate to escape any arranged marriage to someone she doesn’t love, by marrying an Englishman, who she loves and believes loves her. Aldred, the monk collects books and wants to expand learning and build a church . The story is complex at times with twists of fate that change things frequently and the plot centers on these characters and how they manage the events in their lives. Having read The Pillars of the Earth and World Without End, there were things in this novel that gave me a few aha moments even though it’s been quite some time since I read them. I still have yet to read the third book in the trilogy and reading the prequel has made me want to read it for sure. The conversations at times felt oddly too modern, but there’s no doubt that Follett excels at making history so accessible through his captivating characters and story telling. A fabulous escape for me, all leading up to how Dreng’s Ferry became the Kingsbridge that we come know in The Pillars of the Earth. Recommended for fans of the series. I received an advanced copy of this book from Macmillan through Edelweiss.

A Prelude for a Prequel Edgar is at the beach waiting for Sunni. They’ve bee﻿n planning a escape for sometime, and... if everything goes according to plan ... tonight will be the night! But... unfortunately... nothing went the way he planned... Whilst searching for the graceful figure of Sunni, Edgar eyed one... two... three... manny... Viking caravels sailing silently towards the British coast. Their fierce occupants were all holding giant fire sticks and, for a moment, Edgar could do nothing but trembling with the terrifying vision… However, once the shock lost a bit of its spontaneous strength, he felt an extreme urge to tell Sunni... mom... dad... everyone... about the imminent danger that was now landing on the beach!... But how? How could he do such a thing?! How could he warn everyone about the dreadful threat?!... The bell! Yes, yes! He had to reach the bell! Urgently! Hurriedly!... Run, Edgar, run... And now, my dear friends and book mates, this is where I‘ll pop out and you”ll pop in! I just gave you the kick-start of this magnificent novel. The rest is up to you. Hopefully!... The Evening and the Morning is huge in every possible senses! It’s a huge 4 from me! ❤️🌟🌟🌟🌟❤️

4.5 stars! What a great entertainment this book was for me. There was not a moment that I could consider boring. I just couldn’t put it down and I did not want it to end. Don’t be intimidated by its size (913 pages) because the flow is so good that you will not even notice the time passing. The writing is so simple and clear. The development of the story line, although a bit predictable, is very engaging and makes this book a page turner. The characters are rich, interesting and memorable. All ingredients for a great novel were skillfully added. The ending was a bit cheesy but I can say that I was not disappointed with this book. No wonder Ken Follett is one of my top ten favourite authors.

My third novel by Follett offered up everything I've come to expect from the author; an excellent story full of clumsy writing, bite-sized chapters peppered with cheesy dialogue, and a wonderful setting that's filled to bursting with pantomime villains, sweeter-than-saccharine heroes, and a whole host of damsels in distress. Follet's stories are predictable and about as subtle as a fart in a spacesuit. And yet, for all that, there's something oddly satisfying about them.

A sprawling family epic in 10th century England! THE EVENING AND THE MORNING is a great story. There’s no doubt about that. But I’d never give it the same breathless 5-star rating that I awarded to PILLARS OF THE EARTH when I unhesitatingly added that novel to my list of lifetime favourites because (in my opinion at least) THE EVENING AND THE MORNING, is derivative self-plagiarism - an edited, rewritten version of PILLARS OF THE EARTH simply relocated in time by two centuries. That doesn’t for even a second mean that I didn’t enjoy it. I just couldn’t shake that “Been there, done that” feeling throughout the entire novel! At the close of the first millennium, England is ostensibly ruled by Ethelred (now known by the unflattering epithet of “Unready”), ruthlessly harassed in the east by marauding Vikings and in the west by brutal bands of Welsh warriors. Dreng’s Ferry, which will evolve into the thriving medieval “metropolis” known in the 13th century as Kingsbridge Priory, was little more than a brief traveler’s resting place in the middle of nowhere – an alehouse; a stable to rest, water, and feed the horses; and a whorehouse in which sex-starved (and less than scrupulously discerning) travelers could avail themselves of the service of underage female slaves. Just as he did in PILLARS OF THE EARTH, Follett uses the history of the era to full advantage and masterfully weaves the fundamental ingredients of 11th century England slowly arising from the bleakness of the Dark Ages into a stirring plot that will keep you reading well into the wee hours - the push and pull of church versus state as bishops tussle with nobility and archbishops squabble with the king and routinely ignore the attempted enforcement of his rulings or fines; the very tenuous and fluid definition of title and property ownership; the nature of military strategy and the frightful concept of in-close hand to hand combat in the middle ages; markets, trade fairs and the nature of commerce and business licences of the day. Follett has populated this novel with an astonishing cast of memorable characters whose personalities, weaknesses, strengths, habits and physical descriptions are portrayed with a remarkable level of detail. Indeed, each of the characters might be said to be a metaphorical stand-in for a human characteristic that is a shoe-in for inclusion in a novel of this type – Edgar (one might call him “Edgar the Good” or “Edgar the Strong”) represents strength, courage, loyalty, perseverance, and unquenchable romantic love; Wynstan and his domineering mother Gytha are the stand-ins for evil and psychopathic narcissism; Aldred, the far-seeing, idealistic monk shows us pride, intelligence, tolerance, wisdom, and self-effacement; Ragna is foresight, brilliant Machiavellian political savvy, and feminism suffering under the yoke of universal misogyny; Edgar’s half-brother Garulf shows masculine strength and a warrior’s ability abused and wasted by greed, a brutish stupidity and complete lack of leadership ability; well, the list goes on and on. The good guys will make you laugh, weep and cheer and the bad guys will make your skin crawl. But - trust me - bad or good, you won't be forgetting these folks any time soon! (And on somewhat of a sidebar, it would seem to me that Wynstan’s conduct as a bishop illustrates reasonably clearly that, as an author, Follett has little constructive or positive to say about organized religion’s place in the history of mankind. Just my opinion, of course!) Follett's story-telling is as ambitious as the setting in which he has chosen to place it. Like other modern extended family tales such as Archer's KANE AND ABEL, John Jakes' THE KENT FAMILY CHRONICLES or the classic Dickens' NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, we are treated to a smorgasbord of emotions and characteristics - love and hate, strength and weakness, devotion and loyalty, dishonour and deceit, intelligence and bone-headed stupidity, altruism and selfishness, stubbornness and obsession, bravery and cowardice. An extraordinary, compelling drama, THE EVENING AND THE MORNING deserves to be on your bookshelf. The evolution of Dreng’s Ferry from that questionable pit-stop at a river-crossing into a proud bishopric sets the table for its ultimate conversion to an archbishopric and the site of Tom Builder’s magnificent cathedral in PILLARS OF THE EARTH. Paul Weiss

After the disappointment of Whiteout, the best Follett is back. A bit plain characters, but very well documented and entertaining. Despite the huge number of pages it's a sort of quick read. I'm planning to read the whole Knightsbridge series. And then I will be done with Ken Follett. A good guilty pleasure, but I'm yearning for better literature.

Another great book in the series but it’s just so formulaic of the previous books that it’s kind of starting to be irritating. I also expected there to be some pov characters for the Vikings but the story has hardly anything to do with them. If you’re a fan of the original books then I’d definitely say give this a shot but temper your expectations

The Women’s Murder Club #24 The murder club members, Sergeant Lindsay Boxer of the SFPD, Claire Washburn at the coroners office,Yuki Castellano, an Assistant DA are celebrating Claire’s birthday at a prestigious San Francisco restaurant, when a loud scream from above interrupts one of the courses. Lindsay races upstairs to find a virtually naked woman, just about alive. She then realises the perpetrator is probably still there and duly arrests him. However, Tyler Cates insists that the victim, Mary Elena Hayes, has set him up. The story gets stranger and stranger as time goes on, who is telling the truth? It certainly seems as if wherever they go trouble seems to follow these friends, they aren’t called the Murder Club for nothing. However, this case may be one of their toughest and most shocking yet, and of course for Lindsay, it’s never a simple as just one case. This is another enjoyable, quick read in the entertaining series which I’ve dipped in and out of if the thought of 24 is daunting! The characters in this are really good, they’re comfortable together as the dialogue shows, there’s trust, and they compliment each other in terms of personality and skills. You get a good insight into what makes them tick and there’s just enough of their personal life to see another side of them.. The case of Mary Elena Hayes is an interesting one which types a dive into psychology and the case goes to trial with some intriguing courtroom scenes. There’s never a dull moment as not only do you get this case, but there is a murder investigation of a husband and wife, though several months apart and a cyber terrorism threat. The storytelling switches seamlessly between the cases and the murders in particular reveal some complex relationships which muddy the waters. It’s fast paced with the trademark short, sharp chapters and snappy sentences, there’s plenty of action, multiple twists, lots of puzzling questions and for a long time few answers. Some resolutions are perhaps a bit abrupt, but they do fit and one is quite dramatic. There’s a happy ending too, which is very satisfying. Overall, this is a fun read. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Random House U.K., Cornerstone for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

This is another book featuring the New Women’s Murder Club. Patterson is weaving three plots in his writing. One is a rape trial. Another is a murder. And the third is cyberterrorism. The murder plot has some good twists and turns. The rape trial is not nearly as exciting. The cyberterrorism allows the reader to see how low people can go for money. There was enough conflict resolution to keep the readers attention. It is not the type of book that will blow you out of the water but it will paddle you downstream at a moderate speed. It is a read I would recommend to my fellow GR readers.

Embarrassed to say this is a new series for me, even though I've known about it for a long time. Here it is the twenty-fourth book and I'm jumping in extremely late to the party. Description: Trouble always finds the Women's Murder Club... Sergeant Lindsay Boxer, Medical Examiner Claire Washburn, Assistant District Attorney Yuki Castellano, and crime writer Cindy Thomas are celebrating at San Francisco's finest restaurant. But before they can raise their glasses to both a birthday and a wedding, a violent assault interrupts their festivities. Claire examines the victim. Lindsay makes an arrest. Yuki takes the case. Cindy covers it. The case is complicated by the plaintiff's unreliable version of events - and the shocking reason behind her ever-changing memory. As Yuki argues the toughest case of her career, Lindsay chases down a high-society killer whose target practice may leave the Women's Murder Club short a bridesmaid . . . or two. My Thoughts: There is a lot going on in this book. Not one, but three active cases to follow and quite a few characters. I think I had better go back and read some of the early books in the series just to get me grounded in the characters - I'm sure those who have followed the books would enjoy it more. I don't think this is a stand-alone read as there is a lot of history with this group of women - and their men. However, I did enjoy the book and think I will go back and read some of the earlier books - maybe even the entire series because I think this would be a fun one to follow. All the cases in the book were interesting - one a young woman was multiple personalities is raped and there's a trial to follow; then, there is a hospital being held hostage by ransomware; then a couple is murdered a few weeks apart, but in the same manner. That's a lot to solve! Oh and one of the women may or may not be getting married? This murder club is a very busy group! Thanks to Little, Brown and Company through Netgalley for an advance copy.

The 24th Hour is another quick read from James Pattersons Womens Murder Club series and this one was quite thought provoking with the main case involved. In this book Yuki is at trial to convict a man of rape, but her client has DID (disassocative Identity Disorder also known as Multiple Personality Disorder) and the case is a complicated one to prove. All members of the Womens murder club are witnesses to the aftermath of alleged rape as they attended the scene that took place in the location they had dined out at. Throw in Joe taking down some cyber hackers targeting hospitals and Cindy and Conkins wedding and this book sweeps you away and keeps you hooked to read each chapter.

Two separate investigations involving the group and combined into one novel. I especially liked the one involving the rape and trial of a young woman with multiple personality disorder. She was attacked while in her true personality but protective personalities took over and her true personality didn’t recall most of it. The trial was interesting and the expert witness testimony was informative.

Another great continuation of this series. I loved the different storylines and getting back to the same characters time and time again. They’ve become like family. Many thanks to the publisher and netgalley for this copy for read and review

The main plot was alright. I, like some other readers, grew tired of the extra court case storyline, so just skipped through it.

I love The Women’s Murder Club series, and I’ve read all 24 books. I’m not a fan of cybersecurity storylines, so in my opinion, this wasn’t up to the other 23 books’ standards.

Despite the name "24th Hour" the book takes place over several days. A wealthy man is found shot at an intersection and his car is stolen. Previously, his wife had been murdered similarly at the same intersection. While Yuki is in court, trying to put away a rapist, Claire is trying to help Lindsay while Cindy tries to stay out of the way, while reporting on the murders.

Another fun adventure! I wish that the TV series would be brought back.

This was my first Women’s Murder Club. You switch between the court case of a victim of assault with Assistant DA Yuki Castellano. Sergeant Lindsay Boxer deals with a high society serial killer. This is a police procedural driven story taking you through all the steps like a good tv series. The women are front and centre in these cases with their family lives very much involved. It was an easy read getting to know the characters very quickly. The strong story makes you check out other books in the series. Thank you NetGalley and (publisher) for sending this book for review consideration. All opinions are my own.

As usual with the Women's Murder Club series of books, I have pretty high expectation and the 24th Hour has lived up to the rest of the series. There are three different cases that Lindsay and the other members are working on, that theme through out the book and I really enjoyed it, particularly Yuki's very interesting court case which would have gone any way at all. AS usual it has very short chapters and can easily be picked up as a standalone or part of the series. It's a pretty quick read, particularly as it end's at 85% of the way through, which is pretty annoying, as just fills up the other 15% with advertising other books I've either read or am not interested in. I wish they wouldn't do this as it just annoys me and makes me feel a little cheated and doesn't add anything to the book. However a big thank you to Random House UK, Cornerstone, Century for a thoroughly enjoyable 24th book in the Women's murder club series.

The premise of the series is four women in different jobs related to solving crimes or crime reporting have become close friends and family to one another. In this book, Sgt. Lindsay Boxer of the San Francisco Police Department, Medical Examiner Dr. Claire Washburn, crime reporter Cindy Thomas, and ADA Yuki Castellano are having lunch together, but come first on the scene of a brutal attack on a woman in the employee dressing room. The case is more complex than it appears, but Yuki is determined to get justice for the victim. In the meantime, Lindsay is assigned to a case involving the death of a billionaire, six months and one block from where his wife had been killed six months before. Holly's case is still unsolved, so Lindsay's commanding officer wants results on her husband's case as soon as possible. Many unexpected secrets are uncovered during this difficult case that has lots of suspects, but no evidence. I was very surprised when the final resolution was revealed. Lindsay's husband Joe Molinari is an FBI agent working on a cybercrime involving a ransom demand to a hospital for access to their patient records and endangering many lives. The three cases are unrelated, so sometimes things seem a little disjointed which slows down an otherwise fast-paced book. I especially enjoyed the courtroom drama of Yuki's case and reading about the steps Lindsay takes to solve a crime. Joe's case was interesting on its own and is very relevant, but somehow didn't seem to fit in with the rest of the book. It has been a while since I had read a book in this series, but I enjoyed the plot, as well as catching up with all of the main characters. Everyone gathers together at the end of the book for a happy, hopeful occasion. Fans of this series will really enjoy this installment of this long-running series. I received an advance copy of this ebook at no cost from NetGalley and Little, Brown and Company. My review is voluntary and unbiased.

"The 24th Hour" by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro was a thrilling 4-star read! This book is the latest installment in the Women's Murder Club series, comprising three separate stories intricately woven together. The main storyline follows the investigation into the murders of an elite husband and wife, compelling Sergeant Lindsay Boxer to solve the case before the murderer strikes again. Meanwhile, during a lunch break, the Women’s Murder Club's meal is interrupted by a scream, leading to a subplot involving a rape victim with a mental disorder who seeks justice with the help of Assistant DA Yuki Castellano. Additionally, outside the murder club, Lindsey’s husband, Joe Molinari, endeavors to halt a cybercrime before innocent lives are lost. True to James Patterson's style, the chapters were short, making for a quick read. The main storyline was engaging and felt consistent with the tone of the series. Yuki's subplot was also compelling, though it seemed slightly rushed to conclude the trial. However, the storyline involving Joe and the cybercrime lacked interest for me. It lacked a smooth flow and abruptly ended. Nevertheless, overall, the book was enjoyable, and I would recommend it to fans of the Women’s Murder Club series. Thanks to Little, Brown and Company, James Patterson and Maxine Paetro, and NetGalley for providing me with the opportunity to read this ARC and share my honest review.

Lindsey, Clair, Yuki & Cindy are at a restaurant to celebrate Claire’s birthday when a call for help leads them into one of their most difficult cases to date. 6 months later at the trial Yuki must prove that rape and aggravated assault occurred when the victim is handicapped by a mental illness. In the meantime Lindsey is trying to solve the murders of a married couple 6 months apart. The ongoing investigation and trial lead to an interesting and entertaining story. This book 📕 is rated 4 ⭐️s. This is the 24th book of this series and I still thoroughly enjoy reading them. The stories differ and includes all members of the club. I recommend this to those who enjoy a cozy mystery/thriller. I know I look forward to book twenty five!

I’m not going to lie - The Women’s Murder Club is a must read for me, so I was excited to see that book 24 was out. This book follows Sergeant Lindsay Boxer’s investigation into the murders of a husband and wife, a number of months apart; Yuki Castellano’s prosecution of a man accused of raping a vulnerable woman and Cindy This proved to be another entertaining, enjoyable, quick read. Like putting on a comfy cardi, the characters are instantly recognisable and continue to show successful women nailing their careers and valuing their friendships. As always, these strong women are the focus of the story, with men being the support characters. Thank you to Netgalley and the publishers for the chance to read this book.

As usual with the Women's Murder Club series of books, I have pretty high expectation and the 24th Hour has lived up to the rest of the series. There are three different cases that Lindsay and the other members are working on, that theme through out the book and I really enjoyed it, particularly Yuki's very interesting court case which would have gone any way at all. AS usual it has very short chapters and can easily be picked up as a standalone or part of the series. It's a pretty quick read, particularly as it end's at 85% of the way through, which is pretty annoying, as just fills up the other 15% with other books I've either read or am not interested in. I wish they wouldn't do this as it just annoys me and makes me feel a little cheated and doesn't add anything to the book. However a big thank you to Random House UK, Cornerstone, Century for a thoroughly enjoyable 24th book in the Women's murder club series.

I love this series so much!! I don’t usually keep up with series and this one I need to read them all. I really enjoyed this one. Love following the 4 women of the murder club. Lindsay, Yuki, Claire and Cindy are all powerful characters and getting to know them through this series has been a ride. My only gripe with this one is, we followed Lindsay’s husband Joe on an adventure of his own. I found myself not interested in his perspective. It’s the women’s murder club,, just keep it about the women.

A case of the rape of a woman with dissociative identity disorder-DID (multiple personality disorder). The perpetrator claims that one of the personalities asked for rough sex. His lawyer says that DID does not even exist. Meanwhile, sophisticated ransom cyber thieves have targeted hospitals endangering patients. And, a “well-known billionaire, middleweight philanthropist, sole owner of a Belgian soccer team, and a narcissistic SOB” was murdered, after his wife, a former Olympic athlete, was murdered some weeks prior, in the same fashion. The Women’s Murder Club and spouses have their work cut out for them dealing with these interesting crimes. I always look forward to these talented women and their complicated lives. And the locale is an added bonus.

** spoiler alert ** What can I say the woman’s murder club had been amazing but this book the 24 in the series did get my head thinking and at the start of it I didn’t actually get the story like at all the having three different stories starting with three different characters in the book was very very confusing at the start and I was going to up the book down But …… I’m glad I didn’t and by chapter 100 the book actually started to get going I’m pleased that I’ve read it and can’t wait for the 25 to come out next year

I am a fan of James Patterson so was delighted to receive this ARC. There is no reason, but somehow I have fallen behind with the Women’s Murder Club series and the last book I read was #10. Although these books can be read as a stand alone, I think it is better to read the series. I did struggle a bit with names and felt like there was jumping between names and nicknames which confused me at times. The short chapters are great and meant I sped through the book in no time. There were three separate story lines through most of the book and I felt that two, in more detail, may have been better. I felt that the trial and cyber attack storylines were a little slow and not the fast paced I’m used to from these books. Many thanks to #NetGalley and #RandomHouseUK for a copy of the book in exchange for an honest review. 3.5 ⭐️ rounded to 4

I have a lot of thoughts about this, the first being: for goodness sake, get an editor in here. Nothing needs to be this long. The second thought being: damn it, though, this was pretty good. I didn't know until I was well into the story that Alchemised is a reworking of a very popular Dramione fanfic (Manacled) and I don't particularly care. It didn't read anything like Harry Potter and, aside from hair descriptions, Helena and Ferron don't remind me of Hermione or Draco in any way. No, Alchemised is a necromancer fantasy with excellent world-building and characters made deeply complex by the realities of war. It is primarily a love story, of sorts, but I understand why the publishers have tried to distance it from the romantasy genre. It feels tonally very different from a lot of mainstream romantasy, definitely much darker than any of the stuff I’ve read or sampled, with depictions of rape, graphic torture, trauma, suicidal ideation, eugenics and cannibalism. That being said, there can be no doubt that the book centres the main relationship. There is a plot outside of it about war and alchemy and necromancy, and there are compelling twists and turns, but the main conflict of the novel still feels firmly between Helena and Ferron. Genre quibbles aside, by far my favourite aspect of the book is the clever use of a nonlinear narrative. We begin in the present of the story where Helena awakes to discover the Eternal Flame have lost the war and she is now a prisoner of the Undying. But, worse still, she is missing years of memories. As the Undying try to dig through her brain and uncover what she is hiding, she herself wonders why someone would have hidden part of her mind. What were they so desperate to hide? I've seldom known a part 2 so drastically change my view of part 1. The discovery of Helena's hidden memories makes some things make more sense, while completely shocking on others. I thought this framing was nothing short of brilliant. It made me want to go back and read part 1 again with my new insight. But let's get to the romance, because it will make or break it for readers. I'd recommend this for those who enjoy darker romances, because the truth is that the relationship is messed up, heartbreaking and, for a long time, unhealthy. I myself am wary of trauma romance, but I think this is one of few cases where the context makes it understandable. Both Helena and Ferron are victims of war, and I think the author depicts how deep the trauma of war penetrates. Not just for the obvious victims enslaved on the losing side, but also for those carrying out horrific orders out of fear. A note on rape in this book— (view spoiler) Read this if you want to read a dark tale about war, necromancers and fucked up people. Do not read this if you're looking for a healthy depiction of romance. In the end, this is a story about two irrevocably damaged people who've seen and committed atrocities. I won't sit here and try to convince you that either one is good or just misunderstood. They are what they are. And war made them that way.

“I never get to choose you. I’m so tired of not getting to choose you.” this is a story about a holy war between paladins and necromancy magic. the majority of this book is flashbacks of wartime itself, but it is sandwiched between two parts of the current timeline where the paladins have lost the war and all the ramifications of that. our main character, helena, has been in a stasis captivity with her memory altered/blocked, but she is being given away to the high reeve, kane, who is greatly responsible for winning the war that killed her friends, and we watch as she is trying to piece together everything that happened alongside the reader. i am so sure that by now you all know what this book is about, so i am going to tell you things i really liked about this story. ☆ my favorite theme in this story is how helena is an overqualified immigrant, who was supposed to feel grateful for the opportunities she was given, where she was just isolated and overworked, while constantly being told she was replaceable, while doing the absolute most for the people who didn’t appreciate her. ☆ in general, i just really loved reading a story not only from the perspective of the hero’s best friend, but a healer who is not protected from seeing first hand all the horrors of war. quite literally forced to put back together pieces, over and over, in a losing war where people in power do not care about the cost as long as they are able to feel righteous. ☆ i loved the reworking of this story being a holy war, with gods, and blessings, and paladins with honor oaths. and I absolutely loved the reconciliation of what happens when you open your eyes and no more miracles are able to be created. (and forever a fan of alchemy and transmutation, too!) ☆ other countries not doing anything during a genocide until it impacts them or their people or, more importantly, when it impacts powerful leaders financially ☆ this story has a big emphasis on hands and what our main characters are able to do with them, which honestly brings me to tears to even type this. but how helena uses her hands in the war to heal, yet they kill all the same, and how kane’s hands were made for killing, yet he can so naturally heal with them. through this war, and being used by people all around them as nothing more than a tool for their destruction, both of their hands end up so very broken, and that stillness is forever gone. let me just move on, but my god, this imagery and accentuation throughout this story was really masterfully done, in my opinion. ☆ being forged into something you didn’t want to become, both by war and the people who were supposed to protect you, but also now being stronger for it (and both sides, and all the complicated feelings, that come with that) ☆ i also feel hard pressed to think of a story that utilizes flashbacks better than this one. it is very unique feeling, and so very effective letting this story be told in this manner. ☆ i swear, every time a ring was activated, i felt like i could feel it too >.< lol ☆ who gets to tell stories after wars are won, and who gets to be remembered and immortalized ☆ ivy, i love you ☆ i saw haunted house instead of clowns tiktok that said “it’s kane searching every place except for the one that mattered” ;___________; brb jumping out a window i truly kept going back and forth if i wanted to write a review and if i wanted to give this a star rating, but i really did like this and i think a lot of the themes are very powerful. this was a little too long, and you very much felt that during a lot of parts of this book, so i can’t give it five stars, but i still very much enjoyed my reading experience for this, and i truly cannot wait to see what senlinyu does next. content notes from the author in the back of the book: Alchemised is a work of dark fantasy containing wartime violence, religious abuse, depictions of complex trauma, suicidal ideation, self-harm, human experimentation, medical torture, eugenics, cannibalism, sexual assault, rape, and allusions to necrophilia. Please remember that depiction is not authorial endorsement. Because Alchemised is told in third-person limited point of view, it necessarily involves some distortions of vision as well as missed or misconstrued events. Reader discretion is advised. additional content and trigger warning i found while reading: slavery, captivity, isolation, racism, xenophobia, misogyny, fear of deportation, needles, drugging, forced medication, blood, death / mass murder / genocide, ptsd, nightmares, gore, loss of loved ones, loss of parents, grief, body control magic, vomit, drinking / intoxication, talk of infertility, talk of pregnancy, birthing scene, talk of abortion, talk of starvation / malnourishment, predatory behavior / insinuation of behind weird with young girls, loss of patients, hospital settings, lack of medical supplies, panic attacks, possession, fire, bombing / explosions, gendered language “female womb”, and i just want to add an extra emphasis on how much suicide ideation is portrayed and how much suicide is talked about in this story. blog | instagram | youtube | wishlist | spotify | amazon ♡ buddy read with maëlys, penny + amy ♡ Manacled

4.25 A truly beautifully tragic story about people thrown into a brutal war environment, and what they have to do to keep going - no matter how they are perceived. Loved the world and magic system & the writing is absolutely amazing. I would have loved more expansion on the backstory of the characters just to feel a bit more connected to them (Helena especially), and would have been interesting to play around with the pacing & structure of the book. A brutal read, but a great one!

જ⁀➴ 𝟒.𝟓𝟎₊˚⊹🌹 𝟙𝟘/𝟘𝟚/𝟚𝟝—𝟙𝟘/𝟘𝟝/𝟚𝟝 STOP THIS WAS SO GOOD!! you know it’s good when you read 1000+ pages in 3 days!! 🥺 the angst, the love, the memories, the tenderness, the cruelness, PERFECTION!! this book was genuinely a MASTERPIECE. the romance was so beautiful and despite toxic at some times, was stunning and showed even with the characters being tortured and broken, they could find beauty within eachother ♥️. » [Happiness Is A Butterfly -Lana Del Ray] « 🌹🖤 0:00 ─〇───── 0:00 ⇄ ◃◃ ⅠⅠ ▹▹ ↻ despite this being over 1000 pages, it really didn’t feel that way. part 1 gave us tears and angst, part 2 gave us sweet love and tenderness, and part 3 gave us a beautiful mix of both. i know a lot of people were talking about it having too much info-dumping in the beginning, but personally I didn’t notice it at all. i thought it was actually a very easy book to get into despite the amount of stress and pain it brought me through 😭!! also, you really couldn’t even tell it was originally a fan fiction!! the author did a great job making it remove all hints of Harry Potter and making it it’s own original experience!! i will say, in my opinion, it dragged just a little during the memories section. while it overall was magical and so well-done, it did get a little slow and repetitive near the 70% mark (but it picked up quite quickly after)!! the way this story was structured really just makes you want to reread it all over again with the new information you learn 🥺!! i definitely am thinking about rounding it up to a 5 stars maybe in the future but right now, regardless, it holds a very special place in my heart. 𝒑𝒓𝒆𝒅𝒊𝒄𝒂𝒕𝒊𝒐𝒏: 𝟒.𝟓𝟎 𝒇𝒊𝒏𝒂𝒍 𝒓𝒆𝒔𝒖𝒍𝒕: 𝟒.𝟓𝟎 🌹 ╰┈➤ what to expect!!! ⭐️previous dramione fan fiction 🖤enemies to lovers ⭐️dark fantasy world 🖤amnesia || fmc lost her memories mmc sent to recover them from her ⭐️forced proximity ₊˚⊹ ᰔ 𝐩𝐫𝐞-𝐫𝐞𝐥𝐞𝐚𝐬𝐞: never read Harry Potter before but i am so excited for the tears and beautiful romance to come 🥺🥺 THIS BETTER BE AS AMAZING AS EVERYBODY IS SAYING!! ———————————————————————————————— AHH 1040 pages and it’s literally a traditional published version of THE most popular and iconic dramonie fanfic EVER?! 👀 sign me the fuck up!! (i say all this as someone who has never watched nor read harry potter at all🫣…but maybe this will convince me?!)

Well this took me the whole week to finish! I know there have been a ton of reviews, some people DNF'ing, others just couldn't stomach it. I was seriously contemplating DNF'ing around the 20-25% mark. I couldn’t stop picturing the Harry Potter cast in my mind, and it started driving me crazy. I tried and tried, but I was making myself miserable and, I started hating this damn book. But then I thought, this is fiction! I can do WHATEVER I want, picture WHOEVER I want, and that’s exactly what I did. So, I imagined my beloved HP cast in all their glory, and suddenly, I was back to enjoying the story and happy for it! Because of that, I’m giving this a strong 4 stars, I still enjoyed it and had my heart broken all over again (just in a different way). Now there’s been a lot of debate about whether you should read Manacled first or Alchemised. I read Manacled late last year, and I kind of wish I hadn’t started Alchemised. It’s really just a rewrite with some small changes. I have no issue with re-reading books, but in this case, I'm a Manacled fan and wish that this new book did not exist. But if you do decided to do either or, or even both take your time with them, savor it, cry your heart out, and then make your own decision if you are going to read the other one. That being said, I totally get why Alchemised was released, and props to SenLinYu for doing it. Regardless of whether you read Manacled or Alchemised, this is an impressive piece of work. So, my friends, the choice is yours.

Atlee Pine #4: The formidable Atlee Pine, 5' 11" ex world class weightlifter and MMA fighter and now FBI agent with Carol Blum her 'PA' in sixties, finds herself somewhat satisfied with the information they retrieved in the previous volume Daylight to now finding themselves hot on the trail of Atlee's sister; a sister she last saw seconds before someone tried very hard to kill her before they abducted her twin, when they were just six years old. Is Mercy Pine alive, and if she is, what hurdles lie in the way of their reunion? 570+ pages indicates hurdles galore! With what appears to be the final instalment of the series Baldacci multiple layers the overall conspiracy around the Pine family, introduces a seemingly unbeatable antagonist and manages to tug at the heartstrings throughout with the twins. An extremely impressive commercial thriller in which Baldacci as ever seems to take that bit more time and craft in creating and sharing his story. A well deserved 8 out of 12, Four Star read. 2023 read

Yikes, that was pretty full on. Mercy is the 4th book in the Atlee Pine series by David Baldacci. The whole series is pretty much about Pine looking for her twin sister, Mercy, who was abducted about 30 years ago when they were both 6 years old. Atlee herself was left for dead and had a serious head injury. Now Pine and her redoubtable admin assistant, the 60 something Carol Blum, are on a sabbatical from the FBI and are following every little clue to find Mercy In this book Pine has come closer than ever before to finding her sister and she learns who her biological father is. The first part of the book focuses, for the first time, on Mercy herself. We learn how she escaped captivity, how abused she was, how she struggled in the early years of her ‘freedom’ with further abuse and addictions and how, finally, she has made a life for herself, albeit not an easy one. She is very tall and phenomenally strong and earns some of her income by cage fighting in which she is a formidable opponent. Pine has managed to track down Desiree Atkins, the wife in the couple with whom Mercy was forced to live for many years and who was her main abuser. Another step closer and the two sisters are getting closer to actually meeting. Mercy is now calling herself El (Eloise) Cain. One day she makes a serious mistake. She beats up a man who was beating up his girlfriend. After he pulled a knife and then a gun on her she has no qualms about thrashing him in self defence but she did make sure to leave him alive. Unfortunately the man later died in hospital and his brother is a very wealthy and influential man - now seriously bent on revenge. The rest of the story is about how that plays out. I was almost too scared to read on at this point as I thought it would be brutal. And I was not wrong. Baldacci certainly knows how to write suspense and action scenes. There was a lot of fighting but when I saw what the man chasing Mercy was planning for his revenge, I quailed. Yep I’m a scaredy-cat! But I also had to find out how it would end. Of course! Baldacci’s characters are often either good guys or bad guys but Mercy was, certainly because of the harsh life she’d lived, very much in the grey zone. Carol Blum is a delight as she is almost motherly but also very smart, intuitive and efficient. People underestimate her at their peril. This was very much an action book and it was fast paced throughout. If you want to catch your breath you have to stop reading. Without giving away the ending I DO think this will be the last book in the series, although I would be happy to read more about Pine and her wonderful ‘minder’, Blum. Many thanks to Netgalley and Pan Macmillan for the much appreciated arc which I reviewed voluntarily and honestly.

This is the conclusion to the Atlee Pine series. If you have read the first 3 books, you know Atlee is an FBI agent. She is also a great fighter and an even better weightlifter. At the age of six, someone came into her room and kidnapped her twin sister Mercy and hurt Atlee badly enough that she ended up in the hospital for a while. Clues discovered during the prior books have led Atlee and her friend Carol Blum to believe that Mercy might be alive and that she was able to escape her captors. Atlee knows she needs to find out the truth and she hopes her sister is alive and she can get to her before it's too late. Mercy was a great way to end the series. Baldacci has created great female characters in this last installment. The novel was action-filled and the suspense continued to increase all the way to the end. I'm sad this is the end of the road for Atlee. I wouldn't mind reading more books about her solving cases. Cliffhanger: No 4/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

A new David Baldacci book - both hands in the air!! Thank you MacMillan Australia for sending me this advanced copy of Mercy to read and review. The Atlee Pine series by David Baldacci has been an absolute winner for me. After reading the previous book Daylight I was so eager to get to book 4, Mercy. It has a been a long and dangerous search for the FBI agent to find her sister and I have been there for every twist and turn. It is a hard book to review without massive danger to discover the truth. It has been 30 years since Atlee has seen her twin sister Mercy and she is now closer than ever to finding her. Nothing is ever easy though and she will have to use all the tricks of the trade. Another fast paced and action filled book that I couldn't stop reading. David Baldacci makes you feel as if you are there on the journey with Atlee and Carol and you feel every emotion along the way. Another outstanding book. Released in Australia October 26th.

This fast-paced thriller is the culmination of 3 previous books in a search for Atlee Pine’s sister, Mercy. Naturally, any book from a series can be read as a stand-alone but I would seriously advise against attempting to read this without reading at least one of the previous books. Sure, it’ll be entertaining but without the crucial context of what has gone before there will be a great deal that will be missed. Atlee Pine, the FBI agent, along with her trusted assistant Carol Blum has been on the trail of the twin sister who was abducted from their bedroom 30 years earlier and it has taken them on a string of harrowing and dangerous escapades until ultimately plonking us hot on the trail of what appears to be a tearful and satisfying reunion. But, of course, that’s far from how Mercy plays out. In true David Baldacci thriller style, there are a couple of whack-jobs standing in the way of any type of reunion with the lives of both Pine women, not to mention Blum, in grave danger. As we learned way back in the first book of the series, Long Road To Mercy, Atlee Pine’s sister was kidnapped and Atlee was given a fractured skull as the remaining twin. We then found out that Mercy was being held in deplorable conditions and was subjected to the most horrifying of torture and degradation. So the question on our minds (as well as Atlee’s mind) is whether Mercy has come out of it totally mentally scarred. This is only one of the questions that are answered in this resolutionary volume. Rather than simply find her sister and enjoy a tearful reunion, things get rather complicated thanks to an earlier confrontation in which Mercy played savior to a domestic abuse situation. Her actions have put someone on her tail who has the means and motivation to seek his own kind of retribution. Rather predictably, just as contact between the sisters is to be made, the fly in the ointment makes himself known and chaos ensues. While I’m satisfied that there was always going to be an edge of the seat confrontation taking place in what has been a thrilling series so far, I wasn’t particularly happy with the motives of the bad guy here. Now, I know this is fiction and it’s all made up, but this just felt too made up. He just wasn’t a believable villain…at all. Not only that, I felt his motivations for pursuing Mercy and Atlee were weak and his actions were illogical And this wasn’t helped by one particular fight scene towards the very end of the book which was just too ludicrous for words. The quad-series deserved a stronger ending than this. This last part aside, I have enjoyed this series a great deal and was very satisfied with the full explanation that is provided after the dust has settled. We’re provided with a suitable outcome that serves to form a well-composed 30 year long tragic mystery.

This is the 4th book in the Atlee Pine series by author David Baldacci. FBI Agent Atlee Pine is a troubled soul, she is tormented by not knowing what happened to her twin sister Mercy. Mercy was abducted from her bed at the age of six and has not been seen since. Now Pine is at the end of her long journey to finally discover what happened to her twin sister, Mercy, an incident which destroyed her family and left Atlee physically and mentally scarred. Atlee is now aware that her sister and parents are out there and she needs to find them whether they are dead or alive. With the help of her assistant, Carol Blum she seeks the truth. The road to uncovering the truth has been tough and she has encountered lies, greed, fear and revenge along the way. Now with one final push the goal is insight, but this challenge is more deadly and dangerous than they could ever have imagined. I enjoy reading David Baldacci novels but have found this series difficult to fully engage but thought that this novel is the best of the series. I thought the pace in this novel was turned up a notch and there is plenty of suspense throughout. So glad I decided to follow this series to the end. I would like to thank both Net Galley and Pan Macmillan for supplying a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review.

I read this awhile ago, but it is about time that I put this review on Goodreads. This is the fourth and final book in the series in which FBI agent Atlee Pine has been searching for her long ago abducted twin sister through the last 3 novels. And her sister happens to be named Mercy. Which means...we (us readers) can finally have closure with the long-awaited ending to this long ago crime. Yes, we have been waiting this long. Not that we have had cliff-hangers in the last three novels, so to speak. Well, kind of. Mercy wasn't found, but major clues were given - and we were always led to believe that she was probably still alive. Now, let me be clear, I am a long-time Baldacci fan. Any time a new book of his is coming out, I am in line at my local library to check it out. And I did give this one 4 stars (although maybe it is 3.5 stars as I write this - I am still debating). For the longest time, especially as I realized we still didn't know where Mercy was (dead or alive) and Baldacci wasn't resolving it in book 1, 2, or 3, I was wondering how he was going to write himself out of this convoluted overarching storyline. Oh dear, that sounded mean. I'm sorry Mr. Baldacci. Is my frustration showing through? I just felt like the tension of the chase to finding Mercy was running out. How could you keep us readers hanging on through 4 books? However, on the positive side...with new villains in this book, and with typical Baldacci writing flair, he conned me again, and I was in it - wanting to read myself through and find out - what happened to Mercy and will Atlee and she be reunited in the end? And then... I slammed the book down. Let me just say this...there is resolution. But, why do I feel ambivalent about it? Okay, 3.5 stars for sure. Rounded up to 4 stars.

The fourth and final book in the special agent Atlee Pine series is another adrenaline filled thriller that will have you on the edge of your seat. Atlee and her assistant Carol Blum are once again on the trail of finding out what happened to Atlee's twin sister Mercy, who was kidnapped almost three decades ago. When new information emerges Atlee's determination to find Mercy, dead or alive, is renewed. I thought I had it all figured out in book #3 and reading this book would just be a matter of confirming my suspicions. Well, did I have that all wrong! This final book is mainly about finding out what happened to Mercy. However, the introduction of a big time criminal, who has a vendetta against the FBI, makes for plenty of nail-biting moments and a shoot-out to rival the Alamo. Atlee is as tough and unrelenting as ever as she is pitched in the ring for a fight to the death. Assistant Carol Blum really comes to the fore in this book where she not only uses her smarts but also has to endure some deadly situations. Baldacci includes plenty of backstory which helps refresh the memory and also makes this final book read well as a standalone. Mercy is not only a chilling, fast-paced thriller it also had me a little teary towards the end. I enjoyed this final wrap-up of the Atlee Pine, Mercy, series it was well plotted and compulsive reading. *I received a copy from the publisher

Like 2 female Jack Reachers except they’re twin sisters separated at a young age. The one sister, an FBI agent, tries to find the other 30 years later when she gets a lead. The other sister is a badass kickboxer, living pretty much a solitary life. The story is well written and highly rated but for some reason just didn’t captivate me.

It probably is a 5 star ending of a series but I really don't like reading about children being abused as is in the case here and it is graphic. Now that the long road to mercy is over... I loved Atlee and Carol, Jack and Mercy. Can they go back to Atlee's one woman FBI office in no man's land Arizona and have some action THERE????

For openers, this is a difficult book to review; while FBI agent Atlee Pine grows closer every day to finding her long-lost kidnapped twin sister Mercy - with lots of help from Atlee's older and more sensible administrative assistant, Carol Blum - describing whether or not they succeed in this fourth book in the series (and how and what happens next if she does or does not) would be too revealing. What I can say is that Atlee has found proof that Mercy escaped those who captured and imprisoned her many years earlier. What became of her after that remains a mystery to Atlee; it's entirely possible that she's no longer alive. Just knowing that she escaped, though, is more than enough incentive for Atlee and Carol to take a leave from the FBI to concentrate even harder on tracking her down. Needless to say, their journey is fraught with roadblocks, several of which are life-threatening (overdone, IMHO, to the point at which I said, "Whoa, nobody could survive this." But then, I suppose it was a cake walk for Mercy, whose captive years are described in even more horrific detail. Put another way, if explicit barbarian-style torture isn't your cup of tea, you'll want to skip parts of this one. It's also heavier on melodrama than usual, which was a bit of a turn-off for me as well. Overall, though, while I won't say this, the fourth book in the series, is my favorite, it was entertaining as always. It certainly brought the series to full circle - wrapping up several loose ends and leaving me with only the question of what happens next. So hey, I've followed the series from the beginning, so if there are other chapters to follow, count me in!

It’s that time of year – Fall – when one of my favorite mystery/suspense writers - David Baldacci - publishes a new book. This time we get the fourth novel in his Atlee Pine series, a female FBI agent with a gigantic chip on her shoulder. Agent Pine is 35 years old, at least five feet eleven inches tall, and in fantastic physical shape (as most of Baldacci lead characters are). She’s competed in MMA fighting and kickboxing, and is a serious weightlifter. Serious enough to have barely missed qualifying for the 20014 Athens Olympics. But Pine also has a dark past. She had a twin sister, Mercy, who is no longer around. When the two were both six years old a stranger snuck in their bedroom window, played eeny, meeny, miny, moe with them, and snatched her sister away, never to be seen or heard from again. Atlee was left behind, traumatized for life. This fourth book – “Mercy” – is crucial, because Pine has spent the previous three investigating what happened to her twin sister, and this one is supposed to be the payoff in that search (yes, seriously three books to get us here…). “Mercy” starts out with where the previous book ended, with the startling discovery of why her parents abandoned her and went into hiding, and how her sister, Mercy, was abducted and lived as a prisoner. What was even more important is that it appears Mercy was able to escape from her kidnappers and got away from them. Could that possibly mean Mercy could still be alive? And if so, can Atlee track her down? Because most of what happens in this payoff book, I will stay away from sharing the plotlines so as not to ruin any key plot points or give away any spoiler moments. What I will say is that this would be a hard book to read if you haven’t read the first three books in this series. Without having invested time into reading the prior books, you will not only lack the necessary understanding of what happened up to this point, you will not experience the full richness of the emotional payoff that has built up over the four-book set. In essence, this is really one big story told over four continuous books. This one takes a while to get going as Atlee Pine and her assistant/mentor Carol Blum, pick up from where they left off in their search for Atlee’s twin sister Mercy, whom they hope is still alive and can be found. However, once it gets moving, Baldacci picks up the pace and turns up the temperature to steady boil throughout the last three hundred of four hundred pages. Once the multiple and inter-connected storylines get rolling, there’s no looking back. Only full steam ahead with the pedal to metal in classic Baldacci thriller style. What I can say (without ruining anything) is that I thoroughly enjoyed the roller coaster ride that was the last three hundred pages. It was fast-paced, full of twists and turns, and a thrill ride of a read. More importantly, the most important question to answer is this – was Baldacci able to deliver on the ending that has been building over four books? Was the pay-off worthy of the reading investment? For me, the answer was an easy Yes! It’s hard not to provide any reasons or support without giving anything away, but I will try. We, as readers, have certain expectations when it comes to payoffs. And purposely choosing to deliver a mystery storyline over four books is not easy. Only giving away so many clues while keeping the tension and storylines moving over multiple books is even harder to accomplish. Not just any writer can pull it off. I am rather surprised and pleasantly pleased that Baldacci was able to map out such a mystery over those books, while keeping my interest through the whole thing. I admit to some moments of frustration, but they were few for the most part. However, I also agree with many other readers, that this storyline could not be dragged out more than four books. It needed to come to an end and it a good end it was. In this concluding book, “Mercy”, Baldacci brings Atlee Pine’s search for her missing twin, Mercy to a strong and rewarding conclusion, delivering a layered and action-packed adventure that brings the multi-book story arc to a grand climax that will leave most readers with a well-delivered resolution. As to whether there will be more Atlee Pine adventures in the future, I openly throw my vote in for more, especially to see how things can be further developed based on the outcomes of this book. But if her adventures are to end with “Mercy”, then I can still honestly say this is a fitting end honorable way for Atlee Pine to go out…

One of the first things you'll be told as a budding writer is to 'show' not 'tell'. Because apparently audiences (ie. readers) find it boring (or at least less engaging) and feel patronised. At least that's why I've always assumed you don't provide laborious detail in your prose. David Baldacci very much breaks that rule in the beginning of his latest novel, Mercy, providing backstory on FBI Agent Atlee Pine and her sister, kidnapped three decades earlier. And I for one appreciated it because, even though I've read the entire series AND re-read my review of Mercy's predecessor, Daylight , I was a bit murky on the details. So Baldacci's summary - succinct yet informative - hit the spot. So... not-so-spoiler-alert... Mercy Pine is alive. Atlee may not know if she remains so 19 years after her escape from the Atkins', but we know because we're quickly introduced to Eloise Cain who we learn 'was' Rebecca Atkins... who happened to escape her abusive adoptive parents. I appreciated that Baldacci didn't waste a lot of time keeping us guessing IF Eloise (El) is Rebecca. But of course the twist is that El has no idea she was once Mercy Pine. So when the FBI puts a call-out to locate her she assumes it was because of what happened when she escaped the Atkins'. Of course (although she doesn't know it) El's not in trouble and there's no mystery or issue in the present, given her kidnappers are no longer a threat. Or at least there wouldn't be if El hadn't inadvertently pissed-off a wealthy businessman (and cold-hearted thug) by intervening when his drunk ex-con brother violently attacked his girlfriend. El puts the event behind her so has no idea she's incurred the wrath of a man who puts a hired killer - Britt Spector, a former FBI agent - on her tail. I was supposed to only read part of this book when I opened it, but as is often the case with Baldacci's action-packed and well-paced thrillers, I kept going until I was finished. It becomes a race against time with Atlee and Carol trying to track down Mercy, unaware someone else is after her. Baldacci didn't belabour our introduction to Mercy here and he doesn't overplay the eventual meeting of the sisters (and what comes after). I think it takes some skill and experience at one's craft to not be tempted to over-dramatise something you've spent books building up to. I've really enjoyed this series and realise it may potentially end with this book. However... through the introduction of Spector, Baldacci has potentially given us a brand new protagonist and / or series which may see Atlee and / or Mercy pop up again. Mercy by David Baldacci was published in Australia by Pan Macmillan and is now available. I received a copy of this book from the publisher for review purposes. Read my review here: https://www.debbish.com/books-literat...

This is book #4 in Baldacci's series about FBI Special Agent Atlee Pine and her personal search to find her twin sister Mercy who was abducted from their bedroom when they were six. It can be read as a standalone as Baldacci recaps the pertinent details of the previous books in the first chapter but I do highly recommend reading the entire series for the enjoyment. So we finally get to meet Mercy in this novel and learn the horrid details of what happened to her after her kidnapping. The story is filled with sadness, bitterness and remorse but there is also lots of excitement, adventure and danger. The author makes sure to answer all the questions and tie up the loose ends but I sure do hope we will see more of these characters in future books. After all, Mercy and Atlee have a lot of catching up to do! I received an arc of this new thriller from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Many thanks for the opportunity.

Atlee Pine is on leave (more like a sabbatical) from the FBI, to fulfil a personal quest that has been eating away at her for three decades. Her twin sister, Mercy, was kidnapped when they were six and was never found again. Since the last couple of years, Atlee has been digging away at this mystery and has unearthed that Mercy was kept captive at some compound by a sadistic couple who Mercy was handed over to. After 10 years of captivity, one night Mercy escaped from her dingy prison and again vanished without a trace. One of her captors were killed that night, while the other escaped and wasn’t found either. Now, Atlee and her assistant, Carol Blum, have finally managed to trace the woman who went missing that night, but are still no closer to finding Mercy. After an agonising thirty years, will the two sisters unite? Or will fate take Atlee to Mercy’s grave? Please read my detailed review from the link below https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-rev... Do Read 📖, Like 👍🏼, Comment 💭, or Share 🚩 🙏🏼🙏🏼 #mercy #davidbaldacci #bookmagic #bookreview #readbooks #thrillerbookreviews #bookrecommendations #bookreviewer #bookreviewblog #bookreviewersofinstagram #booklover #book #bookreviewing #bookreviews #bookreviewblogger #bookblogger #atleepine #mysterynovel #thrillerbooks #suspensenovel

This was a good book. I hope that there will be more in this series.

4.25 stars I love David Baldacci’s crime fiction series. They have likable, relatable characters whom you come to know well, and easy-to-follow investigations involving interesting crimes. The Atlee Pine series is no different. Atlee Pine has relentlessly been searching for her twin sister, Mercy, who was abducted when the girls were six years old. The ensuing years were extremely tough on both girls, but absolutely brutal for Mercy. After finally finding a lead, Mercy disappears again snd Atlee is determined, once and for all, to find her estranged sister her and reconnect. And when they do, the two sisters end up fighting side-by-side to resolve their situation at long last. The story is layered and has plenty of twists and turns that kept me on the edge of my seat. While somewhat graphic and difficult to read at times, I found this series, and this story, to be intriguing, engaging, and highly entertaining to read, and I always look forward to the next installment.

As always, Baldacci gives us an action packed thrill ride! Atlee Pine is back and still on the hunt to find her missing sister, Mercy. With the help of Agent Carol, they are hot on the trail of finally locating her and some answers she's been waiting for. Pine and Carol are a great team. I really love the dual narrators and how they interact within the chapters. Finally, we get some closure for the Pine family. This series definitely needs to be read in order.

I love this series although I feel this could have been the last. Well written story with many layers. Good thrills

Mercy by David baldacci was a good book. I really enjoyed the characters in the book. It was nonstop action until the very end. A must read for anyone who likes fiction

The fourth and possible concluding episode in FBI Agent Atlee Pine's quest to find her sister, Mercy...Mercy, Agent Pine's twin, was abducted at 6 years old from their bedroom, while Atlee was left for dead...The earlier stories gave us much of Agent Pine's backstory, but now we focus in on Mercy as the inter woven subplots of Atlee's and Mercy's separate stories wend their way to a "Slam-Bang" reveal, that may or may not, open the door for the continuation of the series...I hope for the latter...Good stuff!!!

I'll admit I had low expectations from this book. Because last year I read books from renowned thriller writers like Jeffery Deaver and Daniel Silva and I hated those books. And David Baldacci is another household name for thriller writers, so I was very skeptic about this book. But this book took me by surprise. I was shocked at how much I genuinely enjoyed reading this book. I even teared up. 😂 Even though this is the 4th book in the Atlee Pine series, you can still read this one. I didn't read the previous books and yet I was not confused or had any trouble following the plot. This book follows Atlee Pine who is an FBI agent trying to discover her long lost twin sister, Mercy, who was abducted when she was just 6 years old. And that's all I'm going to say because you need to read this book! Read this book to find out what will happen to these long lost sisters. ✅ This book was super engaging. I was hooked within the first few chapters. ✅ There is constant suspense and cat-and-mouse chase that had me on the edge of my seat. ✅ This book also surprisingly very emotional. The last thing I expected from this book was to make me teary eyed. And it did. I was surprised how invested I got into Atlee and Mercy's story. ✅ This book feels like a Hollywood action movie. Usually I'm not a fan of those kind of stories, but it worked well with this book. I would absolutely recommend this book. It was highly engaging and also incredibly emotional at times. Overall, a great book. Can't wait to read more books by David Baldacci!

Wilde was living wild in the woods (get it?) thirty years ago. No one, including him, knew his name, his exact age, where he came from, his parents’ names, were or how long he had been surviving alone in the woods. He has vague memories, foggy nightmares, but even as an adult all he remembers is scavenging to survive and playing with his friend, Adam. He's an adult now, but still more comfortable being on his own, living in the woods and keeping even those who love him at arm’s length. Raised in foster care, he excelled in school and even more so in the military where he was a member of an elite group taking part in secret missions. When his godson asks him to locate a missing girl, Naomi Pine, he knows there is more to the story than his godson, Matthew is telling him. Soon Wilde begins his investigation and enlists Matthew's Grandmother, TV personality and lawyer, Hester Crimstein, who in my opinion steals the show. She is a tough old broad that is also va-va-voom! She seriously is the best, and I am purposely not saying more about her. Soon, it becomes clear (as it always does in this genre) that there is more going on with the various characters in this book than meets the eye. Soon, Wilde will be up against those with secrets, those with hired muscle, those who will do anything to uncover those secrets and those who will do anything to keep those secrets hidden. Coben does not disappoint in this book, what begins as a missing person investigation quickly turns into so much more. This book touches on politics, power, romance, bullying, quilt, family, loss, the impact of secrets and how social status can either help or hurt a person. There are a lot of characters in this book and Coben gives them unique personalities and voices. The plot moves at a fast pace as Wilde and others attempt to figure out just what the heck is going on and why. This is another solid book by Coben. He delivers time and time again and this book is no exception! I found myself engrossed in the book, completely glued to the pages, waiting for the reveal and completely enjoying the book from the very first to the very last page. There are so many characters in the book that I just want to see/read again. Articulate! (and yes, at some point in the near future I am going to answer my phone this way!) Well written, well thought out, perfectly paced, captivating and entertaining. Highly recommend! Thank you to Harlan Coben, goodreads and Grand Central Publishing who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own.

3.5. The Boy from the Woods sees Hester Crimstein returning to Westville, New Jersey, the township where she raised her family. Fans of Harlan Coben's work will likely be familiar with the character, who has featured in (I count six) of his previous books as a shrewd, sarcastic, tough but fair Criminal Litigator. And she's still all those things in this one, but the plot delves into Hester's personal life, and past, and we are shown a softer more vulnerable side to her. Now seventy, Hester is widowed, and there's even a romance on the horizon, a subplot that was just delightful. Hester was most definitely the highlight – her witty retorts and comebacks had me in stitches. Hester’s teenage grandson Matthew approaches her on the set of her television show – Crimstein on Crime – to ask for her help. A classmate of his, Naomi Pine, has been absent from school for a week, and Matthew is worried about her, but is cagey about why. It soon comes to light that Naomi has been the victim of severe long-term bullying and hazing by the popular kids. Has she run away, or has something more sinister befallen her? Hester enlists the expertise of Wilde, her son's best friend growing up. Known as The Boy From the Woods, Wilde has no past prior to being found living in the State Forest near Westerville over thirty years ago – estimated age at the time six to eight. Just as Hester and Wilde are getting closer to the truth of Naomi's disappearance another student goes missing. With the exception of Hester, I have to say that Coben's latest installment wasn't my favourite. Too political rather than domestic for my tastes, and pissing contests, and punch-ups, between security firms don't really float my boat. Wilde was enjoyable, and the author's exceptional use of his dialogue helped me like him, but the character is a complete cliché - you'll see what I mean. Twists wise, there were some unexpected surprises, but the plot wasn't as complicated and compelling as normal. Since the author's known for his recurring characters, I'm guessing Wilde will return at some point? I'm happy to read more about him, but here's hoping the crime is more interesting. Some plot elements from Run Away (his novel from last year that I preferred over this one) made a cameo appearance, but didn't spoil anything, so it's safe to read this one beforehand, if you like the sound of this one better. I read this over a day and couldn't put it down, so even though it's not his best effort, The Boy from the Woods still held my attention. I'd like to thank Netgalley, Random House UK – Cornerstone, and Harlan Coben for the e-ARC. Publication Date: 19th March, 2020.

Thirty years ago Wilde was living as a feral boy in the woods fending for himself any way he could including breaking into cabins for food and shelter. After all these years he still doesn't know where he comes from or how he ended up in the woods alone. Now Naomi Pine, a high school student and the target of unrelenting bullying has gone missing. No one seems to take her disappearance seriously except Hester Crimstein who knows through her grandson Matthew about Naomi's problems at school. Hester then asks Wilde with whom she shares a tragic connection and who also has a background in security work to help find Naomi. Then a second child goes missing. Crash, the son of a wealthy television producer. Are the two cases connected or are we being led down two different paths? Having read the first two books in the series featuring Wilde hope to see more of him in the future.

*www.onewomansbbr.wordpress.com *www.facebook.com/onewomansbbr The Boy From The Woods by Harlan Coben. (2020). 30 years ago, a boy was found in the New Jersey backwoods with no memory of how he got there. They named him Wilde. Now ex-military, he still prefers to live outdoors and alone. When a local girl, Naomi, goes missing and nobody seems bothered, Wilde is asked by Hester Crimstein to use his unique skills to find Naomi. To do so he needs to engage in a community he never fitted into and where the powerful are protected even when keeping secrets. Dangerous secrets... I've always enjoyed this author's books and this one is no different for me, it was a thoroughly enjoyable thriller. It was good to see Hester as a main character instead of a secondary one, she is quite a sassy woman which I love haha. Wilde was an interesting lead character although I wish we had got a bit more closure about his origins...I feel like maybe he will come back in future novels? That might just be a hope though haha. I don't really get into American politics so the parts of the story that referenced this were the parts I least enjoyed (mainly because I don't really understand the American political scene). I find the reviews for this one a bit interesting because I've noticed some long time fans of this author saying this one felt different and they didn't like it. I did enjoy it however I can agree it does have a different feel to previous novels, I didn't find this a bad thing like some others seem to. I'd happily recommend this one.

Wilde was found as a little boy living in the woods but how he came to be alone in the woods was never solved. David, the son of Hester Crimestein was Wilde’s only friend. Even after David’s untimely death from a car accident, Wilde stayed connected with his family. Wilde is haunted by his mysterious and unsolved past which left him emotionally damaged and reckless, but with a caring heart. He excelled in his studies, worked at special secret missions in the military and now as a private detective. In order to distance himself from people he lives comfortably in the woods in an Ecocapsule house. Then there is 70 year old, Hester Crimestein, who made an appearance in "The Runaway". She is an endearing character; an intelligent criminal attorney, with a feisty manner and the uncanny ability to shock people with her words. Wilde is quick to respond when Hester asks Wilde to help find Naomi, a bullied classmate of Matthew, her sixteen year old, grandson, who has gone missing. At first Wilde sees it as a fairly routine missing person investigation but when another teenager goes missing it quickly turns into a high stakes game of "cat and mouse". "The Boy from the Woods" touches on multiple themes including family, loss and the impact secrets and social status can have on others. The gripping plot moves at a fast pace with well developed main characters each with unique personalities and voices. Once again, the author deftly balances action scenes with emotional connections. I believe it is a solid introduction to a new series in which the many hanging subplots will be addressed. I have read many of Coben’s books and although this was not one of my favorites, this entertaining book stands on its own merit as a captivating thriller.

4* 6/80. Not his best, if we’re going to be picky about it, but I thoroughly enjoyed this twisty little thriller involving modern politics, the influence of the rich and powerful, and their (lack of 😉) ethics, integrity, morals,

Story 4 stars** Audio 4.5 stars** Narrator Steven Weber

A twisted and entwining thriller, where little is as it seems. Like the gossamer of a spiders web, fine trails are laid between characters with Wilde being the spider. His in-situ mother figure Hester Crimstein a memorable, feisty, ballsy attorney. And then there’s Matthew, Hester’s grandson and Wilde’s godson...17 and old enough to know trouble. A significantly enjoyable portion of the read is the dissection by Coben of contemporary politics, where truth and wealth can results in chasms of difference. Missing teens, crooked politicians and the backstory to Wilde make this an incredibly intriguing read. The one downside - finding out where Wilde fits in the story - is there a sequel or will I’d be left to the imagination? I’d vote for a sequel as he was an enjoyable different protagonist for a change.

My first Harlan Coben book, and it had everything you want in a great thriller. I loved the characters, especially Hester. Wow was she something! I will definitely be recommending this one. And definitely reading more of his books.

I will break up the rating for this book, as I am finding it difficult to rate it. The plot - 3.5 * - Interesting but not very novel. Missing teenagers, bullying in school, politicians hiding secrets, political activism- what's new? Pace - quite fast, 4 * - This was a page turner. Writing/ dialogues - 2 * - you can't force humour into the dialogues. It is either there or not there. It is certainly not there in this book. Hester mouthing Win's famous words doesn't make this funny. All the characters sounded artificial and wooden. characters - 3.5 * - I had liked Hester in her minor appearances in the earlier books. Here, she was sometimes girlishly cute and most of the times annoying. Wilde is similar to any other Coben protagonists. If you like one, you like them all. Where does Coben get his character names from - Crash, Dash.. The twist - 5 * , I am impressed. I made several guesses and all turned out wrong. The ending - 3.5 *, ok, I am not a fan of the cliched ending done to death in most of the romantic movies. This book raises a few valid questions on moral dilemma. Again I am impressed. Overall 4* rating for the twist in the tale and for the thought provoking questions towards the end. It is better than the last 3 books of Coben that I read and am happy that Coben is back in my good books :-)

A fun and fast paced thriller with intriguing characters, The Boy From The Woods was a wild ride! There were many different side stories that kept me perplexed and riveted to the pages. The climax got a little muddled but overall, this was a fun read that I couldn’t put down. One of the storylines was left unanswered so I’m hoping that this is the start of a fantastic new series! I enjoyed the characters and the relationships that were forged. The writing is well executed and the author did a fabulous job ramping up the anticipation! 4⭐️ Thank you to @grandcentralpub for the advance reader in exchange for my honest review.

Harlan Coben is amazing. Really. In fact, I may just be his biggest fan. Everything he writes is just so well-constructed that the pages seem to turn themselves, and time spent between those pages becomes irrelevant. I inhale his work like oxygen, and it all leaves me a little heady. As with his other books, the characters here stand alone yet will be familiar to those who follow closely. It’s the beauty of the lure—those new to Coben will still find a full-bodied story that is fun to read, while devotees will find small details that are familiar, evoking a giddy sense of being one of the “in-crowd”. There are plenty of reviews here that will impart plot details and analyses of character motivation. Ignore them all, buy the book and dive in, head first with no expectations. I promise you will emerge, some hours later, feeling like you’ve found a new vice—and one that is easily indulged, as this author’s body of work is as vast as it is enjoyable.

Wilde is an interesting character and I would definitely like more of his story. I would have preferred more of his back story. I think the title was a misleading because this story was more about a pair of missing teens and some historical secrets being dragged into the present than it truly was about the boy found in the woods. Naomi is a social outcast at school who is constantly being bullied. When she goes missing it is like no one even noticed except a classmate who won’t explain why he feels guilty, but he does ask his high power attorney grandmother to look for her. And she asks for help from Wilde, a man who was found living on his own in the woods as a child.

3.5 stars - This was a good ole fashioned gumshoe police procedural with a nice variant on the denouement. A solid entry in the series that I think will please long time readers

the setup… Lieutenant Eve Dallas is dispatched to the home of art gallery owners Roger and Opal Whittier where the body of a young woman is costumed and posed in their doorway as the likeness of the Vermeer painting of The Girl with the Pearl Earring. The next day, the body of a young man is costumed and posed in the doorway of an art gallery, as the likeness of Gainsborough painting of The Blue Boy. It’s clear that the killer is making an artistic and deadly statement using licensed companions and Eve knows he has no plans to stop. the heart of the story… The case is immersed in the tony and elite art world and thankfully Eve is surrounded by people who are skilled and knowledgeable in this arena, including her own husband, Peabody and Leonardo the designer. The killer is identified early in the story, unusual for this series and it gave me pause for a moment until it didn’t. It was challenging to see the progress of the investigation while knowing the target. He was wealthy, arrogant, entitled and mistaken about his artistic “gifts.” It also put me on edge as I was a witness to the killer’s planning and executions. Ugh. the bottom line… As with most of the story topics in the series, this was exceptionally well researched, from costume design through the art procurement process employed by galleries. It slowed the pace somewhat but was always illuminating and interesting. The excitement, however, doubled in the climax when I was treated to two takedowns and Interview sessions, always a favorite. And! The Great House Project is finally completed and the walkthrough didn’t disappoint. Still fresh after sixty books! 4.5 stars Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to St. Martin’s Press and NetGalley for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

J..D Robb is in top form with Framed In Death. Lt Eve Dallas is back tracking the killer of Lcs (Local Courteusans) known as "The Artist." The murderer is a frustrated artist who regards artistic inspiration more then human life. Robb brings back Dallas's billionaire husband, Roarke, and other recurring characters a case that never lost my interest. The witnesses are all colorful, the killer chilled me, and the finale runs on pure adrenaline. There's also a good amount of humor especially in a superhero debate among Dallas' crew. "Framed" certified my reader loyality to the Dallas series. I don't think it shows any signs of slowing down anytime soon.

4 stars - Mystery/Thriller I just love these characters so much, and I hope this series never ends.

I mean, 61 books in and you kind of know what you're getting. It was fun to revisit this world and these characters, who are some of my favorites. The case was interesting, though not particularly challenging - it's one of the books where the reader knows who the bad guy is from the outset (he is a narcissistic douche who uses his own name), so we're just watching Eve puzzle it out. She was very clever with how she bagged them, so that was fun. We didn't get much Roarke overall, though, which is why I'm just giving it 4 stars. Still, I had fun with it, as always. Looking forward to the next!

Rounded up from a 3.5. I thought this book was pretty good. This series is always entertaining to me. My main question is, how does she write so many books?!?!?!

The ones where you don't get to guess the bad guys are my least favorite of the series. This is one. I would have been amazing to have the epilogue be the cookout with the entire group. Does anyone still read this for the murder/mystery - or like me, for the found family and the branched out relationships??

This one is such an addicting listen. Go into the future with Eve Dallas and her team as they race against time to solve a series of murders that have terrorized their town. I found this one to be interesting and enjoyed how art was weaved into the story. You can feel how Eve and the team are desperate to solve the murders and are doing everything possible to solve the crimes. Once the killer is found, let me tell you, they are something else. The narrator, Susan Ericksen does a good job portraying Eve and Roarke. I really enjoy the Irish accent used for Roarke. However, for the rest of the characters and even the inner monologue I had to pay close attention when it switched. This is perfect for fans of police procedurals, art driven mysteries, and a disturbed serial killer. A very special thanks to Netgally + Macmillan Audio for the gifted ALC.

For the 61st book in this series, the path was a little different. Obviously, having read each and every one of the previous 60 books in this series....I AM a huge fan. It is always a joy to drop back in and spend a while with Eve and Roarke and the gang. For whatever reason, this book felt....a bit more superficial than we have come to expect from the series. The actual case in this one was not so much a "whodunit" but more of a "wait for the crazy man to get caught" kind of book. There is a so-called artist who believes his art will be much improved by targeting and killing the people he gets to model for him. Where I had a problem was with the pace of the murders and the ease of all of the aspects that usually go into such killings. No spoilers, so let's just say it was WAY too easy. Where things kind of felt like they got back on the track was in the last 20% of the book. There is actually a new and different scenario that occurs and THAT was actually where I finally felt the tension build. All in all, it wasn't my favorite book of the series, but as I said before......any opportunity to jump back into this world is always a joy. Thank you to NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for the opportunity to read and review this ARC. This book will be out for publication on September 2, 2025.

I really missed this series and Eve with Roarke. These books usually bring me so much joy, so I was a little sad that this one felt like it was missing something. Maybe it was the lack of interactions with Summerset, or the fact that Roarke only showed up in the evenings since the case didn’t require his help much. The ending ended up being the most exciting part—I don’t remember another book in the series where the suspect actually tried to run away after being arrested. Still, the banter and small moments I love were there, which always makes this series special. 🫶🏻 “I figured you’d be ready to slide into your coffin for the night.” “As it happens I’ve just returned from dinner with friends. And while it often amazes me you have friends yourself, how was yours?” “She sat a moment, plotting revenge. Coating the next bar with liquid laxative before stashing it came to mind, and felt very satisfying. But, as lieutenant, she couldn’t afford to have anyone in her bullpen suddenly shitting their pants while in the pursuit of justice. And yet as she stared down at the smiley face, she seriously weighed serve and protect against vengeance.” “Let’s have a barbecue thing.” He turned, studied her. “You’re very tired, aren’t you now? Not altogether lucid.” “What would you do if I started shopping for my own clothes?” “After I’d been treated for shock? I’d implore Louise to give you a full medical workup, including a brain scan.” “Ha ha. I used to shop for my own clothes.” He leaned over, kissed her cheek. “I’d say it was more bought them than shopped for. And I do treasure the button that fell off the hideous suit you wore the day we met.” “Sap. A smartass and a sap.” “I’m your mommy now, and you’re grounded for the next few lifetimes.”

It's always so great to see this expanded family surrounding Dallas and Rourke just keep growing and coming together in new ways. I love the new house and I can't wait to see more events happening there with Mavis and Peabody and the whole group. Just wonderful!!

Marvelous whodunnit, as always! One of my TOP favorite series - and this is like 60? 61? I mean… solid 4/5 stars. Definitely recommend this book on its own, but this series specifically (;

I've been reading the Eve Dallas collection for over a decade and it never gets old. Sure, some cases are a bit out there, but my favorite homicide lieutenant always delivers. Framed in Death featured an amateur artist who decided to murder prostitutes, or licensed companions as they're called in this series, and manipulates them into famous paintings. I kept waiting for Mona Lisa, but I guess that's too obvious. This was a great book with fast pacing and an interesting premise. We FINALLY closed on Peabody's house and I hope we never have to hear about it again. I love her as a character, but reading about home renovation makes me wanna tear my hair out. I don't know if this is a me issue or if other readers feel this way because this subplot went on for several books. Framed in Death reminded me of the Gilmore Girls Festival of Living Art episode with everyone posed as different paintings. I can't believe we've surpassed 60 books and I hope it never ends. JD Robb always creates own works of art in this collection.

This series of books is set in the future in 2061, but crimes still happen and, other than technical advances, a crime still has to be solved by hard work, reason, investigative skills and methods similar to those used today. This is a tightly woven, fast paced thriller from JD Robb and it doesn’t disappoint. This is the most recent book in the Eve Dallas ‘in Death’ series and all of your favorites are there. The story is told from the viewpoint of a number of the characters, which doesn’t detract from the storyline. In the case of the murderer, it is almost mandatory, as it explains his ego, sense of entitlement, and provides the internal narrative of his motives (no spoiler, as you learn this early). Eve Dallas fans will enjoy this book for the police procedural and as a crime novel. It also advances the secondary characters forward in an interesting way. As in previous books, these is an intense sexual undercurrent between Eve and Roark. This is a book that can be read as a standalone, although, as with all series, you will miss a lot of subtle references to the past.

✨ New Review Alert! ✨ Framed in Death by JD Robb is an electrifying mix of suspense, secrets, and heart-stopping drama. A story that keeps you hooked until the very last page! 📚 Curious about the twists and turns? Dive into my review now! 🔗 Read here : https://www.aniblogshere.com/framed-i... #Bookstagram #BookReview #FramedInDeath #JDRobb #ThrillerReads #ReadersOfIG #MysteryBooks #SuspenseLovers #PageTurner #BookAddict

Another interesting tale in this long-running series. For those who love the characters and their interactions, you will enjoy this as Mavis and Leonardo, and Peabody and McNab finally move into their finished home. I really like the art background of the mystery, the use of famous paintings, the galleries, and the costumes but will definitely admit I felt that this one got a little bogged down in the middle, and I was getting a little restless. Very fortunately, the last third of the book definitely made up for it! We get tons of action, a thrilling take down, and Dallas getting the upper hand with some smart moves after politics and money interfere with justice! Fans will enjoy this one, and all our favorite characters make an appearance! Thanks to #Netgally, #StMartin'sPress, and the author for an opportunity to read! #FramedInDeath #InDeath #JDRobb #bookreview #bookideas #retiredreader

Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today to get through this thing called “Ready Player Two.” And get through it I did, with pleasure. I understand many readers have planted firmly in the no-way-no-how camp for this follow up, believing it either to be at best unnecessary and at worst a lazy cash grab. I guess I see those points, but I also see how one’s enjoyment of the novel depends largely on how well one relates to the themes of the quests Wade and crew face as they pursue a new unexpected prize. This is a book where I think in order to heed a review, you need to know the reviewer. So here are some quick deets on me: I grew up in the glorious ‘80s. We were home alone a lot. When it rained it was purple. I ate at a breakfast club so many times I knew the menu by heart. I LITERALLY HAD A CAT NAMED FERRIS. If any of the above brings a nostalgic smile to your face, there’s a good chance you’ll get a great big kick out of "Ready Player Two." Because I could easily play along in figuring out a few of the riddles the characters unraveled, I enjoyed this book so much. I also got a sense that Ernest Cline enjoyed writing it. If he got a lot of cash for the effort, or if he didn’t plan on writing a sequel when he wrote "Ready Player One," makes absolutely no difference to me. Blog: https://www.confettibookshelf.com/ IG: @confettibookshelf

Oh, the perils of reading a book that is a sequel to one I loved so much! Will it be as good? If it isn’t, how crushed will I be? Am I even giving it a fair chance going in since my expectations are already set so high? I read the author’s last book and didn’t care for it – was that the start of a downward trend and this is just the next step down? I am already seeing negative reviews because it wasn’t as good and a major disappointment, so how can I not go into it expecting the worst? Yes, all of these things went through my mind as I started Ready Player Two. But there was no way I wasn’t going to read it! I can honestly say that I did like it, but it was not quite as mind-blowingly awesome as Ready Player One. I think it had lots of the same feel and formula, but the cheesiness was raised by a factor of ten. I mean, you really have to be ready to nerd out over very specific pop culture topics for several hours. But I know that is what I should expect going into an Ernest Cline novel (and you should, too!). However, a couple of slower/draggy spots and some places where he pushed plot conveniences too far brought the experience down from the first book for me. I listened to the audiobook this time and Wil Wheaton does a great job. I am not surprised as I have heard many accolades for his narration of Ready Player One. If I ever go back for a reread of Ready Player One, I will likely listen to Wheaton. I commented to someone else reading this that Wheaton does what he needs to do to sell all the pop culture cheesiness. I think his part in pop culture cheesiness over the past 30 years or so probably helps a lot! I am going to get a bit spoilerish with a couple of the parts I didn’t care much for. So, only click if you have finished the book or if you don’t care about spoilers: (view spoiler) Should you read this? If you liked Ready Player One like I did, you may like this. But, be aware that I am seeing many Ready Player One fans give it one or two stars. So, proceed with caution and expect anything! Are you ready to nerd out for several hours? And, I mean REALLY nerd out! Like – go overboard into a raging sea of nerdiness? Open a can of pure, concentrated nerd-juice and chug it until you have to rush to the restroom and purge yourself of all the pop-culture?? And then, after all that, eat a big, fat nerd sandwich? If you cannot answer yes to all of this or are not sure you are at least okay with this being the experience, then you need not read this book . . . if you do and didn’t listen me, don’t come back and say that I didn’t warn you!

So I come to this sequel with a trepidatious heart because so many people who were big fans of the first book came away hugely disappointed with the second. I even postponed my read because I didn't want a downer in my life. I think, maybe, I should have just listened to myself. Just judge the book on its own merits. If I had, I'd probably have been surprised by how much fun I had. Yes, fun. I mean, seriously, the titles are riffs on COMPUTER GAME STUFF. Should we be at all surprised if both books read like computer games within computer games, from the VR rigs to the virtual worlds to the society that is so bummed out that it feels like the only way out is through escapism? Seriously? So, YEAH, I get my full-on LitRPG vibes from one of the first to do LitRPG well and it's a bit more vast than the standard LitRPG fare. Plus, it has all the 80's nostalgia you might expect from RPO even if it's not quite as fun as the first. So, here's the nitty-gritty. I didn't like the choice of going back to all the John Hughes movies when there are still many other great things in the '80s he COULD have gone back to. It wasn't horrible by a long shot, however. When he went the way of Prince, I was pretty much eeeeeehhhhhh until the final battle and that was freaking awesome so I gave it a pass for sheer goofy weirdness. When we went to the First Age of Arda, for all us Tolkien fans, I was TOTALLY DOWN FOR THIS RIDE and I totally geeked out when we got to play as Beren and Luthien. It's not even all that '80s and I didn't care. It was cool. As for Wade, the character, he was the same dipshit he was in the first book. Money just makes a jerk MORE of a jerk. I wasn't surprised by anything he did and no one reading this ought to be, either. That's not the point. The point is we get to play games and have huge stakes and it lives up to that hype. So, was there anything else I had an issue with? Well, yeah, there was, but it's not like it's a deal-breaker. It just means it was more of the usual. Fans of the genre will know what I mean if I mention .Hack or Sword Art Online. Just add a little H.A.L. or the girl from the Umbrella Corp and a 12 hour or die quest and I've basically summed up the book. Did I mention it isn't a deal-breaker? Just because it's using an old plot theme that has been done a million times and is absolutely cliche in LitRPG now doesn't mean it isn't fun. It absolutely is. Originality is not the end-game, here. Nostalgia is. And it succeeds on this level.

All her life, she had learned that passion, like fire, was a dangerous thing. It so easily went out of control. 4 1/2 stars. You should go into this book expecting what it is: a slow-moving character portrait filled with complex family dynamics and small-town politics. If you know what this is, like with Ng's Everything I Never Told You, and don't go into it expecting fast-pacing and high-octane drama, you will probably find this quiet read to be extremely engrossing and emotional. I have to be in the mood for this kind of read, but when I am, it packs a powerful punch. These characters are so vivid, so real, so caught up in the little fires of everyday life in Shaker Heights. There's several stories going on in here, but the book begins with literal fires lighting up the Richardson household and the knowledge that the youngest daughter, Izzy, the wild card, has disappeared. Presumably because she is guilty of the arson. Then we move back from there. We start to get a portrait of the events leading up to this dramatic fire. We see the poor artist, Mia, and her daughter, Pearl, move into town and the effect they have on all members of the Richardson family. Further back, we get the past stories of almost every character who comes into this book. It is such a rich work in which the personal stories and experiences of secondary characters play a huge part in influencing how events unfold. And, behind it all, is a court case that will affect all the characters lives. A custody battle over a Chinese baby who could be given every toy, every desire, every opportunity by her rich and white adoptive parents - but is that all? Is that enough when her poor birth mother is ready and willing to care for her? Things become very tense. The town becomes divided. And I felt an emotional wreck by the end of it, too. Mrs. Richardson, however, could not let Izzy be, and the feeling coalesced in all of them: Izzy pushing, her mother restraining, and after a time no one could remember how the dynamic had started, only that it had existed always. The Richardson family, along with Mia and Pearl, Bebe, and the McCulloughs, all pulled me into their lives. I despised a character at one point, only to find pity for them a couple of chapters later. The relationship between Izzy and her mother was a real point of interest for me. How Mrs. Richardson's fears about Izzy affected her behaviour toward her, which in turn affected how Izzy behaved. All leading to the ultimate question: was Izzy always what Mrs. Richardson feared she was? Or did Mrs. Richardson create what she most feared through her treatment of Izzy? Little Fires Everywhere is a great example of how small character dynamics can create a powerful and fascinating story. I love the empathy the author shows for all the people in this book - even the manipulative, morally corrupt and undeserving. No one is merely good or bad. And that is what makes the book so effective. Whose side am I on? I'll let you know if I ever figure it out. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube

Shaker Heights is the quintessential quiet town. Until Mia (and her daughter, Pearl) come to town. The Richardsons have lived in Shaker Heights from the literal moment it was created and they rent out one of their houses to low-income families (such as Mia). Mia is an artist and throughout Pearl's life, they've traveled from town-to-town as Mia creates art and then sells it. But this town? It's different. For the first time, Mia promises Pearl that they will settle down. And at first everything is just as Pearl pictured it. She quickly befriends the Richardson kids, school is challenging but satisfying and she even has a crush on a boy. But then thing take a turn for the worse. Little fires everywhere. Overall thoughts on this one - DANG it was good. The way Celeste Ng crafts this gorgeous book hooked me from the start. The characters were beautifully intricate - they all felt like real people (even the secondary/tertiary ones!). I loved how my thoughts/opinions on them were constantly shifting. A character that I hated at the beginning turned into one of my favorites, and one that I adored became someone I abhorred. The plot itself was a juggling masterpiece - so many different subplots constantly held up in the air and I never knew which one I wanted to follow next. Honestly, I don't want to say anything more - just pick it up! YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads

Here's the thing: I could tell you this book is really good. I could tell you that the characters feel incredibly real and lovable. I could tell you that this story sweeps you up and feels unputdownable more than any thriller I've read in ages. I could tell you that the writing style is immersive. In short, I could tell you to just get on with the inevitable already and read this. But like...Reese Witherspoon and Kerry Washington and the New York Times bestseller list already told you all of that. So listen to them instead. Bottom line: Worth the hype!! ------------ pre-review celeste ng is the master. review to come / 4.25 stars ------------ currently-reading updates i'm obsessed with reading books after they've been adapted into a tv show or movie when i have absolutely no intention of watching the adaptation. it's a real conversation starter. ------------ taking lily's idea and reading only books by asian authors this month! book 1: the incendiaries book 2: last night at the telegraph club book 3: dear girls book 4: sigh, gone book 5: frankly in love book 6: emergency contact book 7: your house will pay book 8: convenience store woman book 9: on earth we're briefly gorgeous book 10: we are not free book 11: searching for sylvie lee book 12: the displaced book 13: schoolgirl book 14: sweet bean paste book 15: little fires everywhere

I think it's safe to say that I'll read everything Celeste Ng ever writes. Just like in a mystery book, you have to work at getting to the root of her stories. She doesn't hand you the plot from the get-go, but instead offers you kernels of the story until everything comes together at the very end. Although this can lead to frustration or boredom, especially with the sometimes barebones plot, I loved it. I'm very much a character-focused reader, and this was very much a character-focused novel. There's not much action driving this book forward. It's slow paced, but this gives us the time to dive deeper into the nuances of the complicated situation these characters are placed into. By examining from all sides, we are shown how both humans and their choices are complicated. If you like character studies, complex relationships, and a '90s suburban setting, please pick this up!

Some people need to cut ties to have a fresh start, others only need to say goodbye, and some people, some people just need to burn everything down. A fire starts in the idyllic land of Shaker Heights. Residence of the Richardson family, the reliable parents Bill and Elena, and their lovely kids, Trip, Lexie, Moody and Izzy. The perfect Richardson family, watching their perfect dreamed house ablaze, with imperfect little fires, lighting every single room. Mia Warren and her daughter Pearl, the tenants of their rental house, mysteriously gone the day before. Who started the fire, but more importantly, why? When you find yourself wanting to finish a book, and at the same time, not wanting it to end, then you realize you stumbled upon something good. A remarkable read indeed. An almost-favorite status earned. This novel touches some important topics like motherhood. privilege and accountability in a very meaningful way. Excellent character development. The entitlement of the Richardson family can be kind of tiresome, but it works wonders with the carefree spirit of the Warrens. I specially loved pretty much everything about Mia’s past (and present) and all the bits about photography. Almost made me want to start photography myself. Still remaining, the mini-series (2020). ----------------------------------------------- PERSONAL NOTE : Most of my ‘currently-reading’ are already ‘read’, just been too lazy to review. This book was powerful enough to move me to do it. My respects, Celeste Ng. (view spoiler) [2017] [338p] [Fiction] [Recommendable] [Almost Favorite] [Motherhood] [Photography] ----------------------------------------------- Algunas personas necesitan cortar lazos para empezar de nuevo, otras sٌólo necesitan decir adiós, y algunas personas, algunas personas simplemente necesitan quemar todo. Un fuego empieza en la idílica tierra de Shaker Heights. Residencia de la familia Richardson, los confiables padres Bill y Elena, y sus adorables hijos Trip, Lexie, Moody e Izzy. La perfecta familia Richardson, observando su perfecta soñada casa ardiendo, con pequeños imperfectos fuegos, iluminando cada habitación. Mia Warren y su hija Pearl, los inquilinos de su casa de alquiler, misteriosamente ausentes desde el día anterior. ¿Quién inició el fuego, pero más importante, por qué? Cuando estás queriendo acabar un libro, y al mismo tiempo, no queriendo que termine, entonces sabés que encontraste algo bueno. Una lectura verdaderamente destacable. Una clasificación casi-favorito ganada. Esta novela trata importantes tópicos como la maternidad, privilegio y responsabilidad en una forma muy significativa. Excelente desarrollo de personajes. La soberbia de los Richardson puede ser algo cansador, pero funciona de maravillas en contraste con el espíritu libre de los Warrens. Amé especialmente casi todo sobre el pasado de Mia (y presente) y todas las partes sobre fotografía. Casi me hace querer empezar a fotografiar como pasatiempo. Todavía pendiente, la miniserie (2020). ----------------------------------------------- NOTA PERSONAL : Casi todos mis ‘actualmente-leyendo’ ya están ‘leídos’, sólo estoy muy vago para reseñarlos. Este libro fue lo suficientemente poderoso como para motivarme a hacerlo. Mis respetos, Celeste Ng. (view spoiler) [2017] [338p] [Ficción] [Recomendable] [Casi Favorito] [Maternidad] [Fotografía] -----------------------------------------------

‘all her life, she had learned that passion, like fire, was a dangerous thing. it so easily went out of control.’ i honestly wasnt expecting to enjoy this book. i didnt really like celeste ngs debut and i thought this was probably overhyped. but this is one of the few occasions where i am actually happy to admit i was wrong. i knew from the first chapter, where the title comes into play, that i was in for a real treat. if you dont know by now, i love when a book is so aptly named. sometimes titles can come across as lazy or appear as an afterthought, so there is nothing i love more than when a title is given some meaning and depth. and this book does that perfectly. i love how this book explores so many themes - such as motherhood, race, friendship, community, children - each one a little fire that slowly burned into an explosion of a story. i think ng is so clever in how she likens so many topics to a fire, bright with a burning intensity and heat. but with fire and scorched earth can come new beginnings. izzys character is definitely the highlight for me. i loved seeing her come to accept this idea and burn her own way, blazing a path of her own choosing. i know this wont be a book for everyone due to its slow pace and prominent focus on character histories, but there is definitely a reason this book is so highly rated. and i am very relieved that i enjoyed such a great work of fiction. ↠ 4.5 stars

This is one of those reads that starts off as a small flame. Then just as the smoke becomes a raging inferno, the story has gotten under your skin and you've inhaled more than you thought and instead of it going to your lungs, it aims straight for the heart. It's a story of relationships - Mother daughter ones. It starts off with Mia and daughter, Pearl, who move to shaker heights which is an upscale suburban neighbourhood where life is both homogenous and idyllic. Until the adoption of a Chinese baby leaves the community divided. Is it biology that makes a parent? The old argument of nature vs nurture. Or what about decisions that are made in the heat of the moment that become life defining for a child, as regrettable as they may be, should a parent get a 2nd chance? Ng raises some tough moral questions. Ones that had me thinking and arguing in my own head of what is right, wrong and sometimes not negotiable. This one made me just want to hug my daughter a little tighter and have her recognize that my imperfections are to cushion her from the harshness life can sometimes deliver. Ng's writing is captivating. 4.5⭐️

🔥 🏠 3.5 stars (rounded up). While beautifully written, emotional and intense - Little Fires Everywhere didn't blow me away as much as I expected it would. It was a slow-burn book that required your investment and I have to admit to skimming some pages because they felt long. The story for me was about more than the storyline though that was certainly interesting. What resonated with me was Ng's depiction of relationships. The relationships between mothers and their children, the relationships between friends, the relationships between siblings and the complicated relationships between family members. Ng powerfully explored these relationships and wasn't afraid to showcase how at times we seem to hurt those we love the most because of our own unhappiness, apprehension or feelings of inadequacy. I loved how flawed and real the relationships were in this novel. Another standout for me was the exploration of motherhood. In Elena Richardson and Mia Warren we see two polar opposite mothers. Elena very rigid, proper, opinionated and the epitome of success within her town. Mia with her bohemian lifestyle was in contrast artsy, free and openly loving. Their lives would intertwine when Mia and her daughter Pearl rent an apartment from the Richardson's. Pearl becomes smitten with the Richardson's children and their life. Izzy, the youngest Richardson child, in turn becomes smitten with Mia. Each child essentially finds something they are missing in the other family. For Mia it is an open acceptance, understanding and love. For Pearl who was an only child, always on the move - it is a house full of siblings with more things than they could ever need. This is a story that unfolds as the lives of the characters unravel. The characters were well written and complex. They all had layers to them, that were skillfully peeled away as Ng skillfully weaves her story. "Weaves" is the perfect word here as the story is connected by a host of characters and linked through many different relationships and actions. We see why they behave the way they do, we come to understand their actions even if they are wrong. Overall, this book was very definitely enjoyable. I wholeheartedly enjoyed the explorations into the characters. I was simply never wowed by it so while I enjoyed it, I didn't love it. I think the slowness of the book coupled with a busy week might not have been the best time to delve into such a slow burner but I am happy that I read it.

4.5 exquisite stars! There isn’t anything I could say about this book that hasn’t been said before. The writing is outstanding! It envelopes you within its beauty and holds you tight until the final sentence. I was intrigued by every single character. This novel is a beautifully written, in-depth look at the connection between several families within one community. There are multiple characters, themes and storylines, each one adding a new layer of complexity and intrigue to the novel. I found myself contemplating the decisions these characters made even when I didn’t have the book in my hands. Is it a fast-paced, gripping read? No. Is it highly suspenseful and addictive? No. Is it an exquisitely written exploration into the lives of endearing and unique characters that will leave you thinking of them long after you finish the book? Yes. Did it live up to the extreme hype? Yes! Long story short, if you haven’t read this novel (although I feel I might be the last person on earth who hadn’t read it by now), do yourself a favour and get your hands on a copy! Make sure to set aside quality time to spend between these pages as this story is one to be quietly savoured and cherished.

The whole time I was listening to this book, I couldn't shake the feeling of deja vu. It finally dawned on me that Little Fires Everywhere inexplicably reminded me of a childhood favorite book called The Saturdays by Elizabeth Enright. Both books feature families of four rambunctious kids and Celeste Ng writes in a confident, animated manner that is reminiscent of Elizabeth Enright's style. The books each have more of an infectious, rather than addictive quality. It is so fun to be in the middle of these families and root for one character and then feel sympathy for another. Although this is only Ng's second book, she has an established formula that she successfully works again. Instead of starting out with a death as she did in Everything I Never Told You, this time Ng starts out with the mystery of who set the house afire and works back telling the story of tangled adult relationships and secret lives of teenagers. Also, as in her first book, there are hints of simmering racism in the comfortable suburban utopia that is Shaker Heights, Ohio. As I sit here dissecting the various themes of Little Fires Everywhere (and there are many!), the one that stands out the most to me is motherhood. What does it mean to be a mother? How much can we control the direction of our children's lives? What rights, privileges, assumptions do we make about our kids? Finally, do we actually OWN the child that is borne to us? Ng expertly explores all the complicated angles of mother and child relationships. I had been anxiously waiting for this book since the day I finished Ng's first one. I embraced that first book and held onto it, pushing it onto friends, even into hands of complete strangers. It struck me as absolutely insightful and that TWIST ending! Everything I Never Told You is a proud member of my Twister Hall of Fame at http://www.booksbejeweled.com I just don't get that overwhelming feeling of LOVE for this book. Ng is a carefully organized, brilliant writer and sometimes as a reader, I start to feel used, taken advantage of. Every minor character, every little event in the story is absolutely constructed and placed to maximum effect. And that gets a bit tiresome, I feel like Ng is telling me how to feel. However, all small grievances, it keeps me from giving it a five star rating. The audiobook performance by Jennifer Lim is one of the best I have ever listened to- and I listen a lot! I highly recommend the audiobook, I think Ng's writing is well suited to an audio.

i wish i would've read this book with a friend or in a group. at the surface level this is so easy to read and seemingly harmless, but i enjoyed unraveling and thinking on the little nods it gave to the issues it centered on. also it was so hard to read this without picturing the family as characters from schitt's creek

fulfilling my 2019 goal to read (at least) one book each month that i bought in hardcover and put off reading long enough that it is now in paperback. 4.5 stars. review to come, but note to self: don't ever wait two years to read a book by celeste ng again, you dummy.

“Most of the time, everyone deserves more than one chance. We all do things we regret now and then. You just have to carry them with you.” What an absorbing and character driven story! Mia and Pearl have just moved into a new home in Shaker Heights, after jumping from place to place for years Mia has promised her daughter that they are here to stay. Their house is rented from the wealthy and influential Richardson family. Mrs Richardson prides herself on doing everything ‘properly’. She went to college, got married, got a job, had kids. She has done everything according to the rules. Shaker Heights is a town built on rules and organisation. Everyone meets a certain ‘standard’. But when one of the Richardson’s family friends plan on adopting a Chinese-American baby, it causes a custody battle that splits opinions across the town. Soon Mia and Mrs Richardson are at loggerheads and she does some digging into Mia’s past. What she finds out may uproot Mia and Pearl’s new life they’ve made here. Full of rich characters - this book isn’t afraid to ask the tough questions. The characters are flawed and you can’t help but watch as it reaches its dramatic climax.

A character driven family drama that is set in Shaker Heights, Cleveland. Shaker Heights is a planned community and to all appearances the Richardson family has the perfect life! This quiet suburb is about to unravel and the hidden motivations, lies, and secrets will be both shocking and revealing! I enjoyed the story and there were a few jaw-dropping moments! Mrs. Richardson takes in a tenant (Mia) with a teenage daughter (Pearl) who are from a different walk of life and have a mysterious past. Pearl becomes close to the Richardson’s teenage children and Mrs. Richardson’s daughter (Izzy) will become close and almost obsessed with Mia. These relationships will prove to be upsetting and devastating in many ways. Mia and Pearl ultimately set in motion a stage for some shocking and unforeseen results! Will Mrs. Richardson regret her choice of tenants or her judgement of them? Why are Mia and Pearl always moving from town to town? Do they have something to hide? Why is Izzy so drawn to Mia and why is there so much hostility between her and her own mother? I was intrigued by the characters and how their paths ultimately connected in the end. Fire destroys everything in its path and no one can control which way the flames go. An intoxicating and tragic read that left me with more questions than answers! To see the full Traveling Sisters review ...visit here.. twogirlslostinacouleereading.wordpress.com Thank you to Edelweiss, Celeste Ng, and Peguin Press Published on September 12, 2017

3.5 but will up it to a 4 rating for the writing. I really loved this author’s first book, and was really looking forward to loving this book too. Just didn’t happen for me. I really loved Mia, the bohemian type photographer and her daughter who moved to this community of Shaker Heights. Mia brought the most feelings out of me then any of the characters. This book is quite the story of mother/child relationships, it just didn’t touch me like Everything I Never Told You.

Ms. Ng has the uncanny ability to unravel a story so that even the staunchest black/white stances blur into a groovy gray.

2018 F.A.B. Bookclub pick # I.❤️. F.A.B. Solid 4.5 stars. It would have been 5 stars if I got a little more closure with some of the characters. I was left feeling like the story wasn't really done, I guess. I was listening to this one in the car and when the narrator thanked me for listening- I was honestly surprised. I couldn't believe it was over. I had to check to make sure I hadn't accidentally skipped ahead. The character Pearl is my same age (born in 1981). Her description of high school (beepers and vintage bell bottoms) and media references (TLC, Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky scandal) took me back to my teenage years. Overall I enjoyed it. I was just wanting a little more...

This was a really thought-provoking book that touched on a lot of different topics and layers. I really enjoyed it, although I DO wish we got a few more answers at the end re: where/how everyone ended up. But I guess leaving it open-ended is a part of the larger story.

“Rules existed for a reason: if you followed them you would succeed; if you didn’t, you might burn the world to the ground.” This is a motto that Mrs. Richardson lives by. In Celeste Ng’s novel, “Little Fires Everywhere” Ng vies the established rule-following controlled Mrs. Richardson with the new-to-town free-spirited artistic Mia Warren in domestic and mothering harmony. The novel takes place in Shaker Heights, Ohio in the late 1990’s, which gives Ng freedom to explore traditional values versus permissive and flexible standards. Ng uses Mrs. Richardson in her exploration of the grim side of authoritative style parenting. Ng calls her “Mrs. Richardson” through the novel making the reader seeing her as the stately and controlled matriarch. Meanwhile, she calls Mia, well Mia and NOT Ms Warren allowing the reader to see her as unrestricted and permissive. The novel opens with Mrs. Richardson’s house burning down. While she stands in her front yard, watching her home incinerate, three of her four children watch from the street, contemplating that their sister Izzy finally went over the bend and burned the house down. Yes, they agree, Izzy will be grounded for life. Thus, the novel begins at the end, with the reader knowing that the Richardson’s home burns down. From that moment, the novel switches to nine months earlier when Mia Warren and her daughter Pearl rents an apartment from Mrs. Richardson. Pearl is the same age as Mrs. Richardson’s son Moody. Moody becomes intrigued with Pearl, thus enters Ng’s domestic study. Ng also adds another story line in which Mrs. Richardson’s good friend goes through adoption process with a Chinese baby. Ng poses the question, who should raise the Chinese baby…an affluent white family or a poverty stricken Chinese immigrant mother? I read this as a book club read, and we were split as to who should ultimately get the baby. Likewise, there were differing ideas on how Mrs. Richardson and Mia were portrayed. Ng has interesting and thoughtful observations of the delusions of both mothers. This is a fabulous book club read. Ng has proven herself to be a solid author.

3.5 This book is another classic example of “don’t believe the hype”. I bought this back when it came out 2017/2018 don’t remember, but for some reason I just never picked it up until now (because I want to watch the mini-series with Reese Witherspoon and Kerry Washington 😅 - and I always read the books first otherwise I rarely read it after seeing the movie) Back to the book. It was very well written and had a captivating character study type of approach and I can totally see myself enjoying a movie/tv show based on it because I think it actually would work better in that format. It has a very realistic quality to it. Both the writing and the story itself. There are no good or bad characters in my opinion, just a mix of everything that represents human nature and issues which arise from the intricacies of it. I admit, I did enjoy that angle and perhaps that’s what made this story such a success. My rating mostly reflects the fact that I was underwhelmed. I believe having a book praised and discussed so much not only raises expectations but it makes you feel as though you “know” it and so when you actually sit down to read it, you know the issues it explores and the ideas it puts forward. I won’t say this was in any way bad, it’s just I don’t see how this is different from so many other similar books I’ve read which did not receive such attention.

Reading this during a business trip was a special kind of funny because there is something to be said about reading a disaster movie book while flying and examining a mine / plant site. *lol* I loved Michael Crichton and the way he made actual science work in favor of advancing and/or grounding an action-laden story. So I really grieved when I heard about his untimely death. Naturally, when you love an author and many years later someone claims a manuscript was found and another author is brought in to "finish" it, you get protective. At least I do. In addition, while I haven't read any James Patterson myself yet, I hear a lot of chatter about him (there are even jokes about him in movies for crying out loud) and most of it wasn't too positive. Since this is about a volcano, I couldn't resist though. As it turns out, I didn't regret giving this a chance. Everybody knows about Hawai'i's volcanoes. Hence, everybody thinks they also know what the volcanoes are all about; they think they know how unlikely an eruption of at least one of them is; they think they know how to control the lava flows ... But and assumptions can kill. And then there is a certain Army facility on the big island which is harboring one hell of a dark secret that, if the lava reaches it, can mean the end of humanity and even all life on Earth. What might sound a little over-the-top makes perfect sense the way Crichton lay it out (according to his widow's statement at the end, he had all the facts and interviews with scientists and plot outline, just not the finished novel yet). There were a few elements I did not care for, such as (view spoiler). However, I liked all the characters (loved to hate many of them), I DEFINITELY loved the setting and plot and I don't have too many complaints about the writing (the pacing was excellent even). So yes, I can wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone liking disaster stories and fans of Crichton's should not be disappointed either as it had the right "feel" to it IMO.

3.5 STARS FOR THIS STORY & 0.5 STAR FOR MY FANBOY MOMENT I have been a great fan of Crichton and equally one of Patterson's Alex Cross novels. For me this was probably the collaboration of the year. On one side the late Crichton whose books were readily converted into Box-office blockbusters and on the other side James Patterson, probably the greatest living author whose books rule at the bestsellers list. The collaboration had to be something special with James working on Crichton's found manuscript nearly a decade and a half after the masters demise. It is and it isn't. The story is a perfect script for a big budget disaster movie but doesn't translate itself well as a 400+ page novel. The topic of a destructive volcano is acceptable and the combination of having a disaster in the making biological waste kept near the volcano which makes this a category 5 disaster in the making is what kept me interested in the story. The story is taut and keeps ticking all the right boxes. The set-pieces are too convenient and the characters are too much of black and white, there are virtually no greys no surprises, no swaying form the straight path and is well balanced enough to provide everyone with their respective come-uppance. What I loved in this story was the continuous action which doesn't allow the reader anything more than a bathroom break and the way the counter plan is put to action. The story probably needed someone a little newer and younger than Patterson who could have kept Crichton's style intact. These are two very different kind of writers which becomes apparent in the story. Fans of Crichton may not be comfortable with the way this story has progressed although taking nothing away from Patterson, this is a compulsively readable story. Mixed bag for me.

Exactly as expected - a quick, satisfying story that plays out like a disaster movie adaptation waiting to be made. Enough engaging and repulsive characters (tech billionaires and social media influencers get a hard time) to keep the plot ticking along and fun guessing who will meet a disastrous ending. Entertaining, ridiculous and harmless fun.

Fast-paced, blockbuster, natural disaster nonsense. Exactly what I needed. The perfect Father’s Day book. Divine.

This book evokes the feeling of watching a disaster type movie, where a catastrophic event is imminent and the tension continues to build and build. It’s definitely more focused on plot than characters and I think that fits for this style of book and keeps it moving forward for a tense and fun read. Quote: “You live here, you always worry about the big one,” [he] said, “whether it’s your job or not.” ⭐️ 4/5

This is an extraordinarily potent and beautifully written (if not quite perfect) conclusion to the trilogy Here Mantel closes the book on Cromwell’s life, depicting his swift downfall in all its inglory, but she has remained unflinchingly conservative (to a fault?) telling the story of his demise. I will get to that later, firstly I want to talk about the tragedy she depicts here. “What have I, but what my King gives me? Who am I. but who he has made me? All my trust is in him.” It is trust misplaced in a false and ungrateful vessel. The entirety of Henry's reign is stained with treachery, divorces, and murder. He elevated those useful to him and then destroyed them when they no longer were successful or could no longer achieve the impossible. All Henry’s advisers played off each other, fighting for the most power and sway over the King. They tried to set each other up for massive falls and the King let them do it, so they did not unite against him and continued to serve his whims. Above them all, though, stands Thomas Cromwell in skill, ability, and loyalty. At least, that is the version Mantel portrays. He gained much from Henry and gave even more with his service. There are advantages he could have taken, favours he could have asked, but he does not get above himself and is simply rewarded lavishly for his success at court and the promises he has kept to his sovereign. His common birth has granted him an insane work ethic that many others that have been in his position could not match. And as such he works tirelessly for his King and country. The Cromwell here has no sense of personal advancement or ambition. It is done out of honest duty. That is enough. “I hear you are Privy Seal. You climb so fast, my lord, the kingdom has no ladders enough.” We all know the proverbs about those that climb too high. Cromwell always played a dangerous game. He had no family, no status, only his skill as a politician kept him in the King’s favour. And when that skill dried up, or he failed because of powers out of his control, his usefulness dried up. So, he is branded a traitor and murdered. The Cromwell here is totally innocent but I do wonder how different the real Cromwell was. I feel Mantel has been somewhat unusually conservative here. I have always found the way she writes unique. The first time I read Wolf Hall I found it totally inaccessible and really had to take my time with it. Here, though, she seems to have reigned in some of her flair and artsy syntax to tell her story with precision and focus. This spans many years rather than the narrow focus she has used before. And it still works and it still retains much of its charm and eloquence of expression, but it is still conservative, conservative in its representation of Cromwell and his downfall. A degree of openness would have given the story a little more edge and possibility. Cromwell here is innocent and loyal (Mantel clearly favours him) but the history surrounding his actual demise is somewhat murkier. Henry was fickle and easily swayed so Cromwell’s rivals were not hard pressed to convince him of Cromwell’s “treachery.” But I do wonder if he genuinely believed them or if it was merely a convenient excuse to ride himself of a stale minister. I just cannot fully buy into the idea of his total innocence because I cannot believe in the notion of a selfless politician in Tudor England. Either way, the final few chapters were fantastically well delivered as this series concludes poetically. _________________________________ You can connect with me on social media via My Linktree. __________________________________

R.I.P., Hilary Mantel. “This is what life does for you in the end; it arranges a fight you can't win.” I don't think I ever rooted for and mourned a historical-fictional character the way I did Hilary Mantel's Cromwell and all the time I wished for a different outcome: him to be turning out forever victorious and death to his enemies!!!! Of course I knew what was coming, but H. Mantel managed to lull me into a false feeling of safety, just as Cromwell allowed himself to feel after he was granted the Earldom of Essex and it almost came as a physical shock to me as well as to him when he was arrested and taken to the Tower. “Now, sensing that he has less than a week to live, he must pick up his images from where he has left them, walking his own inner terrain. . . He must traverse his whole life, waking and sleeping: you cannot leave your memories alone in this world, for other men to own.” I was seriously thinking of petitioning Mantel to write an alternate ending where Cromwell actually marries (bloody) Mary Tudor and reigns by her side. :) OK, on the serious side, while -understandably-I did not love this last installment as much as I did Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies, it was still an amazing read. The writing style continues in the same vein as in books 1 & 2, allowing you the fascinating feeling of being in Thomas Cromwell's head while standing behind him, peeping above his shoulders. On the downside, the book is a bit too long. I could've done with just a bit more focus and less flashbacks. It's another long story. You are travelling on the back of the River History at a tight, yet sedate pace and pass by all the milestones and historical figures between 1536 and 1540. There's King Henry's third marriage to Jane Seymour and the birth of his long awaited son; his daughter's Mary's re-acceptance into Court; the uprising in the North of England called Pilgrimage of Grace rebelling against Henry's break with the Roman Catholic Church and the dissolution of the lesser monasteries; the intrigues of the Pole and Courtenay families (Plantagenet/York bloodlines) against Henry's rule; King Henry's looking for a fourth wife and then marrying his fifth (though that's only at the very end and mentioned en passant). All this is tied together with Cromwell who has his own journey which is taking him to his future and well as back in his past: there are lost of flashbacks to his childhood and youth (a blank page in history and Mantel fills it in nicely). At the beginning he is at the centre and at the height of things, but of course slowly and unstoppably, things are getting out of his control: while he is still high, he is getting pushed to the side step by step. His political enemies, strongly supported by the French King, are conspiring and gaining more and more ground and Henry VIII, capricious and unreasonable and dissatisfied because not all things turn out as he wishes, and probably having some fear of Cromwell outgrowing and endangering him, deserts him. And then this mighty and seemingly slow river suddenly becomes a waterfall: Cromwell's falling and we are falling with him. This 3D, large as life Cromwell as well as his journey has been one of the most memorable and the one of the highlights of my "reading career" and of 2020. I am so glad I met him. :)

So sad it's over; it's my least favourite of the three books but what a phenomenal sphere of writing and historical saga, drags you in, such a specific style of writing that is pure submersible talent, highly recommend!

In bringing her trilogy to a close, Hilary Mantel has managed to produce a brilliant portrait of Thomas Cromwell & the court of Henry VIII, breathing new life into a very well documented historical period. It is a glittering accomplishment which has commended her to literary prizes galore. ⁣ ⁣ Wolf Hall was a beautiful & challenging experiment of historical fiction, highly stylized & incredibly dense. Bring Up the Bodies, the best of the three novels, is trim & tension-filled, full of high drama & court scandal; Anne Boleyn is a delicious creation under Mantel's pen. The Mirror & the Light did not capture me as thoroughly as did its predecessors, but it is a magnificent accomplishment as only a master-novelist can produce. M&L is much more lyrical & expansive by comparison; also, much more thematic: the leitmotivic function of the titular 'mirror' & 'light' became quite beautiful once I settled into the torpid pace.⁣ ⁣ The novel suffers from a surplus of information, which is obviously intentional & purposeful, though it weakens the overall impact of the final two chapters, which piece together Cromwell's final moments. I feel it's imperative to read the first two novels in order to absorb the dazzling richness that Mantel offers here.⁣ ⁣ I don't see this winning the Booker, but who knows, Atwood got one...Jokes aside, I would be incredibly happy to see her win a third Booker Prize for this stunning conclusion to the Cromwell trilogy

Check out the most unique video review of this book! https://youtu.be/fKemigtrvvs This book centers on a young girl named Kya who lives alone in the North Carolina marsh. The author who is well versed in non-fiction and has a strong background in nature has beautiful prose and really captures the essence of nature in her writing. Over the course of her life, Kya forms certain connections particularly with two young men from town. When Chase Andrews, a young man from town, is found dead, Kya is a suspect. Did she do it? What happened? This book goes into so many different topics: class, how you can really "help" someone, judging someone else, what real love is, what family is, the beauty of relationships and connection. In many ways, this book is relatable. Most people have felt like an outsider at some point in their lives. In this book, Kya was very lucky to find some people who actually cared about her. Also, the author talks about this fear that Kya felt. This is normal. Women are normally afraid unfortunately. Always looking over our shoulder. Always told to not go out at night. Always travel with someone. If anything, I think this book is a good reminder that some things haven't changed in 50 years. Women are still beat by men, and even if they do go through the law, it does not always work out. This book.....Wow! It definitely deserved all of the buzz. That being said, I did NOT like the last 2 pages of the book. I thought that the ending should have been more open. 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango

I’m glad I didn’t give up. I definitely thought it improved in the second half. 3.5 ⭐️ “Go as far as you can - way out yonder where the crawdads sing.” I was nervous to say the least when I picked this one up. Hyped books worry me now as I’ve disliked a few and people can be really nasty about it. I got to about page 140/150 and I wasn’t enjoying it. The descriptions were wonderful but the plot was thin. I cared about the murder mystery element and Kya’s childhood. I cared a lot less about her relationships with Tate and then with Chase. However, I pushed through and after about page 200 I found I was enjoying myself and certainly more gripped. I loved following the court case, the discrimination Kya suffered due to the small minds of a small town. Overall I did like it. I wouldn’t put it up there with all the 5 star reviews but I am glad to say I’ve read the whole thing 😊 ********************** 50p in a charity shop! Winning!

“Where the Crawdads Sings” is a rich, well-written novel that, like a good southern meal, left me satisfied and content but not engrossed or astonished as the back cover promised. Maybe I’m a little burned out on young girl coming of age stories having read two others in the prior year. “All the Ugly and Wonderful Things” was more raw and honest, and “Educated” was more emotional and personal, being a memoir. Still, Owens' might be the best writer of the three, and is at her best describing the flora and fauna of the North Carolina wetlands. All three of the books are touted as debut novels (which I guess technically is true), but Owens is already an award-winning and bestselling author of non-fiction wildlife books. Let’s breakdown what I like and didn’t about this novel. Delia Owen’s and her publisher clearly knocked it out of the part with the cover and title. But more important - Owen’s writing is lush and vivid, mostly in setting, but the characters felt fully formed to me as well. The plot was rich, first with a dysfunctional family, then as a survival story, and finally as a murder whodunit. I did like how the author interspersed the beginnings of the murder mystery component in the form of flash forwards, throughout the book, increasing the conflict and intrigue earlier into the book. And while the author left me enough clues to guess the ending, it was engaging until the end. My biggest issue was that the plot was largely predictable. The plot flowing along like a meandering river, not like the twists and turns and tributaries of a dense marsh. The pacing wasn’t bad, but it did get a bit choppy in the middle. I don’t want to leave any spoilers, but let me just say, a few plot points weren’t surprising, but they popped up, out of nowhere, making me feel like I had missed some pages. In addition to the plot, I also never became invested in the characters, maybe because I’m a little burned out on this type of story line. While the swamp and the creatures and the waterways felt real enough to me, the characters themselves, while being well described and true to their motives, didn’t quite pull me in. Big picture, I enjoyed reading the story, never felt bored, but it was as much of the description of the setting and the major plot questions, then it was an emotional investment. A descriptively written, and interestingly plotted story that transitions from a coming of age tale to a murder mystery.

This book is something different from all the books I have read before. It's not about the story or the characters but again, it's the plot and the characters that made a huge difference! I read the first half really fast (I just couldn't stop reading it and then I was ruthlessly distracted by reality like exams, presentations, classes, work, family, best friends!). I absolutely loved the first half of the book talking about the abandoned youngest girl child of a broken family. This is the story of this girl who did everything on her own to survive. But what appealed more was the way she totally relied on nature and a rare few strangers to survive. This story intensely studied such a character, who's thoroughly neglected and shunned for no fault of hers, how she evolved into a woman and as one of the most famous authors writing on nature. Even though I loved the first part, I felt like I was watching a movie and I could not get the feel of real characters. It felt like the characters were some good actors. But I enjoyed the first part the most. And after a few days' gap, I finally got the chance to pick up the book again. The second half was a real struggle. It tried to work out the murder mystery in details in which our main character, Kya, was the main suspect. The chapters kept going on and on and on. I was almost about to skip some chapters but somehow I got through them and well, it was worth it. It's because of these chapters that I actually came to appreciate the last few chapters and the ending. All I want to say now is that the book started good and it ended well. This book is a character driven one in which the characters are pretty convincing. The writing style is endearing and flawless. The poetry references, the talk about books and nature; the human nature, our basic instincts and weaknesses have been beautifully captured. Even though the book was good, I couldn't love most of the characters especially the main character. And I can understand the reason why her character was made this way. It's really convincing though. Her character remains detached even to the reader. The ending though. Kya seems like a character who you can easily figure out but the last few pages have something else to say! I absolutely loved the characters of Tate Walker and Jumpin'. These characters made a huge impact in the character development of the main character. I wish the world is full of people like them. As for the romance and the relationships, I simply didn't like it. It felt more toxic and harmful. But yes, my fav character made me believe in love again. I disliked the almost similar 20 chapters out of 57 chapters on the murder mystery thing. But still, this is going to be a memorable read.

“I’ve known a long time that people don’t stay.” I’ve been seeing this around everywhere, and it’s even becoming a movie? And even T.Swift gushed about this? In conclusion, I had to read this! By the way, the trailer looks amazing!! I wasn’t completely wowed by this, but it was definitely a story that had me in my sad little feelings most of the time. Kya was left to fend for herself alone at a young age and it was great seeing her really well-thought-out growth. Throughout her journey, there are many (might not be that many) characters who have an impact on her growth. I didn’t really care for the romances in this book or the murder mystery, it was just being on this journey with Kya that had me engrossed in the book. I like that I realized how many things I take for granted, seeing Kya having to learn things on her own. That ending though? I did not see that coming, and it definitely added a pretty good touch to the book. I experienced little to no confusion while reading this book. There was just a lot of anticipation for the different things that could happen and most were met and some were even exceeded. I loved that Owens made it quite easy to be rightfully on Kya’s side. It is common to have characters who have a hard time trusting people because of past experiences but Kya’s experience definitely was not like others I’ve read. One thing I found really interesting was how her mom kept coming back in her thoughts. Her mom for sure had an impact on her, and that kept making this book more sad. Overall, I always get scared about reading popular books because I’m scared I will convince myself to like them. Honestly, I’m not sure with this one because it still feels like an average book, but it felt more than average!

2021 review: To call this book a unique coming of age story of a girl abandoned by her family, living in a shack in the North Carolina marshland is like saying To Kill A Mocking Bird is a unique coming of age story of a girl whose lawyer dad has to defend a Black man accused of raping a White woman in White Supremacist era Alabama! And for those of you that hate having to read a full review to get the gist... this book is a must-read! Crawdad's has fairy tale like 'good guys' and pantomime like villains; it has a pre-teen girl virtually surviving an impossible situation mainly because of her deep connection to nature and the aforementioned 'good people'; some of the romancing has echoes of the worse of 'young adult' fiction... but sandwiched between the discovery of a dead body in 1969 and the first abandon-er of the Marsh-Girl in 1952 is a pretty unforgettable, and at times deeply moving story! 9.5 out of 12, all the way! Big Four Star Read This was 70 year old biologist, and published science writer Delia Owens first forage into fiction, with her book that is very hard to nail down genre-wise; that is pretty well written; and is choc full of relatable and inspirational characters - ultimately sold itself, via the people that read and loved it. Even now I am not sure what to make of it, other than the movie (being filmed from April 2021) is a dead cert Oscar haul, surely? I kind of see this as a modern fairy tale for all ages... most of all I love how Owens didn't hold back on the beauty, power and resonance of nature. Is this the first big climate change pro-nature work of fiction? Just read the Goddamn book already!

4 Stars. A Haunting Tale of Resilience, Strength and Survival. The soul aches with the hardship and loneliness that permeates throughout much of “Where the Crawdads Sing.” If you’ve ever known what it feels like to be truly alone, this is a novel that will tear at you. Kya Clark is 7 years old when she is abandoned by every single member of her family, including her mother, thus becoming known as “The Marsh Girl.” Living in Barkley Cove, North Carolina, she learns to fend for herself in the wilderness, motoring her Pa’s boat, catching fish, bartering for gas and money for food. Before she knows it, she’s 18 years old. For a while, she dates Tate, who teaches her to read and who makes her feel whole, but then he leaves her too, just like everyone else. Thereafter, Kya dates Chase. It’s a whirlwind romance, though he never takes her out in public but makes promises of marriage and a home, all of which she believes, until she sees engagement photos of him and another girl in the local paper. How silly she has been to trust him. Years goes by, with Kya on her own, making a living by writing about her knowledge of the swamp, when a tragedy strikes and Kya is blamed. Kya, of course, has no idea how she will get through this as the Marsh is the only place that she has ever felt safe and now, even that has been taken away. Though “Where the Crawdads Sing” has an underlying message of hope, for me, Kya’s sadness is burned into my soul. Every moment she feels alone and/or she turns away from those who try to help her, I too, felt it and it brought me to tears. I remember that feeling and reading Delia Owen’s words made my heart break in two. No one should ever feel that way and the author captured Kya’s feelings perfectly. Though sad, the writing here is exquisite and perfectly lyrical that it will haunt me for a long time to come. That being said, I did find certain elements of this story to be implausible, specifically, Kya’s ability to take care of herself at such a young age, to recall what her family did to survive and know how to do it all herself at the tender age of 7. I don’t know of any other 7 year olds who could have the wherewithal to take care of themselves anywhere (indoors), let alone out in the wild. Implausibility aside, this is a moving novel that tugs at heartstrings, makes you want to wrap your arms around this girl and tell her that she is not alone. Delia Owens words are gorgeous and this story captured my heart like no other. Thank you to Emily Fortner and Mimi Chan at Goodreads, Penguin Publishing Group G.P. Putnam's Sons for an complimentary copy of this novel to read and review. Published on Goodreads, Amazon and Twitter on 1.23.19. Excerpt to be published on Instagram.

I’m probably one of only a few Goodreaders who has arrived late to the Crawdads party! Knowing the ending from watching the movie was a bummer, but doing it as a buddy read with @Marge Moen made up for that. I vicariously experienced Marge’s fresh take on this story and apologised for exchanging some of my ideas in the ‘Southern drawl’, which is prevalent throughout the text. Mine came off more like a Scottish-come-Irish accent… Standout for me were the brilliant one-liners about North Carolina’s flora and fauna: ‘Autumn leaves don’t fall: they fly.’ ‘It was a gray-sky day, and fingers of fog flirted with the waves.’ Enjoyed this one, but lesson learned about not going in cold. I envy Marge’s 5-star enthusiasm.

Check out all my reviews at: https://www.avonnalovesgenres.com CODE RED (A Mitch Rapp Novel Book #22) by Vince Flynn/Kyle Mills is another exciting addition to this political/terrorism thriller series. This is Mr. Mills last book in this long-standing series, but the series is continuing with another author. While this book begins with the repayment of an obligation from a previous book and the main characters continue to evolve, it is still easily read as a standalone thriller. I am privileged to be a chosen Ambassador to this series. Mitch Rapp owes a favor to one of the world’s most powerful drug lords, Damian Losa, for the help that only he could provide in locating a threat to Mitch’s family. Losa is calling in his marker and sends Mitch undercover into Syria, but things do not go as planned. When Mitch is double crossed, he considered his debt paid and he goes after a Russian developing a designer drug that could easily destroy Western civilization as we know it. Off the official books, Mitch and his team come together in Syria to take down this latest threat before Russia uncovers their plan and it turns into a major international incident. I really love this series, but not this one until about a quarter of the way into the plot. I found Losa using Mitch the way he did just not what I expected, and it just did not fit the Mitch persona, so I did not really buy it and it dragged. The plot with the Russians making a new drug that could destroy Western society is when it grabbed my interest and the action took off with what I have come to expect in a Mitch Rapp book and that made it a good addition to the series for me. The book satisfied me by the end when Mitch and his team do what they do and made up for the slower beginning. I love this series for the intriguing political/terrorism plots that are not out of the headlines, but almost seem like the author can see into the horrors of the future. While I do not feel this is the best Mitch Rapp in the series, it is still an action roller-coaster thrill ride to the end. I have loved this series since book one when Vince Flynn started it, and Kyle Mills has been an excellent choice to continue it and hopefully it will continue to be one of my favorite action thriller series as the author changes once again. Thank you for your stewardship, Mr. Mills.

Chock full of disgusting violence, Code Red is quite the swan song for Kyle Mills. I wasn’t sold on Mills taking over the series– mainly because I didn’t know anything about him– and I am glad I couldn’t have been more wrong. Mills has put Rapp through some shit and took the series– and Rapp himself– to places that seemed impossible when he first took over. At times it seems as if Mills has a crystal ball. Straight voodoo. And Code Red is no different. I mean, the man basically foresaw the coup attempt in Russia. Thank you, Kyle Mills, for taking Mitch to new heights while being true to the Mich Rapp Vince Flynn created. I am a fan for life and can’t wait to see what Mills tackles next. Thank you to Atria/Emily Bessler Books and the Vince Flynn estate for the honor of reviewing an advanced copy of Code Red!

I would give this 4 1/2 stars if possible. Excellent action, excellent background/setting in Syria; kind of hilarious Losa cartel character and of course Mitch Rapp and his team are always terrific. As realistic as the book is, the only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is because it is oddly unrealistic about the China vs. Russia threat. IRL the player (think fentanyl, which also comes into the US via the cartels or Covid--albeit with US help) supplying adulterated drugs to the world is more likely to be China than Russia. Russia uses poisons, of course, but apparently specific "just" to targeted assassinations. Exiled Russian Semenov is an appropriately unlikable villain. Climatic fight scene is just excellent, carefully plotted. Highly recommended. Sorry that this is the last of Kyle Mills writing the Vince Flynn characters; Mills has definitely kept the series fresh and interesting. (The Vince Flynn series will continue with a new writer.)

I was not really sold on this book during the first half of the book honestly, it was slow burn. Also I really wanted to read a novel with Mitch Rapp back in DC dealing with all the politicians and whatnot there that has been the premise of some of Kyle Mill's books recently. But instead we got a book where Rapp had to settle a debt with a drug lord. Don't get my wrong this book is still good, it just wasn't really what I was looking for in this installment. I really like how Rapp is consciencely dealing with weighing his family on one side and his job and lifestyle on the other and that it wants to spend more time at home with his daughter and wife. It puts some humanity into to Rapp. It was some good character development. I also really enjoyed the side character of Kabir, probably spelling that wrong, but I thought that guy was funny and completely out of place in a mitch rapp book but he fit in perfectly with the story. The story definitely did pick up in the later half of the book, especially the ending where it was the classic all action and non-stop pacing. I felt the ending of the book, of what happens after rapp captures the russian general was soooo rush. it was about 10 pages where i felt it could have been 25-50 honestly. I miss those 500-600 page rapp moves from the early days of Flynn where the author really had time to develop the plot and enemies in the story, whereas now it feels like all the recent novels are 400 pages or less. I want a large tome!! I really hope the next author that is going to taking on this series is just as good as Flynn and mills were as there were truly some classics they wrote. As always a Mitch rapp book is also a good one!

Hey, it’s Mikey back again, I finished the new Mitch Rapp novel, Code Red, by Kyle Mills, and oh man was it fun! The book starts off with your normal Mitch Rapp situation, he’s behind enemy lines with his team trying to rescue some American service members left behind in Afghanistan (very topical with what happened in real life not all that long ago). This time, instead of going in guns blazing, he tries to negotiate with the people holding the american’s hostage. This predictably goes poorly, but it does show the difference to the Mitch Rapp character being brought in this book that will continue to be seen. This won’t be a spoilerific review, but in this book, Rapp must pay back a debt to a ruthless drug cartel leader, which brings him back into harm's way, where he must make tough decisions, and when his mission hit’s a fork in the road, he chooses the path that he may not have chosen in years past. All in all, this book brings what you like in a spy thriller/Mitch Rapp book along with some interesting character development. Thank you to Amy Bestler Books for sending the ARC and allowing me to read it early! Get your own copy now! Peace out!

That was a fun sidetrack into a slightly different type of plot line. Kudos Kyle mills. Your Mitch rapp wil be missed

A fitting conclusion conclusion to the Kyle Mills era! Mitch Rapp, drug cartels, and Russians…..need I say more?! A tale of redemption and revenge, Mills does a fantastic job keeping the action moving as well painting a perfect image of war torn Syria. I’m eagerly anticipating the direction Don Bentley takes Rapp, Kennedy, and all the others.

Rated 4.0 Reading a Mitch Rapp book always leads to a thrilling mystery experience. I'm sad that this is the last Kyle Mills Mitch Rapp book. Hoping the new guy can keep the level up. Mitch racing through Syria trying to find the ingredients to a totally new drug with terrible side effects keeps the pages turning. Mitch Rapp hates owing anyone a favor—especially when it’s the world’s most powerful crime lord. But when Damian Losa calls, Mitch is honor bound to answer. The Syrian government has created a highly addictive new narcotic that it plans to distribute throughout Europe. It’s a major threat to Losa’s business and he’s determined to stop it by any means necessary. Rapp is the perfect choice for the mission. Not only does he have extensive experience operating in the Middle East, but he’s also entirely expendable. As he crosses into war-torn Syria, Rapp quickly discovers a shocking truth. The new drug isn’t being produced by Damascus to prop up the government’s collapsing finances. Instead, it was created by Russia’s asymmetrical warfare unit as a weapon against the West. With far more than Damian Losa’s interests at stake, Rapp devises a desperate plan that forces him and his team onto a battlefield where the United States is virtually powerless, and allegiances shift almost hourly. Further, if Russia uncovers their plot, it will set off a confrontation between the two countries that could change the course of history in this “bullet train to high adventure”

This Vince Flynn novel written by Kyle Mills (his last one) and read by Steven Weber does not disappoint. This is the first one to be narrated by Steven Weber, his narration was spot on and I look forward to hearing more from him. Kyle Mills announced earlier this year that this would be the last novel he would write for the late Vince Flynn. Another author will be assuming the mantle of composing the Mitch Rapp series. Mitch Rapp is asked to investigate the new drug that third countries and Russia plan to use to take control of the world. Mitch uses all his skills and resources to fight the further development and distribution of this highly addictive drug. Putting himself, his team and family at risk. A highly anticipated action novel has Mitch using all his cunning and his skills to solve this problem. I highly recommend this novel to those who loved the series originated by the late Vince Flynn , who love’s intrigue, action and the the survival of our country.

Kyle Mills does it again!! To my understanding this is the last Mitch Rapp book by Kyle Mills and the world is a darker place for this. I read this 22 book series from chronological order and I could not have been happier. Code Red was bittersweet. I've been wrapped up in Mtich Rapp for so long it's like saying goodbye to an old friend. Code Red was what I've come to expect from Kyle Mills, action packed, thrilling, and a highly entertaining story. My only "complaint" is that the action does not pick up till the halfway point, then it takes off!!

It was good but not great, liked the unsuspecting, innocent “Canadian Lawyer” persona Rapp played.

The end of an era. Kyle Mills took Mitch Rapp to another level and truly moved the series forward following the death of Vince Flynn. I have loved Mills’s contributions to the series and will certainly miss him. That’s being said…this particular book wasn’t quite up to the standard of the previous few books. It was just a solid, basically stand-alone spy thriller. Enjoyed it, but didn’t love it. Mills did well to leave it open for Don Bentley. I am excited to see what is next in the Rappverse!

I liked this and want to read more Vince Flynn books now! I kept thinking that what the Russian general wanted to do could actually happen; it was scary to contemplate it.

I was fortunate to have been named a Mitch Rapp ambassador for the first time, and this, my intro to Mitch. Turns out that it's the last one for author Kyle Mills before Don Bentley takes over the reins. And I wasn't exactly sure what to expect. I might have been helped had I been previously exposed to the series, rather than jumping in 22 books in. Get some background into Mitch and some of his supporting cast. I thought this was a good thriller, especially for fans of the genre, and even more so for Mitch fans. I just wouldn't recommend this as the first. Maybe, one of these days, I'll go and read some of the back library just to see what makes Mitch tick.

Full of action and a great story. Fans of the series won't be disappointed. Hopefully the series will continue on and continue to be entertaining.

I am an avid Mitch Rapp follower - somehow I never tire of him winning

Great story! Great series!

4.5 ⭐️ This just may be my FAVORITE Lisa Jewell novel yet! ⚠️ Some men should come with a warning label: “DON’T LET HIM IN!” But since they don’t-three women, connected together by one man-are going to learn this lesson the hard way… Restauranteur Paddy Swann was beloved by all of his customers right up until the day a man pushed him in the path of an oncoming train, leaving behind his wife Nina and their two grown children, Ash and Arlo. Shortly after Paddy’s funeral, Nina and Ash, receive a package in the mail from Nick Ratcliffe, an old friend of Paddy’s. It contains a nondescript lighter that once belonged to him decades ago, along with a thoughtful note. This unexpected gift draws Nick and Nina together when they get together to reminisce —much to Ash’s dismay. She senses that something is off about this man who seems “too good to be true”, but her Mom won’t take her seriously, so she will have to play detective to see if her hunch is right. The third woman is Martha-a small town florist whose second husband, Al is frequently absent from home… The book is a little bit confusing during the initial few chapters as we get the the alternating POV’s of several characters, (indicated by a change in font) but once I had everyone straight in my mind, the story quickly became COMPULSIVE reading and hard to put down! I was rooting for Ash to find the evidence she needed, and was throughly entertained from start to finish! What more can we ask for from a book? I enjoyed discussing this one with Mary Beth, MarilynW and DeAnn! Be sure to watch for their reviews for additional insight! Available Now! Thank You to Atria Books for the gifted copy provided through NetGalley! As always, I am offering my candid thoughts!

I love Lisa Jewell's novels and I was hooked on this one at 16% She tells the best, most shocking stories and I was literally questioning everything for the entire book! 😮 Nina meets Nick Radcliffe after her husband Paddy tragically dies after being pushed in front of a train. He is quite the man, living quite the life! I was getting whiplash just following this journey of truth vs lies! When the revelations come, they are shocking/dark and made my anxiety rise. You can't help but try to connect all the dots and that was the FUN part! Question EVERYTHING! The dots could also be a massive amount of red flags! 🚩🚩🚩🚩so, connect the flags along the way. I've been following a woman on IG for years. She is a fashion, food, fitness influencer and something similar to this plot happened to her in RL recently! It made the book hit differently for me as I kept thinking about her situation. 😮🚩 The ending lost me a bit and felt a little too tidy, but don't let that deter you because I'm sure you'll be racing to the end just like I was! If you like a fast thriller, give it a try! Thanks to NG for my ARC. This one is OUT June 24, 2025

I’m learning that Lisa Jewell’s writing style is incredibly addicting for me and I WILL be reading her backlist.

First book of 2025, and a great start to the year, reading & discussing with my book buddy, Marialyce. When Paddy dies from a deliberate shove in front of a train, it leaves his wife, Nina, and their daughter, Ash, devastated. In the midst of their grief, they unexpectedly connect with Nick, an old friend of Paddy’s. Martha, the owner of a florist shop, is married to Al, who tends to disappear frequently, leaving her confused and on her own to manage her business and their child. The lives of these three women will intersect in surprising ways. To say any more about the plot would involve spoilers so I will just say the short chapters and alternating points of view in this domestic thriller makes this a page-tuner as the pieces of the puzzle falls into place. The ending was perfect! The scary part? One only needs to read the news and watch documentaries to see that this can, and has, happened. * I received a digital review copy via NetGalley. All opinions are my own.

4-4.5⭐️ Following the funeral of restauranteur Paddy Swann, who was pushed into the path of an oncoming train by a local schizophrenic man, his widow Nina receives a gift in the mail from his old restaurant buddy Nick Ratcliffe.As the two begin to grow closer, Nina’s daughter Ash worries that Nick is not who he seems. Across town, Martha is dealing with an infant, two children from her first marriage, her struggling florist shop and an absentee husband who Martha begins to distrust. But as a connection begins to form between these two women and their relationships, they begin to realize there is something sinister at play. I have never heard something described as a “kaleidoscopic thriller” and yet that is a perfectly apt description for this captivating and very nuanced new thriller from Lisa Jewell. From start to finish I was completely intrigued, with no less than dozens of questions at any given moment. I was fully immersed in the lives of these characters, both in the past and in the present, particularly Nina’s daughter Ash, who inadvertently takes on the detective role of this story. While there were some elements I was able to predict, I did try to go along for the ride without getting too far ahead, and I think this helped me to enjoy it more. By the time I turned the last page, I came away fully satisfied with this story and its ultimate conclusion. Of note - there was a strange POV shift at times, for example the book is an omniscient third person narrator, but at times would refer to another character as “dad instead of Paddy”. While that did throw me off at times, it doesn’t take away from the story, and this may be edited out in the final. Read if you like: ▪️domestic suspense ▪️nail biting stories ▪️cat and mouse games ▪️ensemble casts ▪️multiple timelines/POVs ▪️BA Paris Check out my Bookstagram post here ♥ Thank you to Atria for the advanced copy.

Blog | Instagram Rating: 4 stars 'Don't Let Him In' may not deliver much mystery or thrills, but the psychological tension and insane manipulation keep me turning the pages. Cover: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Writing: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Storyline: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Main character(s): 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Secondary characters: 🌟🌟 "Nobody is what they seem. Everything is an illusion." Once I settled into the dual timelines and shifting perspectives, I found myself oddly captivated by the storyline and its main character, Nick Radcliffe. The short chapters and well-timed reveals made the story even more addictive, and I eagerly consumed the escalating tension as Nick's carefully constructed life began to unravel. However, some parts of the story felt frustratingly repetitive, and the climax didn't quite reach the intensity I had hoped for. "People never fail to amaze me." Nick is a truly disturbed character and undeniably the star of the story. His manipulative, vengeful nature and inflated sense of superiority made him both infuriating and fascinating. Sadly, the supporting characters fell flat in comparison. Ash, for example, is mainly defined by her vegan lifestyle and past mental health struggles, which makes her character painfully underdeveloped. Then there's Martha, who folds too easily to Nick, constantly choosing her desires to unwind with a glass of wine over confronting him. You can also find more of my thoughts and discussion questions on my blog! - I'd love to hear your thoughts!

Yes!! Jewell is back after some lackluster books, with a truly good thriller. With an unique plot (haven’t read fiction from a scammers angle before) I was easily hooked, and that feeling grew because he felt so real in with his warped view of the world. In the start it was a bit hard to follow all the different POV’s since I listened to the audiobook, but after a while everything became easier to untangle. And what a glorious, badass ending! I loved it 😍

it’s always a good day when you have a new book from Lisa Jewell to read! i liked this one—it was captivating and full of lies and secrets and deceit and i was so excited to see how it would all come together. read if you like: con-artist tropes. boy oh boy was this MMC a doozy 🤯🤯🤯🤯 my top 3 LJ books are: NONE OF THIS IS TRUE, WATCHING YOU and probably THEN SHE WAS GONE. but this will be on the top half of my ranking for sure! it was a fun read. and boy oh boy, LJ knows how to write a mystery! i’m always so impressed by how well she weaves SO many characters and side plots into one. most of her thrillers are more of a domestic / neighborhood trope but this is more in the con-artist realm and a side of domestic thriller. after absolutely loving her latest hit NONE OF THIS IS TRUE, i was excited to see what she’d put out next. this was a different vibe for sure—lots of characters, various plots and love stories going on and one nasty man at the center of it all. it took me a good 30% to get all the plots down and start to put everything into place, so heads up there that it’s a slow burn for sure. once you get more into the MMC’s POV, it gets soooo juicy. i mean his behavior is SHOCKING! the scene in Tooting? i was not prepared! LJ went there!!!! despite enjoying it, i was wanting a bit more with the ending. it wrapped up nicely and readers will enjoy the little bow at the very end, but i personally like my thriller endings with a bit more shock/cliffhanger vibes. enter: the ending of NONE OF THIS IS TRUE. like!!!!! readers will certainly enjoy this come release in June! despite it being a bit longer, i think it’s perfect for a pool/beach day binge. thanks to Atria for the gifted early copy! a full review to come on my IG feed closer to pub day.

4.5! this was an immmmmaculate mystery thriller situation

This starts with a father's shocking passing - his daughter and wife mourning. When a package arrives from a stranger saying he knew their husband/father from long ago and he'd love to share something he'd had from him years ago - a lighter. It's a sweet gesture and the mother reaches out to him and they start talking. This is the POV of Ash, our main character, as she narrates their loss and her mom starting to date someone new. Another POV is Martha, a weary but happy wife. She's a business owner, a mother, and she's exhausted by having to constantly hunt down her husband. He works hard, at a very intense job that can call him away at any moment, leaving her to take care of everything in their life. Our final POV is Nick aka Al. He's both Martha's husband and also the man just starting to get to know Nina. He is a horrible man, self centered and disgusting. He's a rough POV, one that made the book hard to read, and although I see how his POV rounded out the story, I hated it. I did enjoy the mystery though. Ash is dogged and I loved her spirit and her push to want to know more. The chapters were quick, the mystery was interesting, and I enjoyed this one. Just be prepared for that third POV and you'll love it, too! A huge thank you to the author and publisher for providing an e-ARC via Netgalley. This does not affect my opinion regarding the book.

No matter what Lisa Jewell writes, I will read it! Lisa Jewell’s upcoming novel, DON’T LET HIM IN, offers a refreshing twist on her signature domestic thrillers by delving into the world of con artists. This book is like Dirty John on steroids! The story is rich with deceit, secrets, and a particularly manipulative male lead whose shocking behavior keeps readers on edge. While it takes a little bit of time to fully grasp the various characters and intertwining plots, the payoff is a gripping narrative that showcases Jewell’s talent for weaving complex storylines. Once I got into the action, I had a feeling that I knew where it was going. I read this book in two sittings, so although a bit slower to pick up, DON’T LET HIM IN is still following Jewell’s bingeable reputation. The ending wraps up in a non-Lisa Jewell fashion, which I won’t divulge more about, but IYKYK. I kinda wanted the story to be a bit more thriller-y—DON’T LET HIM IN is more of a drama with suspense. Nevertheless, the book is a compelling read and will be a summer hit for readers. Kudos to Lisa Jewell for her uncanny ability to weave many characters into one central storyline yet again. The master of suspense is back again! STARS: 4, PUB: 6/24

⭐️ 4 ⭐️ Tinder Swindler was one of my top favorite documentaries from a few years back. I think Lisa Jewell took a page out of that shockingly twisted story and sprinkled some of its’ dust over her work because this was one heck of a story I couldn’t put down. It held my full attention, I almost missed my train stop twice! She’s so good at creating such vile, heinous characters that are so rotten from the inside—it will make your insides boil! The craftiness & direction of the story was masterful. Pressure building was really good. The state of cognitive dissonance was perfection in this book. The main male character was a rainbow of personalities and identities but at the core of all the wrongdoings, I couldn’t help but feel almost sorry for him—by the end he was just a sore loser. He was clearly mentally unhinged & needed help. Or be locked behind bars forever. He’s a criminal, a con-man who swindled multiple women & broken families. The writing of victimization was shockingly good. A bit of a slow burn and quite repetitive as a lot of reviews have mentioned—same concept, different woman…but it seemed appropriately done in the book. I think Lisa Jewell made this topic feel so real, so human. She captured how there is some truth in deception—how some lies can feel very real to anyone especially when the same lie becomes quite believable over time. While most people hated the repetition and loved the ending, I found the opposite to be true. The ending was kind of weird? Yes I didn’t see it coming but it did not deliver as strongly as I hoped it would.

DON'T LET HIM IN starts off strong. I did like the multiple POV's and figuring out how the story would end. Even though I did guess correctly it didn't take away from my overall enjoyment. I wouldn't classify this book as a thriller per say, but more of a domestic suspense. If you've enjoyed her other novels, I would recommend reading this one. Many thanks to Atria books and NetGalley for my gifted ARC.

Review up soon Full cast narration 🎉💃🥳

Ms Jewell does it again 👏🏼 she simply never misses!!! This didn’t necessarily have any twists for me but it was suchhhh a fun ride, and I absolutely loved seeing how everything came together!! Will read anything of hers!

"Don't Let Him In" by Lisa Jewell is a captivating thriller that follows three women connected by a mysterious figure from their past. The novel starts with the unexpected arrival of a package and a note, triggering a chain of events that unravels the secrets of the past. It keeps the reader guessing with unexpected twists that kept me reading late into each night. I found it a bit slow moving in the first half of the book but I think she was just setting up the stage for the suspenseful ending.

In Lisa Jewell's latest novel, three women have one man in common in this kaleidoscopic thriller. A kaleidoscopic psychological thriller "uses the imagery and structure of a kaleidoscope to create a sense of disorientation and uncertainty, mirroring the psychological complexities and shifting realities within the story." Our MMC does just that, masterfully using disorientation, gaslighting, and love bombing to get his way with women and to keep the reader off balance. This is disconcerting because the premise is so realistic. Jewell is a master at creating tension and suspense to keep you turning the pages until the end. This book will ensure you do your due diligence with new people in your life! This is a really unique and enjoyable read that I highly recommend! Many thanks to NetGalley, Atria Books, and Lisa Jewell for the advance reader's copy in exchange for my honest review.📚

Okay I absolutely DEVOURED THIS!!! I’m genuinely so sad it’s over!! It was so different from Phantasma but also had similarities that gave me the same feelings!! I still think I liked Phantasma a little bit more for sure but this did not disappoint in the slightest! Such an easy, fun and unique romantasy I cannot WAIT FOR BOOK THREE!!!! I’m obsessed with the world and different settings Kaylie Smith creates in this series. It’s so atmospheric and immersive I feel like I’m watching everything through these characters eyes! I mean a deadly game of hide and seek in an enchanted mansion?!!!!! Yup I’m in. Oh and her partner is the deadly shadow wraith she’s fake married to? Yeah. No. I’m so sat. Don’t even get me started on Rowin…. His attitude and banter and sarcasm gave me life. And then his shadows… folded. Done. Dead. I was also obsessed with Genevieve, she was so strong in her own way and did not let anyone walk all over her, her confidence and force of will were everything! And the dynamic between her and Rowin had me giggling the whole time! I was also so obsessed with each and every side character, I want to be a part of the silver family please. I NEED A BOOK FOR EACH SIBLING NOW!!!!! Kaylie managed to get me so emotionally invested in such a short time I need more!!!! Like with phantasma the ending was definitely rushed, I felt like with 100 more pages this could have been perfect but otherwise I loved it! Ahhhh so much to love in this!! - fake marriage - A shadow wraith MMC with a filthy mouth - Grumpy x sunshine - Scrumptious banter - Deadly games - Set in an enchanted mansion - Found family

4.5 stars! I LOVE so much about this series and this book. like.... 1. its soooo gothic and atmospheric - i love picturing the dresses, mansion, rooms, etc. 2. the games!! loveee the levels and challenges, etc. 3. the fantasy elements are quite unique! 4. lots of great twists! 5. the romanceeee. Rowin had me swooningggg in a gothic book boyfriend kinda way

super fun - i missed O the whole time though.

Shadow daddy. Murder games. Fake marriage Let’s gooooooo!!! THIS BOOK WAS A BLAST AND A HALF!!!! Spicy shadow games in a cursed Italian estate? A broody immortal who fake marries our FMC to SURVIVE A DEMONIC GAME SHOW?! Yeah. Yeah. I inhaled it like cursed air in a gothic palace—laughing, screaming, and 100% possessed. Genevieve “Vivi” Grimm = ICONIC. She’s stubborn, loud, curvy, clever, chaos in heels—and she doesn’t wait around to be saved. She’s too busy OUTWITTING IMMORTAL SIBLINGS and SERVING LOOKS. This is the kind of FMC I live for—fiery, vulnerable, and ready to slap a devil across the face if needed. Rowin Silver = SHADOW DADDY ENERGY UNLOCKED. Silent. Deadly. Lip piercing. Tatted. Secretly soft?? The man detangles her hair and then murders for her?? I squealed. Also?? Every time he says “my wife” I MELTED into my carpet. Like??? Help??? THE VIBES??? Masquerade balls. Hedge mazes. Magical aphrodisiacs (IYKYK). Corvids. SECRET PASSAGES. Fake dating + marriage of convenience + enemies to lovers + found (murdery) family = MY ENTIRE PERSONALITY NOW. THE BANTER?? THE CHEMISTRY?? THE SLOW BURN??? Top tier. Sharp, flirty, snappy—Rowin and Vivi’s dynamic had me giggling and then screaming and then throwing the book across the room from FEELS. ALSO CAN WE TALK ABOUT THE SILVER SIBLINGS? Hot mess express. Murderous. Petty. Dramatic. I NEED Sevin’s book. Ellin? Icon. Remi?? GIVE ME MORE!!! Dysfunction never looked so good. BUT THE ROMANCE??? OH MY GOD. They see each other. They choose each other. The vulnerability??? The softness??? I WAS UNWELL. I sobbed. I cheered. I swooned. 10/10—they have me in a shadowy, unbreakable chokehold. THANK YOU, KAYLIE SMITH, FOR THIS SHADOW-FILLED GOTHIC ROMANCE ROLLERCOASTER. I’m obsessed. Fully. Absolutely cannot wait for more in this world. GIVE ME ALL THE MURDER GAMES AND IMMORTAL DRAMA PLZ. Tropes & Chaos Checklist: ☠️ Murderous found family 💍 Marriage of convenience... with actual STAKES 🖤 Touch her and die energy (YUM) ✨ Shadow MMC meets sunshine FMC 🎭 Masquerades, secret passages, and hedge mazes 🗣 Shadow appendage... 🍆 💃 Curvy FMC being THAT GIRL ⏳ Deadly magical game hosted by literal demons 💘 A romance that SIMMERS and then BOILS OVER Final words: Read it. Scream about it. Swoon for Rowin. I’m not saying I’d get fake married in a cursed palace to survive a supernatural reality show—but like... maybe I would. Manifesting Sevin’s book and rereading every Rowin scene!!

➸ 4 stars “For the brave souls who burned the bridges between themselves and their demons. And for those still trying to light the match—we’ll wait for you.” ﹒⟡﹒thank you to forever publishing for the advanced readers copy! ➺ trigger warnings: sexual content, death, blood, light gore, drug references, alcohol use, self-harm, and drink spiking with a magical aphrodisiac. ↳ a complete/in-depth list of possible triggers is available on the authors website! “Ready or not, the game has begun.” 💜 marriage of convenience 🍇 shadow mmc/sunshine fmc 🗡️ deadly game of hide and seek 💜 touch her and die 🍇 she’s a talker & he lives in complete silence 🗡️ masquerade ball and hedge mazes 💜 curvy fmc representation 🍇 enchanted italian estate setting 🗡️ seven cursed siblings EEEEEEE this book was SO FUN!!!! i loved being back in this world and revisiting these characters as well as meeting all the new ones!!! kaylie smith did such an amazing job with this sequel and i will literally read EVERYTHING she writes!!!! this book was one of my most anticipated reads for this year and it did not disappoint. i was beyond excited to dive into it!!! i loved the plot, the game was so entertaining, THE CHARACTERS!!!! oh how i love the silver siblings and i can’t wait for more!!!! THE ENDING?! jaw DROPPED and air was GUSPED. i was literally on the edge of my seat and WOW was it good!!!! THE OPHELIA AND BLACKWELL CAMEO OH I SQUALEDDDDDD i love them sm im so happy we got some crumbs of them and i ate up every single one!!!! anyways!!! i loved this book, it was so much fun, and i can’t wait for everyone to obsess over rowin and vivi as much as i did!!!! 𓍢⊹ ࣪ “Think of it as playing a character. Inside the walls of Enchantra you’re no longer Genevieve Grimm. You’re my wife.” the entirety of enchantra was such a cool concept!!!! the marriage of convenience on top of that? CHEFS KISS!!!! and where there is marriage on convenience, there is close proximity!!!! the take on everything was so much fun!! “You both really think I’m going to agree to get married to a stranger?” “I’m sure you could do worse,” “Even if I lowered my standards to the depths of Hell, I doubt you’d be able to reach them.” THE BANTER WAS TOP TEIRRRRR!!!! rowin and vivi literally had me laughing my ass off and giggling every time they went at it “Do you? Have a favorite game I should know about?” “I’ve really enjoyed the one where I ask you to do something, and you simply refuse to fucking do it.” “What a coincidence, I love that game, too,” 𓍢⊹ ࣪ “She had a Devil’s game to play. And this time, she wouldn’t be leaving until she won.” ➺ genevieve - vivi was so fun to read about!!!! i’m so glad we got her story and see her shine! she’s stubborn and not afraid to say whatever the hell she wants and do what she wants!!! i loved reading about her “It’s never easy to realize that the people who are supposed to protect us are the ones who can create the deepest scars.” our girl has had a rough past, and in enchantra we learn more about it; seeing her growth throughout the book was truly amazing and i feel like she will touch many readers hearts <3 “She’s mine. Whatever you might think of that, whatever problem you have with it, if you ever try to touch her again, I will make the rest of your eternal life even more fucking miserable than it already is.” ➺ rowin - OH THIS MANNNN. tattoos, shadow powers, HOT LIP PIERCING… oh and piercings quite literally everywhere… EEEEEEEE i love rowin!!!! he was so fun to read about and had me giggling the entire time i was reading this!!! “He had been writing them letters for the last fifteen years.” on the outside, rowin is tortured and seemingly uncaring, but he is such a caring character that would do anything for his siblings!! i loved reading about their sibling relationship “It had been less than four days, and yet he was the first person other than her sister to ever show up for her when she needed him to. Every single time. He was the first person other than her sister that she wanted to save as well.” ROWIN SHOWED UP FOR VIVI TIME AFTER TIMEEEE!!!! he continuously noticed things about her, paid close attention. i loved their relationship/dynamic so much!! “The light isn’t something you need to chase, Genevieve. The light is wherever you are,” i loved the way he constantly supposed her, listened to her, and was just THERE for her. they understood each other so perfectly and fit so well together!!! “What is it you need from me? Tell me and it’s done.” rowin was the definition of touch her and you die!!! he was so protective of genevieve; every time he said the words “my wife” i’d start cheesing… I LOVED THE GENTLE MOMENTS TOO!!! especially when he’d pick her up into his arms and carry her WHCIH KEPT HAPPENING it was too cute!!! and detangling her hair for her because it had her panicking was so sweet and kind!! “You barely even know me Rowin. He offered you eternal freedom and—” “Nothing is eternal. Except for the fact that you’ve ruined me. All I’ve ever wanted was freedom from this wretched game, and I didn’t even hesitate for a second to give it up.” “Fifteen years I’ve lived for everyone else around me. I’ve withered away in this damned place. Until you showed up and you made me laugh. You gave me hope.” “Shadows can only be seen in the presence of light. I worry when you leave, there will be no one left to see me.” “Before you, I was going to spend my eternity alone, in the darkest parts of Hell. I’d much rather spend a single lifetime in your light. Or, at least, for however long you’ll have me. I want you to know, I really would have waited for you, right here, forever if that’s what it would have taken. I would have stood in this spot until I could no longer distinguish my own soul from the shadows. Until your light came back to me.” oh nothing, just them and their love for each other <3 i’m beyond excited to see where these books will go!!!! i’m thinking sevin will have his own book with this mysterious ex he’s pining over… and i caught a certain someone from book one making an appearance at the end… and he’s certainly not done just yet… IM SO EXCITED!!!! 𓍢⊹ ࣪ “Genevieve had gone to Enchantra looking for the reason that she felt she had never belonged in her family. And she had found him. Someone who made her a part of his own family. Whether she had been ready or not.”

Release Day!!✨ “Our vows may have said ‘eternally,’ but as I told you then, nothing is ever truly eternal. Except my longing for you.” ❤️‍🔥✨ This book devoured me. 🖤🔥 Following Genevieve (Ophelia’s sister from Phantasma), Enchantra took everything I loved about the first book and made it even better. The hunt in this book? Way more intense than the trials in Phantasma. The stakes are high—like love high. ❤️‍🔥 And the fact that the people of Hell are watching everything unfold through those eerie looking-glass mirrors? Obsessed. 👀 The Labyrinth vibes? Love, love, LOVE. 🌀✨ The environment is constantly shifting, keeping you on edge the whole time. It also gives Hunger Games energy with its brutal survival aspect and Ready or Not (deadly hide and seek) intensity. 7 deadly games—and everything is on the line. 😵‍💫🔥 Genevieve started off insufferable to me, but I grew to love her. She’s stubborn, strong, and her arc?? Chef’s kiss. ✨ Also, hello, curvy heroine representation—we love to see it! 🙌🏾💖 And Rowin? That guy. 🔥 A shadow-wielding MMC who’s 1 of 7 cursed siblings? Sign me up. Their fake relationship turned very real, and the tension was TENSIONING. 😮‍💨🔥 Touch her and die? Oh, he took that literally. 👀 Also—sibling drama, found family, two outcasts finding each other—ugh, my heart. 💔 I desperately need a prequel on Barrington Silver and Tessie Grimm—their story has to be insane. 👀❤️ I need more of this world ASAP, I’m soooo sat for book 3!!🖤🔥✨

“𝒀𝒐𝒖 𝒘𝒆𝒓𝒆 𝒓𝒊𝒈𝒉𝒕.” “𝑨𝒃𝒐𝒖𝒕 𝒘𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒊𝒏 𝒑𝒂𝒓𝒕𝒊𝒄𝒖𝒍𝒂𝒓?” “𝒀𝒐𝒖 𝒂𝒓𝒆𝒏’𝒕 𝒂𝒏𝒚𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝑰’𝒗𝒆 𝒆𝒗𝒆𝒓 𝒔𝒆𝒆𝒏 𝒃𝒆𝒇𝒐𝒓𝒆,” 𝒉𝒆 𝒔𝒂𝒊𝒅 𝒈𝒓𝒖𝒇𝒇𝒍𝒚. “𝒀𝒐𝒖’𝒓𝒆 𝒔𝒑𝒆𝒄𝒕𝒂𝒄𝒖𝒍𝒂𝒓.” I read this SO FAST!!! I was thrilled to dive back into the haunting world of ghosts, demons, and necromancers that Kaylie Smith created… and THIS TIME with an enemies-to-lovers marriage of convenience?! 💍🔥 Do you need more convincing?! “𝑳𝒐𝒗𝒆. 𝑳𝒐𝒂𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈. 𝑺𝒂𝒎𝒆 𝒑𝒂𝒔𝒔𝒊𝒐𝒏, 𝒅𝒊𝒇𝒇𝒆𝒓𝒆𝒏𝒕 𝒏𝒂𝒎𝒆𝒔,” “𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒉𝒐𝒘 𝒆𝒂𝒔𝒊𝒍𝒚 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒔𝒘𝒊𝒇𝒕𝒍𝒚 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒍𝒊𝒏𝒆 𝒄𝒂𝒏 𝒃𝒆 𝒃𝒍𝒖𝒓𝒓𝒆𝒅, 𝒅𝒐𝒏’𝒕 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒌?” First off, you don’t need to read the first book to understand this one (personal opinion), but I highly recommend it! 📖✨ It follows the sister’s journey through her own twisted games, and you get a few delicious sprinkles of connections from book one. The story? A cursed game of hide and seek with demons 👀💀 and the winner from the family doesn't suffer in Hell. And who’s stuck in the enchanted nightmare that is Enchantra? Our beloved Genevieve🖤 After finding an invitation meant for her mother and getting kicked out, she refuses to take no for an answer. BOOM. She’s trapped, and her only way to survive? Marrying Rowington aka shadow daddy 🖤✨ BUAHAHA enter forced proximity, forced teamwork, and undeniable attraction 🔥🔥 “𝑾𝒂𝒕𝒄𝒉 𝒊𝒕,” 𝒔𝒉𝒆 𝒘𝒂𝒓𝒏𝒆𝒅 𝒅𝒂𝒓𝒌𝒍𝒚. “𝑰 𝒃𝒊𝒕𝒆.” 𝑯𝒊𝒔 𝒈𝒂𝒛𝒆 𝒏𝒂𝒓𝒓𝒐𝒘𝒆𝒅. “𝒀𝒆𝒔, 𝑰’𝒎 𝒂𝒘𝒂𝒓𝒆.” The tension? IMMACULATE. The way they had to hide together, play the deadly games, and tiptoe around their growing attraction drove me INSANE (in the best way possible)💜 Oh and the spice scene exists in this book and trust me.. they do not disappoint. “𝑰 𝒏𝒆𝒆𝒅 𝒕𝒐 𝒇𝒆𝒆𝒍 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒘𝒐𝒓𝒔𝒉𝒊𝒑 𝒎𝒆.” 𝑯𝒆 𝒔𝒎𝒊𝒓𝒌𝒆𝒅. “𝑰’𝒎 𝒂 𝒄𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒕𝒖𝒓𝒆 𝒐𝒇 𝑯𝒆𝒍𝒍, 𝒘𝒐𝒓𝒔𝒉𝒊𝒑𝒑𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒊𝒔 𝒏𝒐𝒕 𝒖𝒔𝒖𝒂𝒍𝒍𝒚 𝒊𝒏 𝒎𝒚 𝒏𝒂𝒕𝒖𝒓𝒆.” “𝑩𝒖𝒕 𝒇𝒐𝒓 𝒘𝒉𝒂𝒕𝒆𝒗𝒆𝒓 𝒕𝒊𝒎𝒆 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒓𝒆𝒎𝒂𝒊𝒏 𝒊𝒏 𝒎𝒚 𝒃𝒆𝒅, 𝑰 𝒘𝒊𝒍𝒍 𝒎𝒂𝒌𝒆 𝒊𝒕 𝒚𝒐𝒖𝒓 𝒔𝒉𝒓𝒊𝒏𝒆.” What I loved most about Enchantra? Genevieve’s journey of self-discovery. She wasn’t just uncovering her past, she was also embracing the present, realizing that even though she didn’t receive the care, love, or attention she deserved, the ones who truly matter will always give it to her. 💜✨ AKA ROWINNNNNNN THAT IS A MAN. The twists and turns of the game made this so much fun to read. I cannot imagine what’s coming next, but I need it ASAP!!!!! ⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆.⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆. ➳ 𝗽𝗿𝗲-𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱｡ꪆৎ ˚⋅ i am so reading for some spooky fantasy romance hehe Thank you Forever for this e-arc! ily4ever

I LOVED this!! I was so excited to read more about Genevieve after enjoying Phantasma so much, and this did not disappoint! The setting and the vibes!! I was a bit nervous that it wouldn’t have the same feel as Phantasma since it takes place somewhere completely different, but it was done so well and I instantly fell into world again. I feel like there aren’t many fantasy/romantasy books that give spring vibes and this was perfect! Genevieve was such a girl boss!! Rowin and her had me giggling all throughout this book! Their banter was SO good!! I will honestly fall for any fictional man with shadows. And the ending was so so cute! I do think I enjoyed Phantasma a bit more so that’s why I’m giving this 4 stars instead of 5, but I did enjoy it so much!! I can’t wait for the next book! "𝓣𝓱𝓮 𝓵𝓲𝓰𝓱𝓽 𝓲𝓼𝓷'𝓽 𝓼𝓸𝓶𝓮𝓽𝓱𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓷𝓮𝓮𝓭 𝓽𝓸 𝓬𝓱𝓪𝓼𝓮, 𝓖𝓮𝓷𝓮𝓿𝓲𝓮𝓿𝓮. 𝓣𝓱𝓮 𝓵𝓲𝓰𝓱𝓽 𝓲𝓼 𝔀𝓱𝓮𝓻𝓮𝓿𝓮𝓻 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓪𝓻𝓮,"

the plot, the characters, the magic, the storyline in general... i m m a c u l a t e idk if it was my head space, or me in general; this just didn't HIT for me

Well, let me kick this off with a little confession: I didn’t exactly fall in love with Phantasma. In fact, I struggled with it and found myself hesitating to dive into the second book of the Wicked Games series. I kept wondering—does this sequel really deserve all the hype? But then, one of my guilty pleasures came to mind: Ready or Not—especially that iconic line: “– Jesus Christ, what happened to you? – In-laws!” That movie is pure gold, and the pitch “Ready or Not meets Throne of the Fallen” felt like a siren song I simply couldn’t resist. Add in the fact that purple is my absolute favorite color (and that cover? Drop-dead gorgeous!), I thought: “What have you got to lose?” And wow—was I glad I gave it a chance! This book completely exceeded my expectations. It delivered all my favorite tropes in one go: enemies-to-lovers, forced proximity, a marriage of inconvenience, and yes—my beloved locked room mystery vibes. Oh, and let’s talk about the chemistry. Rowin and Genevieve brought the heat—so much steam, the pages practically fogged up! I’m a sucker for spice, and this one had enough to make you sweat, gasp, and maybe fan yourself a little. 🔥 Beyond the romance, the twisted family dynamics of the Silver siblings were absolutely delicious. Dysfunctional? For sure—especially when your family tradition involves hunting each other down every equinox due to a devil’s curse. But they’re also fascinating. Sevin, with his irresistible charm and sweet tooth, completely stole my heart. I need a whole book about him! But I’d also happily dive into stories centered on the darkly magnetic Grave, the mysterious and chaotic Covin, the softer, more shadowed Remi, and the enigmatic Wells (who I hope we get to know better soon). And Ellin—the only sister in the clan—was such a standout: sharp-tongued, fiercely independent, and a powerful healer. She’s begging for her own story too! The plot kicks off with Genevieve Grimm trying to find peace on an Italian vacation, still reeling from her mother’s death, the trauma of the Phantasma competition, and the emotional wreckage left by a lover who shattered her trust in relationships. Following a trail of crows and a series of letters between her mother and the mysterious Barrington Silver, Genevieve winds up at the Silver family’s imposing estate. But instead of meeting Barrington, she’s greeted—rudely, might I add—by his son, Rowin, who promptly slams the door in her face. Challenge accepted. Little does Genevieve know, she’s arrived at the worst possible time—Equinox. Thanks to Barrington’s deal with a demon named Knox, the entire Silver family is now immortal and cursed to play a deadly game of hide-and-seek every equinox. To survive, she must become one of them… which means marrying into the family. Cue a spontaneous wedding with none other than Rowin—the grumpy guy who tried to kick her out just moments ago. Suddenly, Genevieve’s stuck in a blood-soaked, high-stakes game where trust is scarce and danger lurks around every corner. She doesn’t trust Rowin—or anyone, really—but the more they face together, the harder it becomes to deny the electric tension between them. As her feelings shift and their connection deepens, she has to face the terrifying truth: survival might cost her more than she expected—especially her heart. And let’s be honest… she’s definitely not ready. Overall: This was a wildly addictive, adrenaline-fueled rollercoaster of a read! A perfect blend of fantasy, high-stakes suspense, irresistible romance, and jaw-dropping twists. I devoured it and now I’m begging for more! Sequels, spin-offs, bonus scenes—I’ll take it all. Just don’t leave me hanging! Follow me on medium.com to read my articles about books, movies, streaming series, astrology: medium blog instagram facebook twitter

HE WAS A SHODOW DADDY YOUR HONOR ✋ I PHYSICALLY CANNOT BE RESPONSIBLE FOR MY ACTIONS. 🔥🥵🫦🤰🏻🙇🏻‍♀️🔥🫦🥵🥵🧎🏼‍♀️🧎🏼‍♀️

I loved everything there is to love in this book: world, magic system, side characters, location, vibes, premise, and MCs. What I did not feel fully satisfied with however, is: Rowin’s character elaboration and th romance. Also, I can never forget about Laura Horowitz's narration 🤌🏻🤌🏻🤌🏻👌🏻👌🏻 Rowin, your shadow sin from Hell 😈 This man has literally EVERYTHING: Backstory ✅ personality ✅ depth ✅ magic ✅ sinful mouth ✅ haunted gaze ✅ trauma and sadness ✅ protective ✅ possessive ✅ capacity to love deeply and unconditionally ✅ Unfortunately for us, not all of this was explored fully on page. We knew it was there, but we rarely got to see him wield his magic, open up about his guilt, or dive deep into his relationship with his family. It felt like all these layers existed, but we weren’t allowed to savour them. The Romance 💔➡️❤️ Because the story is mainly from Genevive’s POV, we saw her emotions so clearly, but not enough of Rowin’s. We got glimpses of tension and attraction, but I craved a few more pages of his side: his thoughts, his feelings, his growth. The pacing was perfect and proportionate for the book’s length, but I wanted to feel the depth of their bond, not just know it’s there. Moments We Were Robbed Of 🥲 • Genevive has haunting nightmares that relate to her love life and her self-worth and image, but we got no intimate scene of vulnerability there nor Rowin soothing her. • Rowin’s magic requires deep sleep to recharge, but we got no moment where he was vulnerable and needed care and Genevive was able to show her protective and caring nature. These two scenes alone would’ve enriched the romance massively, and it’s a shame they weren’t there. Could’ve Been Longer 📖 This book could’ve been 100 pages longer, and I’d eat it up. Nothing was unnecessary. But more POV from Rowin, more family dynamics (Rowin & his family, Genevive & Ophelia), and more world-plot development would’ve only made it stronger. Family clearly plays a huge role in this series, and it deserved more space here. The Bigger Picture 🌌 This instalment is clearly bridging toward book 3 and setting up the overarching plot. And while I have a lot of burning questions, I also have predictions 👀: • Book 3 = dual POV (likely Sevin). • Book 4 = multi-POV, connecting all the MCs for the final resolution (calling it now it will be named: Nocturnia). The Ending 🤨 No spoilers, but I wasn’t fully sold on the last 10%. Some choices felt forced, like props to push the romance or open doors for future books, when there were other, more natural options available given the powers in play. This was an incredible ride with a rich world and characters I adore, but I needed more from Rowin, more vulnerability, and a bit more care with the resolution. Still, I’m absolutely hooked and already desperate for the next book. -- Pre-read: 🪄 Entering Enchantra like: hex me, wreck me, and maybe resurrect me if you’re feeling kind. Especially with those eyes and piercings...🫦 BR with my precious Hera💜

4.5 stars for a GOOOOOD second installment in this mf series!!!!! I adore the way Kaylie has set us up for the remaining books - the world building most definitely expanded from book 1 and left me wanting so much more. Rowin & Vivi have my whole entire heart and while I loved Phantasma a tiny bit more, this was still such a beautiful love story not just romantically but in a familial way too. UGH. I love these books.

“I want you to know, I really would have waited for you, right here, forever if that’s what it would have taken. I would have stood in this spot until I could no longer distinguish my own soul from the shadows. Until your light came back to me.” ₊˚⊹ ᰔ 3.75 stars ᯓ★ ⤷While this was definitely better than Phantasma unfortunately the weird ending that we were given just wasn't it, up until the finale the book was 4.5 stars then the shit show of the last few chapters ruined it. The book(just like phantasma) started off so well but then the excitement for the ending withered away once we got to it. Don't get me wrong I enjoyed the reading experience to the max. It's just that I feel like instead of the ending being underwhelming like Phantasma it was instead extremely overwhelming. There was just no need for all of that. The Author just didn't get the endings right both times in my opinion. I loved the characters, the plot, the everything up until the last few chapters where it just wasn't right. It was too much. That being said I LOVED Genevieve and Rowington, the enemies to lovers, the dynamic and them actually getting to know eachother instead of lusting over eachother the whole time. It was just an actual relationship built around trust and love. 💕 Rowington: Rowington silver.🫦 He risked and traded so much just for her and I love that. Not to mention his piercings? And the tattoos? And his eyes? Ugh I'm in love 😻 💕Genevieve: I loved her honestly much better than Ophelia, There was no need for that ending though in my opinion. Super unnecessary. She was so funny though, She definitely made this story ten times more entertaining. This is definitely better than Phantasma I liked that more of the side characters were involved in the storyline, but still the plot could have been better. They could have given us more with Tessie and Barrington Silver or with Blackwell and his powers. Literally anything. I'm sure you can tell that I love having more than one plot/drama going on at the same time 😭😭😭 I'm a sucker for drama🤭 ─── ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ───── ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ───── ⋆ 𐙚 ̊.🌠Pre-read ✮⋆˙ ⤷Hehehehehehhe Genevieve here I come. I feel like she's gonna be a much better FMC than Ophelia but we'll see

4.25 WHY AM I SO OBSESSED WITH THESE BOOKS. I loved this even more than Phantasma. I am obsessed with the entire Silver family. More books about the siblings please!

She has to marry him to survive….well to MAYBE survive in a deadly family competition 💜💀 fast-paced romantasy ft. a feminine girlie and her new shadow husband! “I’m a creature of Hell. Worshiping is not usually in my nature. But for whatever time you remain in my bed I will make it your shrine.” Genevieve is a girl lost and she is just trying to find her ‘people’. And BAM! She walks into a house & now has to get married into a weird family or she will die. Context doesn’t matter!! She survived Phantasma but will Ginny girl survive her new shadow husband, Rowin. Did I mention they have to pretend they are madly in love? I really enjoyed the fast pace of this story! The plot is packed with twisted games, family stabbings, and shadow fucking. I was able to predict some of the plot twists but the ENDING was chef’s kiss 💟Random things that stuck with me: 😈 birthday stabbings & other murderous family traditions 😈 they fight their way into love 😈 fmc is a CHARMER & great at manipulating men! 😈 exhibitionism (kind of) & shadow sex 😈 mmc has pierced nipples & bellybutton 🕺🏽*okay girlie* 😈 when he said “nothing is truly eternal except my longing for you” Never got bored once! Rowin & Ginny were fire on fire & their BANTER was truly hilarious. I didn’t expect them to bond so deeply and their story ended up being quite touching. a There was this moment where he was fingering her and he “slid inside her, rings and all” and I’m still thinking about it to this day. BECAUSE WHAT DO YOU MEAN????! 👀👀

It’s official, Team Genevieve for the WIN! The slow burn in this? Delicious. Also, apparently I live under a rock? Clearly didn’t notice this was part of a series and not just two books in an interconnected duology or whatever….mow I’m excited for the next one who’d have thought it? Not me. Clearly I’m bad at updating when I’ve finished a book lmao Rhi don’t look at me twice if I rate this at 4.5 I did nothing

4 stars! ☆ ⤿ major spoilers ﹒⟢ i didn’t expect to like this. i thought it’d be the same as the last one—cool concept, flat execution, characters i didn’t care about. but this was actually fun. like genuinely fun. i liked the plot. i liked the romance. i even liked the characters. especially rowin. was i still annoyed sometimes? obviously. but i had a good time. i remembered nothing from the first book. didn’t even realize this was ophelia’s sister until someone said it. and that didn’t matter at all. this felt completely separate. i was interested immediately—creepy invitation, gothic italian estate, weird family with secrets. it basically gave ready or not but with magic, and it worked. the crows, the train ride, the gate—it was already more interesting than anything in phantasma. and then she gets there and immediately gets the door slammed in her face. i was sold. genevieve made some of the dumbest decisions i’ve ever seen. she eats random berries off a gate. she trespasses into someone’s house after being told to leave. she expects strangers to want to help her. she expects a man she’s never met to talk about her trauma with her. like. what are you doing. and she doesn’t stop. she just keeps pushing back against everything like she has a choice. she argues with everyone who’s actually trying to help her and makes it harder for them—like they clearly know more than she does, but she refuses to listen. you walk into a magical murder house and think you’re gonna reason your way out? she does get better eventually, but for a while i wanted to shake her. honestly, the plot was one of the best parts. the whole magical loophole marriage thing was just fun. it made everything feel more tense, and i liked that there was an actual goal instead of everyone just running around. the game itself was chaotic in a good way, and something was always happening. i did freak out at the memory loss part—i hate that trope—but it didn’t end up bothering me. the ring, the letters, all of it actually worked. it was cute. i’ll allow it. rowin was easily the best part. from the second he told her to leave and slammed the door in her face, i knew. he was blunt, dramatic, and so over everything. and the romance? it worked. it really did. the fake dating turned into actual trust, and it didn’t really feel rushed. their banter was fun. their dynamic made sense. i liked seeing them go from reluctantly working together to something real. and his siblings were unhinged but entertaining. the names were ridiculous but also kinda cool—i weirdly liked them. definitely better characters this time around. some of the dialogue was weird. genevieve said a lot of insane shit. and the logic? not always there. but i was having fun, so i didn’t care. this gave me everything i wanted the first book to have. and now i’m actually excited for the third one. didn’t think i’d be saying that. ━━━━ ⊱⋆⊰ ━━━━ ☆ 🖇️ pre-read 𖥻 ＜꒱ wasn't a huge fan of the first book, but this setup sounds way more promising. trying not to get my hopes up too much. wicked games ⌗﹒ 01 phantasma — 3.25 ☆ ⌗﹒ 02 enchantra — 4 ☆

Big thanks to NetGalley and Bookouture Audio for a free audiobook copy of Enchantra in exchange for an honest review. 3.5 💫 As we learned in Phantasma, the Devil's sure do love their sick games and bargains. On a search for other Spectors like herself, Genevieve finds herself in yet another Devil's game. Forced into a marriage of convenience, she is left fighting for her life more than once. These devil games are more deadly hide and seek rather than riddles. To start, the narration was done very well. This wasn't dual narration, but Laura Horowitz did a fantastic job voicing each character differently. I liked Genevieve and Rowan. The romance in this book is definitely a slow burn. At first, I wasn't really feeling their relationship.. The chemistry between them wasn't quite as electric as Ophie and Blackwell's in the first book. When they finally decided to submit to their longing, it was sizzling. *Shadow daddy style*❤️‍🔥 By the end of the book, I liked them together more than I initially thought I would. That ending and twist thoroughly surprised me, hurt me, and then healed me again. I'm sure it will surprise y'all, too! 😊

4.5⭐️ reading vlog to come... I don't understand the lackluster reactions to this book. The first book had me questioning my thoughts on fantasy This second book had me questioning my thoughts on romantasy. And that's a development I did not anticipate on my 2026 bingo card.

➻"The light isn’t something you need to chase, Genevieve. The light is wherever you are,” 𓏲 ๋࣭ ࣪ ˖4.5 🌟 Rowin 🙈🙇‍♀️🙇‍♀️ Enchantra is a new devilish game, a location, as well as being Genevieve Grimm’s story, all taking place in Italy. Genevieve or Vivi is a complex, layered character. The younger sister born into a matriarchal family of necromancers, Genevieve always felt like an outsider in her world of magical women. So after her sister Ophelia met Salem , she decided to go search for the truth about her mother's past, which gets her to some mansion gate with a broody man telling her to leave .. Genevieve completely stole the show for me — she’s a queen, period. And Rowin?? Ugh, their banter, their slow-burn romance, the secrets, the lies, the truths unraveling between them… it was just chef’s kiss. I loved how broody Rowin was from the beginning and how little by little, he started opening up. Meanwhile, Genevieve being her impulsive, blunt self made them the perfect chaotic match I didn’t know I needed. I’m obsessed with this series. I liked this one just as much as the last one which I know is really hard to do when you’re writing a series. I’m so excited for the entire series and the fact that we’ve dropped in an entire family so now we’re definitely gonna get a ton of books. crossing my fingers for Luci and Grave please. ➻"Rowin?" "Yes?" "Thank you for waiting for me," she whispered. His only response was to lift her into his arms by the back of her thighs, wrapping her legs around his waist. Tucking her face into the crook of his neck as blood and tears ran down her cheeks. --- ➻Pre-Read: Can't wait to start the second book 💜

Rowin and his piercings and his shadows 👁️👁️ brotherrrrrr he is too good but the real main character is Umbra 🩷🩷🩷🩷🩷

4.5⭐️ Well this was SO much better than Phantasma!!! And has well and truly gotten me out of my reading slump!! Genevieve receives a mysterious letter inviting her to Enchantra, when she arrives Rowin Silver slams the door in her face and tells her she’s not wanted. Using her necromancer powers she enters into the manor and finds herself in deadly game, played once a year amongst 7 siblings in order to receive a cure to keep their mother alive, they’re essentially captives of the devil, as he’s the only one who can give her the cure. Rowin and Genevieve have to enter into a fake marriage so they can play the game as partners as it’s Genevieve best chance at making it out alive, and the others are immortal wraiths, and she’s not immortal. But they also hate each other upon first meeting… I LOVED the side characters in this soooo much, I loved the tension between Rowin and Genevieve, I found the story fast paced and captivating and darkly whimsical and I cannot wait for book 3!!!

I declared myself as Team Salem proudly, until I read the chapter where Rovin gave up his immortality for Genevieve. And then I remembered his piercings. And the letters he wrote to his siblings. The years he spent hunting to find the cure for his mother, and his guilt when he failed 🥺 Damn it. He totally tipped the scales in his favor. But still, don't make me choose between Salem or Rovin though 🫣🧎🏻‍♀️ What Rovington Silver said with his damn lip piercing: 🔖 "She's mine.” Rowin snarled, his shadows beginning to swirl in the air around him. "Whatever you might think of that, whatever problem you have with it, if you ever try to touch her again, I will make the rest of your eternal life even more fucking miserable that it already is." 🔖 "Our vows may have said "eternally," but as I told you, nothing is ever truly eternal. Except my longing for you." 🔖 "You're such a self-centered bastard. Truth. I deserve to be the center of my own story. Truth. I was not made for you. Lie." 🔖 "Before you, I was going to spend my eternity alone, in the darkest parts of Hell. I'd much rather spend a single lifetime in your light. Or, at least, for however long you'll have me." This was such an enjoyable book to read. Just give me the third book already. I don’t particularly care who is going to be, although I do have a soft spot for Grave. And I would love to see Salem and Rovin in some epic battles against Knox and the King of Devils!

4.25 ⭐️ I swear, Kaylie Smith outdid herself here. Genevieve Grimm walks into a cursed estate, finds herself in a deadly magical game, and ends up in a fake marriage. The chaos, the tension and the curses, I was absolutely living for it. ─────────୨ৎ───────── ✮⋆˙tropes˙⋆✮ ➪ marriage of convenience ➪ enemies to lovers (with reluctant trust) ➪ forced proximity ➪ deadly games ➪ found family 🌶️ slow burn tension with a few open door moments ─────────୨ৎ───────── ✧° If chaos had a person, it would be Genevieve. She’s a hot mess of power, grief, and stubbornness, and I loved every second. Fragile enough to tug your heartstrings, reckless enough to make you yell at the book, and stubborn enough to storm straight into disaster. I loved watching her claw her way out of her sister’s shadow while unravelling family secrets. ✧° Rowin Silver, everyone’s broody dream. Forced marriage? Check. Deadly secrets? Check. Emotional repression? Triple check./ But when he finally lets his soft side peek out… ohhhh boy. I just wish we’d seen more of his vulnerability sooner. I did love seeing his relationship with his siblings and his family dynamics definitely added depth to each of them. ─────────୨ৎ───────── ✮⋆˙what worked˙⋆✮ ⊹ Genevieve’s layered emotional arc + personal growth ⊹ Genevieve having her own voice + stakes, not overshadowed by her sister ⊹ Rowin’s mix of broody danger + soft devotion ⊹ slow burn + fake marriage + heavy emotional tension ⊹ gothic magical world + cursed estate + deadly supernatural game is atmospheric and immersive ⊹ shocks + plot twists kept me hooked ⊹ Rowin's family + Genevieve finding her place in it ─────────୨ৎ───────── Tension levels? Off the charts. Magic, deadly contests, fake marriage, secrets everywhere… I was a mess, but a happy, emotionally wrung-out mess. The estate itself, Enchantra, is its own character. It’s lush, eerie, and full of illusions, curses, deadly bargains, hedge mazes, and secrets. The middle drags a smidge, and the ending is a bit of a sprint. But the swoon? The stakes? The twists? Perfection. The payoff lands, the magic clicks, and the romance mixed with the deadly games keeps you turning each page. ─────────୨ৎ───────── ✮⋆˙what was missing˙⋆✮ ⟢ a few middle chapters slowed ⟢ some reveals felt predictable ⟢ end twists are satisfying, but felt a little rushed ⟢ would have loved more vulnerability from Rowin earlier ─────────୨ৎ───────── Overall? Enchantra is drama, magic, romance, and chaos rolled into one gorgeous, messy package. If you liked the first book, this is everything you wanted and a few extra bits you didn’t know you needed. The sister story is connected enough to feel familiar, but fresh enough that I wasn’t just rereading book one. I’m absolutely in for whatever comes next! ─────────୨ৎ───────── ✮⋆˙favourite quotes˙⋆✮ ✧ “Shadows can only be seen in the presence of light. I worry when you leave, there will be no one left to see me.” ✧ “You can search every corner of the universe for something else and it will never be enough if you’re trying to escape yourself. I don’t know who told you that you weren’t good enough, but they were fucking wrong. You’re more than good enough. Your heart is more than good enough. No matter how many times it has been burned. How many scars it might have. It will keep on beating, brave and passionate, if you will only let it.” ✧ It’s never easy to realize that the people who are supposed to protect us are the ones who can create the deepest scars. ✧ “I want you to know, I really would have waited for you, right here, forever if that’s what it would have taken. I would have stood in this spot until I could no longer distinguish my own soul from the shadows. Until your light came back to me.” ✧ Let yourself fall in love. Let yourself fall out of it. You never know when you could lose someone and not have the opportunity to do so again. ✧ “The light isn’t something you need to chase, Genevieve. The light is wherever you are.” ✧ “Nothing is eternal. Except for the fact that you’ve ruined me.” ✧ “And I won’t be showing you any mercy if you lay a finger on my wife." ✧ She’d always want to be found. No matter how many times she ran away. ✧ She’d long given up the hope that someone with a white horse would ever come to save her. But that didn’t mean she couldn’t be the knight in shining armour for herself. For them. ─────────୨ৎ───────── ✦. ── series ranking + similar books:── .✦ ❀ phantasma: ⟶ 4.25 ⭐️ ❀ enchantra: ⟶ 4.25 ⭐️ ❀ wicked games #3: ⟶ upcoming

I’m so obsessed with these book I love all of the games in them and I adore the romances! I feel like there is going to be another book and if it’s about who I think it’s about I can’t wait!

4.5 stars I bloody love Vivi. I loved her in book 1 and I loved her in this one. She's such a fun character to be in the head of. Like Phantasma, I really enjoyed the world building in this one and the atmosphere. Kaylie does such a good job at making the location and the world building so atmospheric, almost giving it a bit of a horror element. Although I did think that Phantasma was more gory to be fair. I'm really excited to continue on with this series. I'm not 100% sure who we'll be following next but I do have my suspicions.

3.7 Stars One Liner: Dark and entertaining Genevieve Grimm has been adrift since her sister became the head of her family after their mother’s death. So, when she got an invitation to attend an event in a grand palace in Italy, she jumped at the chance. Rowin Silver doesn’t want complications or outsiders in his home. No point in risking more lives in a game where none can win. He shuts the door on Genevieve’s face only to realize she snuck in without his notice. Now, the two form an alliance to compete as lovers, hoping to increase their chances of survival. But with Rowin keeping many secrets, Genevieve wonders about her chances. The story comes in Genevieve’s third-person POV. My Thoughts: The book works as a standalone, but there are references to the previous one and a spoiler. This cannot be helped. If you are particular about spoilers, you may want to read that first. While Phantasma was no masterpiece, it was a fluffy read with a good dose of spice; something to grab when you want to stay entertained (and not use your brain cells). This is pretty much the same. Both books are huge (464 pages) and paced on the slower side, so pick them up accordingly. Genevieve is Ophelia’s (heroine of Phantasma) young sister, someone who spends her time fluttering around like a butterfly to avoid her feelings of abandonment. In this, she thinks an entry into Enchantra would help her find others like her, but little did she know she’d be fighting for her life. She is quirky, curious (worse than a cat), mouthy, and messy. She is entertaining too, what with her penchant for getting into trouble often. Rowin is your dark, grumpy, brooding, alpha guy with a soft heart, which is revealed over time. He has tattoos and piercings (some of those must have really, really hurt), which add to the vibe. Also, those shadows he controls! Given the genre, we have to accept that things will get gruesome and bloody in The Hunt, as well as result in some spicy scenes. I felt this was a bit less extensive in spice than the previous one, which is a good thing. Not that there isn’t attraction or the other stuff, but on a slightly smaller scale, say 3.5 to 4. The setting is great, of course. It’s creepy, atmospheric, and suffocating. What with the devil and other dangers, this is not a house you’d want to visit. Oh, those mirrors! Be warned if you have eisoptrophobia or spectrophobia. The side characters are the siblings (and fellow participants) in the Hunt. I felt they were done well. Each of them has a definite personality and is easy to track. Though we don’t get a lot of detail about everyone, we know enough to form a picture. The climax felt relatively bland (compared to book one). It seemed a bit too easy. Still, after reading 400+ pages by then, I was ready for the ending. There’s quite a bit of gore, but it’s written in a matter-of-fact manner. I didn’t feel put off by it (nor did it frighten me in the least). However, this may vary based on your reading preferences. Maybe gore level 3.5 on the scale of 5? The ending is HFN and partly open, providing a lead to the next book. Though we don’t have the details yet, there has to be book three. Someone needs to answer the remaining questions! To summarize, Enchantra is a dark horror romance with devils, immortals, hunting games, and a dose of spice. The best way to enjoy the book is not to think much. Forget logic and go where it takes you! Thank you, NetGalley and Second Sky/ Forever, for eARC. This review is voluntary and contains my honest opinion about the book. #NetGalley #Enchantra

4.5 stars! I personally enjoyed this so much more than Phantasma. In book one the romance felt really rushed to me and the sex just thrown in. This one, for me, was much more authentic. I loved the banter, and I'm a sucker for an arranged marriage set up. I do wish the games had varied some and the ending was a little less rushed, but the banter and relationships were so good for me, it made up for most of it.

4.75 ⭐️ ”But Enchantra was not made of gold. Just ruthless Silvers.” this book was SOOOOO good!!! i love the way Kaylie Smith writes wittiness and banter, I loved all the characters dynamics she 100% understood the assignment. I was never once bored and even though I didn’t care much for the hunt, she did a good job of making it entertaining and also incorporating events in between to develop the romance and just all the relationships in general. I ALSO LOVED THIS MORE THAN THE FIRST ONE. I don’t know what it is, maybe because of the Silver family, but it was incredible. Genevieve Grimm was exactly what I wanted out of a FMC, she was witty and strong but also very so herself and I was never once annoyed with her, which is rare for me lol. Rowington Silver is someone you guys HAVE TO MEET, PLEASE READ THIS BOOK. (He sat there for an entire hour and combed out the knots in her hair, btw)

3.75!! idkk guys i was a little disappointed with this one ☹️ i just felt like the game aspect was so rushed and repetitive so it got boring fast. plus the “plot twist” IF YOU CAN EVEN CALL IT THAT wasnt my favorite HOWEVER, rowin is very sexy example 1: “I’m a creature of Hell, worshipping is not usually in my nature. But for whatever time you remain in my bed, i will make it your shrine.” LIKE UMM GOODBYE 🕳️🤸 example 2: “I want you to know, I really would have waited for you, right here, forever if that’s what it would have taken. I would have stood in this spot until I could no longer distinguish my own soul from the shadows. Until your light came back to me.” no because…🫦 …nowhere near close to blackwell tho 😼😼

4.5 ⭐️ Yeah Jesus definitely rose from the dead when he saw my kindle highlights on this book..🤭🤭 Kaylie Smith does it again. I devoured this book in less than 24 hours just like i did with the first one. I did not think i would love this book more than phantasma, which i always recommend for people to read! But goddamn it came real close!! Genevieve and Rowin are a great enemies to lovers read. I ate up their banter and the shadow playing had me giggling and kicking my feet 😍🤭. I loved how different the games were compared to phantasma and what was at stake for everyone Now the team up in the third book is something I’m excited to see!

“Morally Grey, Slightly Freaky, and I’m a Raccoon for It” Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐.5 Spice: 🌶️🌶️🌶️.5 Audio performance : 🎧🎧🎧🎧 Series: Wicked games #2 Series Type: Interconnected standalone, Standalone Genre: Fantasy Sub Genre: Fantasy Romance/Romantasy, Gothic Fantasy, Paranormal Fantasy, Urban Fantasy Tropes: - Fake marriage - Morally Black (he kills someone for her) - Trials - Choking - Dick Piercing - Fighting foreplay - MMC is a shameless flirt - Mirror 🌶️ scene - Naughty shadows - One bed - voyeurism (watching other) Other: - Fantasy Species: Demons, Ghosts, Necromancers, Other fantastic creatures, Shifters, Vampyre, Witches, Wraiths - Format: Audible, Kindle Unlimited - Plot/Character Driven: Both - Pacing: Fast - POV: Single POV - Narration type: 3rd person limited , Audio - single - Character gender : F/M - Spicy chapters: 39%63%68%73%88% - Narrator names : Laura Horowwitz🔥 - Comparison titles: Squid games x labyrinth - Popular boyfriend comparison: Flirty Xaden with piercings 👨‍👧 Characters She is sass. She is chaos. She is that girl who’s gonna mouth off to a king, stab a demon in the thigh, then kiss the wrong guy on purpose. Is she a little reckless? Yes. Is she feisty and disobedient with main character energy so strong it’ll slap you? Also yes. She doesn’t follow the rules, she goes after what she wants, and she makes it fun. Now Rowington? This man. This absolute menace of a male. He is broody, mean, sharp around the edges and still manages to sneak in with soft moments that will melt you into a puddle. He’s giving “touch her and die” energy with just enough tenderness to make you emotionally unstable. The side characters? Obsessed. Rowan’s entire family? Give me more. Honestly the emotional connection here was stronger than the first book by MILES and I’m still not over it. 🌎 Worldbuilding & Magic Okay this isn’t some 15-maps-and-three-languages epic. But do you need that when the vibes are this good? Absolutely not. This world gave me Squid Games chaos meets Labyrinth creepiness with magical challenge rooms that are both eerie and addictive. It’s spooky. It’s strange. It’s fast-paced and it absolutely delivers on atmosphere. I could see it even when it wasn’t super detailed and that’s what matters. ♥️ What I Loved There’s barely anything I didn’t love in this book. The pacing? Immaculate. The character development? Off the charts. The glow-up from book one? Astronomical. I was invested—not just in the mains but in every single side character. I’m gonna need spin-offs. Novellas. A shared cinematic universe. We’ve got morally grey characters being morally grey and I’m eating it up. The spice? Oh baby it goes there. It gets freaky. It gets weird. And when the shadows show up? I scream. I laugh. I sprint into the night like a raccoon who found glitter and couldn’t let go. I am not okay and I don’t want to be. 💔 What I Didn’t Like One moment. Just one. A single spicy scene that made me go “oh no thank you” and blink into the void. I didn’t get it. It didn’t serve the plot. It didn’t serve the characters. It was just there and I wish it hadn’t been. Half a star gone, but everything else was so strong it barely made a dent. 📝 Overall Thoughts This interconnected standalone series is the definition of addictive. It’s spicy. It’s fast. It’s emotionally satisfying in all the right ways. The characters are layered, the dynamics are sharp, and I’m fully committed to reading every future release in this world.

4⭐️ trouble x more trouble 😙😙 plottttt🧠 Very very predictable but it still hit as hard as you would think., i was crying(but i cry rly easily)and the ending was so cutesy, but idk what the 3rd book is gonna be abt. Characters👯‍♀️ they were my favorite factor of the book like all the siblings were amazing(maybe not Grave) but Seven will always be my favorite..plus I LOVED the familiars. Romance😍 Since it was 3rd person in it didn't hit as hard as 1st would but I really loved their relationship/dynamic..however the 1st book was better🙃 the spice was much less intense too so i would say its 2 ⭐️ "No one really knows what to wear to hell..but pink is good for any occasion"😝😝 fav charactersss Seven🍭 Umbra🦊🖤 Covin🐍

4 🌟 i reallyyy enjoyed this book! i previously read phantasma, and i just felt like that romance wasn't believable. both books are very fast-paced romances that occur over the span of like a week at most, so, that can definitely make it hard. buttttt vivi and rowin? completely obsessed with them. their love, banter, spice scenes (😏) were so intense and made me feel things LOL. i am a sucker for deadly games and forced proximity and i just feel like this one was really well done. i will say that the games did feel like they were on the back burner. the hype for the games was that they were going to be really deadly and intense, and then the games ended up basically being hide-and-seek and i didn't feel the intensity of them. also, throughout the games they're obviously falling in love but then also this cure business. it just felt like too much was trying to be packed in and i wish the games were more intense and challenging and we got to experience more with that. overall though, this book was... yeah, it was good. the spice? girllll. he has piercings, that's all i'm gonna say. this book was for me and i enjoyed the hell out of it.

I absolutely adore Romin and Genevieve. This was such a sassy and funny, yet heartwarming and romantic, read. I LOVED Phantasma, but this book is at a very close second. Can’t wait for the next book in the series 🥴🫶😩🤭😋

If this ends up being another 1,000 pages of unresolved sexual tension I will punch someone.

Still excellent even though I think it is too long.

** spoiler alert ** So, the last page of The Running Grave is turned, and like 48 hours of compulsive reading left me with sore eyes and mixed feelings, awe and irritation and a sizeable bit of confusion! First, it’s been a really unputdownable and addictive read, and Rowling’s clear and witty prose, characters, dialogues and all that makes one love her works, are all there at abundance of 1000 page (though some might wish it was shorter book, I am all for long-ish novels with plenty of detail). Strike and Robin’s developing relationship is, as always, important part of the narrative, but it steps back in the central part of the novel where Robin joins a secluded cult as an undercover detective, and is facing the pressure, brainwashing and various forms of assault on her own, while Strike is running the agency single-handed, at the same time fighting off all sorts of troubles in his private and working life (some of which are funny or relatable, but some could be maybe given less attention, while the reader is so enthralled with Robin’s trials in the sinister cult). The choice of topic (investigation of a cult-like fictional religious group, parasiting on moral and material resources of its members) is interesting and gives a good ground for psychological insights and character development, where the author is at her best. However, the whodunit part (especially, the resolution of the mistery of a cult leader’s child’s death that happened some 20 years back and became part of the cult’s religious beliefs) left me a bit unconvinced… no, the story in itself is quite plausible (as always is for simple explanation of most bizarre events), but the actual culprit does not quite fit the character of the person who must have been driven several people to suicides out of guilt or fear. Also, the few « red herrings » (investigation hypotheses tried and rejected by the detectives through the investigation) turn out somewhat excessive - e.g. the story of a wealthy family whose heir the dead child could be or could not be, finally turns out completely unrelated to the story. Pity that these promising characters and dramatic family dynamics all appeared only for the sake of distraction! Same goes with the story of a young woman who is unreasonably elevated in the cult’s internal hierarchy and we are given to believe she might be the dead daughter of the leader who is really not dead but living under false name… And how can one believe that a cold-blooded manipulative power-loving narcissist, the cult leader, would let someone else near him, who not only knew many uncomfortable facts about the crime (child’s murder), but actually invented the central myth of the cult? In a system like that, Becca would be destroyed before she even reached adulthood, not treated as an almost-heir to the Wace’s leadership. And finally, while Robin’s time as an undercover investigator inside of the cult is a center point of the book and an excellent, compelling and powerful story in itself, would one really believe a person with a traumatic experience like Robin’s stand out so long against a really very close risk of the rape? Sure, she is brave, adventurous and dedicated to her work, but that’s not a life or death case, as the death in question happened many years ago, and the person whom Robin is trying to release from the cult grip, is alive and not in immediate danger. And it’s not like the author gives any sensible reason for Robin’s decision to stay, which makes her otherwise very convincing character a bit like a comic-book or superhero kind of person. Not sure if I explain it right, just some things do not ring true. Even so, this is a great book and a perfect contribution to the series! 4.5 stars overall, and let’s start waiting for the next novel - maybe Strike and Robin will finally become a couple?

"Life is a journey, not a destination." Ralph Waldo Emerson How many ever reach their destination, their dream of what might be? Life takes us all on side trips, some more enjoyable than others. Would Homer's epic poem have lasted through the ages if Odysseus had gone right home to Penelope? It is a great theme and Towles, mostly, does a terrific job taking us along with the four boys on this meandering trip. I enjoyed the shared narration. I thought the characters were well-developed, except for Emmett. He just didn't have the charm and charisma of Billy, Duchess, and Wooly. Although Sally played a lesser role in the story, her nascent feminist views as well as her bigheartedness felt real and relatable. Wooly reminded me of Forrest Gump, simple and yet profound. His fascination with Lincoln and his unworldliness were endearing. He was too gentle and pure for this messy world. Duchess, the lovable scoundrel, who due to his horrible childhood and abandonment, needed to learn how to survive, how to thrive in one way or another. And Billy - who wouldn't love a little boy so in love with a book of twenty heroes, each one better known to him than any of his family members. I loved Towles' beautiful sentences and pearls of wisdom in his first two books, and he didn't disappoint me in this one. EMMETT "Wasn't it hard enough in the course of life to distinguish between fact and fantasy, be- tween what one witnessed and what one wanted?" DUCHESS "When it comes to waiting, has-beens have had plenty of practice. Waiting for their big break, or the bars to open or the welfare check to arrive." WOOLY "Questions can be so tricky, like forks in the road. You can be having such a nice conversation and someone will raise a questions and the next thing you know you're headed off in a whole new direction." "The funny thing about a picture is that while it knows everything that's happening up until the moment its been taken, it knows absolutely nothing about what will happen next." SALLY "I do it because it takes time. And I do it because it is unnecessary. For kindness begins where necessity ends." Although I prefer lengthy books, those that give me time to become totally immersed in the story and the characters, The Lincoln Highway had too many unnecessary details. Some of the period add-ons seemed "in your face", not well embedded in the narration ( a pet peeve of mine). I thought the vocabulary of Duchess and Sally unrealistically sophisticated for their backgrounds. Lastly, the ending didn't seem true to Emmett's character. Yet, Towles does describe the best of people and the worst of people, the saints and the sinners and all those in between. Will that long and winding road lead to her door as it does in the Beatles' classic? Maybe not, but it was a fun ride.

I was hooked on this tale of adventure featuring two brothers, Emmett, just out of a prison/work camp, and Billy, his younger brother. Immediately I was endeared to each of them, and then the story widens with other narrators who are part, or become part, of Emmett and Billy’s world as they travel the country. That’s another thing I loved- the adventure story within this novel. It takes place across just ten days and goes in directions I never expected. The layering of the two main characters’ lives is complex and provides a deep understanding of their feelings and perspectives. I’m an emotional reader, and for 95% of this book, I was completely invested and could not imagine loving the story more. The last 5% lost me a little, and for personal reasons, one of the happenings and how it was portrayed did not suit me. I can’t tell you why without risking a spoiler, but I found it insensitive. I also would have liked to have learned more about Sally and why she was part of the story. Ulysses, too. More closure and follow-up with them would have added to the story for me, but I know; it was already a longer book. All that said, revisiting the fact that I’m an emotional reader, due to my investment in these characters and the vast majority of the book, my overall feeling is that I enjoyed it even if there are things I would tweak about the ending. I read this pretty fast, especially for a chunk, and I think that may be the way to go if you can carve out the time. The quick chapters and pacing keep the plot moving exceptionally well. Now to visit Towles’ other two books! I can’t wait! I received a gifted copy and also bought a copy. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

I started reading this book and 30 pages in, I got Jack Kerouac's "On the Road" rated G vibes. It's a story of Emmet, recently out of juvenile detention for involuntary manslaughter, and his little brother Billy. They’ve recently lost their father to cancer. The farm they lived on is in foreclosure and now all they have is his car as a memory. Emmet's younger brother Billy wants to take a trip to find his mother, to humor him, Emmet decides to hit the Lincoln Highway and travel to California. The two of them head out on the road. Things change when two of Emmet's former inmates decide to tag along on the road trip. What ensues is a journey full of laughter, mishaps, and marvels. Towles has an uncanny ability to draw you in with beautiful prose and flawed, engaging characters. Lincoln Highway hits all the elements of humankind--good, bad, and the simply profound. I mostly enjoyed the ride and felt a deep connection to some of the storylines. Emmet enjoying his FAO Schwarz visit was particularly fun. That's the sort of thing young people do: fan the flames of each other's expectations—until the necessities of life begin to make themselves known.” “Questions can be so tricky, he said, like forks in the road I read a Gentleman in Moscow and consider it to be an all time favorite. This book as a stand alone may have gotten 4.5 stars, but I couldn't get the "other" book out of my mind as the standard for Towles writing and plot. Many people didn't seem to like the ending, but for me it was a fitting and a perfect ride to nowhere, somewhere, and everywhere. 4/5 stars Reviews of other books by Amor Towles: A Gentleman in Moscow

Not quite what I expected, but a pretty good book, none the less. Towles really knows how to tell a story that keeps you wanting to read onward. The characters are well developed and each one takes an alternating part in the telling of this saga.

*3.5 stars rounded up. I think my expectations were a little too high for this new book by Amor Towles, a favorite author. I expected that it would be a road trip, an odyssey of sorts, along the famous Lincoln Highway. Seems reasonable since that is the title. And it started out that way with Emmett Watson and his little brother Billy piling into Emmett's Studebaker and leaving their hometown in rural Nebraska behind in the dust with plans to reach San Francisco by the 4th of July, 1954. But they have two other passengers in the car, one of whom has different plans, and their trip goes off the rails almost immediately. This is an exciting adventure story filled with thrills and chills and eccentric characters but it could oddly be a bit dull and repetitive at times. Certain scenes were repeated from another character's point of view and that often seemed unnecessary and slowed the plot. It's intriguing that Towles uses first person pov with some characters; I assume to better reveal their motivations and internal dialogue. But I have to ask why quotation marks were eschewed for dashes? It worked for the most part but could occasionally be confusing. Lack of quotation mark usage happens to be a pet peeve of mine--okay, so it's the English teacher in me, lol. One character agrees with me and actually discusses the importance of punctuation for ease in understanding meaning. Yes!! The last 20% of the book is 'edge of the seat' reading with a really satisfying ending. That, plus some truly wonderful characterizations, brought my rating up to 4 stars. But I would have really enjoyed a road trip on the Lincoln Highway across 50s America, sigh. Sequel? I received an arc of this novel from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Many thanks for the opportunity.

This book is our online book club's September selection. To read along with us, please secure a copy via our catalog, Hoopla, or Libby. Happy reading! To join the discussion: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/... 3.5 to 4 stars The Lincoln Highway by Amor Towles is our online book club’s selection for September. This one took me a little bit to get through, but I am happy to report that, overall, I enjoyed it. While it took a little bit for things to get going, The Lincoln Highway provides a great story in the vein of This Tender Land by William Kent Krueger. It is June 1954 in a small town in Nebraska. Our protagonist, Emmett Watson, and his brother, Billy, are looking for a fresh start after Emmett gets home from serving time at a work farm. Their father recently died, the farmhouse was foreclosed on, their mother has left the family, ostensibly for California, and there are folks in town with no love for Emmett. (view spoiler) Unbeknownst to Emmett and Billy is that some of Emmett’s friends from the work farm snuck a ride home with Emmett in the trunk of the warden’s car. Duchess and Woolly cause trouble throughout the book, even if they both are lovable, yet flawed characters. (Keep in mind, the story takes place over ten days, so plenty of trouble happens beginning with their reveal!) As Woolly comes from a family of old money, Duchess and Woolly need to hitch a ride to New York to pick up Woolly’s inheritance and divide it between themselves. Emmett and Billy want to go to California, but reluctantly agree to stop out of their way at a bus station to drop off Duchess and Woolly. However, things go awry when Duchess “borrows” Emmett’s car mid-journey, leaving Emmett and Billy in the dust. Duchess, with Woolly in tow, are headed to New York. Now Emmett and Billy have no ride and are stuck. With the help of some nuns at a nearby orphanage, they get their bearings and plot their way to New York to retrieve the car, which means a wild goose chase after Duchess and Woolly! “In your time you shall do wrong unto others and others shall do wrong unto you. And these opposing wrongs will become your chains. The wrongs you have done unto others will be bound to you in the form of guilt, and the wrongs that others have done unto you in the form of indignation. The teachings of Jesus Christ Our Savior are there to free you from both. To free you from your guilt through atonement and from your indignation through forgiveness. Only once you have freed yourself from both of these chains may you begin to live your life with love in your heart and serenity in your step.” Three of the four of our main characters are boys making the transition to men, learning how to plan for the future, and looking to right past wrongs. This creates many dilemmas for them all, particularly Duchess, whose mother died, and his father dropped him off at an orphanage and ran. Duchess’s exploits make up the bulk of the diversions in the book, the reason Emmett must take a journey he would rather not. For Duchess, the main thing he took from growing up in that orphanage was that, before you could have a fresh start, you need to balance the accounts. This includes “getting even” with people who he perceives to have wronged him, although the ways he goes about it, I don’t necessarily agree with. “I thought to myself that there are surely a lot of big things in America. The Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty are big. The Mississippi River and the Grand Canyon are big. The skies over the prairie are big. But there is nothing bigger than a man’s opinion of himself.” While the main characters do take up most of narrative room in the story, there are also plenty of memorable side characters, heroes and villains in their own rights. I liked them all, but I particularly connected with Sally (that gem of a quote from above is from her perspective), Emmett’s neighbor, who is tired of caring for a single father that does not help with any of the housework and is itching for an adventure of her own. She is limited by the societal expectations put upon women at the time, the main expectation being that she keeps house and raises a family, but is definitely bucking against those constraints throughout the story. She is hardworking and fearless in her own way, standing up to Emmett and his friends when they ask a lot of her. (Yet, she often goes above and beyond to help her neighbor and his friends at various points in their journey.) I did not particularly enjoy the conclusion when I finished the book initially. However, given time to think about it, I think it was the best possible ending for the characters and conclusion to the literal and figurative journeys that take place over the ten days chronicled by The Lincoln Highway. Happy reading! -Cora Find this book and other titles within our catalog. This title will be our Goodreads book club pick for September. To secure a copy, check out our catalog or the Libby app. Happy reading!

A book to make you think of others before yourself. 4. 5 rounded up.

Maybe a 4.25 Fantastic read and I'm embarrassed to say my first novel by David Baldacci. Very difficult read and also very upsetting. I thought the court scenes were stunning and I was gripped throughout the book. Very realistic and sad to think that this was the way people were treated (although has much really changed?)

In his author’s note, David Baldacci states that this is a book he’s been attempting to write for around ten years. A native of Richmond, Virginia, the old capital of the Confederacy, he grew up steeped in the history of the Old South. Robert E. Lee, Stonewall Jackson, and J.E.B Stuart were names that were revered by many. But in this place he grew up, the black and white divide was long ingrained. Life wasn’t so very different, he felt, to the pre-Civil War years. This story contains many autobiographical elements. It features a trial lawyer called Jack Lee - Baldacci had also gone down this route, practicing law for nine years before turning to writing full-time – who is questioning the world around him in the same way he had done as a young man. His relationships with family and friends, too, played out in a similar fashion. Even the car Jack drives is based on one the author drove for a period. The story itself is full of racial tension and dark deeds. It’s fictional, of course, but it is a tale of its time – set, as it is, just a little more than fifty years ago! It’s a tale of a local lawyer who is asked to take on the defence of a black man accused of murdering his employers. The whole set-up looks dodgy from the start, with little to suggest the man committed the act, other than the fact that he was found with the bodies, courtesy of an anonymous tip-off to the police. He says he’d come to get his weekly pay and found the bodies, but the police aren’t interested – they’ve got their man, and they’re sticking with it. It’s a decent story, and it’s well told, with quite a few twists along the way. But one issue for me is that the police, and indeed just of the local white population, are portrayed as one-dimensional racists. Wasn't there anyone around at that time who had a nuanced view? Not according to this tale. Well, with the exception of Jack and his family – though even his family aren’t perfect in this regard. The tale is chopped up into many short chapters. It’s easy to read and moves along at a good pace. But here’s the second thing that I believed the story lacked: decent conversation. I love dialogue in a book. It’s what gives a story, depth, and character, I believe. But here, the conversations here are almost exclusively short and transactional. It’s a four star offering for me, based on the fact that beyond the halfway point, I found myself eagerly turning the pages, eager to see how it all played out. I’m also a sucker for a good courtroom drama.

David Baldacci knows how to write a gripping story. At almost 500 pages, it’s a long one, but it will keep you enthralled the whole way. The story is set in Virginia in the summer of 1968 and both the setting and the year will clue you in that this is a story fraught with racial issues. (For those who might have forgotten, this was the summer after the assassinations of both Martin Luther King Jr., and Robert F. Kennedy. Tensions were high, to put it mildly.) The murder of an elderly white husband and wife becomes front page national news when a young black man is arrested for the double murder. Jerome Washington is a Vietnam War vet and has a bum leg because of it, but he’s been a good worker for the couple, and is a devoted husband and father. The Randolphs are a well-known and well-to-do family. The scene is set for a quick conviction, but Jerome says he’s innocent, that he liked his employers and had no reason at all to do such a thing. Jack Lee is a young white lawyer and is well thought of around town but he’s never tried a murder case and he’s never even had a black client. When a black woman he knows from his younger years comes to him to beg him to take the case, he winds up deciding to do so, even knowing the obstacles in his path. Since the case made news, it attracted the attention of a young female black lawyer who takes on cases like this, in her work with the Legal Defense Fund, so she comes to town and convinces Jack to work with her. Desiree Dubose is a major talent and is incredibly dedicated to getting justice for people like Jerome. They wind up making a terrific pair. This is a combination of a mystery and a legal story, all drenched in the racism of the time and place. Who killed the Randolphs if it wasn’t Jerome? The defense has to deal with a hand-picked judge, an all-white all-male jury, a politician bent on making this a showcase for George Wallace who was running for president at the time, threats to their lives and more. I was happy that this didn’t turn into a romance. It’s refreshing to read a story about a man and woman working together without the complication of a romance. Baldacci includes an author’s note at the beginning of the book, which was much appreciated, as it gave background information for the reader right from the start, including that he grew up in Virginia and there are bits and pieces of autobiography in the story. It IS fictional, however! Thank you to Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley for the opportunity to read an advance readers copy of this book. All opinions are my own. Note: Because I was late getting to this book, I wound up listening to the audio version on a long road trip with my husband and we both enjoyed it very much. Multiple narrators added to the experience. We were heading to, among other places, Montgomery, Alabama, and this story helped make our visit there even more impactful.

https://wendyreadit.wordpress.com/202... It's 1968 and we are in southern Virginia, where some white people do not agree that 'all men are created equal' and disagree with the repealing of the Jim Crow laws that mandated segregation. So, that's the setting when a black man, who works for an older white couple, finds them murdered in their home. He's then accused of their murders and forced into to a speedy trial and the death penalty. A white local lawyer decides to represent the accused man and is then joined by a female black lawyer activist. These two lawyers, who seemingly have nothing in common, join forces to uncover the truth and stop the town and local law enforcement from convicting an innocent man. I'd like to say that this kind of racial bigotry has improved but, these days it seems to be getting worse. The narration for the audiobook was very well done.

NOW AVALABLE!!! i plowed through this book in a day, getting up at 3 am on my day off so i could finish it before starting my other-job work at 5 as i had planned. as someone who values what little sleep i can scrape together, the above is what is known as a ringing endorsement. it's got the page-turner thing down pat—short chapters, quickchange POVs, intrigue and secrets and so many twists. although, since this is set in paris, i suppose i should call them les rebondissements. and the first one's a doozy. i'm a sucker for escapist suspense novels, but reading so many of 'em has dulled my capacity for surprise, so i'm not often caught off guard by their gotchas. but that first one got me, boy, injecting a legit thrill into this thriller. i also like the hooky tagline—your typical breakfast-club round-up of character types, with a nice little endrhyme: the socialite—the nice guy—the alcoholic—the girl on the verge—the concierge i don't wanna write too much about this one, because so much depends on the discoveries along the way, but i will commend the author for breaking out of her locked-room mystery rut with this one—while most of the action occurs in the titular paris apartment, that's just kinda the HQ of evil, and what happens in the apartment does not stay in the apartment, resulting in serious consequences. there's more weight to this one than The Hunting Party/The Guest List—it's more ambitious in structure and content than the fluffy drawing room-style mysteries that preceded it, and it has a more meaningful story than fancy people getting murdered. not that there's anything wrong with that, but it's good to know she's got more in her than reheating a been-there-done-that plot. my final thought: that cat is a hero and deserves to be fed. ****************************** no time to review yet, but i gotta say—and maybe this is just my patterson-overload talking—this one is leaps and bounds better than her first two agatha christie wannabes, which i enjoyed in an entertainment kind of way, even though they were basically the same book. this one is more ambitious, more surprising, more satisfying in every way, even though—trigger warning—she never feeds that cat ONCE, and it was giving me serious stress the whole time. FEED YOUR CATS, PEOPLE! come to my blog!

4.5 stars Bienvenue au 12, Rue des Amants, Paris. C’est une maison de secrets. Alors, asseyez-vous, avec un verre de vin rouge et installez-vous pour une bonne histoire! Ok I’m done!! Ben Daniels is in his Paris apartment awaiting the arrival of his half sister Jess Hadley but he has an unexpected visitor first. Jess, as one of the principal narrators is a really good character, she’s flawed but she feels real and likeable and I especially like the way it’s written in real time as if she’s talking out loud to her audience. Are our other narrators likeable? Not so much! There’s a chic trophy wife, an angry alcoholic, a naive obsessive and a spurned lover. All of the characters have a different view point of Ben which is interesting as you try to grasp the essence of his personality. So, settle in and let the games begin. First of all, how great to be in Paris as it adds an atmosphere all of its own especially as the city is a boiling pot of political unrest which perfectly matches the events in Rue des Amants. Secondly, the house is a star of its own show as the author cleverly uses all its nooks, crannies and corners to create a very strange and tense atmosphere which you feel right from the very start. There are spooky shadows, you wonder what evil lurks in the dark corners and it ramps up the tension with a growing sense of claustrophobia as if the walls are closing in. You have a really good whodunnit here as several characters behave oddly or suspiciously, some are downright sinister or there’s palpable hostility between characters and there’s an increased feeling of foreboding which hangs over the house. The warnings, threats and dangers magnify in intensity and it becomes apparent that there big secrets that people are intent on keeping buried. The plot builds well as revelation piles on revelation. There’s a good twist at the end although maybe it’s all ultimately resolved a bit too easily? Overall, this is another winner from the talented Lucy Foley. It’s very easy to read as it flows well and is highly entertaining! I really like the cover too! With thanks to NetGalley and especially to HarperCollins, HarperFiction for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

3.5 stars, rounded up I enjoyed Lucy Foley's latest mystery/thriller. It is compulsively readable with very short chapters, so it's easy to read much more than you think you're going to, saying "oh, just one more, it's only two pages" and then a half hour later... As with her previous books, there is a huge cast of characters, and the chapters alternate between each of their perspectives. This is the story of Jess, who is heading from the UK to stay with her brother Ben in Paris. When she arrives at his apartment, he has disappeared, and the other residents either can't or won't share what they know about his whereabouts. There were two slight shortcomings for me: one is that there is no real sense of place in this book other than the apartment building. I could totally visualize it, but it could be set anywhere, Paris doesn't really factor into the story. Also, the timeline is quite jumpy, and there were a few times I would have to re-read certain sections because I thought I was in the present and then it turned out I was in the past, and vice versa. It didn't happen really often, but often enough that I noticed it. Overall though, there are a couple of great twists that surprised me and elevated the story beyond the run-of-the-mill thriller. It's entertaining and fast paced and you never know who to trust and who is telling the truth (or what they believe is the truth). Another winner from this author who has quickly become one of my favorites. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

Would I recommend the AUDIBLE of this title? Oiu Oiu!! The Paris Apartment in question is 12 ru Des Amants-a character in itself. Divided into 5 separate residences, one per floor, with the common areas of a rooftop terrace and a a wine cellar (cave in French). One tiny lift, that barely fits an occupant with one piece of luggage, brings the residents to their own landing- a secret, narrow stairway, is another way to climb from floor to floor, with a door with an old fashioned key hole, accessing each individual unit. There is a rare vacancy on floor three, and Nick, from floor two has arranged for it to be let to his friend from University, Benjamin Daniels, a journalist. But, the other residents are not pleased with this arrangement. They don’t agree on much, but they do agree that EVERYTHING changed, when Ben arrived. Ben’s half-sister Jess needed to flee London in a hurry, and with nowhere else to turn-she pleaded with her half brother to let her come and stay for awhile. He reluctantly agrees but when she arrives, he isn’t home and he isn’t answering her texts. Where could he be? The neighbors are hostile instead of helpful, which is perplexing because Ben has a tendency to make friends wherever he goes. Such a thin line between love and hate… Jess breaks into the apartment to wait and finds a cat covered in blood, and more questions than answers. Can she trust any of the others living in this building to help her find her brother? They all know something. They have all seen something. And, they are all hiding something. And, I was ENCHANTED as I listened to each character voice their secrets and obsessions to me, in wonderful English and French accents- enhancing the experience. What a FANTASTIC CAST of actors, this AUDIBLE has! I am sure this book will make my favorite Audible list in 2022 because of them! In Lucy Foley’s first two “locked room” mysteries, I found the characters from book one and book two, to be very similar to one another, with different names. The Paris Apartment, however, offers up a completely different group of players-to go along with this foreboding atmosphere and I thought it was the BEST of her three to date! This book is available now, if you dare to visit 12 ru Des Amants for yourself…

4.5⭐️ “When someone tells you to stop looking, it normally means you’re on the right track.” Haven’t read a mystery that I was really interested in what the f was happening for a long time. I see this has already gained a lot of attention on Goodreads, and I can finally join in on the fun. Secrets. Secrets. Secrets. Everybody hiding something….I loved it! There were many characters in this that were given a lot of attention. Usually, I’m not a fan of this because I feel pressure to keep up with everyone, but it wasn’t hard to do this at all with this book. Foley brilliantly had them all connected, which we piece together as the book progresses. That air of mystery is felt from the very beginning and hasn't quite left me yet. Jess had my heart pounding in several scenes. She is one to just put herself out there in dangerous situations, which made her really intriguing. Each character had their own unique messed up story that gave us ideas of their motivations and their possible roles in the big mystery before it is all revealed. My favorite had to be one particular character who had all the other characters obsessed with him. I would definitely recommend this. ****Thank you Dr. Biswajit for providing this gift to me as my secret Santa.

Lisa Foley took me by surprise. This is so twisted and convoluted that I was involved in every piece of the puzzle: what happened to Ben? In “The Paris Apartment” there are an abundant number of suspects who could be accused of making a visiting resident of the apartment building, Ben, disappear. Foley structures her story by character, and within the character chapters she structures varying timelines. It’s complicatedly simple in Foley’s deft hands. Ben begins the story in a prologue. He’s in his apartment making plans for his sister, Jess’s, visit. Three hours later Jess is at his apartment building and can’t connect with Ben. Immediately, Jess knows something is awry. Jess finagles her way into the building and is surprised at the grandeur of the place. It seemed too fancy for Ben’s liking. What clinches her fear is that she finds his wallet and keys in his room, yet no Ben. The building is 5 floors. In the Penthouse live Sophie and Jacques. Mimi and Camille, art students, occupy the fourth floor. Ben’s apartment is on the third floor. Nicolaus lives on the second, and a married couple Antoine and Dominque live on the first. There is a tiny cabin in the courtyard that homes a concierge. The pivotal characters who lead chapters are Sophie, Mimi, Ben, Jess, Nick, Antoine, and the concierge. Jess tries to unravel the mystery of what happened to Ben and is met with reluctance. Additionally, the tenants seem to be intentionally misleading Jess. Foley keeps the reader guessing to the end. There are clues and misdirection. This is a satisfying thriller. Foley delivers.

A strange one, in that if I had read this, I think I would've rated it 3 stars. The audio performances were fantastic and really elevated the story.

Although I found parts of the story unlikely, it still was interesting and different from most thrillers.

3.5 ⭐️ An entertaining enough read but not my favourite by Lucy Foley. Ben has recently moved into a swanky apartment building, on the recommendation of his old university friend Nick. Separately his half sister is going to come and visit him. But when she arrives, Ben is nowhere to be found. This begins a story full of secrets and obsessions. (Quite a few obsessions really - I’ve never known so many characters to be infatuated with one man.) Ultimately the reveals were satisfying and it was a page turner so can’t complain. Will continue to read Lucy Foley’s books.

As an audiobook, this production gets a full five stars from me! Everything from the fantastic French accents to the excellent voice acting to the top notch production was completely impressive. This is a wonderful audio to sit back and let wash over you, as every character has nuance and is skillfully distinguished from other characters in the audiobook. Unfortunately the plot of the book itself didn’t work as well for me. This was a total surprise, as I love both Lucy Foley and Paris, so I was expecting this to be a match made in heaven. I found that there were a few too many narrators for the plot, and the book was much slower moving than I am used to from master of suspense Foley. I felt that the plot took too long to get where it was going, and the ultimate conclusion did not pay off enough of the lengthy setup for me. Maybe this was in part because of the long length of the audio and maybe I would have had a faster and more fun reading experience reading the book myself, but I would have hated to miss the great voice acting and characterizations in the audiobook. Overall a tough book to rate, as I did really enjoy the audio, and Foley’s writing is always top notch, but I think she has done better plots in the past. 5🌟 for the audio 3⭐️ for plotting and characters 3.75 ⭐️ Overall. Even though this latest was not my favorite of Foley’s, it was still enjoyable and I’ll definitely be scrambling to grab up Lucy Foley’s next book the second I can get my hands on it! Many thanks to NetGalley UK and the publisher for the audio Advance Listening Copy! Narrators were so good I looked them up and will look out for them going forward, especially the actress who voiced Mimi.

The Paris Apartment was one of my most anticipated reads this year and it did not disappoint. A missing person is a plot point that hooks me right away. I loved the chapters alternating between the different residents of the apartment building as it was one of those cases in which you don't know who to trust and therefore every person is a suspect. A fun read with a few unexpected things going on throughout the story. Jess needs a clean start and that's why she asks her half-brother, Ben, if she can stay with him for awhile. When she arrives at his apartment in Paris, he isn't home. As time passes, Jess is very concerned why her brother is nowhere to be found. She starts her search by looking for clues in his apartment and by talking with and observing the people who also live in the building. So what happened to Ben? There are enough components to the mystery that I'd be surprised if any reader can pinpoint every precise detail before the author reveals it all. And that's one of the reasons I enjoy books by this writer as I only can come up with partial theories and need her help in order to get the full picture. So you can say I was on the right track with this story but no one will mistake me for Sherlock Holmes, Hercule Poirot, or Nancy Drew. A solid mystery thriller and one worth reading if you are a fan of other books written by Lucy Foley. Thank you to William Morrow for providing me with an advance copy! All thoughts expressed are my honest opinion.

Favorite passage from book *subject to change by publication date: “Elizabeth sits completely still, and waits. It can take awhile, but if you are still long enough, they come to you. Fitful babies, zooming kittens, men with secrets….” It’s been about a year since the Thursday Murder Club solved its last case, as events from the fourth book have put things on PAUSE. The group is instead focused on some of the other people in their lives whom we’ve met before: -For Ron- it’s his daughter Suzi, grandson Kendrick and son Jason -For Ibrahim-it’s his client, Connie -And, for Joyce-it is her daughter Joanna who is now engaged and planning a wedding. And, it’s at this wedding, held on a THURSDAY, our friends from Cooper’s Chase find a reason to start meeting in the Jigsaw room again.. The groom’s best man, Nick-a man with a secret-seeks out Elizabeth and asks for her help. Apparently there is an UNBREAKABLE CODE, a BOMB, and BITCOIN involved and just like that-the gang has its NEXT CLEVER CASE. The subplots focus on the other personal connections which have kept our favorite retirees busy this past year. My favorite way to enjoy this series is by listening to the audiobook and I couldn’t wait to watch the movie adaptation of on Netflix. Haven’t you always pictured Dame Hellen Mirren playing Elizabeth? I’m not sure if he can ever top the 4th book in this series, but I’m happy to report that this is another solid installment to the series-and I enjoyed catching up with our friends from Cooper’s Chase. NOW AVAILABLE! Thank You to Pamela Dorman books for the gifted ARC provided by NetGalley. As always, these are my candid thoughts!

It has been a relatively quiet year at Cooper's Chase for the Thursday Murder Club... Elizabeth has been grieving. Ron has been sifting through family matters. Ibrahim has continued to help his special client. Joyce has been busy planning a special event. At the reception, the troubled best man approaches Elizabeth, desperate for help. Without delay, the Thursday Murder Club starts investigating a case involving kidnapping, cracking a code, murder, and more... The Impossible Fortune was worth the two year wait. The author's humorous writing style felt familiar, the short chapters kept the pages flipping quickly, and each character's subplot added texture to the story without feeling too busy or overwhelming. It was nearly perfect! I wanted to hug Elizabeth, but she would have hated that. I loved Joyce's journal entries, which are always a highlight for me. I'm slightly worried about Ron, but seeing him with his grandson warmed my heart. That leaves Ibrahim, whom I adore—enough said. This was an immersive reading experience; the audiobook is narrated by Fiona Shaw, who does it again. I've missed Fiona as much as Elizabeth, Joyce, Ron, and Ibrahim. I can't just read the book. Listening to the audiobook, too, is a must for this series. The Impossible Fortune has themes of friendship, family dynamics, grief, and aging. I'm looking forward to Book #6, and I hope the wait won't be as long! 4.25⭐

There are some mystery series that are fun to follow, just because. Either we grow to love the continuing characters, or value the storytelling of the author, or the creative premise. Which would leave readers with one specific question… Where will the adventure take us in this book? With the Thursday Murder Club (TMC) mystery series, readers follow Elizabeth, Joyce, Ibrahim and Ron. Elizabeth, an ex-spy and TMC club leader; Joyce, a former nurse; Ibrahim, a retired psychiatrist; and, Ron a former union activist all happen to live at the Coopers Chase Retirement Village. Which leads readers to the next question… Who will ask for their help and what rabbit hole will they end up traversing to provide it? For anyone who hasn’t read the series, it is always best to start at the beginning. But even after saying that, this can still be read as a stand-alone with its own mystery to solve. Still, when you start at the beginning of a series, you have a better sense of the characters and their journey from book to book. Another way to ‘meet’ and enjoy these characters is through the recent Netflix movie just released this summer. “The Thursday Murder Club” Official Trailer is here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=50DYg... So, why am I reading this one, after recently making the decision to only follow a few mystery series? And, the fact that this particular series was eliminated from my ‘continued reading’ list that would have me choose to pursue it? Well…what do you think happened to this Little Free Library (LFL) Steward? The book was donated to my Little Free Library Shed. A sign I should reconsider? Or just an opportunity to read this particular book? This is the 5th book in the series. It still carries the same wily wittiness we have come to expect of our characters, especially as they navigate their daily lives. Along with their commitment to amateur sleuthing when a ‘situation’ is before them. Yet, it also includes a few more ‘family’ characters brought in to the story who play a stronger role in what happens throughout and with the TMC members. Which makes the heart of this story seemingly less about solving the crime, and more about the characters – where readers can revel in their quirkiness and relationships and reflections. Especially as it relates to aging. And, with aging, this is where the author also does a good job of being realistic, by showcasing the common issues that befall one that is aging – including challenges of family dynamics, issues of grief or loss and friendship. Still, we can’t ignore that this is also a twisted, cozy, engaging, fast-paced, intergenerational mystery that makes us readers question who to trust. Which leads me to… That ending. Hmmm…what shall we make of that? 🤨 (No spoilers from me.) And, finally, in answer to my two questions above about this series, ‘a sign I should reconsider? – or just an opportunity to read this particular book?’, what do you think?

Another fine effort by Richard Osman. Not only have we the fans missed a new book in the series, but Osman also has the main characters having missed out on the fun and excitement, as they all went into sleep mode due to their leader (Elizabeth) mourning the loss of her husband. But after being approached at a wedding Elizabeth starts to kick into gear! A bomb is planted under someones car and they approach her for help. And now we enter the world of Bitcoins, robberies and new people coming into the story. The gang is getting older, Elizabeth is not as sharp as she used to be, and while the gang ages, the plot does not. Very well done and a super ending. My biggest criticism is that Osman has gotten to the point where he could use an introductory cast of characters because it is hard to keep up with everyone. After 5 books I can see a few more. The premise of the series has changed but the characters are well developed, and he is definitely setting up a time when more of the original Thursday Murder Club are no longer with us. But until then just go along for one heck of a fun ride!!!

__________________________ Not all that glitters is cryptocurrency. Dear Ms. Publisher: You are probably asking yourself: Self, how many Murder Club series do we need? You may think the Murder Club market is saturated. After all, we already have two series about old codgers, James Patterson’s Women’s Murder Club, a London Ladies Murder Club, and—astonishingly—a Hot Girl Murder Club, a Very Merry Murder Club, and a Murder Club for witches like my ex boss. It is true, you can look it up. And yet, despite this embarrassment of Murder social organizations, one demographic remains tragically underserved: primary school pupils. Here is my book pitch. I will write a series of mysteries called The Recess Murder Club. There are 4 girls, in the club. There’s Jane the science geek, Sally who can spell real good, Luna the de facto leader of the Recess Murder Club, and Red Herring the grumpy ginger kid. Luna’s "San Trope Suzi" doll has been beheaded, her head popped off by some sicko. Is the murderer Luna’s little sister Puff, who is jealous of Luna’s pristine doll collection. Is it Spot, the twice convicted, doll-munching pooch who was recently released from the big doghouse on parole? Is it Sergeant Dick, a handsome, former Navy Seal action figure who believes San Trope Suzi was spreading rumors about him. Or is it Red Herring, the founder of The Recess Murder Club who hates how Luna had taken over the group? I am proposing a 64-book series. I will write them this weekend if there is nothing on TV and I have received a large advance. I have not yet decided who the murderer is, but Red Herring has not once been convicted of murder in any of the hundreds of mystery books I have read, so the readers will never suspect her. Thank you in advance for my humongous advance. Pseudonymous d’Elder 🔍🔍🔍🔍🔍🔍🔍🔍 Gentle Reader: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Stars. Since my gigantic advance hasn’t arrived yet, I shall use this space to remark on the latest Thursday Murder Club book I have read. The Impossible Fortune is the 5th book in the series, and I have given it 4 stars. Well, it’s no Recess Murder Club: Death of a Stupid Doodle Head is it. The plot is a complex one. Elizabeth is approached by Nick Silver, the best man at Joyce’s daughter’s wedding. He knows about the reputation of the Murder Club and tells her that someone had tried to kill him just before he came to the wedding. A bomb under his car. Why? He and his business partner had decided to accept $20,000 in cryptocurrency years ago as a payment on a debt and locked it away someplace safe. The value of the crypto has gone up, up, up, and now, to their surprise, it is worth a quarter of a billion dollars. Some greedy crook wants the moola but needs the crypto code needed to retrieve it. Nick has memorized half of the code. His partner has memorized the other half. Neither of them knows the entire code. Why then would someone want to kill Nick? The mystery is intriguing, but the members of Murder Club and their kin seem more ruthless and less human than in previous books, and not nearly as likeable. Lest you think I made up the Murder Club ripoffs, here is a partial list of Goodread links to edify and amaze you. https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2... https://www.goodreads.com/series/3850... https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5... https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1... https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5...

What fun it is to visit the the Thursday Murder Club again. Catch up on what’s happening, see how their lives are going, and hear their stories about the latest exciting exploits they’ve been up to. It’s the type of visit you want to draw out as long as possible because you know when you leave it’s going to be another year or two before you’re able to return.

"Who's got time to think about murder when there's a wedding to plan?" Just when you think you've seen the Fab Four in every situation, think again! Elizabeth is reeling from a recent loss, Ibrahim is still counseling Connie the criminal, Ron is dealing with personal issues and Joyce is in the middle of Joanna's wedding. Of course, the wedding brings murder and mayhem to the storyline in the best way. Can the gang solve this in time? This gang is my favorite group of pensioners. In addition to Osman's typical wit and pop culture references, there is some deep character development going on as Elizabeth steps back and Joyce has more of a leadership role. This shift will change the dynamics to make all the characters work as equals to solve cases going forward. I also loved the growth in Joyce and Joanna's relationship. Anyone with a mother or daughter can relate. This is a solid story revolving around modern technology and investment trends which Osman handles expertly. Highly recommend to fans of the series. The audiobook performance by Fiona Shaw is perfection. She is an expert at bringing characters to life and I have no doubt she could make my grocery and to-do list sound incredible! Many thanks to PRH Audio for the gifted advance listening copy. All opinions are my own.🎧

Another wonderful installment! I love this series because you can just fall right into it and all the characters feel like home. I must admit I’m terrible at remembering previous books so when there were references to the other story lines they went right over my head 😆 but I was still able to sit back and enjoy this new ride. When the best man at Joyce’s daughter’s wedding goes missing and then his business partner is killed the gang feel they must step in to solver the mystery. Once again my favourite part is how the humour is integrated seamlessly into the action and plot. I am a huge fan.

It's good to be back with the Thursday Murder club, and after a little time off to let the gang grieve, they're back investigating more murderous shenanigans and a lost fortune. Richard Osman's writing continues to improve, as the story feels cohesive and fast paced while allowing time for the characters to really shine. They've become a large dysfunctional family, adding slowly to the crew with an eclectic mix of people from all sorts of backgrounds. I loved seeing Kendrick again in particular, ane the way he's brought back into the fold. It was also good to see Elizabeth come back to herself a little here, but not without a lot of introspection and careful study of grief. It's such a complicated emotion, and one that's often so hard to portray in fiction, but I think Osman has managed to do so with a lot of grace and understanding. The plot is just as silly and outlandish as I've come to expect, but with all the heart and good humour I want. It's like a cosy mystery with a small amount of high stakes, and it just hits the right note to keep me entertained and interested. I've missed the gang, and I'm so glad that I enjoyed this as much as I did.

Just loved being back with this gang of characters! What a great story! Makes me want to start the series all over again !

In book 4, The Last Devil to Die, Osman gives us an extended riff on disability and dying. This book is more about celebrating life, with a wedding central to the events. Joyce’s daughter is the bride and the groom’s best man seems to be the target of an assassination. Why? He is half-owner of a Bitcoin fortune! The extended family of the Murder Club are involved in this thriller and I learned a lot about the complicated world of cryptocurrency. Yet, at its core, this is a “cozy mystery” that we can all enjoy. My GR friend Julie provides a nice selection of quotations. https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...\\ 4*

It's so good to be back at Cooper's Chase with the Thursday Murder Club gang. Richard Osman has done another fantastic job in bringing them into a new adventure full of fun and excitement though with the usual sombre moments to keep the story from becoming too cosy. The characters in this series are wonderfully portrayed and stay so true to type throughout. Joyce is still my favourite. I just love her down-to-earth comments about everyday events in the midst of a tense moment. However, the focus in this book is on Ron, the strong man of the team who is feeling vulnerable and with plenty to worry about. It is interesting to see how he copes with his situation and whether or not he can stick to his principles when the heat is truly on. The plot revolves around a request for help from a friend of Joyce's new son-in-law who has approached Elizabeth to help find out who is trying to kill him after he finds a bomb under his car. What follows is a fast-paced search for answers taking in a couple of quirky experts, some possible bad boys and the complex world of cryptocurrency and 'cold storage'. Some fabulous new characters emerge. There are some side plots too. As well as Ron's story, Joyce's daughter is getting married and she and her fiance take on strong roles in this book. As in Osman's other books, there are some poignant moments to remind the reader of the ages of the key protagonists, for example, Joyce's daughter suddenly realising how much she loves her Mum after being constantly exasperated with her until that moment, and Ron becoming aware of his increasing vulnerability. These moments are written with great care and consideration and strengthen the reader's concept of the characters. Lovely book in a lovely series.

4.35! I had managed my expectations for this one and it paid off so well. The writing was good and interesting and enough to keep you captivated and the way she thought of that plot twist 😭 like ik everyone including me predicted the main plot twist because it was expected but that epilogue?? 🤯 Had me screaming because I had no idea that it was going to happen. I had heard that Millie was going to be act like Nina and be annoying but tbh I get what she was going through and whatever she did or how she acted was 💯 valid. I also heard that Enzo's character was being 'butchered' I didn't feel that way either I think she had set up Enzo's character in such a way in the past two books that I knew even if he was the one there would be a valid reason and that he would never do anything to hurt Millie. Overall, I had sm fun with this book, it really took me out of the problems I was facing and I could just rely on it to take me away on a journey. ___ Praying that Millie isn't annoying or naive in this one (considering the time jump) I've also heard she reminded people of Nina.....which is not the best thing but lets go!🤞

I have so many thoughts about this book, but I'll keep it short and spoiler-free. Let's start with Millie—she's still the same after a couple of years, no big changes there. Enzo, on the other hand, felt a bit different this time. We all know he's super sensitive and practically worships the ground Millie walks on, but I only really felt that in the first few chapters. After that, he seemed a bit disconnected from his family. The kids? They were awesome! And that twist? Oh, the twist in the epilogue was classic Freida—totally unexpected and brilliant. Now, the first half of the book was a bit slow, setting up the plot and all, but it was still addictive and kept me turning the pages. Overall, I really liked this book. I wouldn't mind another installment in this series at all!

I was hesitant to read this since sometimes series get worse as they go in but this was overall good! This takes place 11 years later and Millie is married to Enzo with 2 kids, Nico and Ada. The whole story line is based on how their relationships with their neighbors turn from cordial to problematic. This would've been another 5 star read from McFadden but I really do not like the way she writes a child's perspective, it makes them sound so stupid and younger than the character actually is. I really enjoyed the twist at the end and honestly all the connections to the first book is probably what sold me on making this another 4 star. McFadden outdid herself again and I am eager to see if she will continue the Housemaid series.

I was hesitant to read this since sometimes series get worse as they go in but this was overall good! This takes place 11 years later and Millie is married to Enzo with 2 kids, Nico and Ada. The whole story line is based on how their relationships with their neighbors turn from cordial to problematic. This would've been another 5 star read from McFadden but I really do not like the way she writes a child's perspective, it makes them sound so stupid and younger than the character actually is. I really enjoyed the twist at the end and honestly all the connections to the first book is probably what sold me on making this another 4 star. McFadden outdid herself again and I am eager to see if she will continue the Housemaid series.

The queen of suspenseful narratives and jaw-dropping twists has done it again. Three quarters of the way through, I was blown away by a twist I genuinely didn’t see coming, but made sense in hindsight. I didn’t fly through it as much as I thought I would, definitely not as much compared to the first book. I’d definitely figured out one of the later twists, it is quite sickening and dark. The epilogue felt a little horseshoed in so the story could end with *that* line. Millie is trying to move on from her dark past and into suburban family life. But she can’t help feeling suspicious of those around her. She instantly takes a dislike to her new neighbour Suzette - she’s overly flirty and not the type of person she wants around her husband. She doesn’t want her neighbours finding out details from her past either. A housemaid is even hired to help in her family home. But she is on edge and feeling like she can’t trust anyone, not fully. Whilst her eyes are on everyone else, could the darkness she is trying to escape from be closer to home than she thinks? 4 Stars

I missed Millie, so I was extremely excited to read the latest installment of The Housemaid series. Although this is the third book of the series, it could be read as a standalone. I enjoyed the humor and wit that was sprinkled into the tense and foreboding plot. Everyone has a secret that they will go to great lengths to hide. Nosey neighbors, a domineering flirtatious wife, and a sullen adolescent are just a few intriguing elements in this twisty, unpredictable thriller. The narration added a layer of emotion, intensity, and suspense that kept me hooked from start to finish. That epilogue, WOW! Thank you NetGalley and Bookouture Audio for my audiobook.

I really enjoyed the housemaid series, I hope that she does another, maybe about Ada this time with milly in the background. Got more Frieda McFadden books to read, but I got lots on my tbr list

“The Housemaid Is Watching”, by Freida McFadden This was my 15th book by this author. She is definitely the queen of popcorn thrillers. This book was so much better than the second one in this series. The writing had great humour and the development of the story was gripping. What a compelling read! It doesn’t matter that it’s farfetched, because the storytelling was simply terrific. Highly addictive and entertaining, hence my ratings. I had the hardcover edition, which has 386 pages. The margins were so large, which created the illusion that this book was big. But I also read it in the e-book format (Kindle), as it was part of Kindle Unlimited (I’m trying a free trial period of 3 months).

I managed to finish the whole series before the movie (which starts screening on the 25th here), just like I planned, hurray!!! This is my second favourite now, right after book one, then book two and finally the novella. It could even be read as a standalone, but you should probably start at the beginning anyway, because trust me, you do NOT want to miss out on all the chaos. There's another time skip, this time Millie is married and has two kids, moving into a nice little neighbourhood where not everything is as it seems. I was, once again, flabbergasted at the twist(s), I had my finger on who did it, and I was completely off base. And then the ending just cemented that with another twist... I could see The Housemaid-verse expanding beyond this, with the kids being the main characters in the next one, and Millie an old lady. I'd totally read that. But if it ends here, then I'd say it was (mostly) satisfactory. I do have to mention though, that, despite reading about Millie and Enzo's wedding in the novella, I still had a hard time seeing them as a couple in this one. For some reason, they just don't go together in my mind, so it was even easier to doubt him/his motives throughout. OH, and, I swear, the whole time I was convinced that (view spoiler), because why else would you repeatedly mention (view spoiler) if it wasn't meant to be a major plot point? If there is a fourth book, and this happens, please remember that you heard it here first, okay? 4.5

“In three out of four cases of familial homicide, the husband was the killer.” “… bludgeoned wives and smothered children, buried in shallow graves or put through wood chippers, entire families shot and tucked into their beds, the husband displaying grief, begging the real killer to come forward, or leaving the country. Often they remarried in under a year.” If closure is what your psyche demands or if clear cut certainty is what your mentality craves, then it would seem a fair bet that the occupations of crime journalist, medical examiner and forensic scientist, homicide detective or prosecuting attorney should probably come off your list as possible career objectives. Claire Washburn, Cindy Thomas, Yuki Castellano and Lindsay Boxer have got more blood and guts, more gruesome victims, more clues, more suspects, more virtually slam dunk convictions than they know what to do with! Heck, they’ve even got a confession or two for a serial killer whose record rivals anything that a mere Ted Bundy or Paul Bernardo, for example, might have produced in their heydays! But did they get their man? Well it would seem reasonably sure they got a killer but did they get THE killer? Even at the close of a gripping police procedural, most readers will be scratching their heads and wondering. “Whoever he is, whatever his motive, he’s organized. Calculating. Manipulative. He kills with deliberation and precision and deceit. This dude doesn’t feel love. He doesn’t feel hate. He just likes to kill women.” 21ST BIRTHDAY is not quite in the mainstream of THE WOMEN’S MURDER CLUB series but it’s a compelling read and an enjoyable winner that’s easy to recommend for readers of the thriller and police procedural genre. Paul Weiss

When 20 year old Tara Burke and her infant daughter go missing, Kathleen, Tara's mother reaches out to Cindy Thomas - the crime reporter for San Francisco Chronicle and member of the Women's Murder Club. Cindy brings in Lindsay and the SFPD but things take a sinister turn quickly...What initially looked like domestic trouble, spirals into the hunt for a hitherto unknown serial killer! Please read my detailed review from the link here https://rb.gy/xttxgf Do visit, read, like or comment. 🙏 #21stbirthday #jamespatterson #maxinepaetro #serialkiller #womensmurderclub #sfpd #thrillernovel

21st Birthday is another book in the Womens Murder Club and was another quick and thrilling read. In this book, Lindsay has a new boss who's shaking the department up some. When a young mother goes missing with her 16 month old baby, their hysterical mother/grandmother goes to Cindy with her story begging for help to find them. She is convinced that her daughters husband has killed them both. Cindy contacts Lindsay, and a search and investigation ensues. When a female body is discovered and more and more evidence and suspicion falls on the husband, he's arrested and questioned, and he makes a crazy story up - but is he the right guy? This was quite a harrowing read in places and my heart goes out to law enforcement and other professionals involved in real-life cases like this one.

The only series I follow by JP.

Continues to be my favorite Patterson series. Maybe not quite a 4 star read, but a good one.

Happy 21st book! This series is one of my absolute favourites. The four women of the Murder club feel like they are part of my family now. Each of them always bring their unique talents to the investigation. This case involves a mother and little girl, and it is heartbreaking. With the group of four out to solve it , you can be guaranteed to an interesting story!

As enjoyable as they all are if you don't take them too seriously. The one thing that has ticked me off the past several, Cindy needs to grow up. She is a whiney, immature, self-centered BRAT! How on earth anyone has patience for her is a mystery and that Conklin stays with her is stunning in his stupidity!

Fun read glad I am now officially caught up!!

I enjoy James Patterson novels and I did find this one to be exciting to read but I felt like the ending fell short

The Women’s Murder Club works on another series of murders. The story moves alone, some parts predictable, with some twists and turns. An enjoyable read.

Paterson’s books are always entertaining. I found this one, a little confusing, with so many characters. The book had some nice surprises and I did like the main character Lt Lindsay Boxer. The women’s murder club was a nice addition.

I have always felt a pull to the suspense and family aspects of this whole series. Though some have not been more then a one star, this book has made a comeback toward the original feel of the series. Can't wait to see what the Womens Murder Club does next

Another good installment of the Women’s Murder Club! I wish the ending had not been so rushed and they would have revealed a bit more about the killer’s past. But...we can’t have everything. A solid, quick read!!!

Another good book in the Women’s Murder Club series. These are always an easy and enjoyable read.

This book, 21st Birthday, is a good example of why James Patterson is so successful. He and Maxine Paetro have woven together a very compelling murder and trial story with twist after twist. This book benefits from utilising the full cast of characters from previous stories in an ensemble investigation that never quite makes sense yet appears open and shut. It is the variety of perspectives and emotions that boost 21st Birthday above others in the series. Yes, the book does read like Patterson-by-numbers. All of his standard structures, phrasing, themes and tropes are present, but that's okay. It is what his readers expect and the uninitiated would not realise. I liked that this book was multi-locational and that allowed for new and fresh characters, but the fact a new detective had joined Boxer's team from Las Vegas and they're suddenly needed to investigate there, where Alvarez has CIs in abundance, was just a little too convenient. Also, taking a minor nice guy character like Clapper, who was the CSI at nearly every previous crime, and making him a hard-nosed straight down the middle stay in your lane Chief was a brilliant stroke and sets up the possibility of clashes in the future. It is a shame this isn't a two parter because it feels this story, like a two body shallow grave, has more to give.

Well, it’s great to read about the Women’s Murder Club Again. I enjoy this group a lot. This story is about a serial killer and all the horrific crimes taking place in the San Francisco area. Cindy Thomas, with the San Francisco Chronicle, is forever on the race to get the story first. Lindsay Boxer, SFPD Lieutenant, is primary on the search for a missing 19-year-old mother and her baby. Dr Claire Washburn is the chief medical examiner who is responsible for determining the cause of death of the dead bodies that keep showing up. Yuki Castellano, in the DA’s office, is responsible for trying those guilty of their crimes. Altogether they form The Women’s Murder Club. They are a mutual support group that solves the mystery of the day. Their supportive families and co-workers help support them. Most are in some aspect of law enforcement. All are strong personalities and a nice addition to the storyline. I love the interactions. The plot is okay, but the charm is the characters. Three stars for the plot. And four stars for the players.

its been several years since i fully immersed myself in all of SJMs books, so my rose-colored glasses have started to fade a bit since then. before, i would have given this 5 stars, no questions asked. but now, im a bit harder to please. but there was a lot about this that did please me! at the end of the last book, my main concern was how the crossover was going to work, and this exceeded my expectations. i thought it was handled very well and felt as natural/seamless as it could. i enjoyed how it further built the crescent city world, but also supported the world building in ACOTAR. i also really liked how everything is concluded (im assuming this is the final book?). everything is wrapped up perfectly, all the character arcs are fulfilled nicely, and all the pieces of the story fall right into place. that being said, this could have used some tighter editing. there was a lot of repetition and unnecessary filler scenes, which made several sections of the story drag. the constant narrative/POV shifts within a chapter often felt jarring and, at times, pointless. so there were quite a few moments when i felt myself being taken out of the story because of these things. i do think, from a concept standpoint, this book is pretty exceptional and high in entertainment value. but, from a writing perspective, i didnt quite feel like this is SJMs best finished product. but that wont stop me from still reading whatever she writes. lol. ↠ 4.5 stars

All of us on Goodreads after finishing this series

"Two angels ... and a Fae prince ... walk into ... a dungeon ..." If the joke was not a clear sign of incoming spoilers then here's your disclaimer: THIS REVIEW WILL BE FULL OF SPOILERS. So if you don't want to see any, please leave 🏃🏻‍♀️👋🏻 Okay? Okay. The most important thing to take into account for this review: SJM for me is a 5 stars book author, this review does not mean I consider HOFAS a bad book, it was good, great at times, but it did not meet my expectations. Which SJM has meet multiple times before! So, clearing that up, LET'S JUMP RIGHT INTO THIS B. ACOTAR x CC I was really curious and nervous about how this crossover was going to be tackled, in the end, this is a CC book NOT an ACOTAR book. And well, mother delivered. This was FABULOUS. I loved how the crossover did not overpower the CC storyline, they truly complimented each other, this played out exactly how I imagined all the acotar characters would react. It's so weird to think I know fictional characters well enough to know/expect a certain reaction from them. So many theories were proven correct, a great setting was left for acotar 5 and ugh just, round of applause. Perfect. Nesta, I really thought I could not be more obsessed with Nesta and this book proved me wrong. There are so many facets to her character, and seeing the Valkyrie warrior Nesta in action ugh, amazing, then Mommy issues Nesta, wonderful, Lady death Nesta, chills. Too good. Azriel, the shadowsinger spoke more in this small crossover than all the acotar books together lol. I loved getting a better glimpse of what will hopefully happen with Azriel in the next acotar book. Seeing his spymaster side in action, sheesh, I get it Elain, I really do 😮‍💨. Nesta + Azriel, the duo I knew I needed did not disappoint. Their dynamic was so good, during the fight scenes they are so in sync, I was giggling and screaming so much. We also get to see their friend/siblings dynamic, I was crying with Azriel getting Nesta out of the Mask. "Cassian's waiting for you, Nesta," Azriel said– tone gentling. "Take off the Mask." ... "He's waiting for you at House of Wind," Azriel went on. "At home." I need see more of them in the next acotar book. Rhys, I mean there is no way I can dislike Rhys like EVER, loml, but, I'll admit, after ACOSF, I questioned a bit his decisions. But this CC3 High Lord Rhys? OH MY GOD, YES. This was everything I expected from him and more. The power and authority radiated from his character in this book was perfect. I have no other comments. Truth-Teller, I have so many questions, how did Azriel get it? what are its true powers? Is Azriel related to the first high lord of Prythian? I'm confused. Illyrians are MADE, still processing. ACOTAR x CC Bonus chapters, I am a bit tired of the Nesta/Rhys rivalry, I really though we moved past this with ACOSF. I understand both sides I guess, I wouldn't necessarily say, Rhys or Nesta are wrong, both are right? I really hope we can see some type of friendship from them in the future. Also, I would sell my kidney for more Nesta x Ember interactions. CC Moving past the crossover, let's jump into CC, because OH DO I HAVE COMMENTS. Let's start with was pissed me off the most: "Hail Bryce, Queen of the Midgardian Fae." Bryce, um, yeah was not expecting this character 'development'. CC3 Bryce was painfully annoying. In the beginning I really tried to understand her because she was being an ass in Prythian. I thought, I mean yeah she's trying to save Hunt and Ruhn so she'll be reckless, which oh she was. Releasing a f asteri in another world when you don't even know how to kill them?! tf. But okay, then she went back to Midgard and I thought, should be fine now. But NO, she had to be an ass to Hunt too. This made the reading kind of bittersweet because before CC3 I really loved Bryce, she was one of my favorite characters in the whole massverse and now I'm not sure how I feel. Then, we have Bryce dying, which ugh I SWEAR... I don't even want to say much on this, using this plot again was so disappointing. But... Well... Still reeling. Hunt, ugh my baby SON OF HEL, Just Hunt. The trauma this man has had to endure. We finally got to understand where does Hunt come from, Hel. I got a bit confused with the explanation ngl, but I liked it. Quinlar, I'm disappointed. What was that reunion? I expected f fireworks when Bryce and Hunt met again, their interaction at times was kind of awkward and painful to read. If we had not had that bonus chapter I really would be taking of another star from this review because even though this book was more plot focused than romance, Quinlar was straight off its axis. This is literally the only quote from them I highlighted: I'm with you. All of me. You and I, we'll finish this. Ruhn, RUHN DAANAN CROWN PRINCE OF THE VALBARAN FAE (no more) THE MAN YOU ARE!!! I have no comments just quotes, enjoy them: "Lidia," he said roughly, "Finding out who you are... it fucked with my head. To know you're the Hind, but also Lidia– also Day. My Day. But now..." He swallowed. "Now?" Her gaze dipped to his mouth. ... "Now I don't fucking care who you are, so long as you're mine." Her eyes shot to his, again full of surprise. "Because I'm yours Day. I'm fucking yours." I always assumed the Oracle's prophecy meant that I would die. He let his kernel of starlight flicker down the blade, an answer to Bryce's beckoning blaze. One last time. But I am going to live, he said to this father. And I am going to live well–without you. I love you. I fell in love with you in the depths of my soul, and it's my soul that will find yours again in the next life. Lidia, LIDIA IS RELATED TO AELIN OR DORIAN, they way I screamed!!! DESCENDANT OF BRANNON OMFGGGGG, I am sad though because this confirms that TOG is in another timeline no? So no crossover is possible idk but reading this, UNHINGED 😭. I was so excited to learn more about Lidia and this book did not disappoint, the Hind in all its glory. Lidia x Ruhn, THE SHOW STEALERS, the tension, the banter, the angst, STELLAR. Ithan, I read some reviews that mention that Ithan's plotline was boring, well it had me SOBBING ❤️‍🩹, playing the dead proud older brother card had me crying like a baby, his character growth was beautiful. MY PRIME. And as his howl finished echoing, he could have sworn he heard a male wolf's cry float up from the Bone Quarter itself. Specific CC highlights - Ruhn, Declan and Flynn, this friendship is so wholesome. - Jesiba, great closure to her character!! I loved discovering more about her, (before her death lol.) - SABINE'S DEATH - No more of Danika's secrets!!! - Baxian - Rowan's ring cameo confirmed 💍🦅 - The Underking, what do you mean he was called WYRD in another world?! PlEASE EXPLAIN. Specific CC things I did not like / question - Tharion, wtf was going through his mind all of this book?!?!?!?!?! - The final? battle, so much buildup for the Asteri and their downfall was so easy. - The water parasite, kind of random ngl. - The magic language beans 🫘 , again kind of random. - What happened with Ariadne? - What happened with the Viper Queen? - What happened with Sathia? - What will happen with the witches now that Hypaxia is head of HOFAS? - What will happen with the wolfs? If you made it this far into my verbal vomit, thank you 🥹. Mostly everything was wrapped up nicely enough that I am not sure what will happen in the next CC book, because as far as I now there will be another one? Nevertheless, as always, this was an amazing read, it does not get 5 stars because the few things I did not like really bothered me but, I love this world and its characters, here's to god know how many more years till we get more content... LET'S LIGHT IT UP. BYE ❤️‍🔥

SJM’s writing will always feel like home to me! Her talent to weave stories together is unmatched. I can always trust her to pull everything together by the end of a book, although there were a few things I felt were left unanswered at the end of this book. The way she pulls characters together who love unconditionally for each other will get me every time. Through all, love is possible 🫶🏻 Part one, I was smiling and giddy like an idiot. Part two had me falling asleep. Part 3 had me crying and my heart racing. I had to keep reminding myself that this is indeed a Crescent City book and to check my wants/expectations at the door. I’m not rating this book 4 stars because there wasn’t enough of certain characters (IYKYK) - I was pleasantly satisfied with that portion of this book. There were so many epic/incredible moments in this book, but when there’s a solid 150 pages that didn’t captivate me I can’t rate it 5 stars! I’m gonna say it, Crescent City is my least favorite SJM series. While I still love the characters and story, I just feel more emotionally attached to the ones in her other series. This book is my favorite in the series, though! It’s by far and away still in my top fantasy series, and I still really really enjoyed it. I’m a little depressed finishing it! SPOILERS BELOW . . . . . . . . . . . . . I’ll keep this fairly brief, because we did record a podcast episode where we liveish reacted to the parts of the book! Watch everyone become a Nesta fan after this book. I ATE UP every scene her and Azriel were in, and we finally get to hear our man speak more than one word🥰 Lidia and Ruhn were such shining stars for me in this book. The end battle felt extremely anticlimactic to me. Was it emotional at times? Yes. But my heart was racing more when Lidia broke the three amigos of the dungeons. I know SJM loves her characters, but it’s time for her to kill someone lol I truly wish that SJM would have taken the last chapter where Bryce actually meets the Inner Circle in CC2 and put it at the beginning of this book. Everything was wrapped up fairly nicely in this book - minus a few loose ends. I do believe SJM has said Bryce’s story is over, so I’m not entirely sure how the next book will go? Tharion and Ithan I’m assuming? TOG BREADCRUMBS (so spoilers if you haven’t read TOG) . . . . . Lidia being a part of the Brannon line? Lol no wonder I love her so much. I sobbed and had full body chills Urd = wyrd & obviously the under king is from TOG’s world I’m convinced the tattoo on Bryce’s back is wyrdmarks. Ithan wielding ice?? Sooo is he related to Dorian? All of the shifters coming from TOG’s world?? LFG

~3.5✰~ (no spoilers) Finished: This, is fact, did not become my roman empire. Or it did. But in the way that i can't stop thinking about how bad it was lol. I still loved it in my own way but I can't say I'm not sad that this is not a 5 stars for me after waiting 2 years. To be honest, I've been slacking on this review. I don't know why I kept putting it off, but I did. I guess in a way after I finished the book I just wanted to read some reviews and see what everyone else thought because we can all agree that this is nothing like what we expected. Like everyone else said, this was very unsatisfactory and underwhelming. I'm not gonna start being mean and shitting on my favorite author because why on earth would I do that? But the dissatisfaction persists bc I wanted to love this book so freaking badly. Sometimes people make mistakes and indeed we can all agree that Miss Maas really took it out the park with this one. It feels like she didn't really write this book. Like she just scratched the idea on paper, or more like a napkin and then sent a picture to her editors and was like "Here it is, y'all. Any other ideas?". The loose ends, the out of place happy ending, the off pacing of the story and the writing, Fury and Juniper basically being discarded, chaotic storylines to fill up the book, when the characters get in trouble and then something happens just at the right time to get them out of it very easily, Bryce's terrible character arc and I could honestly go on and on. I also want Tharion happy PLEASE. However I still enjoyed most of it just because I am pretty attached to these characters, ever since the first book so I can't say I minded these things as much as everyone else did and that's why I remain with the 3.5 star rating. I also know why so many people are *actually* the most disappointed in, but after all, I understood Sarah's view on this book, because this is Crescent City and not any other series. But it does make me think that this is either a filler for the next book or a cash grab. Though I don't think it is a cash grab just because in ACOTAR, the third book was my favorite even though not many people like it as much as the rest in the series because it's more of a filler for the story. I feel like the same goes with Crown of Midnight from Throne of Glass. I think Sarah is just laying out what's gonna happen next in the series. At least I hope. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Update: ok but the end of chapter 14 was a freaking tear jerker😭😭😭 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Update: as a character said in this book (that I can't mention bc of spoilers), Bryce is in fact a reckless idiot. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pre-read: It's timeee. I'm not gonna lie, I'm terrified ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Watch this become my roman empire

I mean, I liked the book, I enjoyed most of it but some things just started annoying me - Bryce doing a 180, for one, and the fact that I can't stop imagining Buzz Lightyear whenever they talk about the mech suits. (view spoiler)

The friends they'd made were what mattered in the end. Not the enemies. Through love, all is possible. After waiting so long for this book, it feels surreal to have finally read it. I'm still processing everything I've read and part of me can't believe I've actually read the book, but I just know I'm going to miss this world 🥺 Sadly, it’s not a 5 star read for me, I had some issues with it, but I loved the book, I had the best time reading it and was hooked from the start. I think this every time I read an SJM book, but Sarah is incredible. I wish I could get a glimpse into her mind because I have no idea how she comes up with all these plots 🤯 Unfortunately, there’s no way I can keep this review spoiler free. There are no major spoilers, I just think reading this may influence your opinion on the book in case you haven’t read it yet. And please don’t read this review if you haven’t read the previous books and are planning on doing it. I'm very happy with the way SJM handled the crossover with ACOTAR. I never wanted a big crossover and I was afraid that the ACOTAR characters would overshadow the CC ones, but thankfully that didn't happen. HOFAS feels like a CC book, albeit a slightly different one, and the way the two stories merged was done very well. It's so interesting to see how the two worlds are connected, and I'm even more excited to read the next Acotar book. We have so much new information and I cannot wait to see how it all plays out 🤭 Having Nesta and Azriel as the main acotar characters to appear made me so happy. Nesta is my girl, I love her so much and she stood out in her scenes. She's a badass, a real warrior, and it's incredible to see how confident she is now, so sure of herself and her abilities 🥹 Azriel was amazing too, I'm so curious to know more about him and I have a feeling the next acotar book will have his POV. It makes so much sense to me! This book started off very fast paced, there was a lot of action and a lot of moments where I felt like I couldn't catch my breath and I couldn't put the book down because I was glued to the pages, eager to find out what was happening. But some parts dragged a bit, there was a lot of info dumping, which is a common thing in the CC books, but some of this information was repeated a lot and it got tiring. Bryce was given all the information and I would have preferred to see her find some things out for herself. I also think there were too many things happening in this book, it got to a point where it was too much and my brain could not take it anymore. It was exhausting. Sarah tried to fit so many plot points into one book and it got messy. I was able to understand everything and I'm excited about what comes next, but there was no need for her to drop so many revelations and plot twists. Also, sometimes the change of POV was so abrupt, she cut them off at weird places and I don't know how to explain it, but it didn't flow seamlessly. Which is weird because I think Sarah thrives on writing multiple POVs. TOG is a perfect example of that. : ̗̀➛ Bryce was insufferable in this book and this is probably the main reason why HOFAS is not a 5 star read for me. I have no idea what happened but she annoyed me so much. I love her and I loved reading her POV in the previous books, but in this one I found myself not wanting to read her chapters. She was so impulsive and reckless, did so many stupid things because she would not stop for a moment to think things through. It made me so angry 🤬 I don't know, it was so hard for me to connect with Bryce. I think Sarah was trying to make her into some version of Aelin, but it felt forced and let's be real, there can never be another Aelin. : ̗̀➛ Hunt, thankfully, didn't feel any different to me. I felt so sorry for him because of everything he had been through and it was clear that he was suffering and carrying around a lot of guilt. But I love that he found a way to deal with his feelings and realised that dwelling on the past was not going to help him. Hunt is an amazing male and I hate that so many people can't see that. ・❥・Bryce and Hunt did nothing for me in this book. Their reunion was so anticlimactic and there was a lot miscommunication between them. Bryce, in my opinion, had a horrible attitude towards Hunt. I mean, Hunt was tortured and it was not the first time for him, she was well aware of his past, and still demanded that he be fully involved in her plans to destroy everything and everyone in her path? When she knew he had done something similar in the past and it hadn't gone well? I still love them, of course, I think their relationship is so sweet and I adore their friendship, but I expected more emotional depth in their romance. : ̗̀➛ Ruhn, my love, my life, my baby. He's my favourite male character in the series, I just think he's had a fantastic development, he's grown and learned so much. Ruhn could have been a terrible person, but he rebelled against everything his father wanted him to be and tried to be the best version of himself he could be. I admire how much he loves his friends and family and is willing to do anything to protect them. : ̗̀➛ Lidia is phenomenal, I knew she was going to be my favourite female character in the series and I wasn't wrong. She is the type of character I love, so complex and with so much depth. It was so good to get to know her and see who she really is, not the persona she presents to the world. She has a huge heart, it was very touching to find out everything she did to protect something that was so precious to her. ・❥・ Lidia and Ruhn stole the show, they made their way into my super special list of favourite SJM couples. I loved every scene they were in, they have amazing chemistry, they communicate well with each other and my heart is so full of love for them. Their bonus chapter was the cherry on top for me, so perfect and beautiful. I just wish Sarah had taken more time to develop their relationship, I can't help but feel it was a bit rushed considering we don't have that many scenes with them in the book. : ̗̀➛ Although I didn't hate Tharion and Ithan's POVs in this book, some parts were actually interesting, I have no idea why they had so much focus. Some of their scenes added nothing to the plot and it was just them making stupid decision after stupid decision. But I'm glad that they both seem to have learned something from their past mistakes. Besides my issues with the pacing, the huge amount of information and Bryce's arc, I was also bothered by how easily the villains were defeated. And so many things were just too convenient. And what happened at the end was so predictable, Sarah does that all the time and it's really annoying. I felt nothing when I read that scene. Overall, I think SJM tried too hard with this book, wanted to make it an epic story, but she filled it with too much information and forgot about the emotional depth. Usually Sarah puts a lot of focus on the characters and their arcs, but in this book I felt like the plot was the main character. I expected more, I expected to feel like I was reading a high stakes fantasy, but for some reason I didn’t. I know it seems like I didn't enjoy the book because I pointed out so many issues, but as a huge lover of SJM's books, I can't help but be a little critical because I know what she can do and a part of me wanted a little more from this book 🥲 Still, it was amazing to read this, I really loved it and I love the characters so much. I have no idea what will happen in the next CC book, the main plot is nicely wrapped up but there are some loose ends and I'm curious to see what will come in the next book.

Flashes of horror, echoes of guilt—truths were twisted, and blood was spilt... this one’s got skeletons and sermons. RTC!! ೃ ⁀➷pre-view:🎯 "King is back with blood and bite—Twisted plots that’ll grip you tight." "Revenge, chaos & Holly Gibney back on the case... will haunt you- a chilling chase." "One killer's twisted mission, one stalker’s deadly obsession—what happens when the clock runs out?" 🎭 — OH YES, I’M HERE FOR IT🕵️‍♀️ ╰┈➤ What’s in Store for You : ⮞A chilling investigation with an unpredictable killer ⮞A feminist under attack and a bodyguard trying to protect her ⮞Deep moral dilemmas and questions of justice and revenge ⮞King’s signature tension and twisted characters ⮞A jaw-dropping Twist that only Stephen King could pull off. ⮞Get ready for a novel that’ll make you flinch—if you dare to blink. -Scored the ARC—cant wait to devour this!🤸🏻‍♀️ We’re diving deep into the darkness—one killer on a revenge mission, another stalking a feminist icon. Expect twisted motives, high stakes, and Holly Gibney back at her best. Will she stop the carnage? Or will it all fall apart? Let’s talk about that villain—he’s out for blood, and it’s personal. The tension is off the charts. Expect a heart-stopping finale that’ll leave you begging for more. A case like no other. A mind game only Holly can play. Expect secrets, chilling discoveries, and a conclusion that'll have you questioning everything. Is anyone really safe when Holly’s on the hunt? Only one way to find out—hold on tight. Never Flinch. Justice. Chaos. Vengeance. This book is about to wreck me—BRING IT ON!!!💥

?🟊🟊🟊½ This review will be more like a literary analysis—it's just that the book is brand new, and I’m too lazy to come up with something original right now. So instead, I’ll just try to answer the eternal question: what did the author mean? Maybe someday, once a bit more time has passed since the book’s release, I’ll update the review. In the end, time will tell. In *Never Flinch*, Stephen King once again brings readers face to face with Holly Gibney—an introverted but deeply intuitive private investigator known from his previous works. The novel blends a tense thriller with a psychological portrait of a heroine facing tough choices, moral dilemmas, and disturbing human behavior. The title, *Never Flinch*, is not just a slogan—it’s a call for both the characters and the readers to maintain inner strength in the face of violence, fear, and injustice. King uses two main narrative threads—an investigation into a series of murders committed by a man who believes he is punishing "sinful" women, and the case of a feminist activist being stalked by a fanatical, yet socially accepted man. Holly navigates between them, serving as both a moral filter and a human compass. Her struggle is not only against criminals, but also with the gray area between law and justice, between good and evil. One of the novel’s greatest strengths is the emotional and psychological depth of Holly. She is far from the classic detective archetype—insecure, internally scarred, socially unusual. But it's precisely through these vulnerabilities that King creates an inspiring character. Holly isn’t a heroine because she is fearless, but because she fights despite her fear. This message—that courage lies in persistence—runs through the entire work. The themes addressed in the novel are timely and sharp—misogyny, online radicalization, societal hypocrisy in which some abusers hide behind masks of religious or moral authority. King doesn’t shy away from bringing these painful issues to the forefront and leaving them open—without easy answers. Despite the impressive depth of the main character and the relevance of the themes, the novel has its weaknesses. One of the main flaws is the exaggerated portrayal of the villains, who are often built using extreme and simplistic tropes—fanatical, misogynistic, mentally unstable. This makes the contrast between "good and evil" easier to grasp, but less believable and psychologically realistic. Additionally, King’s style here, as in some of his previous works, sometimes suffers from excessive wordiness. Long passages are introduced that slow the pacing and blur the focus of the tension. Secondary characters often remain in the background—they serve more as tools for plot development than as fully fleshed-out figures with inner lives. *Never Flinch* is a novel that isn’t afraid to raise difficult questions and show that the fight against evil sometimes requires not weapons, but strength of spirit and moral clarity. Through Holly Gibney, Stephen King creates the image of a modern-day hero—not perfect, but real. Despite some artistic flaws, the book remains powerful and important, reminding us that sometimes, not flinching means holding on to your humanity in a world that constantly puts it to the test. Pre_read I haven’t read anything by Stephen King yet this year, and by now it’s kind of a tradition for me to have gone through at least two of his books already. That’s why this 4th book in the Holly Gibney series comes at the perfect time. Honestly, I didn’t enjoy the previous one, Holly, all that much, but I still like the fact that the horror element isn’t based on the supernatural or paranormal. When the “monsters” are actually just people, it can sometimes be even more disturbing. Because the made-up creatures in his other books most likely don’t exist. But the villains in this series? There’s a good chance they’re real—and maybe even somewhere close to us...

The King is back with another murder plot for Holly Gibney. As per usual, we have characters who jump off the page and a propulsive sense of impending doom. For those with Holly fatigue, know that she does not consume this book. It's the new characters who shine the most, including an out-of-retirement diva and a women's rights advocate. The advocate is presented as an intriguing mix of egotistical bullhorn and heroic changemaker, willing to risk her own life for the cause—but also a lot of bystanders. The diva has a kind soul but is also a badass. The villain(s), surprisingly, are less fleshed out this time. King's bad guys are often the real stars of the show. Not so much this go around. Though vaguely interesting, there's not the same level of threat as we saw in Mr. Mercedes and The Outsider. Never Flinch is more focused on relationships between the good guys. That's not necessarily a bad thing. The ending comes together in a cinematic fashion. Though improbable and occasionally even a headstratcher, it'll make for good television. We all know King struggles with endings and this is no exception, but it's far from his worst and satisfies in a general, unremarkable way. In the afterward King opens with acknowledgement Never Flinch was "hard" to write and even on the brink of being discarded at times. This confession seems to anticipate bad reviews, or recognition this novel is not at the same caliber as his finer masterpieces. Personally, I found it more enjoyable than recent efforts like Sleeping Beauties and Fairy Tale, even if less imaginative. Overall, if you've read all the prior Holly books, you might as well come along for one more adventure. It's not King's best book, and probably the worst Holly book overall, but even the "worst" King book is better than 90% of other novels out there. I had a good time!

I’m going to say 4.5 stars 🌟 for this book. Not a 5 that pleases some! ( you know who you are) Well what can i say Holly is back and in crime fighting mode and body guard mode. The gang is back from the mr Mercedes series, Holly etc. I love reading the new king books but I’m always annoyed that I have to wait for the next one. As is known king is my favourite author I know I should give less stars sometimes but because I’m a fan that’s never going to happen so there 😂.

Ever since her encounter with the Harris, everything has seemed to go rather uneventfully for PI Holly Gibney and her investigation agency Finders Keepers taking care of minor matters; however, things are about to change when Detective Izzy Janes is faced with the fact there's now a serial killer in Buckeye City, a serial killer who wants to take the lives of 13 innocents and a guilty one as payment on the death of an innocent man wrongfully convicted and who ended dead while in prison. While Izzy is a seasoned detective, Holly has an eye for details that are usually missed by most people. Holly's advice would only seem suitable here. At the same time, and growing in popularity is Kate McKay, an activist on women's rights who's touring in several states, and who's being closely followed by a dangerous stalker. After an attack to Kate's assistant and some rather unpleasant events with security staff, Kate hires Holly to be her personal bodyguard. Holly has to make sure Kate ends her tour safe and sound, but such task will only hinder her ability to assist Izzy with her serial killer and everybody knows well that he who serves two masters is wronged by one of them. Jerome Robinson, a very close friend of Holly's might then be of help here. Will Izzy be able to chase and catch the killer before he takes over his prey? Will Holly be able to accomplish her job as bodyguard for Kate McKay? On top of the serial killer and the stalker, there's also the charity event held by Buckeye City Police and Fire Departments. There are many things going on and many people involved, which makes everything more complex and cumbersome. How will Holly and friends make sure to save the day once again (if at all possible)? As usual, there's just one way to find out. Once again, SK has achieved to put together a story where most human emotions coexist and takes us in a journey of thrill.

** spoiler alert ** Edit: I am changing my rating to 4 stars. While I had a good time reading this, there are a few (minor, for me, though YMMV) issues, including a rather haphazard and disappointing climax and visible stitching in the construction of this book’s many plotlines. The Sista Bessie stuff could have been cut completely while not impacting the overarching story one bit. As well, I needed a bit more from Trig—the stuff with his dad felt weirdly underdeveloped. I think this one should’ve gotten another rewrite. Still, I had a great fucking time. That’s what it’s about. Torn between 4 and 5 stars, but I am feeling generous. Let’s say 4.5 rounded up. What a BLAST. I do wish it were a bit longer—I wanted a few things here and there fleshed out, it really seems King restrained himself—but I suppose if I finish wanting more that’s only a positive? I am a big ole Holly Gibney fan now (that wasn’t always the case!) so take my rating with some salt. What I can’t get over is the plotting, how intricate it is: shades of something like Cujo or Needful Things in that sense. King mentions in the afterword that writing this particular story was a challenge due to the necessary plotting. I think he aced it. Fab!

If Holly Gibney has no fans I’m dead

As a longtime fan of Holly Gibney, I was excited to see her return in this dual- crime narrative. Stephen King gives us a tightly plotted mystery that showcases Holly at her best—wise, intuitive, rule-following, and always underestimated. Always Holly! Her neurodivergence and quiet charisma make her an unforgettable character, someone both men and women trust, and it’s exactly that disarming nature that makes her such an effective investigator. This time, Holly teams up with Izzy, a Buckeye police detective, to investigate a chilling serial killer case. A cryptic note—“13 innocents, 1 guilty”—sets the tone for a multi-layered story involving not just one mystery, but another subplot involving Kate, a women’s rights activist being stalked while on a tour. Holly is hired to be her bodyguard. King cleverly weaves the two storylines together, and while we know early on who the killer is, the real tension lies in watching Holly piece everything together. It’s interesting how her mind works. Though I did have a hard time making sense of the killer’s agenda. The ending is pulse-pounding and deeply satisfying. King’s prose is sharp, the pacing tight, and Holly’s emotional and intellectual depth is what truly drives this book. The secondary characters in this novel are also exciting to get to know. Highly recommended for fans of character-driven crime fiction and anyone who’s loved Holly in previous stories. I listened to the audio narrated by Jessie Mueller who absolutely killed it. She belts out some of the songs in this novel and sounds amazing.

I liked this, but - and it pains me to say it - I didn't love it. King said in his afterword that it was a struggle to write and seemed like he wasn't particularly happy with the finished product. I wasn't surprised, I felt that struggle while I was reading it. Though I enjoyed spending time with Holly again, I feel it might be time to retire the saintly Barbara, why is she so unbelievably good at everything? 🧐 I winced and pretty much eye rolled myself into another dimension every time someone mentioned how wonderful she was 🙄. The villain was great though, believably crazy, his reasoning for his actions was chilling, and the ending was suitably tense. Sadly only 4 stars for this one, for me the usual magic was missing, hopefully just a blip and Mr King will be back on form for the next one.

I didn't enjoy this as much as Holly but it's still good. This time Holly has taken a job as a bodyguard to a woman who is a controversial proponent of women's rights. So much so that she is receiving death threats. However it takes her assistant being attacked for her to call in a bodyguard. Her story is intertwined with that of a potential serial killer on the loose. Noone seems to take the threats to kill 13 innocents and 1 guilty to begin with, until the bodies start piling up. Holly, along with her assistants and other helpers, have to discover the culprit before he kills again. As I said, not my favourite King book but Holly has grown on me over the years. I did spend a lot of time yelling the connection at my audiobook but then, as a reader, you're in a unique position to have an overview. I forget sometimes. I listened to the audiobook, which was well narrated by Jessie Mueller ie no histrionics or melodrama and no silly "voices". In general, a little farfetched but otherwise a good story.

I read this like it was on fire…because it was due yesterday at 6pm, and I was invested! It was down to the wire, but I managed to finish an hour and a half early. I love Holly Gibney. She’s my favorite Stephen King character. She’s socially awkward, anxious and self-doubting, but she is also a major badA, it doesn’t even matter that she’s five foot nothin’. Holly makes connections like no one else, and that’s what makes her such a phenomenal investigator. It’s always fun to read about her hunting down clues. This is the fourth novel featuring Holly, and we have a serial killer yet again. After an innocent man is shanked, a man on the outside decides that a number of innocent people need to die to make up for this miscarriage of justice. Yeah…I know, it makes no sense. Add to that a national tour starring a very ego-driven women’s rights speaker, yet another nut job, and a famous singer staging a comeback in Holly’s own city, and the perspectives start adding up and take a little more effort to keep straight. You might be wondering how Mr. King brings it all together. Well, suffice it to say, he does, and in a way that few authors can. This is another page-turner, and I’m glad I raced against the clock to finish it. Now, for one of my minor pet peeves when it comes to Stephen King’s more recent body of work, and I say this with love and respect—please, please find a couple of advance copy readers in their teens or early twenties. They would have saved you from writing that a young female sees someone with large breasts and refers to them as “giant bazooms”, and they would have pointed out other instances of slang that really aren’t used anymore, unless you’ve been on this earth for a good, long while. I have noticed this in the last three or four novels, if not more. There’s some secondhand embarrassment when I read phrases that scream sixties, seventies, etc, when they are coming from someone born in the 21st century. It’s jarring, and it pulls me out of the story. Anyway, it’s not a dealbreaker, and I will happily look forward to more novels, and they will assuredly also be awesome…but it’s just something to think about. I still love you, Stephen, even if I can’t read a few of your books because they will literally give me nightmares. (Speaking of, there’s a fair amount of violence and gore in here…FYI.)

Background – “Never Flinch” was originally published in May 2025 as a Scribner crime fiction hardcover. Length-wise - my original hardcover lists it as 439 pages. Plotline – This continues the story of Holly Gibney, one of King’s most unique and empathetic characters ever. Holly is currently the owner and lead investigator of Finders Keepers Investigations Agency, along with supporting help from the brother and sister team of Jerome (published author) and Barbara Robinson (award winning poet), and her close friend and confidante, experienced detective Izzy Jaynes. When it the book begins, Izzy’s boss, Lieutenant Louis Warwick has received a letter. A dangerous and disturbing, letter from someone named Bill Wilson, promising to “kill 13 innocents and 1 guilty” in what he calls “an act of atonement” for the death of an unnamed innocent man. The City Police Department is not sure whether to take the letter serious or consider it the work of a crackpot. Warwick asks Izzy to investigate it quietly in case something actually comes of it. But things move quicker than expected. Before Izzy can even share her concerns with Holly, random murder victims start showing up with notes of names placed in their hands. The man calling himself Bill Wilson is deadly serious, killing individuals of different ages, in different locations, and no visible patterns. And what is the list of names found on the victims for? While Holly tries to assist Izzy, she has her own client to deal with. And not just any client. Kate McKay, an outspoken and extremely controversial women’s rights activist, is in the middle of North American lecture tour promoting her new book. She’s drawing packed venues filled with diehard fans and supporters, as well opponents who disagree with her brand of female empowerment. To make matters worse, a stalker has targeted Kate, sending her threatening messages of violence to come. Then Kate’s assistant, Corrie, is attacked by the stalker, mistaking her identity. Kate’s had enough and decides she needs protection, but on her own terms. No police, and it must be a woman, which leads Corrie to research and find Holly. Even though Holly’s never done bodyguard work and has concerns about her ability to protect Kate, she thinks of it as learning opportunity, and accepts the job. However, what Holly doesn’t know, is that the stalker not only has financial support from a wealthy and powerful source, this brother/sister team is driven by their own religious mantra to eliminate Kate completely, and will sacrifice their own lives to accomplish it. Holly will need help this time to not only protect Kate, but also to keep her friends from being killed by a serial killer that is becoming quickly addicted to murder. Before the end, both of these narratives will come together in an explosive climax where no one is safe, and for any lucky survivors, their lives will never be the same again… Thoughts and Reflections – Let me say right up front, I a bit conflicted in my thoughts for this book. I enjoyed it, but at the same time have some constructive comments. Let’s start with the good stuff first. The plotting, pacing, and tension throughout worked well for me. There just didn’t seem to be many (if any) slow spots, although there was some wandering off on some unnecessary paths that I will address further. For me, King did a pretty good job of mapping out the frame work and structure – two major mysteries (serial killer and stalker) and several supporting sub-plots that involving Holly, Jerome, Barbara, Izzy, and gospel singer, Sista Bessie, that all intertwined together in a well delivered reading experience. It started slow, laying the groundwork and setting up the storylines, then heating up the temperature in the middle section, and delivering a strong King-esque climactic ending over the last 100 pages that left me a mostly satisfied and pleased reader. King’s last two “Holly” novels – this one and the prior one – are pretty much hardcore mysteries, in a similar style of John Sandford’s popular “Prey” series featuring Lucas Davenport, a politically oriented, hardcore detective and serial killer hunter. The dark tone, sarcasm, and political slants feel very relative to one another, especially the later “Prey” novels. Maybe even with a hint of William Kent Kreuger thrown in too. I don’t say that to be critical, but more so to provide a reference point for readers, and maybe some compliments. Either way, King has temporarily put aside his supernatural elements (for the most part at least) and focused on his writing on the traditional mystery genre, which let’s be honest, is no easy task. It requires strong plotting, peeling the onion on the killer through legitimate clues and red herrings, and staying disciplined in delivering a climax that makes sense and payoffs for the reader (which is one of King’s strengths, especially in this one). For me, what really makes King’s entry into the mystery genre work as well as it does (at least for me), is his character of “Holly”; she is the quintessential complex detective/private investigator character. She is a dysfunctional character (on the spectrum) that has a unique ability to deduce clues and analyze crimes. She is conflicted much like Benedict Cumberbatch’s present-day version of Sherlock Holmes in the BBC television series, and Tony Shalhoub’s private detective, Adrian Monk, on USA network. Much like those characters, Holly is able to synthesize complex clues and evidence, while at the same time struggle with emotional intelligence and almost any social situations. I love how King delivers situations and moments that challenge and stretch Holly, forcing her to become stronger and heroic in her own ways. For example, Holly makes a deduction in this novel during the investigation of the serial killer; half of which is correct, and half of which she is off on. It was cool to see how she is not perfect, but headed in the right direction. Holly is most successful when she follows her intuition, develops personal indomitable spirit, and refuses to surrender to the bad things in life. For me, King takes the Shakespeare and Monk premises, and then builds on them to create a uniqueness and quirkiness that only belong to Holly. I also enjoyed the Izzy Jaynes storylines – her investigation and pursuit of the serial killer, as well as her being pulled into the baseball charity game as the pitcher. It felt like King elevated her role to the main stage in this one, along with Jerome and Barbara. I thoroughly enjoyed Izzy’s handling of the opposing team’s number one jerk, George Pill. I really wanted her to punch him out on more than one occasion. I also appreciated Barbara’s developing friendship with Sista Bessie. It was special and a joy to read about. Now let me deal with the unnecessary paths that wasn’t always fun to go down. King doesn’t dance around political and religious overtones in any subtle manner. Instead, he deals religious and political themes in a head-on collision that may be hard for some. Too hard for others. I saw enough negative feedback regarding the abundant use of these emotional, enflaming topics in social media. It seems that there are those who were turned off by his overly direct style. I am not going to take any sides on that and just respect that everyone has their own opinion. I will just speak for myself and say that I get what King was trying to do in using strong political and religious conflicts as integral elements of his story. The challenge is that using a very polarizing situation and divisive time in our country also unfortunately makes us relive conflicting issues and deep emotions that we really want to have moved on from. Painful issues that we would prefer to see in the review mirror and not have to live through again. For some readers, this may cause a less than enjoyable reading experience, and even potentially border on bad memories. Do I think King used some of his political and religious references too much? Maybe… Probably… And I can see others being sensitive to that. Again, each person has their own opinion and I respect that. I won’t argue or disagree, even though this is a real-world battle being fought in front of us in pretty much all forms of media. For me personally, I didn’t let the references or comments take away from the story being told and will wisely I will leave it at that. Other Notes – “Never Flinch” is the seventh book or novella that features the character of Holly Gibney, and King has mentioned in a podcast that his early inspiration for this novel was the Lady Gaga dognapping case in February 2021. Overall – As mentioned fairly extensively above, I enjoyed this book and give it a 4-star read. I would also not be surprised if King decides to write another “Holly” novel. I think that he just cannot let go of her. And truth be told, politics and religion aside, neither can I. Here’s to more Holly!

Stephen King, master of suspense, horror, and humanity, returns with Never Flinch, the fourth book in the Holly Gibney series. Readers familiar with Holly—first introduced in The Outsider and later featured in If It Bleeds and Holly—will find her sharper, more determined, yet achingly human in her latest outing. Never Flinch delivers a twisted narrative with two interwoven stories: a calculated killer on a mission for "atonement" and a feminist activist’s life under siege. Both paths collide in a crescendo only King could orchestrate. King combines psychological horror, crime fiction, and a dose of societal critique to keep readers on edge. But even with its brilliance, there are aspects deserving critique—a testament to how high the bar is set for Stephen King. The Plot: Twisted Threads of Revenge and Justice At its core, Never Flinch by Stephen King follows two gripping narratives: - The Killing Mission: A cryptic letter delivered to the Buckeye City Police Department chillingly promises to kill "thirteen innocents and one guilty". Detective Izzy Jaynes, a seasoned investigator still haunted by past cases, recruits the reluctant yet brilliant Holly Gibney. What starts as cryptic threats quickly escalates into calculated murders—each a horrifying reflection of justice twisted into revenge. - Kate McKay’s Tour Under Siege: Kate McKay, a controversial women’s rights advocate, embarks on a multi-state tour. Her message of empowerment provokes a stalker whose righteous wrath turns violent. Holly is pulled in as Kate’s bodyguard, and what begins as routine protection spirals into a life-or-death cat-and-mouse chase. King balances these plots deftly, juxtaposing a meticulous killer’s methodical descent into madness against Kate McKay’s palpable defiance. It’s in the slow, chilling unraveling of these two threads that King strikes gold. Strengths in Plot Execution: - The dual narratives allow for seamless tension-building, keeping the reader engrossed. - King’s decision to intersect Izzy, Holly, and Kate’s stories elevates the stakes, leading to a thunderous, satisfying climax. - King’s trademark horror infuses the everyday—parks, auditoriums, and even quiet homes—transforming normalcy into terror. However, at moments, the pacing falters. The sections detailing the killer's thought process become repetitive, offering less intrigue than expected from a master of suspense. Readers may find themselves yearning for tighter storytelling as the middle stretches longer than necessary. Characterization: Holly Gibney’s Continuing Evolution If you’ve followed Holly Gibney’s journey, Never Flinch solidifies her as one of Stephen King’s most compelling characters. Introduced as a socially awkward but brilliant investigator in The Outsider and evolving through If It Bleeds and Holly, she reaches new emotional depths here. King explores her cautious bonds with Izzy Jaynes and her reluctance to assume the role of protector in Kate’s volatile world. Holly Gibney’s Growth: - Holly remains sharp, resourceful, and resilient, yet King masterfully allows her humanity to shine—her vulnerabilities, fears, and insecurities are palpable. - King deepens Holly’s emotional layers as she faces ethical dilemmas and ghosts of past failures. Alongside Holly, the supporting cast shines: - Izzy Jaynes: As a foil to Holly, Izzy’s hardened demeanor contrasts Holly’s softness. Izzy’s moments of vulnerability resonate, especially as her past tragedies resurface. - Kate McKay: Fierce, headstrong, and at times difficult to sympathize with, Kate embodies modern-day heroism and its costs. - The Villain: The killer—motivated by justice warped into vengeance—stands among King’s most terrifying antagonists. Their righteousness, coupled with chilling precision, evokes dread on every page. King’s nuanced portrayal of good and evil underscores the novel’s power. Both heroes and villains feel real, flawed, and frighteningly human. Themes: Justice, Empowerment, and the Human Psyche Stephen King’s Never Flinch transcends the crime thriller genre by tackling themes that cut deep into modern society: - Justice and Atonement: The killer’s belief in retributive justice challenges societal norms. King forces readers to confront uncomfortable questions about guilt, innocence, and who gets to decide either. - Empowerment vs. Resistance: Kate McKay’s character highlights the enduring struggle for women’s rights and the backlash such empowerment often faces. Her stalker’s fury symbolizes the darker side of societal resistance to change. - Addiction and Recovery: Subtle nods to addiction—as seen in characters attending recovery meetings—tie back to King’s own battles and reflect themes of redemption. - The Fragility of Innocence: Whether it’s victims of calculated killings or the collateral damage in acts of vengeance, King explores how quickly innocence can shatter. Writing Style: Stephen King at His Best (and Almost Too Much) Stephen King’s writing in Never Flinch is quintessentially his—sharp, evocative, and rich in detail. The vivid imagery of parks, empty auditoriums, and suffocating hotel rooms immerses readers in his world. His ability to turn the mundane into the macabre is unparalleled. Strengths: - King’s prose is immersive, with razor-sharp dialogue that crackles with authenticity. - He captures horror in subtle details: the chilling tap of a killer’s footsteps or a phone call that freezes time. - His pacing in the final third accelerates, delivering a conclusion that leaves readers breathless. Critiques: - At times, King’s characteristic verbosity slows the momentum. Descriptions of minor actions—walking, driving, or waiting—can become redundant. - Certain subplots (like the recovery meeting attendees) feel underdeveloped, leaving readers wanting more clarity. The Climax: A Collision of Chaos and Catharsis The final act of Never Flinch is where Stephen King excels. The killer’s motives, Kate’s vulnerability, and Holly’s ingenuity converge in a violent, cathartic crescendo. King’s skill in tying loose ends while maintaining unpredictability is a testament to his mastery of the genre. The conclusion leaves readers rattled yet satisfied, lingering on the novel’s haunting message: monsters can be made from anyone, and the line between justice and vengeance is perilously thin. Critiques and Praise: A Balanced Perspective What Works: - King’s ability to craft a compelling, character-driven thriller with horror undertones. - Holly Gibney’s growth and the layered dynamics with supporting characters. - A terrifying, all-too-real villain who challenges moral boundaries. What Could Be Better: - The pacing drags in the middle, testing reader patience. - Certain subplots feel unresolved, particularly those involving minor characters. Conclusion: Should You Read Never Flinch? For fans of Stephen King and the Holly Gibney series, Never Flinch is an essential read. It delivers a twisted, thought-provoking thriller that balances horror with humanity. While not without flaws—namely pacing and minor redundancies—it showcases King’s storytelling prowess and leaves readers reflecting long after the final page. King doesn’t just tell stories; he builds worlds, populates them with unforgettable characters, and forces readers to face truths about human nature. In Never Flinch, Stephen King reminds us to question our sense of justice, trust our instincts, and, most importantly, to never flinch in the face of evil.

A few months ago, I read and really enjoyed King's novel Holly which featured one of my favorite King characters, Holly Gibney. Holly is the singular woman turned detective who was featured in the Mr. Mercedes trilogy as well as The Outsider and If It Bleeds which were all very suspenseful and enjoyable King stories. Never Flinch is King's new novel which also features Gibney. In it, Holly is hired by an outspoken women's rights activist named Kate McKay as a bodyguard while she is on her lecture tour. Her assistant had been assaulted by a young woman who threw bleach in her face and who is warned that McKay is a target because of her pro-choice stance on abortion. Holly takes the job while meanwhile back home in Buckeye City, a person is threatening to kill innocent people as proxies for a jury who wrongly convicted a supposed pedophile. The case has been assigned to Holly's friend Detective Izzy Jaynes and when the killer makes good on his threat by killing some innocents, Izzy turns to Holly to try and identify him. Holly uses her friends Barbara and Jerome to help in the identification but can she stop both threats before her loved ones are the ones being targeted? This was another thriller from King that did not disappoint. Although Holly was the main protagonist of the novel, the focus was really more on the antagonist, Trig, the deranged killer who is trying to put guilt on the jurors who convicted an innocent man; or is he? He is really more of a psychotic killer in the vein of Norman Bates. Overall, this was an enjoyable read but I felt it fell a little below King's best. I do, however, hope King writes more Holly Gibney stories.

As always, enjoyed the heck out of reading this latest Holly Gibney book. It had all the features I have come to love in a King book, the writing style, interesting characters, and clever twists and turns that take me places I don't expect go. Also appreciated watching Holly continue grow into her own. Other Holly fans will enjoy this newest one. I would suggest new readers read the Holly Books in order to really appreciate the character's development and how the recurring storylines weave through out all the books she is present in. But if you are just seeking a good thriller, this fits the bill as well. Now for a bit of a rant: I don't care if other readers are tired of Jerome and his sister Barbara, or if they felt the storyline with Barbara and Bessie might have seemed over-the-top, or their interpreting Mr. King's comments in the afterword that he struggled with the book meaning it isn't up to his usual snuff. Nope, nope, nope. I love the Jerome and Barbara characters, not as much as I love Holly's character, but I want them in the story. And citing any plot-line in a King novel as over-the-top? That's bananas given most of his stories include over-the-top elements and supernatural components. And struggling with a book doesn't equate with less-than. End rant.

Stephen King's reoccurring character in Holly Gibney was initially only to be a minor "walk-on" character in his novel Mr. Mercedes. However, King became so enthalled with the "meek as a mouse" character with a neurodivergent condition that she came back again and again in six novels and one novella. I have enjoyed observing her growth as a character in each subsequent books. I hope that King isn't through with her as a protagonist. This suspense/thriller involves two coexisting plots, one involving a vigilante serial killer and another involving a stalker of a pro-choice advocate. Early in the book, Holly and her detective agency, Finders Keepers, is contracted by her friend, Detective Izzy Jaynes, to assitst in finding a vigilante serial killer aiming to kill 13 "innocent" people to avenge a wrongfully killed prisoner. If this assignement wasn't enough, she has also agreed to protect a controversial feminist author and firebrand, Kate McKay, from a stalker. In Stephen King's usual style, these two storylines will eventually converge in an explosive, high-stakes finale. One of this author's major strengths is his character development. Both Holly as the protagonist and the villians are complex with nuanced personalities. The novel is well-paced and fast-moving. The author builds tension through the use of short, alternating plot lines that begin with date headings transferring to titles with one times by the end of the book. If you have avoided Stephen King because of his horror and supernatural themes, don't worry with this book. If you are a fan of gritty, realistic crime stories, you will enjoy this book. The story is dark, but without the horrifc elements.

Story 4 stars** Audio 4.25 stars** Narrator Jessie Mueller

I’m giving it a four because I admire Stephen King, but honestly it’s more of a 3.5, if that. King is not at the top of his game here. A few things I noticed (without getting into spoiler territory): the letter from Bill Wilson - it seemed obvious why he mentioned the numbers 13 and 1, yet Lieutenant Warwick has “No idea. He could have picked the number out of a hat.” The Borsalino hat: Kate insists Corrie wear her (Kate’s) trademark hat. Guess what’s coming next? Towards the end of the book, Sista Bessie refers to the “chicken circuit” when it’s actually known as the “chitlin circuit”. King knows better. I attribute some of this to the physical difficulties he encountered while trying to write this book (as he mentions in the afterword). I believe some of the lapses are the result of King not being as hands-on as normal. Lastly, I think it’s time to give Holly a break. She’s a good character, and I’ve read all the books that she is in, but it’s time for something different. I thought Billy Summers from four years ago was the best book he’s written recently. More of that, please.

Baldacci knocks it out of the park again! This was good with awesome twists that I definitely didn't see coming. Devine tries to uncover the cause of death behind a couple while their daughter waits in the wings to be adopted by her mother's brother. Thing is uncle isn't so squeaky clean with a criminal case hanging over his head. Girl on the train is also back and Devine has to watch his back or maybe she just might be the case to unraveling what's going on in this town! Solid 4.5 Stars!!!!

It's a smart thriller...intriguing to piece together exactly what is happening and why. Might have enjoyed more interaction between the "12 year old going on 45" Betsy and Travis.

Travis Devine, the agent with a heart, is one trouble magnet. He's sent to Seattle by his boss in Homeland Security to assist the FBI agent in protecting Betsy Odom, a 12-year-old girl whose parents died from drug overdoses and whose wealthy uncle is under RICO charges. It should be an easy assignment but when Betsy insists her parents weren't drug users, Travis investigates their deaths and realizes they were pawns in something much more world-shattering. What a convoluted, exciting plot with a timely topic that touches on the current world political scene. Too bad the publishing date wasn't before the November 5th US election. Many thanks to the author and publisher for providing me with an arc of this new thriller via NetGalley. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

This entire book is owned by one little girl. Her name is Betsy and she is EVERYTHING. In fact, she’s such an awesome character that the parts of the book without her in it pale. I loved her growing relationship with Travis and her incorrigible spirit. I loved that she tried so hard to be brave and tough, even as she was hurting. There were other characters in the book, but I barely remember them because it’s all Betsy lol. I want more of her. • ARC via Publisher

This newest saga of the 6:20 Man—Travis Devine, finds Devine in Washington State protecting a 12-year-old orphan. There are so so many plots and twists, and of course many blown up, shot and stabbed men and women. Also involved are an alphabet soup of government and police agencies: SPD, CIA, FBI, DHS. Also interesting are 12/24/65, the composition of cyanide, and Ricketts…and a reappearance of the “girl on the train.” Geopolitics, espionage and domestic terrorism take center stage, while greed and corruption fuel the action.

This author never disappoints!

I really had no idea where this book was going & every turn had me shocked. Two different parts had me bugged that did NOT need to be added…. IYKYK

4.5 stars You can read all of my reviews at Nerd Girl Loves Books. This is book three of the 6:20 man series but can be read as a stand-alone. I thought I'd read the first two books, but turns out, I hadn't. No worries. The author provides enough back story on the main character Travis Devine so the reader does not feel too lost. Travis is ex-military, worked as a Wall Street trader, and has enough skills and survival sense to deal with whatever is thrown at him. This time he's asked to help the FBI escort 12 year old orphan Betsy to meet with her uncle - a guy he served with in a battle overseas. But the uncle is now a criminal kingpin facing RICO charges. Something about the deaths of Betsy's parents doesn't sit right and Travis starts digging around, only to find more questions than answers. Things start getting dangerous and go from bad to worse when the girl on the train in Switzerland that tried to kill him in the previous book shows up trying to finish the job. This book is a typical Baldacci book. Full of interesting complex characters, crazy situations, and lots and lots of twists. I really like Travis and look forward to reading the first two books so I can get a better picture of everything that he's capable of doing. He's a pretty big badass and someone I'd like having my back if I was ever in trouble. The scenario the book is ultimately about is, quite frankly, terrifying. Not only because of what it is, but because it could be oh so real. {shudder} Sometimes ignorance really is bliss. If you like your books with badass guys that kick butt, lots of intrigue, twists, and fight scenes, pick this one up today. I received a complimentary hardback from Grand Central Publishing. All opinions are my own.

Big thanks to Pan Macmillan for sending us a copy to read and review. Travis Devine returns in another criminally laced saga where lives are lost and danger lurks. Acting as a body guard to a twelve year old who has just lost her parents under suspicious circumstances reveals a more human and realistic side. Betsy Odom saw her parents die. Placed in protective custody she has that pre teen abrasive and prickly attitude creating a reaction to law enforcement and Devine. Her Uncle has criminal connections and has had nothing to do with his niece, yet he wants to be her guardian. A number of suspects rise like cream to the top of list. Devine is determined to protect Betsy and uncover the truth behind the murders. Bravely he puts himself in the line of fire to pursue the truth. Perhaps it was the nurturing role but Devine was definitely more realistic in this plot. This did make the reading more pleasurable and authentic. A few twists keep engagement as the author weaves his talent for an action packed suspense.

Former Marine Travis Devine - now a bodyguard, fixer and investigator - becomes the prey in the third installment in this series. A threatening note in his pocket from the mysterious girl on the train is only the latest in the line of attempts to kill him. And finding out who she is isn’t the only thing on Devine’s mind. The Department of Justice has sent him to the West Coast to protect a young girl whose uncle is the defendant in a federal case. Young Betsy Odom’s parents died of a drug overdose in front of her. But she claims they were murdered. Can Travis keep Betsy safe, discover the truth and stop the woman determined to kill him. Suspenseful, gripping and intriguing, this my first time reading a David Baldacci book and this series so it took me a bit of time to get to grips with the characters and story, but once I did I was hooked. I particularly enjoyed the parts from the perspective of the woman on the train and was on the edge of my seat until the very last page. A great addition to the TBR of anyone who loves a great thriller.

Have you met Amos Decker? If not why not? Go and pick up The Memory Man, Book 1 right now and you will see why he is one of my favourite fictional characters. He is a character like now other, with his special abilities and background - but I will not spoil that for you. Get into this series and you will find out for yourself. Walk The Wire is book 6 featuring Decker and Jamison and I could not wait to read it. They are sent to a town called London in North Dakota when the autopsied boy of Irene Cramer is discovered by a hunter. Her name raises a flag on the FBI system, but they do not know why. It is the start of an action packed story where the bullets fly and the body count rises. This fracking town is a busy one, with not only the oil people but a secret military complex. Who would want Irene, a teacher, dead? And why was her body cut up and sewn back together. The more Alex and Amos look into it the more complicated it gets. The ending was surprising and clever. The drama never stops in a David Baldacci book and walk The Wire is no exception. It really is a brilliant series and long time fans of David's are in for a treat with some familiar faces making an appearance in this book. High recommend you start at the beginning with Amos, you need to truly understand him as a man. Thank you to Macmillan Australia for my advanced copy of this book to read. All opinions are my own and are in no way biased.

Quite a page-turner! Amos Decker is back with his partner Alex Jamison. For those who don't follow this series, Amos has perfect recall memory after an injury while playing football in the NFL. He used to be a cop and now he works as a consultant for the FBI. Their next case takes them to London, North Dakota where the fracking business is flourishing. A crime has been committed. A teacher by the name of Irene Cramer was found dead by a hunter. The murder plus the way her body was already autopsied is what makes the FBI start investigating. As the story progresses, it feels like Amos and Alex are ten steps behind whoever committed the crime. Luckily, they get help from a couple of special operatives that are watching their backs as the murder count continues to increase. I like the story and I like that Amos is starting to show more feelings and learning some social cues too. He makes a good team with Alex. I'm starting the next one right away. Cliffhanger: No 4/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Amos Decker #6 Amos Decker is a former FBI Agent. Along with his partner Alex Jamison, they are investigating the murder of Irene Cramer. Her body had bee mutilated. Helping to assist the investigation is two CIA assassins, Will Robe and Jessica Riel. The four of them together must try and defeat the perpetrators before anymore murders take place. The plotline is complex, intriguing and relevant today. The pace is fast in this twist filled story. It's a tense and gripping page turner. With the death toll rising, Deker and Jamison seem to be running around in circles. I like Amos Decker and his perfect recollection of everything. As always, even though it seemed impossible, all the loose ends were tied up. This book could be read as a standalone but it's always best to read a series in the order they were written in. I do recommend this book. I would like to thank NetGalley, Pan Macmillan and the author David Baldacci for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Amos Decker #6 Amos Decker is a former FBI Agent. Along with his partner Alex Jamison, theynare investigating the murder of Irene Cramer. Her body had been mutilated. Helping to assist the investigation is teo CIA assassins, Will Robe and Jessica Riel. The four of them together must try and defeat the perpetrators before anymore murders take place. The plotline is complex, intriguing and relevant today. The pace is fast in this twist filled story. It's a tense and gripping page turner. With thendea5h toll rising, Deker and Jamison seem to be running round in circles. I like Amos Deker and his perfect recollection of everything. As always, even though it seemed impossible, the loose ends are all tied up. This book could be read as a standalone but it's always best to read a series in the order they were written in. I do recommend this book.

This is the 6th book in the Amos Decker series by author David Baldacci. Amos Decker is no ordinary person and due to a football injury caused by a severe head trauma now has one of the most exceptional brains in the world. His injury left him with total recall, hence the memory man. Amos Decker and his FBI colleague Alex Jamison are back on a case, this time in North Dakota when they are told to investigate the death of Irene Cramer whose body was autopsied and abandoned. On investigation they discover Cramer was a prostitute by night and a teacher for a local religious sect by day. The sect operating on land once owned by a mysterious government facility that looms over the entire community. Further murders follow and Decker's memory and skills are pushed to the limits. This is an excellent series and would recommend that readers start from the very beginning with 'Memory man' to get the full experience. Great plots with excellent characters that grow and grow. This series is so well written and achieves an high standard consistently.

That was very intense and also very convoluted. I respect the writing and the ability to tie all of it together but I think it might have been just a bit too much this time. I still adore the characters and especially having Will and Jessica appear alongside Amos and Alex. What a force those 4 are when all together. There was so much going on in this book that I feel like my head is full of cotton at the moment. But still well worth a read and pretty impressive that Baldacci can juggle all of this and make it come together in the end.

Three of my favorite mystery/crime fiction writers are Michael Connelly, Lee Child and David Baldacci. There are very few books by any of those authors that I haven’t enjoyed. This continues to be the case for me with Baldacci’s new book, “Walk the Wire” which is his sixth outing featuring Amos Decker, and more often referred to as the Memory Man. Due to a life-changing head injury during a football game, Decker has perfect memory and cannot forget a thing. Along with his partner, Alex Jamison, they are two of the best civilian investigators the FBI has on its team. The new outing begins with Decker and Alex being sent to London, North Dakota, home of the fracking business - drilling down into the earth with water, sand and chemicals at high pressure to release gas and oil. The industry is enjoying a second boom period, attracting all kinds of newcomers hoping for a windfall, causing the community to grow faster than housing and supporting businesses can be built. Other problems have increased quickly, including drugs, crime, and prostitution. And now murder brings the Memory Man to town. Decker and Alex are called in to investigate the murder of Irene Cramer, who was found by a lone hunter in the badlands while tracking a wolf. What makes her death so different is the post-mortem autopsied already performed on her body, as well as her identity setting off alarms in the FBI headquarters. However, Decker and Alex are kept in the dark regarding who Irene was and why she was in London. As they investigate, it doesn’t take them long to discover there are many strange things going on in London. The more they find out about Cramer is confusing and conflicting. She was working during the day as a teacher for a religious farming sect located outside of town by an Air Force base. At night, it seemed that she was secretly working as a companion to the working miners. When Decker and Alex visit the religious sect leaders, they discover more secrets and sordid history. When they try to visit the Air Force base, they receive no help and are pretty much sent away from what seems like a mysterious run facility. Then there’s the two families that run the town – one that owns the fracking businesses and one that runs all of the housing and supporting businesses – who have a sordid and darkly intertwined history that seems to be spilling into the middle of their investigation work. It doesn’t take log for another murder and a disappearance to occur and things move toward a deadly discovery that could have large scale impacts… I am finding myself basking in the afterglow of enjoyment of another solid Baldacci outing. There are few constants in life, but one of the few I can look forward to is having two David Baldacci novels to read each year. He has been like clockwork the past several years. Twice a year – in May and November – he publishes a new book that I have already reserved at my local library. My excitement level and anticipation are always at peak level, knowing my reading experience will be an exhilarating roller coaster ride. As expected, this Decker adventure moves along at a fast pace, moving from information gathering scene to another in staccato fashion. This time there are more violent, life-threatening scenes for Decker than in previous novels, but hat only adds to the mystery and suspense. Baldacci has his winning formula down and demonstrates it well with multi-faceted characters, frontier style western town settings, and a strongly layered clues throughout the story. And when the mystery eventually reveals itself towards the end, it is a well-developed climax that provides several surprises, including a surprising crossover appearance of three of Baldacci’s other popular characters that work well with Decker and Alex. I won’t give away their identities to spoil anything, but they work well together, contrast nicely with each other, and even help each other to grow. In my opinion, one of Baldacci’s greatest strengths as a writer is his uncanny ability to wrap a plot together in such a strong manner where the mystery, suspense, and clues are revealed one at a time like peeling away the layers of an onion. For example, as Amos diligently investigates Cramer’s murder, interviews people of interest, and converts clues into information, the underlying tension builds from a steady, building boil to a fulfilling and pleasing outcome. For an author that produces two books a year, he consistently delivers intricate plotting and pacing. Each character introduced is unique and their own, and the interactions between them and Decker flow with a rhythm almost lyrical in nature. Amos Decker is one of my favorite Baldacci characters. His unique skills are balanced by his lack of physical strength and social acumen. Although he contributes to the betterment of society, he is a person who learning, growing, and fighting to overcome his own challenges and weaknesses. IN this outing, Baldacci spends more time on Decker’s relationships with his family and moves his character forward in his personal development. Decker is full of conflict and someday I hope he will see Jamison as potentially more than just a work partner. Overall, it’s an enjoyable journey for readers to solve the mystery before Decker does while experiencing their own personal journey. In my case, I think I damaged a brain cell or two trying to beat him to the resolution. If you haven’t tried reading Baldacci, this is an excellent series to start with. Give Memory Man a try… You won’t regret it…

Good mix by throwing Amos Decker and Jamison in with Roby, Reel and Blueman. Action packed as ever, but not sure everyone could really get out of some of the predicaments. Multiple story lines going on, so it did get a bit confusing from time to time.

The only reason I’m giving this 4 stars is because it was slow going initially with all the information about fracking. It moved on to secretive naval activities, several deaths and close calls for Amos, Alex and even Robie. They investigated many leads and I learned a bit about N. Dakota, which was illuminating. Very entertaining and the end was fantastic!

David Baldacci is one of my favorite authors but the poor man...for some reason...can't seem to count past 6. He creates these great characters and sets them about their jobs and makes we the reader, care about them and really like them...then there is no more. I was pleasantly surprised when Will Robie and Jessica Reel showed up to help Amos and Alex. I see that they show up again in the 2014 novella in the Camel Club series..."Bullseye". This book..."Walk The Wire", had an interesting and way different plot than the others in this series. Along with the murders...and there were a lot of them for such a small town...we have a large government conspiracy that threatened to take the entire little town off the map. There was a lot of information about fracking that most folks will gladly skip over. The book took too long to get to what most of us read this series for...to watch Amos use that amazing memory of his and catch the bad guy, Rest in peace Amos Decker...maybe you'll get to star in another series.

There are a couple problems for me to rate this 5 starts. First off there was too many things going on. A couple bylines easily could have been dropped. And shame on you for bashing ND. Travel around the state a few times and find the wonder! This did not take place in the flats of the Red River Valley. The land around and including the badlands is phenomenal. You only need to love wide open spaces :) So I gave it an extra star because I love Robie and Reel. And that is my 4 star story.

Baldacci never disappoints me. This 6th installment in the life of the Memory Man, Amos Decker and his female sidekick, Alex Jamison finds them in North Dakota investigating a couple of murders that left a lot of open questions about the victims and why they were targeted. More than one plot going on here and some convoluted scenes, with questionable autopsy findings of the first two female victims, and then two male suicides that don't seem very likely. They have their hands full. When other Baldacci characters are brought in from other of his series, namely Will Robie and Jessica Reel, we know right off the bat that there is more to what's going on in this fracking town besides the gas/oil business of fracking, as Will and Jess are well known as international snipers whose goal is covertly keeping the USA and their agents safe. Something urgent and critical is happening here in this small town and they intend to get to the bottom of it before any harm is done. Decker & Jamison are a good investigative team, Robie and Reel have their backs when things get tenuous. The tension escalates, the turns of events we don't foresee, and the action we are accustomed to witnessing with the awesome Robie and Reel team, made this a fast & enjoyable read for me.

Page turning thriller with multiple twists and turns and intersecting stories.

One of my favourite authors has done it again. Fast paced, red herrings, and a couple of "I didn't see that coming" made this a very good read and addition to the Amos Decker series - love the addition of Will Robie in this book. 4.5 stars and 2 thumbs up! From the blurb: A town with a secret. A lone hunter discovers the remains of a woman in North Dakota’s Badlands. She appears to have had a post-mortem performed on her reminiscent of those only seen on TV shows – but this time, there was no slab, morgue or camera in sight. A victim without a past. The reason why Irene Cramer’s death merits an FBI investigation becomes rapidly clear when key questions surface about her mysterious past. Little is known about this school teacher, where she came from or her true identity. She clearly had something to hide. A hero with a unique skill. FBI investigator, Amos Decker and his colleague, Alex Jamison, are summoned to seek answers in the local community of London, North Dakota, which sits at the very heart of the fracking industry. Enriched with oil money, jealousy and a deep-set rivalry lie beneath a veneer of glitz and opulence. Decker soon realizes that the nearby ‘eye in the sky’, the Air Force Station, may hold the vital clues and that this town holds secrets so explosive that they could destabilize the entire country . .

I’ve read most of David Baldacci’s books and particularly enjoyed the Amos Decker series. In this novel FBI agents Decker and Jameson are investigating murder and nefarious goings on in the wilds of North Dakota. The mutilated body of Irene Cramer is discovered by a tracker but who murdered her and how is her death linked to a local airforce base where there are many secrets to uncover? This book has a fast moving plot and a plethora of Baldacci characters who regular readers will recognise. It has many twists and turns which kept me on my toes and it was only at the end that I truly learned “whodunnit” and why. As well as the mysteries being investigated by Decker, the author also uses this book to reveals more about our hero’s family when he unexpectedly meets up with a relative who is working for a fracking company in this remote area: This leads Amos him to reconnect with others whom he has not seen for several years.. The plot is quite complicated so you need your wits about you to keep up with all that is going on. If you like fast paced reads which are true escapism this is certainly the book for you. Reading this during the dark times of a global pandemic this novel definitely transported and entertained me for which I am grateful. Thanks to NetGalley and the publishers for my arc in exchange for an honest review.

Another Amos Decker quick read. The Jack Reacher type FBI agent with memory enhancement after an American football injury. Storyline romps along. Bodies and assassins appearing everywhere. Decker and his partner Alex Jamison are solid characters. I also liked the Will Robie character. Most disturbing part of the book was the description of exactly what Fracking entails in oil extraction 😳

I love David Baldacci's Amos Decker character. Such a unique slant on characterisation and now that we're onto the sixth book in the series it pleases me to see that Baldacci has been able to evolve Decker's character in new and exciting ways. In Walk The Wire, Decker and Alex Jamieson are sent on a mission but given no guidelines to follow or told exactly what their mission is ... I loved this thrilling read. Over the series I've grown very attached to Amos Decker and am pleased with the way Baldacci has adapted his character as the series progresses. In Walk The Wire, Baldacci has delivered what he always does: a fast paced, multi layered, exciting novel. But what he's alos done is explore the very real human conditions that make these sorts of novels so believable. This novel is completely unlike any of the other Decker novels in that, Alex and Decker are working on their own ... or are they? I don't want to drop a spoiler , so I'll say no more on that one, although I think Baldacci fans will be pleased!!! Baldacci pulls off the top notch, super intrigue extremely well, with revelations and high adrenalin fuelled scenes that will leave your heart pounding. This is a highly recommended read.

Excellent story! I was on the edge from the beginning to end! Kudos to David Baldacci for writing such a twisted and complex thriller. The book was a complete page turner and it is no surprise seeing and reading the author's other hit classics! I am a forever fan of King and Maxwell series and now I am in love with our big guy, Amos Decker! Such a complex and brainy character! The entry of the wild assassins Robbie and Reel was completely action packed too! The only thing I wish Baldacci could have focused more on was Jamison's character. She was a complete lady sidekick throughout the book and it irked me. If only her character had a little substance and meat, this book would get 5 stars! That being said, I loved the whole setting of the book in the small, remote town of London, North Dakota. The dull, lost place added to the thrill of the plot in more ways than one! Quite recommended if you enjoy thrillers!

AUTHOR Baldacci, David TITLE Walk The Wire DATE READ 06/20/20 RATING 4/B FIRST SENTENCE GENRE/ PUB DATE/PUBLISHER / # OF Crime Fiction/2020/libby audio/ 11 hr 57 min SERIES/STAND-ALONE #6 Amos Decker CHALLENGE Good Reads 2020 Reading Goal 120/120; GROUP READ TIME/PLACE Present/ND CHARACTERS Amos Decker, Alex Jamison FBI COMMENTS Enjoy this series and this was another good addition. Amos & Alex are sent to North Dakota investigating a brutal crime … but they are uncertain why their services are needed. There are several storylines going and Amos meets up with his brother-in-law.

In the current book of Jack Reacher, there is lots of excitement and nail-biting suspense. There are lots of fights, both fists and guns, also a few weapons of mass destruction tossed in. This is all taking place in a small Arizona border town. I noticed that Reacher is getting further west than in the prior books. Scott Brick is one of my favorite narrators. But I am having trouble adjusting from Dick Hill. Dick Hill was Reacher to me for so many years. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book is nine hours and eleven minutes. Scott Brick does a good job narrating the book.

Again I haven’t read even close to all of the Jack Reacher books, but it didn’t prevent me from enjoying this one. While the voice of the book did feel different, I appreciated that the author chose to co-write this one with his brother. I loved the opener to this book, although I can’t talk about it without spoilers. I thought the adventure Jack was on in this one was good and while there is a body count it was much more realistic than the last Jack reacher book I read (Blue Moon). I really liked Michaela’s character (although twins named Michael and Michaela seemed super dumb to me). I know Jack is a loner, but I wouldn’t mind seeing Michaela again.

Better Off Dead (Jack Reacher #26) is written by Lee Child and his younger brother Andrew Child. This fast paced thriller is full of conflict, tension, suspense, unexpected twists and high stakes. Once again the two brothers' dynamic writing style has placed them on the bestselling authors' list not to be missed! Synopsis: Jack Reacher never backs down from conflict. With his 6'5 height, the highly trained tough guy takes on situations that leave readers on the edge of their seats. In Arizona, Jack discovers Michaela Fenton in a wrecked jeep while walking down a desolate road. Jack offers Michaela help, but little does he know that Michaela is an army vet turned FBI agent in search of missing her twin brother. She is more than capable of taking care of herself. Will Michaela accept Jack's help tracking down her brother? Better Off Dead is now available in paperback. Get your copy of this exciting Jack Reacher thriller today! Thank you, Penguin Random House, Lee Child, and Andrew Child for sending me Better Off Dead in the Stories and Suspects, A Bantam Mystery Box. #storiesandsuspects @RandomHouse #Partner #RandomHousePartner #BetterOffDead #JackReacherSeries #LeeChild #AndrewChild #ABantamHouseMysteryBox #PenguinRandomHouse #BookMail #Gifted @PRHLibrary @LeeChildReacher

I've been a fan of Jack Reacher for several years now. Heck, I even liked the movies, although Tom Cruise is clearly lacking the physics of the True Jack Reacher. (Then again, Conan the Barbarian worked well with Arnie - although the literary Conan has black hair and blue eyes, and no Austrian accent. Sometimes you have to distinguish between the pen persona and the screen persona of a hero.) Reacher works so well as a character because he's justice on legs. He's big and mighty, and he helps the little people. That's why he's so appealing as a hero. The novels on the other hand are working so well because Lee Child is a master of the plot twist, and also of awareness and deduction and perception. Reacher is a guy that might look like a brute, but he notices things silently. He's a little like Sherlock Holmes, but not so blatant. He's doing the silent deductions. Jack Reacher, always the vigilant type. There has been a lot of anticipation surrounding the last novel, the first Lee's brother was co-writing. This is the second novel of this transition, seeing Lee handing Jack over to his brother. (It was either that or killing Reacher.) It might be the last co-authored Reacher novel. So it's a highly anticipated and rather special novel. It's also special for a different reason - while it starts with an all knowing narrator (and the beginning looks pretty much like Lee decided to really kill Reacher this time - be still, my heart!), It soon turns into a first person narrated novel. It's how this series started (way back with Killing Floor), but it remained a special treat after that. Only a really small number of tales in this series are told by Reacher himself, and I am happy to see one added to the count. Because being inside Reacher's head is always a great joy to me as a reader. Good news is - this book is reminiscent of Reacher in his best days. I can't be sure how much of this is Lee and how much of it is Andrew, but if this is going to set the mark on Andrew's version of Reacher, then I'm fine with the transition between the authors. If it says Reacher on the cover, then there's Reacher inside. Supplying his own brand of justice. Generously. Rule 1: Don't mess with Reacher. Rule 2 to 10: see rule 1. Watching revenge movies is one of my guilty pleasures, and reading a Reacher novel is pretty much the literary equivalent. And Better off Dead is no exception, by far! Following the usual pattern, Reacher starts out mildly interested and kind of emotionless about the bad guys. Until someone really pisses him off. This was Dendoncker's operation. Dendoncker, who had sent guys after me with CS gas. It was time to turn up the heat. Literally. So, the new Reacher. I like him. Plot twist? Superb. Could not see that one coming. But there is one point nagging me. One thing that's inconsistent. Reacher has always been about efficiency. His final fight with a certain brute - not relatable. Because he could have been (and should have been) armed. Taking on a bigger opponent bare handed when you could simply shoot him is a typical Hollywood move. It's stupid heroism. But Reacher is neither a hero (not according to himself), nor is he stupid. He always fights dirty (because, as he once told, all his teachers had been fighting dirty; those who didn't weren't around anymore to do some teaching). So I think here was an unnecessary Hollywood moment, and I highly encourage Andrew to forget about that stuff. Get Reacher back to his old form. (Just think about the first Indiana Jones movie where that guy's trying to attack Indy with his sword, and Indy simply pulls his gun and shoots the guy.) 4.5 stars You can also read this review on my Blog.

Typical Jack Reacher book, this one about bad guys in the US making terrorist bombs. The first 250 pages or so move rather slowly; the last 75 are much better.

I love a bit of Jack Reacher and he always shows up just when the year is getting too much for me. Better Off Dead was a welcome respite from the real world on a rainy Saturday. Not the best Reacher novel, but I felt Andrew Child found his rhythm here a bit better than The Sentinel. You know what you’re going to get here, and I wasn’t mad about it.

On his way to the Pacific Ocean, 𝑱𝒂𝒄𝒌 𝑹𝒆𝒂𝒄𝒉𝒆𝒓 has reached a small nondescript town on the US-Mexico border. He comes across another Ex-Army, Ex-FBI agent 𝑴𝒊𝒄𝒉𝒂𝒆𝒍𝒂 𝑭𝒆𝒏𝒕𝒐𝒏 who is looking for her twin brother Michael. Michael is in the forced custody of the local crime lord, who has a flourishing smuggling racket. None of this is Reacher’s business though. But another veteran in trouble? No way Reacher is gonna back out of that. Then when Reacher is told to get lost by the thugs, it means he’s gonna stay and make you forget you ever said that! The second book penned by Andrew Child in this long-running blockbuster series, it seems to have found the Reacher mojo, so badly missed in 𝙏𝙝𝙚 𝙎𝙚𝙣𝙩𝙞𝙣𝙚𝙡. This is sizzling with the promise - Reacher is back for more!! Please read my detailed review from the link below https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-rev... Do Read 📖, Like 👍🏼, Comment 💭, or Share 🚩 🙏🏼🙏🏼 #betteroffdead #jackreacher #bookmagic #bookreview #leechild #bookrecommendations #bookreviewer #bookreviewblog #bookreviewersofinstagram #booklover #books #bookreviewing #bookreviews #bookreviewblogger #bookblogger #andrewgrant #andrewchild

The 26th book in the Jack Reacher thriller series starts right off with a shocking scene which leaves the reader asking, Wait? How can this be?? Then when more is revealed, we can sigh with relief and think, Well, that was certainly well done! Our hero, Reacher, is a 6'5", 250 pound ex-MP, drifting across the USA, heading slowly towards the Pacific Ocean, but in no particular hurry. He is currently in Arizona, close to the Mexican border, when he comes across a woman whom he thinks needs his help: she appears to have crashed her car into the only tree in sight. Reacher is soon set straight about what is going on here--it seems there's an evil man who may be holding the woman's twin brother captive and/or may be forcing him to take part in a dastardly plot. This is the second book in Lee Child's series now co-written with his younger brother Andrew Child (aka the writer Andrew Grant). I didn't care much for the first book Andrew helped write, The Sentinel, which I found overly violent. This one has its share of violence of course but it is not wholesale. There is a difference in Reacher's persona now that is hard to put one's fingers on. Less humor perhaps?? Less heart? A lot of the story involves Reacher thinking through each move he and his opponent(s) make in every fight scene. As a long-time reader, I could do with less detail there. I did enjoy how he thinks things through and figures out what is really going on and what needs to be done to thwart the evil doer and his minions. There you go! That's the kind of hero we need. I received an arc of this new thriller from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for my honest review. Many thanks for the opportunity.

Jack Reacher is back and he’s as good as ever. Other authors have aged their characters, giving them wisdom but adding in creaky bones and grey hair. The Childs, brothers, have kept their protagonist intact, as wily and capable in book #26 as he was in the beginning. With his large size and hands like catcher’s mitts, much of Reacher’s success is based on his physical prowess coupled with his opponents’ poor planning. Much of the series’ charm comes from the narration of the fight scenes that always result in Reacher outwitting a gang of bad guys. BETTER OFF DEAD is no different in that respect although there are some very nice twist and turns in the story that I did not expect. This is a fast read and a welcome diversion. I received my copy from the publisher through NetGalley.

Our lonesome paladin is back with a so-so 3-star story, but because its a "Reacher," I've got to give it 4-stars...All the usual Hemingwayesque sentence structure, overly descriptive settings and human observations and the science of street fighting, but what was missing, was a wonderful plot...What have here is very thin gruel...observing a woman setting up an ambush draws Reacher into a weapons smuggling and bomb making operation that may have international terrorism implications...Just Okay!

If you have read previous Jack Reacher novels, Lee Child has a definite style and when that style changes, the character also changes. These changes and the style difference is what leads me to believe Andrew Child was fully in control of the the writing. Change is good. Change leads to growth. Change is needed to grow a brand. Change is also hard for people to deal with. Most people fight change. No matter what, some people will never agree with change. Reacher has changed, slightly. Andrew Child's Reacher seems more brash, more aggressive but also more caring(?). It is these small changes, I believe, that will open up new avenues to grow the brand of Reacher and why Andrew Child will be a successful successor. I would like to thank NetGalley and Random House for the opportunity to read an advance copy of Better Off Dead.

This was the usual Jack Reacher book as in the Story is fast moving and keeps you turning those pages although after about twenty odd books he must be getting too an age were he will have to start getting a working over occasionally I really enjoyed reading this and recommend this for fans of Jack Reacher

This book, like the others before it in the series is heavy on the tech. It's well researched and well written. Carr is cognizant that a lot of readers won't necessarily know the technical info or jargon - in reference to both the technological aspects of the book, as well as the military and combat portions. A lot of authors fumble the ball in such circumstances by making it really obvious that they are explaining something technical to the readers. It often comes off patronizing. Carr does a good job of making it part of the story by describing the actions rather than through dialogue. I like James Reece a lot as a character. I've followed him through all the other six books. Not sure I love the ending on this one, but it sure does promise a book 8. And that's what's important! Rounding up to 4.

4.5 stars. Fans of political thrillers and Tom Clancy will love this timely novel involving government corruption, artificial intelligence, and competition with China. Chilling and very plausible. Jack Carr’s meticulous research and writing prowess shine throughout.

I'm rather surprised this is my first Jack Carr book, though I did stream The Terminal List. Does that count? :) There was a lot to like about this book, and it did remind me of many of the authors Jack Carr recommends at the end--Clancy, Le Carre, Fleming, etc. This was a high tech, government conspiracy, reluctant hero book, high octane book, and Carr does all of those things well. I especially enjoyed the subplot of AI and its influence on the military complex. That said, this is what I would term a "Guy's guy's book." So much detail about cars, planes, boats, even cigars! Seriously. It's a lot. It goes on for pages. And the torture scene? Don't get me started. I don't need every detail of a torture scene. So, depends on what kind of action flick you enjoy. Definitely well written. Recommend, with some caveats.

Talk about a high stakes thriller full of tension! I flew through both the audio and physical copy of Red Sky Mourning. ✨𝗪𝗵𝗮𝘁 𝗮𝗽𝗽𝗲𝗮𝗹𝗲𝗱 𝘁𝗼 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗺𝗼𝘀𝘁 𝗶𝗻 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝘀𝘁𝗼𝗿𝘆? I loved how Carr took the current escalating political climate with China along with China’s desire to re-take Taiwan, and turned it into a chilling race against time before technology along with AI can take control of America. ✔️𝗥𝗲𝗮𝗱 𝗶𝗳 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗹𝗶𝗸𝗲: Action and Adventure Tension Espionage Political Intrigue Spies Thrillers Mystery 📚𝗗𝗼 𝗜 𝗻𝗲𝗲𝗱 𝘁𝗼 𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝘀 𝘀𝗲𝗿𝗶𝗲𝘀 𝗶𝗻 𝗼𝗿𝗱𝗲𝗿? This is book 7 in the Terminal List series and my first time reading a book from the series. I easily read it as a standalone and was given enough information to where I never felt lost, but I wasn’t given a ton of spoilers about previous books in the series. 🎧𝗛𝗼𝘄 𝘄𝗮𝘀 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗮𝘂𝗱𝗶𝗼𝗯𝗼𝗼𝗸? Ray Porter turned this into a propulsive story worthy of the theater with his narration. 📖𝗛𝗼𝘄 𝘄𝗮𝘀 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗽𝗮𝗰𝗲? A steady pace with interwoven fast paced action scenes worthy of the cinema. ✨𝗗𝗼 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗿𝗲𝗰𝗼𝗺𝗺𝗲𝗻𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝘀 𝗯𝗼𝗼𝗸? If you are looking for an action movie in a book, that blends suspense, action and real-world politics, then this is one you will want to add to your summer reading. Full review coming soon Thank you Atria for this gifted copy for this gifted book in exchange for my honest opinions.

Another 4 star thriller in the Commander James Reece series. China wants control of Taiwan and perhaps much more, and devises a sort of Red October scenario: a rogue submarine commander who it alleges wants to attach Hawaii, forcing the transfer of military protocols, which are intercepted by a rogue tech billionaire, secretly working with China on an AI system. Worried about James Reece and his connectivity to Alice, the U.S.'s AI program, the Chinese send hired Iranian assassins to kill him; however, they miss him, but almost kill his fiancee, setting James out for retribution. The Chinese also have control of the rising Presidential candidate, who is also subverting the U.S. response. Exciting ending to the series.

Spectacular! Another Jack Carr novel and another lesson in history, geopolitics and most importantly critical thinking. These novels really prescribe the reader with a health dose of skepticism.

Loved the first 90%. The last 10 didn't sit well with me. I could not tell you why. As always the research is impressive and immersive; I learned some things so that's nice. I am very interested in how Carr moves forward.

It's the end of an era. But I am left wondering what in the heck happened to Reece's brain tumor from the first book? Alice has become my fav. I have been so immersed in this series that it will be hard to walk away. Jack Carr is so knowledgeable about so many topics that it becomes readily apparent that Cyber Warfare is a newer concept to him. While there are a lot of scary near-future threats here, the details that would normally accompany this type of op were sparser than usual. That torture scene though... Still a great book, though. 4-4.5 Stars

I started the Terminal List series a few years back. I think what I like most about these books is that they are written in mostly the post Iraq/Afghan War world by a guy who actually fought in those wars. You can go back and read any number of thriller/spy books from the Cold War era and you would probably find some better books than these, but they are also dated. This can be a good and a bad thing. Eventually, I will go back and read more classic spy novels, but for now, one Jack Carr book a year is great for me. Red Sky Mourning is the seventh book in the Terminal List series and honestly it probably was my least favorite book in the series so far. I always hated that spies didn't have families in books and movies. Seemed a bit unrealistic that every single spy never had a family. But now I get it. If you are writing a story about a spy, you don't have a ton of good options. Either you have to acknowledge that the spy has a family and completely ignore it which makes the inclusion of the family superfluous or might make you dislike the character for ignoring their family. Or you have to acknowledge the fact that this guy has a family and make that a central theme to the story which can be very boring. It is much easier to say this guy has no attachments and center the plot around the spy action. My main problem with this book is the inclusion of Reece's fiance, Katie. I just think she is boring and is getting in the way of the story. I hope she has fewer pages dedicated to her in future books. I also think Reece's reminiscing of his dead wife and daughter slow the story down as well. Thankfully, near the end of the book, it kind of seemed like Jack Carr might have been setting up the story to move on from so much of Reece's inner monologue being dedicated to them. That said, this book was still fun for me. Carr's little details and anecdotes about real life events, people, and places always keeps me interested. I especially enjoyed the part of the book that took place in Sausalito, California. He really brought the area to life with his description of the buildings. I also love that he brought back the AI character. Moving forward, it might be difficult to balance out that character's abilities while keeping the story realistic and compelling (she's just a tad too powerful). But it still worked for this book, in my opinion. I would recommend this series to anyone who wants to read a modern spy book. Jack Carr is great at what he does. I also think he has a good grasp of geopolitics. There is a reason a lot of the themes in his book have kind of "predicted" current events. I give this book four stars. If you love the series, there's no reason not to read it.

** spoiler alert ** 4.4! At its core, this is a story about loyalty. Does James do this for love of country? Is it for love of fellow man? For love of his family? Does he even owe anything to this government who has betrayed him. Do any of us? I was a little concerned going into the book seeing that the AI super computer Alice was part of the story. Alice wasn’t my favorite part of earlier books. That changed this book though. Alice’s evolution and affection and respect for James made it enjoyable. Especially taking on James humor and at the end when she took on his revenge. It was also cool her voice was like Lauren’s. I thought this was Jack Carr's best work in some ways. Specifically how he tells the story of James' thoughts as he talks himself through the best tactical approach as he is in the fight. Chapter 34 had a really long fight scene between James and 4 enemy combatants and James telling himself the tactical approach to take real time was classic Jack Carr. Basically, how fast he processes actions around him for his tactical approach and skills, narrating as he goes. Badassery. A couple books back James started hearing his dad's voice more, coming back to abstract lessons he learned from his dad as a kid. Realizing when he needed it most these were not abstract at all. It was his dad giving him wisdom and lessons he would need for life. Lessons that James was already providing to Lucy before she was gone. These stood out for me in this book, especially when he is remembering sharing his dad's lessons with Lucy. James was also seeing and taking to Lauren and Lucy a lot in this one, which I loved. The book was also about forgiveness, something James learned from Caroline in a prior book and Jonathan in this one. Lauren and Lucy also play a part with this book. Powerful. I do not know if there will be a book 8 in the series. I am told there will be by someone, but I do not see that anywhere online, and the story in this one does end with some closure that would make this a reasonable stopping point. There were times in this one I legit thought it was over. We will see and I will be there if there is more. If not, I have loved this series. "You are familiar with his file. He has a history of solving problems through the direct application of violence." "Reece was in the dark with 4 armed assailants. Surprise. Speed. Violence of action. He had now given up the element of surprise. He had capitalized on speed. Now it was time to double up on the violence." "Being suddenly submerged in water in the dark, is an uncomfortable place to be for most people. Foe Reece, it was home." 🪓🪓

Jack Carr’s latest installment delivers everything fans have come to expect: gripping intrigue, action, and political mayhem. Centered around James Reece, a beloved character who embodies the classic Navy SEAL badassery, the narrative is both timely and politically charged, reflecting current global tensions. The audiobook, narrated by Ray Porter, enhances the experience, bringing the high-octane scenes to life. Carr weaves in elements of foreign locales, cutting-edge AI, and the looming threats posed by China, keeping the stakes high throughout. At times, sections feel weighed down by excessive dialogue and overly detailed explanations, which disrupt the pacing. Also, the product placement is constant and detracts from the overall momentum. This latest in the beloved series is very similar to 007, and has its moments of drag, while still providing the thrilling ride that Carr’s readers crave. If you’re a fan of military thrillers, this series is worth the read—or listen! Still waiting on the bookstore/whiskey bar. To ponder: Who was the man with the Rhodesian accent in the end who owned the bar? Jonathan mentioned earlier in the book one of his buddies from the Selous Scouts moved to Malta and opened a bar, is it safe to assume it's the same guy? 3.5/5

Pretty Good I thought the story was pretty good and had a classic Tom Clancy feel to it. My knock and this has been something I see more and more from this author and others is the “over marketing” of products and it just feels like a cheap marketing stunt. Also, the amount of indulgent food descriptions felt unnecessary. Make it one scene but I don’t care about the different wines and various alcohol and felt it would’ve tightened the story up without the description

This was good but it did have a heavier dose of product placement to me. It got to be too much at times and I found myself scanning over these spots just to get past it. Reece does it all and barely gets hurt just like the other books. This one I felt was drug out a bit too much. I’m kind of glad the series is over (or is it?) but part of me will miss Reece. On to the next book…

Quite competent military action work: hero is fighting Chinese and American traitor forces to prevent Taiwan being invaded and the next nuclear war. Lots of action sequences, shooting, fighting, exhaustive listing of military equipment. The motivations of the characters are simplified,except for the hero. A beefy book, like the Seal team members, about 560 pages in normal print.

The best thing about these books is that they feel so real. The action is awesome and I loved the 007-esque feel to this one. This latest addition to The Terminal List solidifies that this is still my favorite series!

3.5 stars, rounded up I'm not much for political thrillers, but this one was pretty good. Probably won't go over very well with people who are fans of/loyal to 45, but seeing Clinton's name as author should make those people steer clear. I'm not a Clinton supporter myself, but she is a decent writer and I love Louise Penny, and loved the inclusion of Three Pines, Gamache, and others from her series. Overall, this is a fast paced, globe-trotting whirlwind of a story, chasing terrorists, bombers, and high level informants. I listened to this as an audiobook and Joan Allen is a stellar narrator, she is a great voice of Secretary of State Ellen Adams, the right amount of brains and snark to propel the story forward. At first I didn't think I'd be able to follow the story as there are a LARGE number of characters and the relationships are zig-zagged all around and intertwined. Yet the writing is clear and concise and I was able to keep everyone and everything straight and never got lost. The ending is definitely a set up for further installments in the series. Bottom line: If you enjoy a good political thriller, this is an excellent choice. Even if you don't, you might be surprised, especially if you're a Penny fan. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

I wasn’t sure what to expect when I first saw that Louise Penny and Hillary Rodham Clinton had teamed up to write State of Terror. At first, I felt skeptical about wanting to read this book but my curiosity won out. I actually listened the audio CD that was read by Joan Allen. State of Terror was most definitely a plot driven novel. It was fast paced, gripping and even suspenseful at times. Louise Penny used her writing talents to set the stage for a good mystery/thriller and combined them with the first hand knowledge Hillary Rodham Clinton brought to the table about international affairs and protocols to write State of Terror. Together they succeeded in writing a book that was compelling and hard to put down. Even Gamache found a role in State of Terror. It was pretty obvious who some of the political characters were in the book. Without giving too much away, State of Terror found newly appointed, yet a very questionable choice by the new President of the United States, Secretary of State, Ellen Adams, in a race against time. Only weeks after being appointed to her position, the Secretary of State was forced to navigate her way through Europe, the Middle East and Russia to diffuse a terrorist plot that included nuclear bombs. More problematic, Secretary Adams discovered that there were domestic traitors within the White House. Time was not on her side. Could she stop the nuclear bombs from going off, expose the traitors in the White House and win the respect of the President of the United States? I enjoyed listening to the audio CD of State of Terror by Louise Penny and Hillary Rodham Clinton. The ending led me to believe that this duo will be collaborating in the future to write other books together. I look forward to reading them. I highly recommend this book.

4.5 stars State of Terror turned out to be the savvy political thriller I didn't know I either needed or wanted. For me, this book covered almost the entire gamut of possible emotions or reactions. I laughed out loud, I shed a tear or two, I smirked, I scoffed. I was on the edge of my seat, I was bored, I was impressed, I was discontented. The scope of the narrative quite easily is reflected in the span of my reactions to it throughout. While Penny's influence and style are recognizable, this is not what you'd typically find from her offerings. Normally she borders on quaint and clement in her Three Pines mysteries, but with State of Terror the stakes are higher than ever and this is where the Clinton contribution comes in. Smart and fast-paced, this geopolitical thriller had my complete attention during the book's climax. The build towards to this peak was an increasingly intense rollercoaster ride that paid off in spades. There is a connection to Three Pines, as that village plays an important role in the plot near the end, but that injection, more than any other tongue-in-cheek reference, made me realize just how much fun these two authors had when writing this book together. There's such a balance to this novel — between the humor, the real-life allusions (the Trumpian former president, the Russian president who has ridden a horse while shirtless, etc.), but mostly it's the wonderful female friendship at the core. Even my reactions to it felt balanced. There was a constant ebb and flow to this one, stops and starts that elicited nothing but realism. If these two authors collaborate again . . . I'm in. Audiobook, as narrated by Joan Allen: Joan Allen was a slam-dunk for this audiobook performance. She has a fantastic, calm voice that reverberates with an undercurrent of strength. And the choice to have a woman in her sixties voice other women [characters] in their sixties is always the right move. In general, I'm finding that actors performing audiobook narration brings a more understated level of naturalistic performance than those of yore. They do so much more than reading out loud, and I am here for this transition.

The book grabbed me from the start. The story was interesting as were the characters. The book was written before the pullout from Afghanistan. I found it interesting how right on some of the comments in the book were and what actually happened when the Taliban moved in. It was more interesting to me that some of the key people in the book were based on real people. I could see that it would make it easier to write about someone you know than a made-up character. I do hope these two get together again for another book. I read this as a hardback book published by Simon and Schuster and St. Martin Press. The book was 494 pages.

It’s been so difficult for me to read in anything in the last year. Hell, I can barely concentrate on anything with the stress in this life and in this world. I started this book on audio - DO NOT LISTEN - as much as I love Joan Allen, the actress, she was so awful as a narrator, I tabled the listen for months. Tried it again and wound up returning it to Audible. It’s taken me quite some time to get through the rest of it. Concentration issues aside, we are currently at “war” with Iran. This book is fiction, yet it mirrors many current events (regardless of its release five years ago). I want to read to escape and this book has barely been an escape. I guess I need a fluffy love story with a fairy tales setting and ending … Anyways, it’s a solid book, solid story. It was very fun to find great Easter eggs embedded for us faithful Louise Penny fans. (I’m currently listening to her latest FYI). If you don’t like political thrillers, this book is not for you. If you’re not familiar with LP, then you may not like the flip flopped storylines from chapter to chapter. If you’re reading to escape headlines, again - skip this one but if you enjoy all this - and you love LP - give this one a go! 4.5 🌟

Rating: 3.75/5 ⭐ A fast-paced, plot-driven drama set around American politics where the President and the Secretary of State are rivals but the President has to trust the Secretary when they face an intricate conspiracy A one-sit read. The contribution of Hillary Clinton is apparent as one reads the book. The global drama and the fascist aspect are gripping and will keep you hooked. Most character arcs are shallow. I wish some of the characters, especially Gil and Katherine, has more background. It would have made them much more interesting. Also, there are many unanswered questions and loose ends. It does not make sense unless they are thinking of making a sequel. Not sure if it is in the talks. While reading, I can guess which characters were inspired by whom. What I liked: - The camaraderie between the women, especially Ellen and Betsy. Do read the ending notes, there is a hint about whom they were inspired from. - The light on fascism; it is a sad truth existing in every country in different forms What I wish was different - Character depths, left me wanting more. While I know it is common to not have deep characters in plot-driven stories, I felt a lack of connection. Little things like the addition of behaviour traits, and pet peeves, I believe, do make a difference.

My rating reflects all the tears I’ve shed for my country since 2016–also this book is definitely a warning ⚠️. If you don’t understand how close we are to losing our democracy, then study up and pay close attention! The beginnings of what happened in this book are closer than you think.

Secretary of State Ellen Adams loathes her boss, and the feeling is mutual. She’s convinced he had named her to the post only to find a way to destroy her reputation. And when he torpedoes a vital diplomatic mission to Korea that is intensely embarrassing to her, she knows she’s right. The fractured relationship poses immense complications for her when all hell breaks loose in Europe, and she is forced to swing into action. Massive terrorist bombs have exploded in London, Paris, and Frankfurt. No one has taken credit. Thus begins the new Hillary Clinton novel, State of Terror, coauthored with Louise Penny. Now, the Secretary and her advisor, Betsy Jameson, must use all the resources at their disposal to unravel the meager clues that will help her identify the terrorists. This starts a cascading series of events that subjects leaders throughout the West into a “state of terror.” And they will find that the reality behind the bombings is even more terrifying than they’d imagined. A SURPRISE TO THE LAST Like reviewers for the New York Times, NPR, and the Washington Post, I approached this book with trepidation. Books by celebrities always flash red danger signals for me. But this novel, the first Hillary Clinton has written, surprised me. It proves to be suspenseful to the last. And it would hardly be uncharitable to credit veteran mystery novelist Louise Penny for much of the book’s success. After all, writing a suspenseful novel requires a set of skills that a politician is unlikely to acquire in decades at the pinnacle of public attention. A COMPLEX STORY THAT UNFOLDS AROUND THE WORLD State of Terror tells a complex story that takes readers around much of the world. Secretary Adams alone visits major cities from London to Tehran to Islamabad to Moscow. And we learn of other action taking place in Iran, Pakistan, Germany, and Afghanistan. The cast of characters is also large, including not just Ellen Adams and Betsy Jameson but Ellen’s adult son and daughter, her chief of staff, the President and his chief of staff, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. And those are just the most prominent Americans in the story. We also meet Iranians, Pakistanis, Russians, Canadians, and several other world leaders. Yet it all hangs together nicely. REAL-WORLD MODELS FOR THE CHARACTERS Every character in State of Terror is fictional. But many are based on real-life personalities. The two leading characters, Secretary of State Ellen Adams and her best friend and counselor, Betsy Jameson, are modeled on two of Hillary Clinton’s closest friends. Former California Congresswoman Ellen Tauscher, who served under Clinton as Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, was the model for Ellen Adams. And Betsy Jameson was based on Clinton’s life-long best friend, Betsy Eberling. Both women died in 2019, as did Clinton’s younger brother, Tony. “The combination was devastating” to Clinton and helped motivate her to collaborate with Penny on this novel. The world leaders portrayed in State of Terror also have their real-world counterparts. Former US President Donald Trump, Russian President Vladimir Putin, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and Ayatollah Ali Khamenei of Iran all appear in speaking roles on the novel’s pages. And the authors eviscerate both Trump and Putin. Trump’s depiction is unsparing as “an arrogant fool, a useful idiot for the far right” whose policies had subjected the United States to great danger. Putin, in turn, is portrayed as not just vicious, conniving, and corrupt but as the head of the Russian mafia. A FUN AND ENTERTAINING BOOK It’s clear that Clinton and Penny had fun writing this novel. For the former Secretary of State, the exercise offered a juicy opportunity to take revenge on the man who was elected President in her stead. Her depiction of “former President Eric Dunn” is devastating. But Louise Penny had her fun, too. In the book’s closing chapters, some of the pivotal action takes place in the Quebecois village of Three Pines, the setting for the long-running series of detective novels she set there. And some of her familiar characters appear in the story as well. It’s all fun not just for the authors but for readers as well. ABOUT THE AUTHORS Hillary Rodham Clinton (1947-) was the sixty-seventh US Secretary of State. She served in office from 2009 to 2013 after eight years as a United States Senator from New York and eight years as the First Lady of the United States. She wrote or coauthored eight nonfiction books before State of Terror, her first novel. Canadian author Louise Penny (1958-) has built a successful career with her detective novels—eighteen strong as I write—featuring Inspector Armand Gamache of the Sûreté du Québec. They’re cozy mysteries set in the tiny fictional village of Three Pines in Quebec. The novels have won her the Agatha Award for best mystery novel of the year five times.

Exciting thriller that hits close to home!

Hang on a sec while I smooth down the hair standing on end and ask my hands to stop shaking. This book kept me up most of the night and its scenarios and ideas are worms eating themselves into my brains, leaving me jumpy. In other words, a satisfying thriller! I have long been a fan of Louise Penny’s books and an admirer of Hillary Clinton’s body of work, so a political suspense novel written by the two of them together was irresistible. I love Penny’s humanism and her quirky characters but have sometimes felt the gritty edges of her plots were less than convincing, so my hope was that Clinton’s (or as I like to say, Rodham’s) intimate knowledge of the White House and the Secretary of State’s office would save us from naïveté. That was mostly true, even though this book in the end is as much about love and friendship as it is about international affairs. Ellen Adams is the U.S. Secretary of State in this tale, a former media mogul chosen for her post by a president who loathes her and wants to undercut her and destroy her career, the consequences to the nation be damned. I’ve known bosses like that. The story opens as she returns from a disastrous diplomatic mission to South Korea—disastrous, she suspects, because her boss has deliberately set her up to fail. It doesn’t help that the previous president was a useful idiot (yes, that portrait is all too recognizable) who has hollowed out the State Department and strewn celestial poo patties throughout America’s global relationships. The pit of vipers that is Washington, D.C., is evoked in all-too-heartfelt terms, and Secretary Adams has her hands full sussing out the hidden agendas and avoiding pitfalls, all the while trying to earn the respect that is so much harder for female leaders to come by. She does it with zest and a refreshing lack of self-pity. Very quickly, stuff starts happening—a series of terrorist bombs strike European cities, one (view spoiler). We get a credible view of the investigative tools available to the U.S. government, cranked up to maximum speed because, of course, time is of the essence. Equally of course, the bombs are the least of the problem, and soon Secretary Adams is careening all over the world, always one step behind the malefactors. This kind of fast-paced material can be tough to write and it’s done very well in this story, without losing sight of character development and the arcs of vital personal relationships. It’s a very polished work that kept me engaged from start to finish, and I don’t want to say much more for fear of spoilers. Louise Penny has a few quirks to her writing that I noticed here, but for the most part they worked to provide the occasional breathing space any thriller needs. Fans of her books will be happy to learn that the Canadian village of Three Pines has a cameo role in the story; it might have felt gratuitous except that what that village stands for is integral to reinforcing the humanity of the characters in this tale. And ultimately, retaining humanity in a vicious world, hanging on to love and trust and principles are what the good guys are fighting for. I tried to imagine how a conservative might read this book. The bits (and they are only bits) about the previous president might stick in the craw, but I like to think that the underlying patriotism, the love for democracy and family, would translate well across the divide. So many thrillers seem to be written by people of a rightward persuasion that it was interesting and occasionally jarring to read a hard-edged thriller that was imbued with a tinge of the softness we associate with liberalism. Also one in which the action heroes were mainly female. I found I quite liked these variations on what can be a stale theme. And I deeply enjoyed what happened to the president of Russia.

I'm not American, so I have no idea how Hillary Clinton was as Secretary of State, but she won me as a writer! I was skeptical about this book because I didn't give her much credit, but I loved Louise Penny's Armand Gamache's series and so I decided to give a chance to this collaboration between Clinton and Penny. While I was reading the novel I watched some interviews of the two and learnt that they decided to write this political intrigue after a double loss: Hillary lost elections against Trump and Louise lost her husband. They found a way through their griefs plotting together a sort of spy-story, in which a female SecState (guess who?) has to face a terrorist emergency. In the books there are many characters inspired by real political figures: former president Dunn, for instance, seems Trump and Russian leader Ivanov is Putin. There are bus-bombs blowing in Europe and there's the danger of a nuclear bomb in the States and SecState Ellen Adams has to prevent it and expose a mole inside the White House. There's also a little appearance of Louise Penny's Inspector Gamache. I'm happy I read it.

I had doubts about this book coming in, but I am happy to say I was pleasantly surprised by how good this book was. Political action-thriller with Hilary Clinton's knowledge of politics combined with the heart and emotional punch of Louise Penny's writing.

** spoiler alert ** Part One: Picking up fifteen minutes after the ending of Fourth Wing, Iron Flame opens with Violet staring at her not-dead brother and not with her killing everyone in the room, which had been my hope. Xaden promises to tell Violet everything from now on except for the stuff he won’t tell her. Dain is just Ken. Violet lifts her chin once every eight pages and tries to make up for Liam’s death by taunting his sister with letters that absolutely do not belong to her. Xaden is upset Violet won’t say “I love you” while also never saying “I love you”. The school spends a huge amount of effort bringing one asshole back from the dead while just kind of letting other students get murdered in the hallways without interfering, like National Geographic photographers. There is also dragon stuff, I guess. Wards? Sure. Part Two: Everyone who didn’t hate Dain and assumed he was capable of some sort of redemption feels very smug (it’s me). Violet feels guilty about everything and Tairn continues to call her Silver One even though that and her name have the same number of syllables. Mira finds out Brennan is alive and promptly punches him, which was the right call. Tairn keeps threatening to eat people and then not eating them. Xaden has an ex who is an absolute bitch. There is a mountain hike that lasts like a hundred pages for… bonding? Xaden is a lying hunk of junk and Andarna is a bratty teenager who is also super old. Momma Sorrengail dies, which is fine. There is a battle that is about seventy pages too long and ends with Xaden getting Venin-vermined (Dorian’d, if you will). Oh no, whatever can be done? Someone should punch Brennan again. 1/17/25 reread: Reread update: the real hero of this story is Tairn, for remaining the growly voice of reason during uncertain times, and also for not eating his bonded rider and teenage daughter when a lesser dragon would have. Also, you know what? Dain’s not so bad. There, I said it. Dain’s not so bad. He’s fine. He’s growing and learning and he’s doing fine.

Who walks around with a spare glass of lemonade? Iron Flame is highly readable with a very simple prose structure. The pages fly by. On the other hand, this book is so bad at times that I laughed for at least an hour. Did Rebecca Yarros watch Monty Python while writing Iron Flame? How can you be a wingleader and not recognize that someone isn’t deceased who is at point blank range? And, if you were wounded, why would you moan or whimper to call attention to the fact that you aren’t actually dead? As if that weren’t enough, who walks around with a spare glass of lemonade?! Memes! I am ready for the memes! While I enjoyed this book, it has some deficiencies. There are far too many characters. Usually, they are introduced only to be killed off about half of a page later. One character in particular I was wondering, “Who is that?” but he was killed off before I could even finish that thought. Given the vast amount of characters, some of the relationships were not well developed such as the relationship between Jesinia and Violet. We were primarily told instead of shown that they were great friends. Furthermore, the suspense building is underwhelming. If Violet has 20 minutes to find something, why can’t she just find the object in the first 30 seconds? Yarros tortured these plot devices until they were begging for mercy. There was one event that occurred 3 times in a relatively short period of time. Additionally, the steamy scenes were not as satisfying as in Fourth Wing. Where was the buildup, the longing, the burning desire? If you enjoy an action-packed, highly readable book but can just go with the laughable parts, try out this trending book. How much I spent: Hardcover text - $12.93 pre-ordered on Amazon (yes with the tinted edge) Audiobook – Free through Libby 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

1.) Fourth Wing ★★★★★ I am so torn on giving this a three or four star rating. this book was for sure too long, and for sure had way too many parts that i had to push myself through, but the end of this book felt five stars to me, so here we are. I actually think the pacing was the weakest and strongest parts of this second installment, because again some chapters were so pointless and tedious, but then the book would hit such a fast paced stride that I didn’t want to put it down and had to know what was going to happen next. like i said in my review of fourth wing, there is nothing ground breaking within this fantasy romance (i mean, i guess so a little with it seeming like goodreads made a brand new category for her), but it is a fun read and a fun world to be in. the banter is a little cringe at times. the twists and turns are a little wild and back to back to back at the end of part one and part two, but i also couldn’t stop turning the pages with speed. and overall, there was just way more things i enjoyed than disliked. i loved that we got to see the other quadrants of this school and them working with the dragon riders sometimes. i loved… all the additional “friends” we met in this one (yes, even that one. maybe extra that one lol). i really extra loved all the family dynamics within these pages (even though i was very emotional throughout). and i loved seeing more signets and learning more about them (and all the foreshadowing of what is to come with them). the dragons are the best part of this story, so i loved every single scene with them. but the best part of these reading experiences is buddy reading with so many of my friends and theorycrafting about everything. truly overall i had a really good time with this one and it was a fun read with an absolutely wild ending. trigger + content warnings from the author: "Iron Flame is a nonstop-thrilling adventure fantasy set in the brutal and competitive world of a military college for dragon riders, which includes elements regarding war, psychological and physical torture, imprisonment, intense violence, brutal injuries, perilous situations, blood, dismemberment, burning, murder, death, animal death, graphic language, loss of family, grief, and sexual activities that are shown on the page." additional trigger + content warnings i wrote down while reading (the last two could be potential spoilers so please use caution): drugging, ptsd depiction, nightmares, medical attention refusal, alcohol consumption, self harm to get blood for magic, mention of parental abandonment in past, suicide/self sacrifice blog | instagram | youtube | kofi | spotify | amazon

Waiting for the next book is going to be the near death of me… I absolutely LOVE this series so far. The story continuously hikes and dives your emotions, reeling you in page by page. This second book picks up right where book 1 left off and we effortlessly continue the story. I really appreciate the storyline and the growth of characters in this book. It became very easy to reattach myself to the characters and feel every emotion towards the new ones. To say I’m beyond excited to see this being made into a tv series is an understatement. I did not rate this a 5 star as I did the first book because of two things - 1) the overuse of the word “heartbeat” became so incredibly annoying. There are at least 200 uses is the word or more. I expect more variety from an author such as Rebecca Yarros to be honest. The other, and this is pure personal preference, is the rapid succession of sexual scenes and graphic descriptions. Again, personal preference here and I much prefer the romance part (which I find endearing and invested in) rather than the manual on the anatomy and specific actions taken. I found myself bored with those sections and just wanted to get back to the dang story! 😂 All in all, I can look over the negatives I have mentioned above in hopes that at least the repetitious words are ratified in the next book. It’s still one helluva darn good story!!!!!!

4/5⭐️ I’m speechless. My mind feels overwhelmed by what I just read, all the information coming from this book and I feel completely numb. I honestly I don’t even know how to form my thoughts, and I want to keep this spoiler free, but I am just mind blown and I don’t even know what I am feeling or what to say. I definitely enjoyed this book and I would say it was much more heavily focused on the politics of this world, but I enjoyed learning everything. I didn’t expect how much information was dropped at once though. There definitely was some filler parts in my opinion that made it a tad bit dragged out. I also have to say that some of the worldbuilding and explanations had me confused and I had to re-read over several sections, trying to understand the terminology and what everything meant but it was fun to learn. This book was a rollercoaster from start to finish. You can definitely expect tons of action, tons of emotions and you just have to prepare yourself for the unexpected. There’s definitely surprises and secrets that I in no way would’ve ever predicted so that was extremely fun to discover. I highly recommend it and I don’t know how I will physically wait for the next book without going insane.

FUCK THIS AND FUCK THAT IM DONE 🙅‍♀️ - - - - The Empyrean Series: Fourth Wing 5✮ Iron Flame 4✮ Onyx Storm The Empyrean 4 The Empyrean 5

Second time around and I did like it more! Still 4⭐️ tho. I am so hyped for Onyx Storm!!!! I just love this world _____________________ I want to give this 5 stars so badly, but I can’t…. Here’s why: - there’s certain world building aspects/characters I’m still confused on? - it was a little redundant at times - the ending felt a little rushed But here is what I LOVED (spoilers for the first book if you haven’t read it): - There’s so much kind to mind communication, and I eat that up. I would get so disappointed if I didn’t see any italics on a page lol. - The found family/loyalty is so strong in this series - Tairn and Andarna are still a huge highlight for me - XADEN. Duh - “You have the mind of a scribe and the heart of a rider” 🫶🏻 Rebecca you are my queen and this series is SO MUCH FUN. Take your time on the next book so it blows my mind, but like not too much time. SPOILERS BELOW . . . . . . . . . . . . . Here are my highlights from the book: - The throne scene?? I am so sorry?? 🥵 - “You are everything we dreamed you would be. All three of you. And I’ll get to see him soon.” & chapter 65’s beginning quote. I SOBBED - Andarna being the most bad ass dragon, and I honestly loved her sass - Xaden’s second signet? My girl Violet better get one from Andarna in the next book - Dain stabbing Varrish - Liam hallucinations (I have a theory about Violet’s second signet - you’ll have to listen on the pod to find out what it is) I cannot wait to see how the next book plays out with our shadow daddy now being a venin daddy

⭐️ ⭐️ 4 ⭐️ Plot: Violet Sorrengail survived her first year at Basgiath War College. She uses her wits and will of iron to become a leader and keep a secret hidden to save the lives of everyone she loves. Fantasy | Romance | Found Family My Thoughts: What I liked: ↠ Tairn and Andarna are my favourite characters for sure. They just need to ditch Violet and start their own storyline at this point. But really, these dragons are fearless, dangerous and so adorable at the same time. 🐉 ↠ Spice! When there was spice, it was HOT! like really HOT. If it was only for spice reasons, well then Xaden could easily be my book boyfriend. He knows how to keep things HOT. It just sucks that his personality kinda sucks. 🌶️ ↠ Ends with an Unexpected Bang! The set up for the next book is there. But the ending is literally revealed on the last page and comes out of no where. It is a great plot twist. Rebecca is very clever about how to get her readers eager for her next book drop. 💥 What I didn't like: ↠ Starts with a bang. and then that’s its until 3/4 of the book. I’m just being honest. There was just a lack of action for me. The structure of events seemed all over the place. There didn’t seem to be a clear ending in sight. 🥱😒 ↠ Not as eventful as Fourth Wing. I would read Fourth Wing and have vivid dreams about dragons. (Which isn’t a normal thing I ever dream about). Iron Flame gave me nothing. 🌙 ↠ I ended up hating Xaden and Violet together and at times was wishing they would just break up already. Just have more sex and stop talking. 💔 ↠ Way too much World building! My brain couldn’t handle it. The balance between world building and plot was just off. 🐲 ↠ Some events seemed repetitive. Like how many times are we going to keep bringing certain issues up. 🔁 ↠ Switching between first and last names confused me deeply. I couldn’t keep up with all the new and old characters. There just seemed a be a lack of character description in order for me to truely understand the side characters.🤛 Overall: I desperately wanted to finish this book by the end of 2023. I’m not if I didn’t enjoy it as much because I was just trying to get to the end. I’m just left disappointe after the high Fourth Wing left me with. I would read the next book, but I’m just not as keen. Favourite Quote: “Most generals dream of dying in service to their kingdom. But you know me better than that, my love. When I fall, it will be for one reason only: to protect our children.”

Reread: bumping this to 4.5⭐️ I cannot wait for Onyx Storm. I am once again closing this book & sitting with my jaw on the floor. I loved this much more the second time around! _________ Oh boy this was hot & wild. I may never recover from this ending. My heart hasn’t stopped racing since I finished this several hours ago. Was this better than fourth wing? No. There were a lot of things that really confused me & I felt like there wasn’t a lot of call back to characters. I kept asking myself “who is this?” There were simply just some things that weren’t clicking like I felt like they should. I feel like I shouldn’t have been as lost as much as I was. Overall, this plot is 10/10. Rebecca is not afraid to do crazy things & I love her & hate her for that. The fact that this book will keep me awake at night til book 3 is really saying something. Well done 👏🏼 SPOILERS BELOW!!! ———————- ———————-———————- ———————-———————————- ———————-———————-———————- ———————- ———- My word vomit of thoughts: -Xaden just won as best book boyfriend. I don’t know if anyone will top him. UGH. Him turning venin will make the rest of this series really something. As terrified as I am, I can’t wait, but my heart feels SHATTERED. -chapter 25 was a JOKE. Wasn’t thinking Jack would rise from the dead, but whatever. It’s gonna be interesting. I will say- I totally called that he’d be venin. -the. Throne. Scene. 🙈 that was really something -fell in love with the squad & the friendships in this book -Andarna had me bawling like a baby. I wish I could have her in real life. -VIOLET’S MOM?! Her ending was so sad, but so sweet. I loved it.

SHADOWS IN DEATH by J. D. Robb (pseudonym for Nora Roberts) brings murder, romance and suspense to a well-written futuristic police procedural and romantic suspense set in New York City and Ireland in May 2061. This is the fifty-first book in the In Death Eve Dallas series and I have read all of them up to this point. This story starts with our protagonist, Lieutenant Eve Dallas of the NYC police department, being called to a crime scene while at the theatre with her husband (and sometimes, civilian consultant), Roarke. The victim is Galla Modesto, one of the heirs to the family-owned Modesto Wine and Spirits business based in Italy. It’s always entertaining to spend time with Eve, Roarke, and Eve’s colleagues. She is definitely a compelling and three-dimensional character. Her need to serve and protect comes through in every book, but the underlying impetus for this is best understood by reading this series in order. Due to the way Eve was raised, she often doesn’t understand commonly used phrases and this comes into play a few times in this book making her seem more real and less perfect. As always, the interactions between Eve and Roarke are enjoyable and bring a different facet of Eve’s personality to light. Many of the reoccurring police characters play significant roles in this book. We also get to see a different side of Commander Whitney which gives him added dimension for the first time. The prose is well-written, entertaining, and engaging. This time Roarke’s past intertwined with the storyline. The plot is thought-provoking, but there was a scene near the end that never should have occurred. I understand why it was in the book, but it detracted from the good police work that had occurred before it. I was disappointed that the author would include this in the book. The ending location and action was also unbelievable. While this book has some action, it is mostly a police procedural. It is tragic in places and uplifting in others. Robb is an author that manages to embed humor in her novels, providing some much needed levity to offset some of the more serious and grim aspects of the story. There is a steamy scene or two in the novel as well. Themes include love, respect, isolation, family dynamics, animal cruelty, child abuse, greed, murder, jealousy, obsession, hatred, pride, and arrogance. If you enjoy engaging near-future police procedurals with some romance, then I recommend this series. Overall, it is entertaining, and over time, it is like spending time with old friends. I can’t wait to read the next book in the series. I purchased a digital copy of this novel. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own and are not biased in any way. Publication date was September 8, 2020. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine.

Any series that’s gone on for this long will have its ups and downs; but for me personally, this was one of the better books. A solid investigation, two properly sleazy bad guys, and the always fun Eve take-down during interview. The big plus here - some great character personal touches throughout. More time than usual was spent setting up the character(s) background. A good case and a good Eve/Roarke story. Always a win-win for me in my favorite comfort food series.

Shadows of the past stalk and haunt Roarke and Eve in this fantastic addition to the series. It's a time for reckoning, for settling old scores, securing the future. Loved every minute! Highly recommended!

Book#51 and I'm still enjoying this series. This time, I listened to the audiobook while reading the hardcopy. It's a very immersive reading experience. I've said a lot about Lt. Eve Dallas and her team in my previous reviews, so I will try not to repeat myself. This time, they are hunting an assassin, Lorcan Cobbe, who holds a personal grudge against Roarke. They knew each other back when they were kids in Dublin. Usually, in the books, Roarke is the supportive husband, doing all he could to help Eve deal with her cases and her issues. This time, the tables have turned. Roarke is the one contending with his past and Eve has to support him. As to the manhunt, things might have moved more quickly than usual. Lorcan seems to have done a bunch of childish mistakes in his obsession to hurt Roarke. Regardless, it's still an entertaining read. Maybe in the near future, police will be as efficient as Dalllas's team. Needless to say, I'm eagerly awaiting book#52.

Fifty-first in the In Death detective mystery and romantic suspense series revolving around Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her husband, Roarke, in New York City in May of 2061. My Take It's all about greed and ego, all over the place with Robb using third person global subjective point-of-view, although the primary perspectives are from Dallas, Roarke, and Cobbe. It was an interesting start with an idiot who can't lie. It's also a peek into Roarke's past and references to how he built his empire. Roarke remembers more past details about how Patrick found him in that alley. Robb presents this information very confusingly. I had to re-read this several times to figure out what she was saying... It's not the only scene that's hard to figure out. "There's a difference between right and regs sometimes. That's why regs change, but right doesn't." That Tween is such a jerk! And such a cheapskate, lol! A typical abusive controller who fakes understanding until confronted by something that offends his sense of order and pride. He's so prideful that he's stupid! Mira does a fascinating insight into Cobbe. Such conflicting desires! He had a loving mother but craved Patrick Roarke's love? That's not the only insight in Shadows in Death, as Eve has her own fears crop up about Roarke, pushing her into realizing what Roarke goes through every day. I absolutely ADORE how everyone on the force steps up for Roarke. I also like Nadine's advice to Quilla: "...if you pretend something's good when it's not, you're not doing anybody any favors. There are a lot of subplots running through Shadows in Death: An Didean finally opening, Galla's murder which sets this all in action, the bad guys (on the side) who get taken down, a past cold case, the joy Eve and the NYPSD take from thumbing their nose at Interpol and all the other alphabet agencies, *grin*, and backstory reveals (hoo boy). The action is fast moving, although Eve's investigation involves lots of nitpicky following-up. It's amazing how well it all adds to the finale. My main niggle was the very minor roles played by Peabody and McNab and the bare mentions of Eve's other friends. Sigh. The Story A murder-for-hire brings back Roarke's turbulent childhood and sets up a manhunt for a notorious assassin sought by law enforcement around the world. The Characters Lieutenant Eve Dallas is the head of Homicide. Roarke is her gazillionaire hunk of a husband and her civilian partner in crime detecting. Summerset, the man who rescued Roarke as a child and the man Roarke considers his father, now functions as a majordomo for Roarke's house in New York. Galahad is their fat cat. Ivanna is Summerset's "companion" with a fascinating back history. Roarke has family — the Lannigans and Brodys — in Tulla, Ireland, including Sinead Lannigan, his mother's twin, who is married to Robbie. Mary Kate, Kevin, Rory, Seamus, Nan, Aidan, Ryan, and Rosie are also part of the family. Ailish is a medic and Aidan's wife's sister. Marshall Podcock, Trace, and Ando are part of the security Roarke set up to protect his family. Bridget Feeney had been a schoolmate of Sinead's. Brian Kelly is a childhood friend of Roarke's and now runs the Penny Pig, a pub in Dublin. Jenny, Shawn, and Mick had been friends as well. Caro is Roarke's personal admin. Fitzwalter, Dolliger, and Jenson, his driver, also work for him. New York Police and Security Department (NYPSD) Detective Peabody is Dallas' partner. Dallas' Homicide detectives include Jenkinson of the lurid ties who usually partners with Reineke; Baxter, a horn dog who dresses well, usually partners with the innocent Troy Trueheart; Carmichael and Santiago; and, Uniform Carmichael, Officer Shelby, and Rosco, who are assigned to Homicide. Commander Jack Whitney is Eve's superior. Tibble is the police chief of the entire NYPSD. Rigby does a lot of undercover work. Detectives Waver and Yin are good at searching. Dr Charlotte "Charlie" Mira, a psychiatrist, is the department's top profiler; Clinton Jones had Mira's position previously. Prof Dennis Mira is Mira's amazing husband. Dick "Dickhead" Berenski is the obnoxious but very good chief lab tech. Harvo, the Queen of Hair and Fibers, also does amazing work. Dr Li Morris is the city's chief medical examiner. Detective Ian McNab is with EDD and is Peabody's significant other. Captain Ryan Feeney, Eve's original mentor, is in charge of EDD. Callendar is another of Feeney's "boys". Inspector Abernathy is with Interpol and has an itch to nab Roarke. Nadine Furst is a friend of Dallas and Roarke, author of two of Dallas' notorious cases, and a television host for Now! Quilla Magnum, from Concealed in Death , 38, is working as her promising intern. Modesto Wine and Spirits is... ...an international, family-owned company based in Tuscany. Galla Modesto is one of the heirs. She's married to Jorge Tween, a VP in distribution for Modesto, and they have a child, four-year-old Angelo. Elena Rinaldi is the housekeeper. Sofia Grimaldi is Angelo's nanny. Stefano is Galla's brother; Tereza is his wife who had been friends with Galla. Anna Maria Modesto is Galla's mother; Antonio her father. Marlon Stowe is an artist with whom Galla had been having an affair. Milton Barkley is Tween's lawyer. Denise Gotte is criminal defense from Patterson, Franks, and Gotte. Oscar Gill Investigations does private eye work. An Didean is... ...a shelter for abandoned children built by Roarke. Rochelle is in charge. Mrs Pickering is part of the staff. Gregg "Gee" Harding is a reluctant attendee who plays a mean guitar. Carlo is the head chef. Bit of foreshadowing here, as Roarke contemplates something similar for Dublin. "Crack" Wilson is Rochelle's boyfriend and owner of the Dirty Duck. Dochas is... ...the women's and children's shelter built by Roarke and Eve. Lorcan Cobbe is a vicious assassin and part of Roarke's childhood. He'd do Roarke in a heartbeat. Some of his aliases include "Blade", Reginald J. Patrick, Lorcan Roarke, Niall Patrickson, Grafton, Patrick, and Liam O'Patrick. Cobbe's mother, Morna Cobbe, had been a prostitute, but now lives well off her son. The Padriac O'Karre Foundation is a shell company. Patrick Roarke had been Roarke's vicious, brutal father; Meg had been Roarke's vicious stepmother. Richard Troy had been Eve's nasty father. That Dennis is quite insightful: "Biology doesn't make a father." Adam, Boswell's accountant and Whitney's CI, and Ellen Solomen had a sixteen-year-old son, Thaddeus, who were murdered twenty years ago. Anja Greenspan had been Ellen's sister. Colin "Boss" Boswell had been involved in international human trafficking, illegals, and a protection racket. Thomas "Big Tom" Ivan had been a partner with Cobbe. Frankie Nalley owns a red rattletrap '52 Muscleman coupe. Salvadore Bellacore is old mafioso in Sardinia who now brokers connections. Liam Calhoun was the bad guy in Vengeance in Death , 6. The Green Flash was a high-end necklace stolen in 2046 or '47. Alex Godinov runs a criminal enterprise in Russia. The Amazonian Group, another shell company, is owned by Reginald Privet, a figurehead. His sister, Alicia, is actually in charge. The Garda are Irish policemen. Yvette Conroy is a licensed companion who works through Discretion. Caring Hearts is a pet rescue operation run by Tara Undall with help from her veterinarian husband. Her neighbor, Dory, is a partner; her husband is a lawyer who also helped. Tara's own pets include Baby and Regal; Max and Sweetie are/were her fosters. Colleen is the daughter for whom Sweetie was adopted. Cobbe regularly visits Style and Substance Salon and Spa in Dublin, managed by Carleen Digby and Aidan Pierce, where Milo Cummings, Genita O'Brian, and Breen Casey work on him. Avenue A is a popular band, whose members will instruct at An Didean; it's fronted by Jake Kincade, Nadine's significant other. Mavis Freestone, another highly successful singer, is Eve's best friend. Urbane is a high-end shop where Trent Bilbo is a salesman and assistant manager; Marcus is another salesman. Mr King is a valuable client. Kaylee Skye is a singer at a bar where Londa Stanski is the bartender. Marta is Kaylee's neighbor. Handler is a security guard at the airport. Previous victims include Ulga Rominov, a high-clearance scientist at Vandam Pharmaceutical in Budapest; Nigel Harris, a jeweler, in London; Julietta LeFarge, a human rights attorney, in Cannes; and, Ingrid Frederick, who simply had bad timing — out of over 400. The Cover and Title The cover has a background of rain-streaked gray green on the top, a window shattered at its bottom to frame a nighttime graphic of a rain-soaked street leading up to a triumphal arch leading into a park, caution tape up before it with three squad cars — two with lights flashing — and the city skyline behind it all. At the very top is an info blurb in black. Below it is the author's name in a slightly shadowed bright yellow. Below the squad cars is the title in a distressed white. The title is all about Cobbe, for he will always be the shadow in Shadows in Death.

Dallas, Roarke and crew are back in action again and this time someone is coming after them to settle an old score. Excellent audio book as the narrator really helps bring the characters to life by giving each a unique voice that enhances their personalities. This book was quite enjoyable as it brought many of the smaller characters into play with more prominence. I can't wait to see what happens in the next book. This series just keeps getting better!

OMG I have finally caught up (after 3 years)!!! Open up the champagne! :D Overall, this is a really nice mystery series, and Eve & Roarke got a fan for life in me. <3

Eve and Roark at it again with a side trip to Ireland in a stunning conclusion to a serial killer’s 21 year spree. This time it is personal.

This is the first time I've listened to a book in the In Death series instead of reading it (audio was available immediately, book had 19 weeks wait time;) and I really enjoyed it. So much so that I stayed up until 2am in the morning to listen to the end. I love it when a book focuses on Eve and Roarke. This time a shadow from Roarke's past sets out to hurt our favourite cop husband and Eve has a few things to say about that. Tense, action-packed, filled with red herrings and almost-had-hims, and moments that have you giggling in the street (I adore how Eve always picks at idioms and the marriage rules should be an actual book) this book will keep you going until the end. It was interesting to hear more about Roarke's past and some of the events that shaped him. It was lovely how everyone stood in support of him. I enjoyed the narrator. Actually hearing Roarke's Irish accent was quite unexpected. Some of the voices didn't quite match what was in my mind and it drove me crazy that everyone from across the pond (England, Ireland) kept saying Lieu-tenant as the correct English (and I believe Irish) pronunciation is Left-tenant. But that was a minor issue. Overall another great addition to an incredible series.

GRAB UR FRIENDS WEAR UR FLORALS!!!!!!! original review: THIS OCTOBER. THE MOMENT WE'VE BEEN WAITING FOR. THE BOOK WE'VE BEEN ASKING FOR. IT STARTS WITH US.

THIS WAS EVERYTHING I WANTED AND MORE. goodbye. i’m so happy. “you’re going to drive five miles just to give me a hug?” “i’d run five miles just to give you a hug.” <3

yes, i know this sequel is 100% fan service and a massive cash grab, but i am exactly the fan whose cash CoHo is grabbing. because my main gripe about ‘it ends with us’ was that atlas wasnt the main focus. so give me all of atlas and she can have all my money. that seems like a fair enough exchange. except the jokes on her because i actually downloaded this off of zlibrary before she complained and got the website shut down. thanks a lot, CoHo. love your books, including this one, but stay out of reader spaces. please and thank you. EDIT: although it was a CoHo fan who posted about zlibrary on tiktok, it apparently wasnt CoHo herself who reported it (according to her statement on FB), causing the FBI to seize the domain. but do check the comments below for zlibrary alternatives to use instead. :) ↠ 4.5 stars

I liked It starts with us! I feel like it answered all of the questions I had after reading It Ends With Us and I'm so happy we got to learn so much more about Atlas in this book!! Overall I'm really glad we got an ending to Lily and Atlas's story

The last book may not have been perfect, but it will always have a special place in my heart! Even though I’m usually quick to call a sequel unnecessary, I’m so happy we got this book because it filled in a lot of the gaps from the last book. We got an Atlas pov!!! OMG! He is the sweetest! We don’t deserve him at all! Learning so much more about him made me love him more and more. And that last chapter?! My goodness. Atlas speaks the language of love and I am here for it. I did not expect his past to come back to get a big part of this story in the manner it did, but it helped us learn more about the many things that impacted his life. He really went through it, and it’s pretty crazy how good of a person he still turned out into. Did I think he and Lily were kind of rushed? Maybe? But IT'S BEEN SO LONG. WE WILL LET IT SLIDE!!!! They were so adorable and had me grinning way too much. I really like that Hoover didn’t make them sex crazy but more focused on the emotional part of their bond. I’m also kinda surprised by what happened with Ryle’s character. I won't say anymore because I feel like anything I’ll say is a spoiler, but everything portrayed felt really realistic. We didn’t really know much about what his relationship was like with Lily after everything so this was quite needed. Lily's character had so much support. She certainly wouldn’t have been able to make a lot of these hard decisions without her support system. I like how this is acknowledged several times because this is not always about being “strong” or whatever, but simply being with people who will help stand up for what’s right. Real talk, Alyssa and her husband could have easily been on a certain someone’s side. I love them so much! Still, Lily had so many relatable things go through her mind and she was an incredibly smart woman who made really good decisions. Colleen Hoover may raise eyebrows every now and then with her characters' decisions, but she knows exactly how to squeeze your heart in the right places. I love that for her. I will humbly be waiting for her next book.

We have all been waiting for this one. The conclusion to It Ends with Us is exactly what I wanted from this series. Not to give any spoilers as I'm sure many are reading it at the moment I just say I loved it.

John Sanford brings investigation, suspense, and plenty of action to the second book in the Letty Davenport series. Letty has had an unconventional, tragic, and violent childhood. Her adoption by Lucas Davenport, the protagonist in the author’s Prey series, has led to a much happier life. She’s now twenty-five, a graduate of Stanford, and an investigator for inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security. However, her real boss is Senator Christopher Colles. The events in book one of the series has brought her to the attention of several branches of the U.S. government. A joint operation between the Department of Homeland Security and the National Security Agency seems perfect. Along with a reluctant government computer programmer, Rod Baxter, Letty is asked to infiltrate a hacker group. While they work to uncover the plans of the hacker group, Letty and Rod believe they’ve been lied to about the mission. Letty is smart and determined, with a somewhat warped sense of humor and a tendency to be rash at times. She also takes after Lucas in several ways including her proficiency and knowledge of guns and her love of fashion. Rod is somewhat stereotyped in the beginning of the novel. He’s characterized as cowardly, intelligent, and slovenly. However, he is the character who experiences the most dramatic changes in attitude and outlook as the story unfolds. The story is part undercover investigation and part action thriller. The opening chapter is memorable, but it isn’t part of the main storyline. However, it does give some insight into the types of missions Letty has been given lately, and it gives some insight into her personal life. This personal insight is needed to make Letty more relatable. Additionally, it is a way to introduce some new characters into the series. Sandford’s writing is always great. It is fluid and flows well, and his world-building is fantastic. There is a strong sense of place causing me to feel transported to California. He’s a superb storyteller who kept me on the edge of my seat as the undercover operation and action unfolded. The final action scenes are riveting and hauntingly memorable. It is very relevant and has a terrifying realism to it. I also liked the fact that Letty was learning from others during the course of the novel, which made her more realistic and slightly less of a larger-than-life over-the-top protagonist. Themes include violence, murder, espionage, hacking, theft, and much more. The novel also highlights the complexity of international and national politics and government activities. Overall, this was suspenseful and action packed with compelling characters that kept me turning the pages. With exciting scenes and a fascinating story, it captivated me. I’m looking forward to reading more about Letty and her future assignments. PENGUIN GROUP Putnam, G.P. Putnam's Sons and John Sandford provided a complimentary digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. All opinions expressed in this review are my own. The publication date is currently set for April 11, 2023. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine. ---------------------------------------- My 4.12 rounded to 4 stars review is coming soon.

I liked Letty a bit more in this one than I did in the first book, but she has a long way to grow before she's anywhere near as good as her father, Lucus Davenport, who has been a favorite of mine for years. The National Security Agency (NSA) brings her in for an undercover operation to track down a well-organized cell of hackers known as "Ordinary People". The NSA tells her the hackers are nosing around natural gas distribution systems and they think the group intends to shut down the natural gas supply of a northern city in a ransomware attack which could, in the dead of winter, cause civilian fatalities. The NSA wants Letty to hook up with one of their computer specialists and to protect him as he tries to infiltrate the hacker cell to identify as many of them as possible so the agency can avert the attack. Letty still works as an investigator for the inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security, although her real boss is Senator Christopher Colles, chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. While Letty suspects the NSA reps aren’t telling her the entire story, she accepts the assignment when Colles asks her to take it. They soon learn that there is much more about the operation than the NSA told her and Baxter when they signed on. It isn’t long before they discover the NSA has pitted them against a far more dangerous adversary than a bunch of computer nerds, and their actual mission has nothing to do with keeping someone from shutting off natural gas supplies. Letty is a strong female lead character for this series, and she is so much like her father even if she was adopted. John Sandford's "Prey" series will always be my favorite because of the Lucas Davenport character and Lucas's friends and fellow agents, but I think this series will eventually be equally s good. I really didn't like anything about the first book in the series, mainly because of Letty's "better than anyone else" attitude and it read as if aliens had taken over John Sandford's body to write it, but I did more enjoy this one.

I’ve been reading Sandford’s books for years, or more accurately I started listening to his Prey series of books around twenty years ago, when I had a long daily commute to and from my place of work. The local library had quite a few audiobooks in this series and after sampling one I quickly worked my way through the remaining stories they had in stock. Lucas Davenport, the lead cop in these tales, was just the sort of character I was looking for: smart and rich but a risk taker who did things his own way, breaking rules (and skulls) as he went. Over the years, I’ve worked my way through all 32 books in the Prey series as well as another dozen in an offshoot series featuring Virgil Flowers, a close friend and colleague of Lucas. I’ve enjoyed all of them (well, perhaps with one exception). But last year Sandford launched another offshoot series, this time featuring Letty, Davenport’s adopted daughter. All regular readers of this author’s books will be familiar with Letty, a young girl whose difficult upbringing had made her self-sufficient, tough and fearless. Now a Stanford graduate in economics, she’s found a sponsor in Republican U.S. Senator Christopher Colles. In her first adventure The Investigator Letty, began working for a government agency – one of those three letter ones. Her role seemed to be whatever Colles wanted it to be. He even organised a gun carry permit for her. The tale was energetic and highly entertaining. But, as the bodies mounted up, it was also highly implausible. So what of this latest offering? The first thing to say is that just about anything Sandford writes is going to include interesting characters and is guaranteed flow well, this one being no exception. Letty is dispatched from her East Coast base to chase down a group of L.A. based hackers who are suspected of concocting a plan to interrupt the flow of natural gas into major northern cities, this in order to extort millions from the government in exchange for restoring the supply. But once Letty reaches California the whole thing takes on a new life, one with serious International implications. Once again, Letty is thrust into a situation that requires guns – lots of ‘em – and back-up manpower too. But, just like the last time, even though I knew the whole thing was just totally implausible, I’m thinking this with a smile on my face. Sandford is just such a good storyteller and all the key characters are fun and engaging. I raced through it, burning the midnight oil where necessary, and was sad when it was all over. Will I be back for episode 3 (assuming there is one)? You bet I will.

4 Stars. Nothing could match the lead-off entry in the Letty Davenport series. And 'Dark Angel' doesn't, but it's up there. It surpasses John Sandford's top-drawer standards. Letty's debut in 'Investigator,' at least her debut in her own series, we first meet her in #14 of Lucas' series, was stupendous. A ride for the ages. This one is complicated in a positive way and keeps you guessing until the last few pages. Sandford seems to be addressing today's issues through Letty - the toxic right in #1 and computer hackers here. My new favourite is working for Homeland Security and her cases necessarily have to have national or international implications. It's au courant in another way. The hackers in question, loosely organized under the name of Ordinary People, are threatening to cripple the water department in a large mid-west city but have recently taken down the Russian rail system during the lead-up to the invasion of Ukraine. Do you see the ambiguity and confusion at the core of the story? Who's on whose side? It's a masterpiece. Again Letty's working for Senator Colles but she's undercover this time with a bulky guy named Rod Baxter. It'll keep you thinking. (Au2024)

4.5 Stars Homeland Security suspects a hacker group - Ordinary People - of planning to go after the natural gas grid in a large city in the Midwest. While Letty and her reluctant partner from the NSA, Rod Baxter, work to make inroads with Ordinary People and uncover their plans, they begin to suspect that there is something DHS isn't telling them. Might it have something to do with a real world, ripped from the headlines, far-reaching conspiracy? Compared to the first book, I liked this one so much better! This time, Letty wasn't calling all the shots. This time, she was part of a team that was all working together. I loved all the players, but especially Baxter! Where Letty first saw just a heavyset guy who loved to eat, she soon came to appreciate how smart, and funny he was. I would love to see him in the next book! Letty has joined a club of women shooters, where she meets Barbara Cartwright, who happens to be a CIA officer, and who has a similar personality as Letty. She, too, joins the team. I loved her nearly as much as I loved Baxter, and I would love to see her in future books, as well. Dark Angel is a fun read, and I highly recommend it!!

John Sandford has created another thriller series--this time it's a spinoff from his long-running Lucas Davenport thrillers and features Lucas's daughter, Letty. In Dark Angel, book #2 in the series, Letty been working for a Florida senator named Colles but has been drafted for some undercover work by the Department of Homeland Security. She and a computer geek named Rod Baxter from NSA will try to infiltrate a hacker group named Ordinary People who have been rumored to be planning a serious ramsonware attack. Right from the start, Letty and Rob have a feeling they've been lied to...and what they don't know could get them killed. Very exciting action with some of Sandford's trademark humor mixed in. Letty's early life before being adopted by Lucas was seriously crazy but has it prepared her for what she's facing now? If you are looking for an absorbing novel of adventure and escapism, you cannot go wrong with a John Sandford thriller! I received an arc of his latest thriller from the author and publisher. Many thanks for the opportunity! My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

If you like a first rate thriller then this is the book for you. Letty Davenport is no normal agent and she is tasked to find and infiltrate a very special group of hackers. Her mission is to aid a country at war. An action packed read which I devoured in one sitting. This book is a MUST READ for all readers of this genre. Loved it!!!! Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for the ARC.

The second book in the Letty Davernport series. Letty is tasked with going undercover in a multiagency operation to infiltrate a hacker group named Ordinary People. Working with a reluctant NSA computer wiz, Letty heads to California to infiltrate the group. As Letty and her NSA partner go deeper undercover they begin to realize there is a second objective to their mission. Letty is basically a younger, female version of her adoptive father, Lucas. While I enjoy this series, it is not as good as the Lucas Davernport series. The story itself is solid, and there is plenty of action. The addition of foreign criminal elements as well as foreign government agencies add to the intrigue. My only issue is Letty comes off as an experienced player despite her youth. She never seems to slip up at all, so you really need to suspend reality as you read. This book is a fun read, and well worth picking up. There is plenty of action to draw you in and keep you engaged. The writing is solid with the typical Sandford humor. The characters are likable, and the enemies formidable. Overall an above average thriller. Thank you to @netgalley @J_Sandford @PenguinBooks and @AtriaMysteryBus for a free advance copy of this book for an honest review.

This is the second book on a new series by the author. It features Letty Davenport the adopted daughter of Lucas Davenport who is the main character of the author’s Prey books. The premise of the novel is attempting to uncover a group of hackers who infiltrated the Russian train system and messed with their freight schedules. This takes place just before and right after Russia invades Ukraine. It is a fast paced, fairly quick read novel. I received a free Kindle copy of this book courtesy of NetGalley and the publisher with the understanding that I would post a review on Net Galley, Goodreads, Amazon and my nonfiction book review blog.

This is a relatively new series, with Letty being Lucas Davenport's daughter. She works for a senator, and is operating a little bit off the grid as a result. I found this to be a little more complicated as a plot than is optimal for me. One thing I find a bit off putting about this author is an underlying bias related to gender roles and the treatment of women characters, and that is less an issue in this book. I would try another one, but not seek it out, mostly because of the length, the overly complicated story line, and the body count.

Disclaimer: Received this as an advance reader copy via Netgalley and Penguin Random House LLC/G.P. Putnam’s Sons (Thank you!!) If you are already a fan of John Sanford then there is a very high probability you will enjoy this second installment of the Letty Davenport series. Letty is the adopted daughter of Lucas Davenport, the protagonist in all the Prey novels, and she has grown up to be one smart, tough cookie. Readers of the Prey series will be quick to point out that she started out as a smart, tough cookie so it really isn't a surprise she is still one as an adult. For those of you thinking "I have yet to delve into Sandford's body of work, would I still like this book?" the answer is yes. You need not have read The Investigator to enjoy this second installment, the book stands alone (you can go back and read the first book afterwards, lucky you!). Since this is a crime mystery, there are no spoilers in this review. In his prior Prey and Virgil Flowers books, the author presents strong female characters but always on the side, in these Letty books, strong female characters are front and center. Letty is 25 year old Stanford graduate who works for the Department of Homeland Security. She is sent to California for this caper and goes undercover as the girlfriend of a computer hacker. As usual, Sandford weaves actual current events into the story and the war in Ukraine plays a role in this one Much as I enjoyed this book, at times I couldn't help thinking Letty sounds an awful lot like her dad, like the two characters could be interchangeable. I am curious to see how this Letty series will evolve and could not help but wonder will the author, who is an older gentleman, be successful in giving this young female character her own distinct voice. Either way, I am looking forward to the book #3.

Sandford’s Letty books opened a door to deliver high octane action reminiscent of the early Prey novels. This fast paced crime thriller catapulted to an adrenaline frenzied final 75 pages. Gunplay figures prominently. 4 stars for Dark Angel.

Sandford’s latest is yet another winner is a very long list of them. I continue to be amazed at his ability to not only “age” his characters but also transition to new ones who are all ‘related’. His series starring Lucas Davenport’s adopted daughter Lettie is a fine example of that skill. In Dark Angel, Lettie is on an undercover assignment to find a hacker group that has caused some trouble for the Feds. Unfortunately, she’s not the only one looking for them. She has help in the form of a ‘good’ hacker who’s essentially a smart tubby dude with no physical skills, and she calls in a CIA woman-friend for support, but when the competition for finding the rogue computer geeks is the Russian government, they may be overmatched. Or not…. Lettie’s a great character, sort of a female version of her dad, but a better shot. The book is a very fast paced read with tons of action, Sandford’s trademarked snappy dialogue, and a nice conclusion. Fans of Lucas Davenport will not be disappointed.

Solid exciting thriller from John Sanford feturing Letty Davenport, the adopted daughter of Lucas Davenport who is the hero of the PREY series. Letty drawn into an uncover assignment for the NSA and Homeland Security to get inside a group of hackers. As she and her counterparts quickly learn, the hacker group is really only the tip of the iceberg. Ordinance and thrill heavy, this book as especially relevance for our times. Enjoyable read. Thanks to netgalley and the publisher for the opportunity to read this book in exchange for an honest review.

Another John Sanford, so you know I was in my happy place. This is the second in the Letty Davenport series. Letty is Lucas’s adopted daughter, so although he is not featured in this book, enough of him has rubbed off on Letty that you can certainly feel his influence. In this book, Letty is assigned to go undercover to find a group of hackers that she is told are threatening to shut down a natural gas pipeline. But of course, the truth is much bigger, and is actually related to Russia’s imminent invasion of Ukraine. I love the pace and style of Stanford’s writing. Things move quickly, characters are not afraid to act, and I am never bored. Looking forward to following Letty for many more years.

For me, this wasn't up to Sandford's usual standards. More like a Baldacci novel. A slow start, and the ending seemed a little contrived. Still, it is well written and keeps you reading. But I liked Letty better as a 12 year old. 3.5 averaged up.

4-1/2 A real page turner! I liked it more than the first Letty book. Some new interesting characters that I hope will be back.

Highly entertaining! 🤠 🎸👢 This one was so much fun to listen to! Yes, Dolly does her bit with the narration and she's fabulous as are all of the narrators! This is a fast paced story about an up-and coming country music star. It's a rags to riches type story that has elements of a mystery with some suspenseful moments. The last 1/3 of the book really ramped up. The ending came quickly and tidied up all nicely. Kind of like a soap opera. This one was a delight to listen to. Never a dull moment!

Such a cute and inspiring story; blindly thought it had something to do with Dolly; I liked it.

This was quite the ride! I am not a Dolly fan, but she’s oh so cool here. Her voice is smooth and deep, and she sounds EXACTLY as you would expect. The audio is read by an ensemble cast, and all voices were great. A light and fluffy read, I did not expect depth and I don’t think it was meant to be at all, but the HEA was nice, all rounding up as you would expect. The quick-fire lyric writing was nice, and I imagine some artists to be exactly like this, able to form a story to music quickly, forming a song easily. I’ve never been able to play music, but it’s a craft and the lyrics were sweet. AnnieLee turns up in Nashville homeless and on the run from somewhere, she seems fearless, and her rags to riches journey was fraught with danger and a few twists and turns. She was determined to do it on her own, even turning away from the famous Ruthanna Ryder (don’t you just love the names?) where she could have taken the easy way to fame. I liked this, a little about the industry, some great lyrics and hearing Dolly’s voice. This is what probably took it to four stars for me; the writing a masterpiece it was not, but fun? Yes it was! And what’s not to love about that? I love to read and this reading experience delivered.

This is a fantastic audiobook production. Loved hearing Dolly the most! And her character (Ruthanna) exhibited many of the qualities we love in the real-life Dolly. I do not read much James Patterson, but when I saw this one coming up I knew it was going to be a good one. And it was. Annie Lee's rise to fame and her hidden secrets were a compelling narrative. And Ethan Blake sounds like my kind of guy. My only disappointment was that none of the songs were sung in the book. The lyrics are read, but no music. I get it. I need to invest in listening to the album. And I will! If you do pick up this book, I still recommend the audio version. It was a good choice for me. Thank you to my GR friend, Kay. Her review inspired me to wait a bit more and listen to the book instead of reading it.

This was a lot of fun. I listened to the audiobook and Dolly Parton is enchanting as always. I enjoyed the ride.

Check out all my reviews at: https://www.avonnalovesgenres.com RUN ROSE RUN by Dolly Parton and James Patterson is an exciting suspenseful story of a young singer/songwriter trying to make it in Nashville with a mysterious past that she refuses to share with anyone. It has been a while since I read a book from the prolific Patterson co-author line, but I could not pass up a book co-authored with the fabulous Dolly Parton and I am so glad I didn’t. AnnieLee Keyes has dreamed of making it Nashville. She writes and sings her own songs, is naturally beautiful and more than willing to put in the work to make it, if only someone will give her a break. She shows up broke, homeless and on the run but when a local bartender finally gives her the chance to sing, she shocks everyone with her talent including Ethan Blake who is sitting at the bar and who plays studio guitar for the bar owner and famous retired country legend Ruthanna Ryder. Ruthanna takes the feisty and proud AnnieLee under her wing and helps her navigate the music business and Ethan helps with her protection, but AnnieLee still keeps her past a mystery even as her feelings for Ethan grow. When Ethan opens up about his painful past, AnnieLee gives him a small amount of her own past, but not everything. After another attack, AnnieLee runs away back to her hometown to settle the mystery from her past to be able to grab hold of her promising future. I really enjoyed AnnieLee and her rise from nothing. Her character pulls you in as you follow her from running away to becoming a rising country music star. Later in the book, when you know her complete backstory, her survival is truly heartbreaking, inspirational, and realistic. Ruthanna and Ethan are both fully drawn, and you become as engaged in their personal stories as you do with AnnieLee’s. The plot moves along at a good pace as the reader follows AnnieLee’s rise in the music industry, the mystery of her past and romantic elements with Ethan all coming to a satisfying conclusion. I really enjoyed this engaging suspense book with a memorable protagonist with a mysterious backstory and romantic elements.

Well that was a totally fun ride, even if predictable. Listening to it on audio, I rather think upped it. 3.8? Who is Annie Lee Keyes? Voice like an angel, headstrong and independent, but also young and vulnerable. The newest sensation and rising country star, and clearly on the run and in very deep danger. Written (and voiced in part) by Dolly Parton and James Patterson, it was a both a slow burn and a thriller. While fictional America is falling in love with the fictional Annie Lee Keyes, we readers come to care for her, and root for her. And we are falling in love with the tender story and music of Annie Lee and Ethan Blake. Whose narrated voice makes him even more sexy. I only wish I heard the actual music. It came off the pages for sure. Great job Dolly and James.

Thank you to Libro.fm for my audio copy review. All opinions are my own. Look, here is the deal. This story has been done before. Many times, over. What makes this one different? The author...plain and simple. Dolly does no wrong. "From America’s most beloved superstar and its greatest storyteller - a thriller about a young singer-songwriter on the rise and on the run, and determined to do whatever it takes to survive." I really enjoyed this story as told on audio. The narration was fantastic. At times, I do think the story was a little hard to follow...but not terribly so. I would recommend this title.

3.5 Stars ***MAYBE SLIGHT SPOILERS AHEAD*** So with the title, most can figure out that this book is about a girl on the run. And with Rose in the title, I figured she had changed her name. I don't think this one was so much of a thriller though. You do want to know why she is on the run but nothing really grasps you and makes you want more. I was able to listen to this one in my car and the pauses in between listening didn't really bother me. I did like the whole premise of the book. I think I just wanted more of a thriller.

A really good story by two people I like a lot, James Patterson and Dolly Parton. This was, of course, a story about a country music singer and the people involved in her life, good and bad, and she made her way to fame. It was a mystery thanks to James Patterson and a country music story thanks to Dolly. I am a big lover of country music so I enjoyed this novel a lot. I don't know that it's for everybody though. Definitely recommend if you enjoy country music and Dolly.

Did I drop every single thing I was doing when a galley for Dolly Parton’s 2022 crime book landed on my doorstep? Like you don’t know the answer–because who wouldn’t?! Dolly Parton is a national treasure and she wrote a crime book. I know! And wait, there’s more exciting news: the book will release with a same titled album of new songs that Parton wrote for the book. I know! And the songbook is at the end of the book! It’s all super exciting. And let me tell you Run Rose Run by Dolly Parton and James Patterson is super entertaining! You’ll sit down thinking you’re going to squeeze in one quick chapter and in a blink you’ll be 100 pages in and wondering where the time went. If you’re thinking that it will probably be a book written by someone else with Dolly Parton’s name on it, that is not the case. Dolly Parton’s personality, compassion, and especially humor shines through this book, as does her love of country music and her knowledge of the industry. It makes sense that someone as gifted as Dolly Parton in storytelling through song could partner with James Patterson to write a page-turner with ladies you’re going to fiercely love, and want to brunch with STAT. Readers follow AnnieLee Keyes, a young woman who has just hitchhiked her way to Nashville hoping to finally catch a break and become a country singer. She’s feisty, funny, determined, and filled with talent. But the world seems more ready to chew her up and spit her out. It also does not help that danger keeps finding her… Readers can look forward to a novel that takes you into the country music industry, gives you romance, danger, action (the blockbuster movie kind where somehow no one ends up in the hospital), and friendships—including one that shows feminism is pulling those up behind you not lifting the ladder up behind you. Come for the novelty that Dolly Parton wrote a crime novel and stay for the spitfire joy that is AnnieLee Keyes in this wildly entertaining book. (TW attempted sexual assault/ brief recounting of unknown suicide or accidental overdose/ mentions of child abuse/ panic attack/ human trafficking, not graphic/ recounts domestic abuse without graphic details) --from Book Riot's Unusual Suspects newsletter: https://link.bookriot.com/view/56a820...

When You Combine Parton and Patterson Sequins are Going to Fly, and Words are Going to Flow SUMMARY Dolly Parton teams up with James Patterson to write a thriller about a young female singer-songwriter who has just landed in Nashville and is looking for a break. Her simple songs are about hard times, and her voice grabs people’s attention. She is sleeping on the street, running from a past and looking for a brighter future. After playing in several Nashville bars, AnnieLee Keyes is getting noticed with her big voice and heartfelt songs. She grabs the attention of RuthAnna Rider, a retired county music icon, who takes AnnieLee under her wing and shows her the ropes. But when AnnieLee gets noticed, bad things start happening. “Sometimes you could see the scars, and sometimes you couldn’t. But everybody had them.” REVIEW When you pair up James Patterson and Dolly Parton, sequins are going to fly, and words are going to flow. RUN RUBY RUN is a classic county music story that is entertaining and heartbreaking. It grabs your attention right from the start when AnnieLee is hitchhiking to Nashville and creating a new song in her head. You know something good or bad is going to happen. The writing and the story are delightful. AnnieLee and RuthAnna’s characters feel authentic. You can’t help but see Parton's fingerprints all over these characters. I listened to the audiobook and enjoyed the multicast narration. Listening to the book felt as if I was already watching the soon-to-be-made movie starring who else but Dolly Parton, the leading lady of country. “She cared so much about her words, her creative expression, when what mattered to everyone else was the bottom line. Everything was a business—even art. She’d written the songs, but she wouldn’t be able to truly own them. Not if she wanted the rest of the world to hear them.” Publisher Little Brown and Company Published March 7, 2022 Narrated Multicast featuring Dolly Parton Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

This review can also be found at https://carolesrandomlife.com/ I thought that this was rather entertaining. A long time ago, I used to read a lot of James Patterson’s books. I noticed that at some point I just wasn’t enjoying his work anymore and made a conscious decision to focus my energy on reading books written by other authors. I was never really tempted to give his work another try until I saw that he wrote a book with Dolly Parton. I am so glad that I decided to pick this book up. I listened to the audiobook which was narrated by a wonderful cast of narrators including Dolly Parton, Kelsea Ballerini, James Fouhey, Kevin T. Collins, Peter Ganim, Luis Moreno, Soneela Nankani, Ronald Peet, Robert Petkoff, Ella Turenne, and Emily Woo Zeller. I am not going to lie. Dolly Parton’s name caught my attention but the fact that this book was narrated by a full cast sealed the deal. I thought that all of the narrators did a wonderful job with the story and their voices worked well together. I am certain that the narration added a lot to my overall enjoyment. This is AnnieLee Keyes’s story. She goes to Nashville hoping to make her dreams of making it big a reality while escaping her past. She gets a bit of help when she catches the attention of a semi-retired superstar who knows the ropes that AnnieLee will need to have a successful career. It is obvious that AnnieLee is running from someone but her past is a mystery for the bulk of the book. AnnieLee spends a lot of time with Ethan and they become closer as the book progresses. I was happy to see just a bit of romance worked into the story. I would recommend this book to others. I had fun with the story and thought that the audio added a lot to the story. I would definitely recommend grabbing the audio if you decide to give this book a try. This was the light entertaining read that I had hoped it would be. I received a review copy of this audiobook from Hachette Audio.

James Patterson was the first author to introduce me to adult crime/thrillers. I loved his Alex Cross series as well as his standalones, they always had me hooked. Admittedly it has been a while since I have read a book by him but once I saw he was cowriting it with THE Dolly Parton, I knew I had to get myself a copy. There’s a character in the book called Ruthanna who helps and befriends AnnieLee our protagonist. Not sure if it is just me but Ruthanna was Dolly Parton in my head. The way she spoke and almost her mannerisms, it just screamed Dolly. I’ve since seen that the book is going to be made into a movie starring Dolly herself and couldn’t think of anyone better to play the part as she so owns it. AnnieLee is a great character and I loved her strength. She is running away from something in her past which seems to have a habit of trying to spoil her future. She finds herself in quite a few harrowing incidents which had my heart in my mouth as to how things were going to end up for her. Another character I loved is Ethan. He sure made my heart melt! Run Rose Run had me gripped to every page. The story captured my mind and had me there with the characters as well as the bars that AnnieLee finds herself singing in. At the end of the book, there is a list of the songs with the lyrics that AnnieLee writes in the story. I love that they have also done a soundtrack to go with the book as will be great to see how they sound as betting it will be even better than what was in my head. I hope James and Dolly team up to write more as this was a great teaming of two brilliant minds.

"Because books my friends are true magic bound between two covers." The pairing of James Patterson and Dolly Parton struck a chord with me. The novel weaves together Parton's musicality and Patterson's signature style. When readers meet Annie Lee Keyes, she's hitching hiking her way to Nashville to pursue a music career. While pushing her luck, she's fortunate to meet Ruthanna, the queen of country music and whom takes Annie Lee under her wing. With true grit, Annie Lee faces demons from her past determined to succeed. Will the past be more than she can overcome or will she hit the right notes with Nashville? "Everyone knows happiness Everybody grieves We all cry, we all smile Everybody bleeds Everybody has a past, things they want to hide There’s give, take, love, hate in each and every life" (Run, Rose, Run)

Three years ago, sports agent Myron Bolitar gave a eulogy at the funeral of his client, renowned basketball coach Greg Downing. Myron and Greg had history: initially as deeply personal rivals, and later as unexpected business associates. Myron made peace and moved on—until now, when two federal agents walked into his office, demanding to know where Greg Downing is. According to the agents, Greg is still alive—and has been placed at the scene of a double homicide, making him their main suspect. Shocked, Myron needs answers. Myron and Win, longtime friends and colleagues, set out to find the truth, but the more they discover about Greg, the more dangerous their world becomes. Will they be able to parse the secrets and lies? What really happened to Greg? And can they uncover the truth before it’s too late? Or have they already been dealt a losing hand? Edge of your seat action. A vivid, adrenaline-pumping climax. Giggle-worthy dialogue. All of the above describes Think Twice to a T. Book twelve in the Myron Bolitar series, I don’t know what I was thinking having never visited with these characters before. Realistic, openly flawed, and just the right amount of comical and witty, I fell in love with each and every one right from the start. So much so, in fact, that I didn’t even have a single guess about who was the monster in disguise. Trust me when I say that this was most definitely for the best. Just as with all of Coben’s books, though, the plot was the star of the show. Told primarily from Myron’s POV, the pace was fast and the suspense was constantly building. What took this to another realm was the intermittent chapters from the killer’s perspective. Was it wrong that I enjoyed them just a little bit too much? As for the case, it was complex and deftly layered. So much so, in fact, that there seriously wasn’t a chance in h*** of me figuring it out before the final timely reveal. The only minor fly in the ointment, though, had to do with that complexity in the plot. Perhaps it was just me, but there were moments where I felt a bit lost. After all, there are a ton of subplots, red herrings, characters, and potential theories to the case. Part of my perplexity may have been down to the fact that I jumped into this series late in the game so all of the returning characters were brand new to me, but there were just so many details to grasp. By the time I reached the final chapter, however, I couldn’t give a toss about any sporadic confusion. With a dynamite climax that had me flying through the pages and a conclusion that felt wholly true-to-life and authentic, I was left completely in awe. It’s no surprise that so many of Mr. Coben’s novels have been adapted for TV. They just seem to come alive right before your eyes. And then there’s was the laugh-out-loud humor. Between Myron’s conversations with his wife, partner, and parents, I dare you to try and remain silent without a single snicker escaping your lips. So all in all, this maestro of the written word has clearly done it yet again. Thank you, dear sir, for giving me the ride of my life. Rating of 4.5 stars. Thank you to Harlan Coben and Grand Central Publishing for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own. PUB DATE: May 14, 2024 Trigger warning: a shooting in public, kidnapping, getting framed for a crime

4 Brilliant stars

A hostile FBI interview of Myron Bolitar and Win Lockwood takes place concerning Greg Downing, who has died three years ago. They have reason to believe that Downing is involved in two high profile murders of Cecilia Callister and her son, Clay. This is the first of many surprises as Myron does a little digging, and a few pieces of a very puzzling jigsaw start to slot into place. Myron is on the case, with a little help from Win and Esperanza Diaz amongst others. Well, this is a fun read as Myron and Win are reunited, and of course, there’s humerous banter between them, which does teeter into the ripe Camembert kind on occasions, but it is still engaging. The plot is lively, it’s told at a brisk pace and you’re in good company throughout too with some great characters. Some are larger than life, not least the fabulous Big Cyndi and there are some that are distinctly less likeable with a chameleon or two into the bargain. As the mystery deepens, it becomes one of those good but crazy rollercoaster rides with heart in the mouth twists as a very clever perpetrator who has thus far evaded all. It’s a page turner that’s for sure, as it barrels to a very dramatic heart stopping ending which is really good. There is a bit of repetition as a few points are hammered home, but otherwise it’s a highly immersive read. With thanks to NetGalley, and especially to Random House UK, Cornerstone, for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

Fantastic addition to the series. If you haven't read this series because you think--why would I want to read a series about a sports agent? I don't even like sports. Think again, because this series is very entertaining and the books are great mysteries with extremely likable characters. I think that this installment in particular, although completely understandable and a great read, would not have the impact without the lead in from previous books and being invested in the characters and their connections. There are really dramatic things that happen, as well as some levity and humor (especially with Myron's parents and their edibles) that make this book a fast paced, engaging read. I listened to this as an audiobook and the narrator Steven Weber (who narrates all of Coben's books) does a phenomenal job. I prefer to listen to these books because he does such an amazing job giving each character a distinct personality. Harlan Coben is at his finest with this novel, with so much twisty action you will be shocked and surprised more than once. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

Myron Bolitar: Oh how I missed you! (I have a feeling that I’m not alone in that sentiment). In Think Twice, Myron is back, along with his best friend Win, and the rest of the gang (Esperanza, Big Cyndi, Ellen, Al, and Therese) and their reunion was well worth the wait (lots of tears may have been shed). When Myron is brought in by the FBI to find his former client Greg Downing, Myron is taken aback - as Greg, his old Basketball rival, has been dead for years. The investigation into the whereabouts of Greg Downing is downright thrilling, and kept my attention throughout, though it’s the characters that I always return to. Myron and Win, whose friendship, loyalty, and witty banter warm the heart. 4.5 Stars. Another buddy read with Ms. Kaceey. You are still the Myron to my Win. ❣️ Huge thanks to Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley for sharing this arc with me. Namaste Harlan Coben. You've done it again. Disclaimer: Many tears were shed during the reading of this novel.

Harlan Coben is a prolific author of twisty crime fiction. His books are always a go-to for me, as I've enjoyed a number of them, both in book and movie format. Description: Former basketball star Myron Bolitar has barely restarted his agency for sports stars and celebrities when two federal agents walk into his office, asking for answers. Assuming they want to talk about the highly publicized Callister murders—of which he and Win know nothing, other than what's been saturating the news lately—he's stunned when, instead, they demand to know where Greg Downing is. Greg, a former NBA player-turned-beloved-coach, was an old client of Myron’s, one of his very first. The reason for Myron's surprise is simple: Greg Downing died three years ago. But according to these federal agents, Greg is still alive—and somehow involved in the Callister case. Before his death, Greg made some strange money moves, but nothing about his reappearance makes any sense. As Myron and Win investigate, they're also surprised to uncover a seemingly related case where someone was murdered. Then another. And another. Is Greg alive? And if he is, where is he? And ultimately, are they looking for Greg? Or are they looking for a dangerously clever serial killer? My Thoughts: There are so many twists and turns in this book it will keep you guessing. It is full of surprises. Both Myron and Win are amazing characters. Some of the feats they pull off are stunning. This is one of those books you can't put down. I enjoyed the team up with the all female attorney firm in the same office building. They added a little something to the mix. The plot kept my interest and made for some tense moments. Thanks to Grand Central Publishing through Netgalley for an advance copy.

I’ve been an occasional visitor to this series, featuring sports agent and qualified lawyer Myron Bolitar, and his devoted (and deadly violent) sidekick Win Lockwood. So, I’ve picked up the general thread of their passage to this latest episode, whilst missing out on quite a few of the key moments in their journey. Those I have read have been fun, in particular I’ve enjoyed the banter between the pair. For me, the books are a successfully mix of a decent plot, interesting characters, and a good dose of humour. When I picked up this latest episode (due for release 23rd May 2024) two things immediately struck me: 1. Both Win and Myron have aged. It’s been 8 years since the previous episode was published. The most recent book I’d read in this series was written twenty five years ago. Coben has made the decision to age his characters as the series progresses (in the same way Michael Connelly and Ian Rankin have with their most successful series). I like this approach, even if it has the impact of making me feel the passage of the years a little more intensely! 2. I’ve missed out on some crucial moments in Myron’s life. This story can certainly be enjoyed as a stand alone tale, but I cant help feeling that it would have felt so much richer had I been more closely acquainted with Myron’s past. In short, Myron is asked to look into a case involving a man accused of murder – the accused being an old foe of Myron’s, one who has been dead for several years! How could this be? How could the man’s DNA turn up at the scene of the crime? It’s a tangled web indeed, and I had great fun seeing how Myron and Win set about untangling it. Yes, it’s a tall story. But it’s one that kept me guessing and entertained throughout. I really must go back and read all those books I’ve missed out on. My thanks to Random House UK, Cornerstone for supplying an ARC of this book via NetGalley in return for an honest review.

i just love how fun these are and how fast they read

_________________________ "No wise man ever took a handgun to a gunfight." --Wyatt Earp Myron Bolitar is the Wyatt Earp of Sports Reps. He is a straitlaced, kung fu fighting do-gooder. Now, the real-life Wyatt Earp, the reputedly straight-shooting, law-abiding, lawman was good friends with the purportedly drunken, gambling, gunslinging murdering-dentist, Doc Holliday. The two of them always had each other's back. In the Bolitar series, stalwart Myron has his own Doc Holliday, a rich sometimes sadistic, sociopathic socialite named Windsor Horne Lockwood III whom you wouldn't want to date your sister or to pet your dog, but who, like Holliday, will do anything--sometimes horrific things--to protect his best friend. “My mama always told me never put off till tomorrow people you can kill today.” (attributed to Doc Holliday in the movie "Wyatt Earp") As with your standard mystery novel sleuth, murders most foul keep landing at Myron's doorstep, fowling up his day. Hey it happens. In this book, angry FBI agents knock on Bolitar's office and demand he tell them the whereabouts of one of his clients. They claim the client has recently committed a heinous double murder, and they have DNA evidence to prove it. Myron finds this confusing, since that particular client has been dead for 5 years. In fact, Myron delivered the eulogy at the man's funeral. Myron and his personal Doc Holliday, decide to investigate. "Secrets have a way of coming out, no matter how deep you bury them." --Myron Bolitar 🌟🌟🌟½ I have read 5 or 6 books in the 12-book Myron Bolitar series before and enjoyed them. I have been enthralled in the dichotomy of people with such different outlooks on life. I was particularly drawn to the fact that there's plenty of wisecracky humor in these books. I enjoy wisecracks in a mystery. Unfortunately, in this 2024 entry to the Bolitar cycle, there are several pages in which the book drifts from the realm of an occasionally amusing mystery into the realms of a frivolous farce that might have written by Westlake, Evanovich, or even Terry Pratchett. The characters are out of character. They are buffoons. [Note: I am not opposed to buffoonery. In fact, I am a Level 3 Buffoon myself. But it is not a literary style that is appropriate to the plot of Think Twice, and I have docked the novel 1/2 star for this weird brain fart on Harlan's part. Full Disclosure: My grandchildren are directly related to the Earps. Their great-grandmother 6 times removed on their father's side was Wyatt Earp's aunt. My son-in-law grew up in Monmouth, Illinois, where Wyatt Earp was born just a century and two score of years before. The Earp Clan and their cousins still have a thriving, albeit small, enclave there. "Nothing counts so much as blood. The rest are just strangers."--Wyatt Earp

Another fine installment in this series featuring Myron Bolitar and his billionaire buddy, Win. The crimes in this novel turns the use of DNA evidence as a means of convicting killers on its head. Fast-paced and compelling.

4.0 / 5 First I’ve read of the Myron Bolitar series, but dang it’s a journey and a half. I found this book entertaining and thrilling to say the least! Myron is chilling in his office when FBI agents visit him asking and looking for his former client Greg Downing. His DNA was discovered at the scene of a high profile double murder and main suspect- the only catch is Greg died 3 years ago where Bolitar gave the eulogy’s. Myron alongside Win go on a journey to discover what happened to Greg but as they start digging deeper they start to uncover more than they bargained for. I found this book easy to read where the pages were just flying, but my only hiccup with this book was the plot which I found a tad too complex to follow. The book is well layered and detailed, I love the banter between the two front men! Not a bad read! Would recommend!

Myron Bolitar is back, and Harlan Coben will make you feel some things in Think Twice. Three years after his death, Greg Downing’s DNA is found at a crime scene. What transpires will test your crime-solving ability while keeping your shit together. I can almost promise you you will not figure out the ending. I was convinced I had it figured out. Not even close. In typical Coben fashion, he gives the reader multiple threads that somehow become one over 400 pages. What wasn’t so typical were the emotions Coben pulled from my eyes. He hits you right in the feels. so be fore-warned, unless you have no soul. I’ve had women my entire life tell me, “Less is more.” It never clicked till I met Windsor Lockwood, III. Win is one of the greatest characters in this realm, and Coben always — always— leaves you wanting more of Win. The pressure Coben must have felt bringing Myron and Win back and doing them justice must have been great, and he nailed it. Thank you to Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley for the opportunity to read an advanced copy of Think Twice.

Many thanks to @grandcentralpublishing and @hachetteus for the gifted print copy of this great thriller! Sports agent (and former basketball star) Myron Bolitar is putting his agency back together with his friend & colleague Windsor Horne Lockwood when the FBI visits him. Myron never could have imagined they were there to question him about Greg Downing, former NBA star and former client. Former because Greg is dead. Myron eulogized him three years before. The FBI believes Greg is alive and thinks he is in some way connected to at least two murders. As Myron and Win race to discover the truth about Greg, the death toll continues to rise, and they get caught up in something much bigger and more dangerous than they could have imagined. The first Harlan Coben book I read a decade ago was Six Years - and it blew me away. Coben is a fantastic storyteller. This book kept me guessing the entire time, and just when I thought the conclusion was heading in one direction, it veered into something more complex and unpredictable. This "modern classic" thriller style is always such an enjoyable read. I'll always come back for more from Harlan Coben.

Ah Myron and Win ♥️

Three words I'll use to describe this book: complex, confusing (a little bit) and sad. The complex and confusing, I think, come because there's a ton of characters to keep straight - making it a bit confusing when I couldn't remember who someone I'd read about six chapters earlier was. The sad part I'll get to in a bit, so bear with me. Attorney and former basketball great Myron Bolitar has returned to his agency that represents celebrity clients, mostly those in sports, which he shares with partner Win Lockwood in New York City. One fine day, a couple of Feds march in demanding to know where to find Myron's former friend and client, basketball star Greg Downing. And they won't take Myron's word when he tells them Greg has an excellent reason for being missing: he's been dead and buried for three years. Needless to say, all this is news to Myron and Win, both of whom were at Greg's funeral. The Feds, however, offer compelling evidence to the contrary; Greg's DNA was found at the scene of the recent murder of Cecelia Callister and her son Clay. So back to the original question - where is Greg, really? The case is further complicated by the fact that Greg "stole" Myron's girlfriend away years ago, leaving her as his widow when he "died." He also left a grown son, Jeremy, who actually is Myron's son but who believes Greg to be his biological father (all this has been revealed in previous books in the series, of which this book is the 12th). So while Myron and Win have mixed feelings about Greg including whether or not he's found, they feel a responsibility to locate him - if in fact he's really alive - and represent him if he's arrested for the murders. From this point on, almost anything I'd say would be too much; but trust me, there's plenty of action as well as some surprises. And that brings me to the end (well, almost), which is where the aforementioned sad part comes in. Here, too, I can't get specific, but suffice it to say I was plenty worried (and remain so days after I finished the book). To be sure, I'm already hoping the next installment will be forthcoming sooner rather than later. Meantime, I thank the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review a pre-release copy of this one.

I am a fan of Coben’s novels. I love mysteries and his characters. I enjoyed this novel, but I felt there were too many twists, turns and characters. Myron Bolitar takes the lead, with his faithful partner, Win. For those who are new to the Bolitar novels, this might be confusing. There seems to be a methodical serial killer with victims who have no apparent connection. Myron and Win become involved when their friend/nemesis Greg Downing is implicated in one of the murders. Thus begins a story of twisting motives and multiple suspects. I enjoyed this book, but I am uncomfortable with it as a stand-alone. I look forward to reading more Coben novels. Thank you Netgalley for this opportunity to read and review this novel.

It's been three years since Myron Bolitar gave the eulogy at the funeral of renowned basketball coach Greg Downing. Myron, former basketball star at Duke, former FBI contact and current sports agent, and Greg had been a lot of things to each other--respected foes on the court, rivals in both basketball and love, and most recently business associates. Myron had served as Greg's agent. Having presided over Greg's ashes, the last thing Myron expects when two FBI agents come to his office about the recent murder of supermodel Cecelia Callister and her son is for them to ask him, "Where's Greg Downing?" His reply, "In a mausoleum at Cedar Lawn Cemetery in Paterson" doesn't go over well. The agents tell him and his best friend Win (Windsor Horne Lockwood III) that Greg is apparently alive and kicking...and murdering. Because his DNA has been found at the scene of the crime. Oh...and they heavily imply that Myron knew Greg was alive and must have helped him go off the grid for three years. Myron decides that he needs to investigate. IF Greg is still alive, then he's still Myron's client and he owes it to Greg to try and help him. Win doesn't like it--but if Myron is determined to investigate, then he's going to help him. The two don't know what they're getting themselves into. The investigation leads them into a dust-up with organized crime, Myron nearly loses his baby toe to "Joey the Toe" (a mob member who collects pinky toes as souvenirs), and they begin to suspect there is a serial killer on the loose--a diabolical killer with intricate game plans, logical follow-through, and a knack for setting up the innocent to pay for the killer's crimes. Just when they think they know what's happening and who's doing it, they find they need to think twice. First-off: Is this my usual kind of book. Nope. Never read a Coben book before in my life and have never really thought his books were my kind of thing. It's amazing the things I wind up reading for challenges--even serial killer thrillers. Did it reach out and grab me and keep reading until I got to the end? You betcha. Think Twice has quite a lot going for it: punchy dialog (lots of dialog!); a buddy-movie vibe between Myron & Win (aAe they hunting a serial killer; does Myron nearly become a victim himself? Sure. But they're having a good time doing it.); a great hook; and a nice twisty ending. Did I figure out most of the solution before we got to the ending? Well...yes. But I didn't matter. I was so invested in Myron and Win and their story that I didn't feel cheated. And that for me was the heart of this book. I really enjoyed the relationship between Myron & Win. And isn't it fortunate that Win has so much money and influence that he can get them out of all kinds of scrapes? I'm really tempted to go back to the beginning of the series and just read them all...if only I didn't have a couple thousand books sitting on my physical TBR pile right now. I read this one because of a reading challenge (it seemed the best of various options for one of the prompts), otherwise I still wouldn't have read a Coben novel. I'm glad I did, it's a nicely plotted thriller with good characters and an interesting method of serial killing. First posted on my blog My Reader's Block.

It has been eight years since best selling author Harlen Coben released a new Myron Bolitar novel. The series began in 1995 with DEAL BREAKER introducing a wonderful storyline that centered around a former basketball star forced into retirement due to injury who reinvented himself as a sports agent. Over the years Coben has written eleven renditions of his Bolitar series that exhibited his humor, acerbic wit, and well thought out plots that have created millions of readers. To my immense joy and excitement Coben has just released his newest version of the series, THINK TWICE, which possesses all the characteristics that have made his other books in the series such a success. Coben is a remarkable storyteller who has won numerous awards for his Bolitar series. In his current novel we are introduced to renowned basketball coach Greg Downing who has recently passed away. In fact, Bolitar had given the eulogy at his funeral. To Bolitar’s surprise two federal agents entered his office demanding to know Downing’s whereabouts, claiming he was alive since he was now a suspect in a double murder. Bolitar is stunned but soon realizes that his former adversary and client is alive. Coben launches his plot by describing how a murder takes place and moves on to introduce a series of interesting characters which are the hallmark of Coben’s novels. First, we revisit cast members of the previous books that dominate his latest. Obviously, Bolitar takes center stage as does his friend and business partner Win Lockwood. Time has changed both men, Bolitar more so than Lockwood. We learn that the former basketball star is now married for the third time and has a biological son who plays a significant role in the storyline. Lockwood on the other hand, has aged but remains a wealthy snob who dominates any room he enters. Esperanza Diaz no longer works for Bolitar and has joined the law firm of Fisher, Friedman, and Diaz. Big Cyndi, Bolitar’s assistant in his sports/law agency, remains “Big Cydni.” The story begins with a series of contradictions where murders keep occurring and most seem solved by the FBI. However, those involving Downing morph into a plot line that leads to a brilliant serial killer who sets up a number of murderers by creating evidence against them to cover their own tracks. A substantial portion of the novel revolves around how Bolitar, Lockwood, and others prove that Downing who went off the grid three years before for reasons Coben makes clear was not a killer, despite the FBI belief that he was. Of course, the remainder of the story centers on finding the real serial killer. In doing so Coben’s acerbic wit is paramount. His character’s commentary is sarcastic, funny, are dead on. Remark like; “Insecure enraged men are a growth industry,” Bolitar’s father’s remarks concerning the joys of edibles that have improved his sex life after decades of marriage, and his description of a basketball pickup game is priceless along with new characters he introduces. We meet Joey the Toe, a mobster named Joseph Turant who has been convicted by the Feds for a crime he did not commit. Turant is convicted because the Feds supposedly pressured a gay individual to testify against him. Greg Downing plays one of the lead roles and is married to Bolitar’s ex-wife and raises Bolitar’s biological son named Jeremy who is introduced as a member of the US Army, but as the story evolves that is not his occupation. Emily, Bolitar’s ex. and Downing’s spouse provides insights into her relationships with both her husbands. Grace Konners, Greg Downing’s lover. Ronald Prine, a dirty Philadelphia real estate mogul. PT, a career FBI insider who helped Bolitar and Lockwood in the past, now guides them in their investigation. Terese, a journalist and Bolitar’s latest spouse, and lastly, Sadie Fisher, a dynamic lawyer who represents Downing. Then there are those who are accused of murder and are innocent, and of course the murder victims themselves. The core of the novel are secrets, lies, and a murderous conspiracy that stretches back into the past. In true Coben fashion the reader has no clue as to who the guilty party is. The twists and turns can sometimes become confusing, but soon divergent scenes begin to make sense as Bolitar and Lockwood get closer and closer to solving the case, but as they do danger lurks in the background. If you enjoyed Coben’s previous Bolitar yarns this one should measure up and meet your expectations, especially the ending. A great summer read – enjoy.

Es posible que algunos lectores puedan seguir esta historia sin haber leído las entregas anteriores de esta serie. Sin embargo, considero que no lo sentirás con la misma emoción. Los últimos capítulos fueron de infarto, como siempre en la obra de Coben, pero en esta novela están escritos para que el lector comprometido con los personajes deje de respirar hasta que se resuelva la acción. Solo por estos capítulos le doy las cuatro estrellas. Intentando ser objetiva, esta vez la trama se embrolla demasiado y la resolución requiere más de un acto de fe por parte del lector" Gracias a NetGalley, Random House UK y a Cornerstone por facilitarme una copia digital para su reseña. It is possible that some readers may be able to follow this story without having read the previous instalments in this series. However, I reckon you won't feel it with the same excitement. The last few chapters were heart-stopping, as always in Coben's work, but in this novel they are written to keep the reader engaged with the characters until the action is resolved. For these chapters alone I give it four stars. Trying to be objective, this time the plot gets too convoluted and the resolution requires more of a leap of faith on the part of the reader. Thanks to NetGalley, Random House UK and Cornerstone for providing me with a digital copy for review.

At this point, I was so happy to be reunited with Myron Bolitar and his friend, Win (Windsor Horne Lockwood III) that I would follow them anywhere--maybe even a dramatic reading of the phone book. Luckily, Coben has created a solid vehicle that pushes Myron to confront the past, face his parents mortality, and need his friends more than ever. I don't want to say too much because part of the fun of the Myron Bolitar series is jumping into each novel with both feet. Enjoy!!!

Like so many other best selling authors, Lee Child is trying to keep the brand going by bringing in a co-author, his own younger brother. That never works for me and I admit I started this novel with trepidation. However, it turned out to be a good read, fast and action packed as all Jack Reacher novels are. I did notice a few changes in the Jack Reacher we know and love. He's chattier, for one thing. I didn't count words or anything, but I'm sure he did more talking than he usually does. And beyond that, he seemed to do more on-the-page thinking than usual, even plotting out his fist fights. Andrew Grant tries to bring him into modern times by giving him his first cell phone. I went along with that until he quickly works his way through the menus to find just the information he needs, the first time he tries. Bottom line: The Sentinel is a pretty good read, but Andrew Grant's style is not exactly the same as Lee Child's.

A great book from Lee child and Andrew child again about the drifter Jack Reacher. I’m lucky enough to have the whole series of reacher books so I’m delighted when I get to read another.. Jack reacher is in a town outside Nashville and comes across a bar and likes the sound of the band.. being reacher he likes to wrong a right. He ends up getting a lift to another town where it has come under a cyber attack. He comes across a man named Rusty Rutherford, just an ordinary man that has had some bad luck and no one likes him at the moment. Reacher knows when there is something not right and something is going to happen, seeing the lacklustre Rutherford being about to be under attack so reacher takes it on himself to help Rutherford . Rutherford knows more than he’s letting on. Reacher and Rutherford looks in to why Rutherford is a target, There’s more to this than meets the eye and Jack has taken it on himself to help the little man out and find out what is happening, with his Brawn and brains he’s there looking for the truth..

This is the first book of the Jack Reacher series not written by Lee Child (the pen name of James Grover Grant, British author). He has turned over the series to his younger brother, Andrew. It seems the Grant boys are talented writers. The book is well written and the characters are interesting. Jack Reacher hitches a ride and gets out in a small Tennessee town which was the destination of his ride. Reacher immediately gets into trouble by rescuing a man that is being attacked by a group of men. The story is non-stop action and intrigue. I am getting use to Scott Brick as the narrator since Dick Hill retired. I cannot wait for episode twenty-six. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book is ten hours thirty-nine minutes. Scott Brick does a good job narrating the book. Brick is an actor and has won multiple awards for his audiobook narration.

I was anxious to read this, as it’s the first novel in the series to be co-written by original author Lee Child (real name, Jim Grant) and his youngest brother, Andrew – an established author in his own right under his real name. The transition is seamless, without any noticeable alterations to the winning formula. In fact, this novel is based on a similar template to several of the earlier ones; During his continual journey across the United States, Reacher winds up in a small town, comes to the aid of a person in peril and then finds himself embroiled in a much larger problem, which he proceeds to deal with in his own inimitable style. The intended victim here is Rusty Rutherford, an IT technician. Rusty is currently the town’s pariah, being blamed for the whole town’s computer systems being down owing to a ransomware attack. It soon becomes obvious that he is being scapegoated, but why is someone trying to kidnap him? This is very much a contemporary story, featuring cyber-terrorism, fake news, conspiracy theories, etc. I particularly enjoyed the humorous nod to John D. MacDonald’s Travis McGee (a slightly smaller precursor to Reacher) when one of the characters talks of their plans to retire and buy a houseboat. So, in all, not a major departure from the previous novels, but, for those of us addicted to the series since Killing Floor 25 years ago, it’s still essential reading.

*3.5 stars rounded up. I haven't read ALL the Reacher books but a good number of them. It's a series my husband and I enjoy sharing. I was happy that this outing didn't seem quite as violent as the previous book. With the addition of Child's brother to the writing team, there DOES seem to be a difference in the quality--perhaps more of a reliance on long-established scenarios and standard characterizations without going much deeper. As usual, Reacher arrives in a small town, this time one in Tennessee, and steps right into a situation, preventing an organized attempt at kidnapping. The man he saves is the disgraced IT manager of the town who failed to prevent a ransomware attack that has shut the town down. Who would want to kidnap him? Reacher feels responsible for the hapless geek and decides to stick around town to protect him and figure out who and what is behind all this. Some hot-button current issues are involved, related to the meaning of the title.

I think I am now all caught up with Jack Reacher novels. Throwing some current affairs into this one and Nazis get what they deserve - huzzah!

The Sentinel is the 25th novel featuring Jack Reacher and cowritten by Lee Child and his younger brother, Andrew, who according to reports is assuming authorship of the series going forward. It begins with the attempted kidnapping of Rusty Rutherford, the erstwhile IT manager of Pleasantville, Tennessee, who lost his job and his good name when forces unknown launched a ransomware attack against all the municipality’s software systems. Serendipitously, as is the case with all the novels in the series, Reacher arrives in town just in time to witness and prevent the kidnapping. One thing leads to another, and Reacher finds himself squaring off against the intelligence service of a U.S. national enemy that has a secret buried in the files of one of Pleasantville’s servers that it would rather not see the light of day. My two rules of thumb for suspense novels are that they keep me turning the page to find out what happens next and that they do not test my willing suspension of disbelief—which all fiction requires of readers—too far. The Sentinel passes both tests, with two caveats: First, what is captivating about Child’s series is its kinetic force, both figuratively (the pace of his plots move quickly and constantly) and literally (his fight scenes are the best written ones I’ve read). The plot of The Sentinel moves quickly, but I felt it slowed down somewhat in the middle—not so much that I put the book down, but just enough that I noticed it. Second, nothing in the novel per se tested my willing suspension of disbelief, but as a reader of all the novels in the series, not to mention the numerous novellas and short stories, a nagging suspicion kept lurking in the back of my mind that Reacher is too old to keep beating the younger men who continue to stupidly pick fights with him. In Child’s fictional universe, Jack Reacher was born on October 29, 1960. (The Sentinel rreleased on two days before that date this year, not uncoincidentally.) That means Reacher is 60 years old. Knowing Reacher’s age, and knowing that he’s been effectively homeless for 23 years—the Army cashiered him in 1997, eats garbage food, and stays in rat trap motels, one begins to wonder when (or whether) unhealthy living (and all-out brawls) will begin to take their toll. Even so, Reacher’s age doesn’t come up explicitly in this novel, so if you don’t know the backstory, that lingering doubt won’t arise. And like I said, the novel is a page-turner. So, four stars from me. I am very curious about how Andrew Child will move the series forward, so I will make sure to look for his first solo Reacher novel next year…just in time for Reacher’s 61st birthday. Book Reviewed Lee Child and Andrew Child, The Sentinel (New York: Delacorte Press, 2020). P.S. If you liked my review, please click “Helpful” on my Amazon review page.

There has been a lot of bad reviews for this book in the jack reacher stories but I found this to be another entertaining, fun read. A real page Turner that gets more suspenseful. I always read jack reacher books fast , can not stop reading them when I start. Very addictive. Features a thrilling story thats relevant to today' that's about cyber crime. Jack reacher just being jack reacher. A lot of action, and a lot ofntense scenes and confrontations. I always find the jack reacher novels reliable in taking my mind off the world around me and relaxing with another jack reacher adventure.

The Jack Reacher series by Lee Child is in my top 5 favorite series. I had put off reading this book because I was worried that it wouldn’t meet my high expectations due to Andrew Child taking over the series due to Lee Child’s retirement. I was pleasantly surprised! I really enjoyed this book!

This was a pit stop read, in the sense that I bought it to read on the way home from work. I had finished the book I travelled with, and I hate travelling without something to read. Okay, Tom Cruise may not be 6 foot plus so it would probably help if you get this image of Jack Reacher out of your head. A fun read; it may not be my last

During the pandemic I have turned to Jack Reacher again and again. Linus has his blanket, I have Jack Reacher. And Sentinel, the first co-authored novel, was just as enjoyable as the rest. As we go into Lockdown the Third I am glad there are so many Jack Reacher novels I still haven't read. I think I will need him more than ever.

4 stars It was so great to be back in the Fifty Shades world. I know this series isn’t one everyone loves, but I always have. I feel nostalgic for it, as I’ve always been an avid book reader but this is the series that got me into reading much more romance. I loved getting Christian’s pov, and even though I already knew the story, it was nice to get certain scenes from his pov. It was reallllllly long and probably could have had a couple hours shaved from it, but overall I enjoyed. Zachary Webber does an incredible job voicing Christian. If you’re going to read this one, I can’t recommend listening enough! Audio book source: Audible Story Rating: 4 stars Narrators: Zachary Webber Narration Rating: 5 stars Genre: Romance Length: 27h 15m

It's finally an end to an era. I remember when my friend finally broke me down to read these and I became obsessed. I have never been into BDSM books and still don't seek them out, but there was something about Christian and Ana's story that was just enthralling. You couldn't help but root for Christian to realize that he was worthy to have and feel love. I was actually hoping to see a little bit more between Kate and Elliott's story, but unfortunately that was anticlimactic. I doubt that I'll ever revisit these books, but I'm glad that I decided to finish out these end of the series.

I think this one gave a little more closure than 50 Shades Freed did because we really get to see from Christian's POV how he reallyfeels about the baby and the evil troll bitch. I was so angry at him through the last third of the book because we only heard his apology to Ana. But getting it from him, his thoughts, was more satisfying. Also, his turning down Elena was amazing as well. I think my biggest moral issue with this whole series, interestingly enough, was Mia and her constant pursuit of Ethan after he repeatedly told her he wasn't interested. At least Ana agreed to everything and Christian stopped when she asked him to. Mia just wouldn't take no for an answer. Also, she was just obnoxious. Christian when he was younger in the foster home was adorable and heartbreaking. I think he would have been treated really well by the Colliers had he stayed with them. He wouldn't have been nearly so successful, but I think they would have been kind to him.

** spoiler alert ** E. l James, you have easily impressed me yet again. I’ve waited so long to be in possession of this book because as you know if you know me at all or have been following my reviews for awhile, you know that the ever famous 50 Shades of Grey is my favorite book, period. I love everything about it and the whole series, including this last one told from none other then Christian Grey himself’s perspective. However, with this particular book in the series, I’m afraid it’s one star short of being five for me, and of course, I’m going to talk about why. At the beginning, it seemed as if Carrick talked down to Christian, like Christian was a six year old rather than a twenty year old, and it was a little disheartening. It was only a couple of times, but I couldn’t shake how he was being talked to as an adult, by an adult. Moving on to the Taiwan project, when he was discussing prices with his team, one of them goes: “Christian, it’ll be cheaper in the long run…” (49) to which Christian responds with: “Undoubtedly…” and my only question is…since when has Christian Grey been worried about money? Not that it matters much, just a minor detail I picked up on. A 50 Shades novel wouldn’t be the same if there was no soaring involved, so of course Christian and Ana went soaring! However, while in the sky, Christian explained that they were “keeping the ATTITUDE constant…” (114) I think the correct word there would be Altitude, but then again I have never gone soaring so what do I know? 😅 I don’t think it was an author error though, just a legit typo is all. The last thing that made me give this last novel to the series less than five stars was this exact line:”leaving Ana to soak a little longer in the tub…” (304) reading that line was a little uncomfortable for me. I felt like Ana should’ve been his daughter, not his wife. Now, the best part, why I enjoyed this book the way I enjoy her other books in this series. For starters, and as mentioned previously, I am a sucker for 50 Shades and all things about it, so that fuels the fire. This novel in particular, E.L James really pulled off the part of it being written from a man’s point of view by saying small things such as “thirsty” and “my girl” those are just some examples but they make it seem more accurate that a man wrote it versus a woman, so she did a great job telling the story from Christian’s point of view. In this novel too, E.L James got more in touch with her English side, which was different compared to her other books, but a nice gesture nonetheless. Idle lines like “what of it” are things I feel like they’d say in United Kingdom, where she’s from. Aside from my dislikes and likes about this book, it was a tad different then her others in the series, and it’s because this books feels like a completely different story, and the only reason we know it’s not is because the characters are the same. Don’t get me wrong, it did reminisce on some of the dramatic chaos such as the sabotage of Charlie Tango, Ray’s Accident, Leila, Jack & Christian’s foster care history together, Ana’s heroity & also Ana’s pregnancy, but everything else that went on around it made it seem like a different story was being told. I wonder if though, it’s just because this particular story talked more about Christian’s business than anything. One last thing before I end this snarky review, Ana decides to meet up with Leila and they do so…of course behind Christian’s back. If you have read the whole 50 Shades series, you know that Leila is an ex-submissive of Christian. Anyways, when Christian finds out, it’s obvious he’s pissed, so he interrupts their meeting and Leila understands why he’s mad, quoting the line:”I had my instructions, Mrs. Grey. I disobeyed them.” (515) It didn’t bother me or anything that she said it, it more of made me wonder why Ana didn’t bark back at the ‘disobeyed’ part. If Christian was my man now and his ex said that I know I would’ve! Anyways, thus concludes my 50 Shades Journey, and I’m really quite satisfied. I have yet to read ‘The Mister’ by E.L. James whenever I get my hands on it and I hope to enjoy it as much as this series.

I loved this book a lot! I read all the books years ago and was really excited to get Christian‘s pov so obviously I was very impatiently waiting for this one to come now. This one is probably my most favorite from his pov. I love the lovestory of these two, I loved the epilogue! Just overall very happy even tho it‘s bittersweet having to say goodbye to fifty shades now.

FREED is the third and final instalment in EL James’ contemporary, adult FIFTY SHADES AS TOLD BY CHRISTIAN erotic, BDSM romance trilogy told by Christian Grey. Told from first person point of view (Christian) using present day and memories from the past, FREED focuses on Christian Grey-his feelings, his emotions, his need for control, and his desperate attempts to protect the woman he loves. For readers and followers of the Fifty Shades of Grey series, FREED and FIFTY SHADES AS TOLD BY CHRISTIAN reveals a deeper side to the man many have grown to love or hate. We are up close and personal with his need and rationale for control; his heart breaking earlier years with a crack-addicted mother, and the grooming of an adolescent and impressionable young man to become a dominant with a sadistic nature. FREED acknowledges Christian’s somewhat embattled relationship with his adoptive parents Carrick and Grace, and his inability to recall anything about the missing months while in the care of social services. While Christian is a man obsessed about our heroine Ana Steele, he is also a man struggling with the demons from his past that continue to control his present including his ongoing and unhealthy ‘friendship’ with Mrs. Robinson, a relationship from which he battles to let go. FREED is a detailed, complex and long story line that reveals so much more about Christian Grey than was ever revealed in the original series including plenty of information about his work, and his need to amass a corporate empire. There is supplementary plotline not found in the original series release, as well as some additional content only found in the movie adaptation but now added to ‘enhance’ the story for interest and familiarity. FREED is an edgy and dramatic addition to Christian Grey’s POV. www.thereadingcafe.com

An engaging and well written political conspiracy thriller with a President who is rotten to the core. Hard to believe really.

3.5 stars - This was a really fun and effective political thriller. Things went a little off the rails in the last third, but as a whole, this is a thought provoking and entertaining take on a political mystery thriller with a splash of medical ethics thrown in

While Justice Sleeps is filled with political machinations and intrigue that kept me turning pages and finishing the book faster than I wanted. Unsurprisingly, Abrams created a strong female character that smartly navigates the dangers of political ambitions and decisions that are made in the background by people who aren't as out front, but are arguably more dangerous than the political figureheads that they aim to influence and control. I won't go into plot details since the book's summary is more than enough information, but I will add that Abrams' atmospheric writing makes Washington D.C. feel real and tangible even to readers like myself that aren't intimately familiar with its streets, places, and people. Her ability to make me vividly imagine what the places look and feel like kept me happily engaged for the entire story. All in all While Justice Sleeps is a political thriller authentically written by an author with impeccable political chops. I am thrilled that I was able to read an ARC and I look forward to whatever Abrams gives us next. I received an ARC from the publisher in exchange for an honest review. Where you can find me: •(♥).•*Monica Is Reading*•.(♥)• Twitter: @monicaisreading Instagram: @readermonica Goodreads Group: The Black Bookcase

I binged this book on audio and really enjoyed it. Although political thrillers can sometimes be over my head, Stacey Abrams did an excellent job at making the ins and outs of Washington politics more accessible, while also writing such a unique and far-fetched story that at moments doesn’t seem that outlandish (I guess this is the scariest part of this thriller). Avery is such a bad a$s MC and I’m so excited to see what she does next.

Rtc

A literary roller coaster with social insight With all the talk about landmark Supreme Court decisions in jeopardy, retirements, nominations and their consequences, Stacey Abrams’ new legal thriller While Justice Sleeps is not so much ripped from the headlines as it is the stuff of our most vivid nightmares. When cantankerous Supreme Court justice Howard Wynn slips into a coma, it propels the court into limbo, causing a constitutional crisis with his law clerk at the center of a political storm. Abrams knows this terrain—legal, social, and political—inside and out. With that expertise, the issues at the center of the story are drawn with precision and insight, but her characters are the book’s greatest strength ... The story is anchored by two indelible outsiders who have little in common save the institution for which both work and their prickly personas. Stacey Abrams’s thriller is an intricate one with a diverse supporting cast of allies and adversaries and a Russian nesting doll of legal maneuvering, politics and technological intrigue. Much of it is riveting. There are also subplots and clever details strewn like Easter eggs throughout. Somewhere in the middle, the plot starts to feel overstuffed, and the myriad of moving parts slow forward momentum. But...there’s something deliciously rewarding about a thriller that realistically and unflinchingly reckons with how a young Black woman like Avery Keene gets treated when she answers the call to serve. Full review published on theGrio.com. See link below: https://thegrio.com/2021/05/20/stacey...

If you are a political junkie like myself, the name Stacey Abrams may sound familiar. Serving in the Georgia House of Representatives from 2007 to 2017, Abrams ran for governor of that state in 2018, losing to Republican Brian Kemp, who has since been accused of blatant voter suppression in that election. She would have been the first African-American female governor, ever. She’s not hurting, though. Abrams has made a name for herself as a vocal advocate of voting rights, having published two nonfiction books about voting and life in politics in general. Under a pseudonym, Abrams is also a well-known author of eight historical romances. Her latest novel “While Justice Sleeps” is her first novel published under her own name. “WJS” is a taut, fast-paced legal thriller in the same vein as the works of John Grisham or Brad Meltzer. She touches on some hot-button political issues throughout: genetic engineering, corruption within the pharmaceutical industry, presidential abuse of power. Her protagonist is Avery Keene, a feisty young law clerk who works for Supreme Court Justice Howard Wynn, a man known as much for his grumpiness as he is for his legal brilliance. He is the swing vote on a recent case involving a merger between an American biotech company and an Indian genetics company. While the merger could mean jobs and wealth for both countries, as well as promising leaps in the medical field, U.S. President Brandon Stokes is dead-set against it, ostensibly on moral grounds. Before he is able to make any ruling, however, Wynn inexplicably goes into a coma. Keene, like everyone in her office, is shocked. On top of the tragic news, Keene is immediately notified that Wynn, at the last minute, made Keene his power of attorney, to the chagrin of Wynn’s current trophy wife and his son from his first marriage. The news quickly attracts the attention of President Stokes, Homeland Security, the FBI, and the worldwide media. Keene—-a workaholic with no social life, a crackhead mother, and bills to pay—-is suddenly put in the national spotlight in the middle of one of the most important political issues of the day. It is, apparently, the Cuban Missile Crisis of business mergers. Thankfully, Keene is blessed with an indomitable spirit and an eidetic memory, two things that Justice Wynn saw in her that led to his decision making her his POA. When a toxicology report suggests that Wynn was purposefully put into a coma, Keene is forced to play detective. It’s a race against time as someone way above her pay grade is killing anyone who might know something, and it’s only a matter of time before they go after her. Abrams’s experience in politics and the law definitely elevates this book from what could have been a mere dime store potboiler. It is an edge-of-the-seat thriller that takes the reader on an exciting, and terrifying, journey through the deepest, darkest levels of government and the dark money backers that runs it.

Very entertaining for a legal thriller.

“Tell her…tell her to look to the East for answers. Look to the river. In between. Look in the square. Lask. Bauer. Forgive me.” (p. 12) Not much to work from – especially as the speaker, a Supreme Court justice, often appeared paranoid and erratic and was probably experiencing early dementia. Nonetheless, Avery Court, Justice Wynn's law clerk, valiantly and rapidly worked to save him, the US government, and the world. (I may be speaking in hyperbole, but not too much so.) Legal thrillers are not my favorite genre, as they dip their toes too deeply into paranoia. In While Justice Sleeps, for example, the bad guys manufacture a virus to kill an ethnic group with research illegally funded by the US government – while other bad guys were killing people left and right for giving them slant eye (more hyperbole, but legal thrillers tend toward the hyper-dramatic. I hope this is overly dramatic rather true.). Still, Stacey Abrams is a favorite of many of us in the US: a politician in Georgia, lawyer, and voting rights activist. She is someone to watch, both on the political front and in her writing. Although her story does not entirely make sense (her newfound friends can drop everything to help her???), logic is not necessary in some genres. I do like Abram's comments about the law. Some quotes: “Knowing the law isn’t about the school. It’s about the mind. The heart. About understanding what the law intends as much as reading beneath what it says. Knowing how to find one’s way to the truth.” (p. 10) "Chief, I haven’t done anything wrong,” she repeated shakily. Yet she—as much as the others in the room—understood the tenuous connection between crime and punishment. The allegation was often more than sufficient. Innocent until proven guilty was an urban myth. (p. 133) Under Stokes, the common touch had supplanted common sense in droves, driven by a mellifluous gift of charm. (p. 308). Abrams clearly indicates that this is Ms. Keene's "debut," especially good news for those of you who enjoy legal thrillers. (Good news for me, too.)

Fast-paced and well-plotted. The ending was a bit 'meh', though. 3.5*

This is a good story. However it tends to get a bit technical in the storyline. I did enjoy reading it. Stacey Abrams is a remarkable woman.

I'll be honest, I 100% requested this book simply because Stacey Abrams wrote it. I didn't even care what the synopsis said. That being said, Abrams delivered an incredible political thriller that had me fully engaged from start to finish. This is not one of those heart pumping, hanging on to the edge of your seat thrillers. Instead, this is one of those books that asks the question of what if and plunges into a dark and insidious possibility. Abrams poses the question of "what happens if a court justice slips into a coma and what repercussions would follow?". And what follows is an intricately woven tale that walks the fine line of potential reality versus conspiracy theory. I was thoroughly engrossed, and I can honestly say that I hope something like this NEVER happens. Bravo Abrams. I can't wait for her next book! Thank you to Penguin Random House Audio for providing a review copy. This did not influence my review. All opinions are my own.

OH HECK YES! Avery, you just took on the entire judicial system!!!

Avery Keene slaves away as a clerk for the controversial, though brilliant but possibly slipping?, Justice Howard Wynn on the SCOTUS. Avery's dark secret is that her mom is a drug addict, who only contacts Avery when she runs out of money to feed her addictions. Avery is as shocked as the rest of the country when she finds out that Justice Wynn has suffered a medical episode and now lies in a coma in the hospital. Her shock deepens when she finds out that she has been appointed his guardian! Not his wife from whom he is separated, nor his estranged son, but his clerk!! Avery is surprised to find out that the Justice had/has an incurable neurological syndrome -- and that a SCOTUS case regarding the merger of two pharmaceutical companies might have a direct bearing upon the treatment of his syndrome. Avery's first visit, after the hospital, would be w/ Ms. Lewis, Justice Wynn's nurse, after a barely-intelligible phone call from Ms. Lewis. However, nurse Lewis is dead, shot in the head, when Avery arrives at her house. Of course, Avery becomes an immediate suspect in Ms. Lewis' death. Noah, the Justice's personal Attorney, gives her the guardianship papers and helps fend off Celeste, the harridan wife. She also meets Jared, the Justice's estranged son, and instead of being enemies, they cooperate to try to find out WHY Avery was chosen as guardian. The Justice has left Avery a few very cryptic clues. They appear to be moves on a chess board in a very particular pattern, called Lasker-Bauer. First, Avery had to figure out that that was what the Justice was even saying to nurse Lewis as he slipped into the coma! This is certainly a thriller that keeps one on the edige of one's seat the whole way through, as the Homeland Security liaison to the POTUS - who is an enemy of Justice Wynn's, harries Avery, along w/ the FBI who might be protecting her -- or bugging her? And key witnesses have a nasty habit of turning up dead. But the core group of Avery; her roommate, Ling; Jared; and Noah work hard to solve the incomprehensible clues while saving all their lives, especially Jared's, and possibly Justice Wynn's. The denouement involves Avery presenting her case before the remaining members of SCOTUS -- pretty unlikely for a lowly law clerk, but a thrilling scene nonetheless. This novel had SUCH potential. There is no doubt that Ms. Abrams -- whom I admire greatly for her voting rights work in Georgia -- knows her law forwards and backwards, and that she can write some good scenes. However, I often felt like I was reading an old Dime novel from the nineteenth century -- very sensationalistic w/ overblown prose. I was often left cold by some her overreaches in alliteration and similes. Avery's leaps of imagination and understanding of chess moves definitely left me behind. So, 3.6ish stars, reluctantly rounded up.

A literary roller coaster with social insight With all the talk about landmark Supreme Court decisions in jeopardy, retirements, nominations and their consequences, Stacey Abrams’ new legal thriller While Justice Sleeps is not so much ripped from the headlines as it is the stuff of our most vivid nightmares. When cantankerous Supreme Court justice Howard Wynn slips into a coma, it propels the court into limbo, causing a constitutional crisis with his law clerk at the center of a political storm. Abrams knows this terrain—legal, social, and political—inside and out. With that expertise, the issues at the center of the story are drawn with precision and insight, but her characters are the book’s greatest strength ... The story is anchored by two indelible outsiders who have little in common save the institution for which both work and their prickly personas. Stacey Abrams’s thriller is an intricate one with a diverse supporting cast of allies and adversaries and a Russian nesting doll of legal maneuvering, politics and technological intrigue. Much of it is riveting. There are also subplots and clever details strewn like Easter eggs throughout. Somewhere in the middle, the plot starts to feel overstuffed, and the myriad of moving parts slow forward momentum. But...there’s something deliciously rewarding about a thriller that realistically and unflinchingly reckons with how a young Black woman like Avery Keene gets treated when she answers the call to serve. Full review published on theGrio.com. See link below: https://thegrio.com/2021/05/20/stacey...

Avery Keene is a clerk for Supreme Court Justice, Howard Wynn - a notoriously difficult judge. When he falls into a coma, she finds out that he has given her power of attorney and appointed her his legal Guardian. The court is set to rule any day on the merger of a genetics/biotech company and Wynn was the swing vote. There is more at stake here than just a simple ruling and Avery had to figure out what exactly is going on before it is too late. This is an excellent political/legal thriller - fast paced with lots of twists and turns.

What can I say? Love it or hate it, I will understand. This is not a courtroom drama. This is not the usual book that we expect from Grisham. But one thing is for sure, Grisham is an amazing storyteller. There were plenty of dramas and the conclusion was truly heartbreaking. But if you are not into sports, especially basketball, you may have a hard time enjoying this book, unless you have no problem skimming (expect lots of skimming!). I’m not a fan of basketball, however, because the author describes everything with such skill and passion, I was completely absorbed by the storyline. I even had goosebumps when Sooley hit the basket The development of the storyline is terrific. I loved the main character, Samuel Sooleymon. I was truly entertained and I enjoyed this work. The best part is that I had no expectations. I did not read any review or the synopsis. I went blind and I was surprised.

I know that it has been said many times before, but John Grisham is a master storyteller. He has a way of bringing his characters to life with his words. Sooley is a very different type of book for Grisham, although I have now discovered it is not his first book about sport. His love of the game of basketball shines through in this emotional novel that will break your heart. Samuel Sooleyman is 17 when his dream of playing basketball in America comes true. He leaves his family in Sudan and travels to the US to play in a showcase, where he needs to impress to earn a scholarship to stay. He is a very talented player, and can jump higher than most other players. But tragedy strikes his family while he is away. His village is ransacked and his father is murdered. His sister is taken by rebels and his mother escapes with his 2 younger brothers to a refugee camp. He immediately wants to go home but this is a chance of a lifetime and what could he do if he returns. So he stays and throws everything into his game, practicing whenever her can to be better, to be the best - for himself and to make his family proud. You will fall in love with Sooley, I certainly did. He is a loveable, strong willed character and he knows what he wants. His family and basketball are the most important things to him. The US is like another planet to him and he struggles to find his way through a normal teenage lifestyle. He is not a character that I will forget. Thanks to Hachette Australia for sending me a copy of this book to read.

Very different than a typical Grisham novel. There was no courtroom drama, legal thriller, or edge of seat suspense. This book was just a good old sports related drama. Although the writing style was different, Grisham was still able to tell a very compelling story. For about the first half of the book, the story really progressed as expected. However, what happened to Sooley during a trip to the Caribbean, changed the entire tone of the book. The sudden plot twist was definitely hard to accept. However, I thought Grisham did a good job wrapping up the storyline & delivered a satisfactory ending… Overall, I enjoyed reading this book & I do recommend it.

John Grisham’s Sooley is a year in the life of Samuel Sooleyman, who starts out as a teenager living in dangerous South Sudan who becomes a larger than life sports phenom. It’s easy to enjoy this tale if you remember that this is a work of fiction that offers this-would-never-happen-in-real-life. In Grisham’s mythical world, anything can happen. Full disclosure: I live 10 miles away from NC Central University, a prominent locale in the story.. I am a rabid college basketball fan who cheers for ABD (anyone but Duke). I am also a big fan of the basketball player with an incredible smile who was one of John Grisham’s inspirations for the book. The book is not limited to readers who live in North Carolina and can quote college basketball stats in their sleep. If you enjoy reading sports fiction, then you’ll enjoy this book. If you enjoy reading about legendary categories, then you’ll enjoy the book. If you cheer for Duke (I don’t know why you would), even you will enjoy this book. Samuel Sooleyman is a basketball player and terrible shooter and the last pick for the South Sudanese team in an upcoming tournament in the US. His coach wants to keep him on the team because he “sees something special in him”. While he’s playing, militants destroy his village, killing some members of the family while the rest run for their lives. Samuel wants to go back to save his family but is convinced to stay. Readers are included in the journey of Samuel’s mothers and young brothers. Their tall tale begins here, as they survive dangerous soldiers and inhuman conditions. Mom Beatrice approaches sainthood status as she leads stragglers from the danger of South Sudan to the practically inhuman conditions in a Ugandan relief camp. They’ve found safety from the violence they’ve left but are now faced with new challenges to survive. Samuel’s coach convinces the skeptical coaches from NC Central University to offer him a scholarship because he “sees something special in him”. The plan is to get him a meager job as one of the football team’s managers and have him redshirt the first year to give him time to develop without losing a year of eligibility. Samuel proves to be a hard worker for both of the teams, while the football team fondly nicknames him “Sooley”. The basketball team falls into a deep slump, and the player injuries and illnesses pile up. The coach realizes he has to play Sooley AND… The legend of Sooley begins. More and more people “see somethings special” in Sooley, which they use for varying motives. As Sooley’s personal journey becomes more and more improbable, you’ll wonder how Grisham could provide a resolution to his tale. And then he does. Thud. Yes, the legend comes to an end, but you may not like it or find it satisfying. I didn’t. I’m glad I read Sooley, but I doubt I’ll read it again. It’s not at the level of some of Grisham’s books, and I don’t think it will be coming to your movie theater. But it’s a quick, interesting read.

Catching up… I read this a while ago, and I am now bringing my review to Goodreads. I typically like this author for his courtroom drama. But this one is not a legal thriller. This is a college basketball story. And, since I am not a typical sports fan, as Grisham declares himself, I wasn’t sure how I would feel about it. But to be fair, this is more than a sports story. Because Samuel Sooleyman, our main protagonist, is a teen basketball player originally from the war-torn area of the Sudan whose family has emigrated to America for a better life. The vivid descriptions of his family fleeing their village in the Sudan will be heart-wrenching. Readers will feel what the family experiences in their fight for survival during the war and life in a refugee camp. The feelings of societal injustice will also ring loudly, as it is typical for Grisham to write stories that have a cause behind them. And, for those who love a good story about college basketball, Grisham writes it as if he was a coach for years. There is good character development, a compelling plot and historical references to the Sudan and the plight of the refugees that will surely be felt by readers. The story although slow-moving at times, is also filled with immense details that can sometimes feel like tedious reading. But the story still provided its own bittersweet conclusion that will stay with readers long after leaving the last page

Abandoned as it is due back to the library tomorrow but what I read was fascinating so I will try to get back to it in a few months when it is not in such hot demand.

A genuinely enjoyable sports novel. Felt a bit like a sports docco which i love so at some points i was like wait was this real. Grisham writes about a boy from South Sudan who gets scouted for American bball and tries to make it in the NBA.

How could he! Grisham you did it! This book did not finish up like I wanted it to, but I guess that Grisham just had to be "Biased" with the ending. Was expecting an all net shot, but we will have to settle for a tip in.

I do love this series. My only complaint is that it's a little repetitive for those who have read the entire series. I don't need explanations on who everyone is and how they fit into Boxer's life.

Enjoyable (finally). As the opening promises this is one for the fans of the Women’s Murder Club and it certainly delivers on that promise. All four Murder Club members appear in this 23rd instalment and they all play a part in the plot (which has been missing for quite a few recent publications in the series). The novel has the characteristic short chapters, fuss-free writing, fast pace and high drama crime solving. A satisfying read with Lindsay, Claire, Yuki and Cindy as well as partners in life and work. At times it read like a calculation so that everyone “got their turn”, but it worked.

The most recent installment of the Women's Murder Club series features Cindy's new bestselling true crime book, and murders that seem to happen after her book signings. Detective Lindsay Boxer is trying to track down the killer. Can she do it before Cindy becomes the next victim? I've always enjoyed this series. James Patterson is always a good bet for a quick, fast-paced, easy to follow plot, and if you follow this series, characters you can really become invested in. The books should really be read as a series to really follow the growth and stories of the characters, though they can be read as stand-alones and are great as a palate cleanser between heavier reads. 3.75⭐

Women's murder club continues to keep readers on the edge of their seats. It was not my favorite of the series but this plot was unlike the others. Murders tied to the serial killer Evan Burke begin and escalate quickly following the release of Cindy's book. Some of the killings are taking place immediately following Cindy's book signings. Could Burke be behind these murders from behind bars? It is a chilling story that hits too close to home for Boxer and the rest of the women's murder club.

Another fun adventure with the ladies and their significant others.

I always enjoy books in the Women’s Murder Club series and this was no exception. Cindy is on a publicity tour for her book about the serial killer, Evan Burke. While Evan is locked up in San Quentin, murders pile up which bear resemblance to his crimes. In a fast paced mystery/thriller, the reader will be on the edge of their seat as one of Women’s Murder Club members is in imminent danger.

another James Patterson book bites the dust. hehe, okay so I'm technically only on book 5. BUT I couldn't pass up an opportunity to buddy-read this one. This series is so easy to get into no matter what book you're in. The main killer in this book is committing copycat crimes with a serial killer in prison. Only they are soo alike, there's no way this person isn't speaking to the main serial killer first?? except that serial killer has a strict visitor list. Cindy and Lindsey are the main characters in this book other than another female character (I can't remember the name of) who is defending a client in court. Lindsey is such a strong and powerful female character, I LOVE it!! I didn't dislike this one, but also wasn't necessarily obsessed with how the book was going to end so resulted in the 4 stars.

I have finally caught up on this series, now I will have to wait a year for the new ones. I love these series that have the same characters in them. They live, work, and struggle the same way we all do. August 20, 2024 I am reading this for the 2nd time. I really forgot that I'd read it before! However, it is good that I'm reading it again since I forgot so much of it. I'm not sure how to record both reads here, hopefully I'll figure it out! DGH

Add in a little bit more intensity, otherwise basically a copy and paste of my review for book 24 in this series. So read that review to get my thoughts on the WMC series overall!

Women’s Murder Club Stories: Action not Reflection I have now read the first 23 books in the Women’s Murder Club mystery series. Each one has been a quick read, with short chapters and non-stop action (and only a few short lines given for reflection). The four women leads are all extraordinary in their fields. All show a full-life is possible with somewhat of a balance between work and personal life. All question choices. The male characters are well developed, although we see more of Joe and Richie than of Brady and Claire’s husband (name mentioned infrequently). Joe and Richie do have aspects of stock characters, men created to think, talk, and act in an ideal way. Joe is not only a hero who has been in the CIA, a director with Homeland Security, and is now an FBI agent, but he is also super dad and super husband. Lindsay’s career is much more important to her than Joe’s career. She allows him to take care of her—and he is always there, both at home and on the job. Richie is so good looking and women of all sorts fall under his spell. But despite an earlier chemical attraction between them, Lindsay now sees him as her brother. Each of these 23 books has more than one crime being investigated and written about by “girl reporter” Cindy. Each keeps the reader guessing and wondering about what will happen next. Because the books are mostly action, no parts are drawn out for long to frustrate the reader. I’m looking forward to #s 24 and 25. One flaw—#23 had several typos, repeated words, missing words, quotation marks in the wrong place. Books 1-22 did not have these typos. They may be a small thing, but they detract from the quality of the book.

Most definitely, a return to form for the WCM. It is odd how a long-running series can sometimes feel formulaic and by the numbers but suddenly break out a 'killer' story. This one particularly worked well, despite having features often used by Patterson, because it resurrected one of his vilest killers, Evan Burke. The beauty of Burke is the fact Patterson and Paetro never tried to make him evil. His demonic menace came from his coldblooded actions. His charming and chatty charismatic veneer is a clear nod to Ted Bundy but still well conceived. There is nothing groundbreaking in these pages, but it is pacy, well crafted and has enough twists to put a corkscrew to shame. The downside is that the writers don't really explore the depth of emotion and trauma of characters. Instead, they seem satisfied giving reminders for the reader of PTSD or the shortness of time in the case. Now, I notice, the next book is called 23 1/ 2 Lies, so I assume this particular story is not over yet.

Boy did the slump hit me during this book. But I persevered and I'm glad I did. There was 2 main stories and as usual I loved them both but wish they weren't happening side by side as one was much more action packed than the other and I found myself getting a bit frustrated wanting to get to the men action. But I enjoyed the read so I can't complain

Reading the latest book in this series is like getting together with old friends. In this episode, Cindy has written a best-seller about an infamous serial killer, who Lindsay had apprehended in an earlier book, and gets them both in danger. In a separate plot, Yuki is prosecuting a domestic violence case. Near the end, the two plots do overlap a bit. A real page-turner.

Wow, I enjoyed this book sm! This murder mystery plays out like a TV show in my mind-the chapters are so short and fast paced. I would def read another Women’s Murder Mystery Club novel because the way these detectives work together to find serial killers is so interesting.

I’ve always enjoyed this series and it’s characters. This is a well written story that flows well and I thought very well constructed. I really enjoyed this newest title in the series and look forward to the next one.

Yes back in the game!! This is the standard I’ve come to expect from this series! Loved the main storyline in this book and it literally kept me on the edge from start to finish. And the ending - haha Lindsey you deserved that closure! Looking forward to book 23.5…….yes u read correctly!

Great book. Well written & fast paced. Definitely frightening considering everything happening in the USA & world today.

I’ve been reading James Patterson books for about thirty years now. During that time, like most of his fans, my favorite character has always been Alex Cross. He was Patterson’s first detective series that helped lay the foundation for his kingdom of several bestselling series and stand-alone novels. For me, Alex has remained a fierce, intellectual knight of moral character and the proper use of action. I remember reading the Alex’s first adventure, “Along came a Spider” and almost cried when Alex, then a widower, faced the loss of his new love in an ending twist I would never forget. In the twenty-seven years following, there have been some good (and excellent) adventures and some less-than-stellar outings along the way, but I generally looked forward to the end of each year when another Alex Cross adventure was published. Now, the 31st book in the series – “Cross Down” – has been read, and it requires a serious warning for readers. One that needs your full attention. This is not your typical Alex Cross novel. The first clue is that it is co-authored with Brendan DuBois, which is only the second time out of 31 books that Patterson has allowed that to happen. The second clue is that the book cover promotes this book as an “Alex Cross and John Sampson thriller”. If those two taglines aren’t enough, the inside flap synopsis should clear all doubt that this will be different with its first sentence – “For the first time, John Sampson is on his own.” “Cross Down” begins with Cross and Sampson being pulled into a Presidential task force to deal with a rash of recent attacks that are more than what they first appeared to be. Random car bombings, shootings, and public attacks taking place across the country may actually be connected in a more deadly plot than previously imagined. It appears that they may actually be terrorist planned attacks that are building up to a large assault of some kind in Washington DC in about a week’s time. Cross and Sampson find themselves sitting in the same room with representatives from the NSA, FBI, CIA, Homeland Security, and the DC Metro Police. When there’s a lot of talk, but not a lot of proactive action to protect the local citizens and their families, Sampson speaks ups, maybe a bit to vocally, upsetting those that he needs support from. Then, things get even worse. Members of the perceived terrorist group have mapped out Cross and Sampson’s trail and using the precision of a military style mission, they attack the two men outside of their police headquarters, leaving Cross seriously injured and dying while Sampson tries to save his partner and friend. Cross is rushed into surgery at a nearby hospital, suffering from a collapsed ling and fighting for his life. While Cross fights for his life, Sampson must move forward without his partner’s great intelligence for profiling and hunting down serial killers. Sampson must use his own strengths and experience to hunt down those who tried to kill his partner and best friend. The good news is that Sampson has a strong network of resources, including FBI Supervising special agent, Ned Mahoney, and Bree Stone, Alex’s wife and her employer, the Bluestone Group, an international security firm. However, as Sampson tries to find those who tried to kill Cross and are members of a shadow force with unbelievable military backing and political power, agent Mahoney’s last words keep lingering in his ears, “Don’t trust anyone…” So, let’s deal with the elephant in the room. This is really a John Sampson novel rather than an Alex Cross novel. It’s a role reversal, in which John plays the lead role and Alex is the side-kick. I know in looking at a lot of online comments that this seemed to upset a lot of fans, but I am not sure why. It’s about time that John Sampson got his opportunity to shine. I am actually rather surprised that this type of plotting hasn’t been done previously… And it’s about time. As I mentioned earlier, it shouldn’t be a surprise to readers, as the book cover and description were up front about it. No false advertising there, at least not to me. Another interesting thing that I noted is that the authors kept the same storytelling point-of-view that I thought worked well. In the previous Alex Cross novels, the story was told from Alex’s point-of-view and this one was told from John’s point-of-view, which kept the same rhythm and flow without disrupting the storytelling style. The consistency helped and John’s voice felt authentic and real as the story unfolded. For me, the real measuring stick was whether or not the story worked. Was it actually good? Did it capture my attention? For me, the answer is yes. Even though Alex was absent from the screen about 80% of the time, that was okay, because the story was good. Well told, enjoyable, and definitely entertaining. This was a solid thriller recipe, that built on the premise of what would happen if Alex Cross was incapacitated and his partner and best friend, John Sampson had to work on his own without him. But what worked even more was how well the plot was laid out. The tempo was fast moving with lots of drama and action, pulling on the emotional strings of the Cross family and supporting characters that have made the Cross universe a bestselling series that has stood the test of time. In addition, the mystery elements were full of suspense and intrigue. However, along with my previous warning, there is also one important caveat, and that is, this is entertaining as long as you put aside any expectation of realism. That is a usual expectation with Patterson novels, but it is a requirement with this one. There are so many shootings in public settings that reality is greatly sacrificed. The violence rises to the level of “John Wick” as Patterson and Dubois try to bring their own killer video game into a thriller. I was also left with some unanswered questions, such as who was the female voice giving the hit squad orders? I think I know who it was, but there was a definite lack of closure, along with some hints of the possibility of more to come… Over three decades and 31 books, the character of Alex Cross has hunted many serial killers and other villains and bad guys. He has faced many life-threatening moments. He has done his best to keep his family safe and support them. This time it was John Sampson’s turn, and in my opinion, he delivered an entertaining edge-of-your-seat thriller that kept my interest. Maybe once in a while you just got to say to heck with realism and go with the guilty pleasure… A very enjoyable 4 out of 5 stars, and easily my favorite Patterson novel so far this year.

I grabbed it with my big hand. I kicked it with my big foot. At 6 ft 9 inches I (insert phrase here.)(Repeat often.) OK John, we get it.

My husband and I listened to this on a road trip. We enjoyed it thoroughly, the drive flew by!

I received a copy of this book from NovelSuspects and Little, Brown in exchange for an honest review. Alex Cross book number 31 doesn’t disappoint! This one is fast-paced, and really features John Simpson in a rush to save the country from a looming threat. I appreciated that Patterson made politics approachable to the average person, of course taking literary license with what would and would not be feasible. If you like an action-driven plot, this may be the book for you! And while it’s obviously part of a bigger series, this one can stand alone as it’s own book (I’m an Alex Cross series newbie myself). Basically, Patterson has done it again and has put out another great book!

Cross down was a very enjoyable book to read. Having read a couple of books by James Patterson. I was very impressed by the way the characters came together and how much nonstop action there was in the story.

It was typically fast-paced and well written, and the plot line was a bit scary, considering the state of the world right now. I liked the focus on Sampson, so Alex takes a significantly smaller role in this book. If one likes the James Patterson style, I think a reader would enjoy this book.

Very suspenseful and unusual plot. Action packed. Intriguing.

Very entertaining!

I enjoyed this thriller staring John Sampson! Alex Cross was benched early in the game and wasn’t really able to help solve this one, but John put on his cape and saved the day. I don’t know if I’d be into a series all about John because I’m not sure how that would work out. We’d need an entirely new cast of characters. But if Patterson decides to give it a chance, I’d check it out!

Standard jp, always good

‘23 - 4 STARS (AN ALEX CROSS & JOHN SAMPSON THRILLER #1 OR #ALEX CROSS #31) BY JAMES PATTERSON & BRENDAN DuBOIS DESCRIPTION: Alex Cross is gravely injured. Only his partner and friend John Sampson can keep him safe . . . and get justice. For the first time, John Sampson is on his own. When military-style attacks erupt, brutally sidelining Cross, Sampson is sent reeling. The patterns are too random. As a shadow force advances on the nation’s capital, Sampson alone must protect the Cross family, his own young daughter, and every American, including the president. REVIEW : For a number of years now, I only read the Michael Bennett and Alex Cross Series and any books written with JD Barker. I’ve stopped reading any other James Patterson books since he calls the people who write for him “contributors” and will not call them co-authors. Most of these books are 3 stars with some 4 stars mixed-in. Only the second “Cross” book written with a co-author. Book #15 was written with Richard DiLallo in 2009, Alex Cross’s Trial. Right away I can tell the writing is soooo much better. Also this book is about 100 pages longer than other “Cross” books. Lots and lots of action that doesn’t stop. I don’t read many political-type books but this showed how quickly a nation could devolve.

While I absolutely love the Alex Cross series, this co-writer had a very different writing style than previous writers. It felt very basic and overly descriptive with details that didn’t add to the plot.

This book was a fun read with John Sampson being the main character for once. I hope their will be more Sampson adventures in the future.

A thriller that is even scarier because of so many events of the past few years. I don't keep up with all of James Patterson's books/series, but love Alex Cross and Michael Bennet.

Too bad Alex Cross is shot and down. Its up to John Sampson to save the President and nation. The suspense and thrill is there when the threat came from your own people instead of foreigner

How often do you go wrong with a James Patterson book? Alex Cross, never! This book is actually about John Sampson, Alex's best friend. Instead of a suspenseful thriller, this book is based on John Sampsons history. John needs his own series.

A great read, non-stop rollercoaster of a thriller that makes you want to read well beyond bedtime.

Well written and fast paced. I enjoyed it

This was more of a Sampson ft. Cross, but I love John Sampson and was happy he got to be in the spotlight. There were a fair amount of clichés written in, but dang it, I liked them all. This was a fun, fast-paced read.

I love James Patterson's Alex Cross series along with his best friend Detective John Sampson. I felt this book was turned upside down, Alex Cross was shot in the chest by a terrorist and for this entire book was in the ICU at George Washington Hospital. John Sampson filled in for Cross brilliantly, but I missed Alex Cross. When military-style attacks plot to take over the Nation's Capitol, the President, and Cross's family, Sampson alone must protect Cross, his family, Sampson's own young daughter, and every American, including the president. This thriller is very good except for the horrible killings. They bothered me. However, that's what James Patterson's writes in his stories about Cross, and they are popular and I have read many of them myself.

Since this is part two in a series, it kind of took me a few chapters to get back in the groove of the story. Roberts does a great job blending in important details so you can refresh as you go. Better yet, it might be time for a re-read of Inheritance. This book is a very slow burn in terms of gradually ramping up paranormal issues and activities. But the author doesn’t just focus on that. We’re also developing relationships, becoming a part of the community, and building businesses and professional relationships. The best part of the story is the characters. I love the interaction between all of the main characters. The guys are sweet and supportive. Where can I find guys like that? Our female main character, Sonya, and her bestie are also super strong and dedicated women. I love their relationship with each other as roommates and also balance each other and life. Together, the four just have a great energy, and that continues to build through the story. Throughout, we learn more and more about the seven brides and the interesting stories for each one, as well as more about Dobbs and her interactions with them. The house helpers are awesome and the musical choices throughout the story are humorous and spot on! While I was looking for a conclusion in the story that is not to be. The Mirror actually contains a cliffhanger so we can look forward to another story which hopefully will wrap up everything since we’ve only met four of the seven of the brides so far. Roberts delivers an intriguing, magical story rich with friendship, romance, and amazing characters that jump off the page. While there feels to be a lot of repetition in this one, the overall story is exciting. Waiting for book 3 now!! ~~~~ * I voluntarily read and reviewed an advanced copy of this book. All thoughts and opinions are my own. * Full review- https://amidlifewife.com/the-mirror-b...

4 stars The Mirror is the second book in Nora Robert’s ‘The Lost Bride’ trilogy and just like the first book, it captivated me all the way through. I forgot how much I like paranormal romance since I don’t read it as often as I used to. I love the friendship and family dynamic, as well as the romance. I’m looking forward to the final book! Audio book source: Libby Story Rating: 4 stars Narrators: Brittany Pressley Narration Rating: 4.5 stars Genre: Paranormal Romance Length: 13h 48m

Second in the Lost Bride Trilogy, this picks up immediately after The Inheritance leaves off, resolving that cliffhanger but leaving many questions open at the end. This series is a true trilogy: one story across three books. Nothing is resolved here, including the romances. The romance begun in the first book continues and deepens, and a second one only hinted at before begins in earnest. But this is a paranormal/suspense/ghost story at heart, not a romance. It does have a lot of heart, though. I'm not usually fond of Roberts's fantasies, but this one works. Creepy and heartwarming intertwined, with wonderful characters. Recommended--but read The Inheritance first! I received a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

The Mirror by Nora Roberts The Lost Bride trilogy, book #2. Thriller, horror. Paranormal with a malevolent ghost. Should be read in series order. Cliffhanger. Sonya MacTavish has inherited a haunted Victorian house on the coast of Maine. An antique mirror draws Sonya and shows her over and over the death of a bride and the stolen gold rings. Sonya and her housemates need to figure out how to break the curse and get rid of the malicious ghost. 🎧 I alternated reading between an ebook and an audiobook. The narration was done by Brittany Pressley who gives a marvelous performance with distinct voices for the main characters as well as several secondary as well. The difference between Sonya and Cleo alone is staggering and hard to believe it’s just one narrator. Add in the men and ghosts plus tracking emotions and tension, it’s a major acting achievement. I did speed up the playback to 1.5 to more closely match reading and conversation levels. My main issue with the audiobook verses the ebook is the sheer number of timelines, brides and their stories and keeping track of who’s who. I’m glad I had both formats to help follow along with the brides and ghosts. I loved all the popular music references. Mostly the music reflected the brides from decades ago but a lot was the preferences of the four main characters staying in the house. Nothing was current, or if it was, I missed the references. The cat and dog were friends! It was awesome. Plus they were trained to go outside together and take care of business. They also helped to protect the household from the ghosts with warning growls and barking. Distinct personalities! This book helped in getting to know Sonya and Cleo in depth with families and significant others and made it clear they are keeping the house theirs and are not going to let the ghost drive them away. If they can just figure out how. It is a cliffhanger as expected. I received a copy of this from NetGalley and Macmillan Audio.

The second novel in a trilogy, The Mirror, picked up where the first one left off and just continued on with the action right away. As Sonya gradually discovers more about the brides' past, she also learns what must be done to lift the curse. She is not alone in her search; her gorgeous boyfriend Trey, best friend Cleo, and her recently discovered cousin Owen are all on her side. The bond that develops between Sonya and Cleo is my favorite aspect of the story. I adore their teasing and mutual support—both of them are strong, independent women. I also loved seeing a little more of the characters' families in this book because all of the characters are so real. Roberts skillfully maintains a balance between moments of regular life and small-town experiences and the spooky atmosphere. Her descriptions of the manor are so thorough that you can easily picture it. She also captures the reader's attention with her classic blend of romance and mystical elements. I adored everything about the book's ghosts and paranormal elements. I especially loved the ghost Clover and the appropriate music she plays for each time. If you enjoy romance and fantasy with a hint of the paranormal, I heartily recommend this novel. I personally can't wait for the final book in this trilogy because I've been so drawn into the story. Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for the eARC in exchange for my honest opinion.

The Mirror is the second book in a planned trilogy, The Lost Bride Trilogy, and it picks up right where book one (Inheritance) ended - which was a real cliffhanger. This is one book where I think it’s important to have read Inheritance first, even though Roberts does a good job of filling in/refreshing the memory of the reader. Roberts manages to write stories with supernatural elements that just seem so real/realistic/possible. I don’t know how she does it. Sonya has moved from Boston to a small town on the Maine coast, after inheriting a house from an uncle she knew nothing of, and it’s haunted. For real. The extensive family history includes a lot of tragic deaths, all of new brides who got married in “Lost Bride Manor.” Most of the ghosts are pretty nice, even helpful. One of them makes up her bed and cleans up after Sonya and her friend Cleo, who has moved along with Sonya. Another one plays songs on Sonya’s iPad with appropriate themes at several points in the story. I *loved* that! There’s even a little boy who plays with her dog. Of course, there’s one really malevolent one, and she is pretty scary. The love interest from the first book - Trey - is still around and the romance between him and Sonya is getting more serious. Cleo and Sonya’s cousin Owen are starting to be a couple as well. Sonya and Cleo are really becoming part of the Poole’s Bay community. There was a fair amount of the book that explored their activities that didn’t seem directly relevant to the plot, but perhaps those instances will become important in the third book. (Time spent going to the garden center and so forth.) I did find it a bit hard to keep all the community members straight and it was also hard to keep all the lost brides straight! Over the course of the book, we learn a lot more about some of the brides, through the mirror of the title. Clover's story was particularly sad, I thought. This book also ends in a cliffhanger but this time around I wasn’t so surprised! I bounced between the audiobook and the ebook for this title, which was so convenient, as I finished up my reading on a road trip. The audiobook was beautifully narrated by Brittany Pressley, who did a wonderful job as always with all the voices. My only thought was the Maine people didn’t really sound like Maine people. Thank you to St. Martin’s Press and NetGalley for the opportunity to read an advance reader copy of this book and to Macmillan Audio and NetGalley for the opportunity to listen to an advance copy of this audiobook. All opinions are my own.

The Mirror is the second book in Nora Roberts" The Lost Bride Trilogy. The story picks up right after the first book in the series, 2023's The Inheritance, left off. Sonya McTavish has now become accustomed to the ghosts the haunted the Maine mansion she inherited after her long lost Uncle's death. Sonya learns more about the history of the lost brides through an antique mirror that appears in different rooms at various times. Sonya is able to walk through the mirror which allows her actually see the tragic deaths of each bride. Sonya also comes face to face with the witch who placed the curse that effects her both inside and outside of the mirror. Roberts fills her follow-up with good characters, good humor, and even good scares. I was surprised how much I've enjoyed the first two books in Roberts latest trilogy because I don't read many books with fantasy elements. In Roberts case, she doesn't let the ghosts overshadow the characters in the story. Sonya along with her supporting characters are as richly developed as are the history of her family and the mansion. It's a cliche, but I'm already eagerly awaiting next year's final book in The Lost Bride Trilogy which is a reflection of how much I enjoyed The Mirror.

3.5-4 stars! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Sequel to The Inheritance The setting of Book 1: A young woman inherits a Victorian house on the coast of Maine and quickly discovers she has also inherited a haunted mansion and an evil ghost who cursed it. The Inheritance was a book that I went into without really knowing what it was about - I just know that I really enjoy Nora Roberts books. I ended up loving it so couldn’t wait for this one! I really love all of the characters, especially all of their pets! Three dogs: Mookie, Yoda and Jones and one black kitty cat named Pye. All of the characters are really likable and I really love the paranormal activity happening. It’s not graphic or scary, but I’m sure I would have a different viewpoint if I was actually living there! Molly is my favorite ghost in the book. She cleans up after everyone and plays music at random. I like Jack too - the ghost of a young boy who likes to play fetch with the dogs. I was really hoping for more mystery here. I feel like it too focused on the main characters everyday life: work, planning dinners and parties. Although this one lacked a bit of everything I loved about the first book I’m really looking forward to the next one in the series. Thank you to NetGalley and St. Martin’s press for my advanced copy to read and review.

"I kind of like the process, like art. The finish is what brings you pride, but you can't have the pride without the process." happy pub day nora ❤️

An amazing follow up to, 'The Inheritance'. I love all the characters and enjoyed how the chapters expanded outside of just Sonya's point of view. I would have read this whole book just to read about the big presentation where Sonya has to confront her ex. I'm so looking forward to the next book.

Welcome to the Maine coast, where the fog rolls in, the seagulls scream ominously, and nothing is as it seems. Sonya MacTavish thought she’d inherited a charming, slightly-creepy Victorian mansion. You know — peeling wallpaper, creaky floorboards, a ghost or two max. But what she actually got was a full-blown supernatural mystery complete with haunted bridal portraits, a cursed mirror, and the kind of nighttime noises that make you sleep with the lights on. Sonya doesn’t just hear ghosts — she sees them. She dreams them. And one night, in true “Alice but make it gothic” fashion, she glides through a mysterious mirror and straight into the past… where she watches a bride get murdered on her wedding day. Romantic, right? What unfolds is a tangled, time-hopping web of curses, betrayal, tragic love stories, and a mansion that basically deserves its own IMDB page. Each bride has a story. Each mirror scene unlocks another haunting piece of the puzzle. And Sonya? She’s not just trying to survive — she’s determined to break a centuries-old curse and finally put these restless spirits (and maybe her own doubts) to rest. Now, let’s talk series structure. Nora Roberts doesn’t dabble in trilogies — she reigns. And this one? Pure gold. Unlike some of her past paranormal collections that follow different couples with a single thread tying them together, this trilogy is a one-plot wonder. Same characters, same cursed town, same goosebumps — just escalating drama with every turn of the page. By book two (which is where we are now), everything ramps up. The characters are more layered, the relationships deepen, the Big Bad is nastier, and the world of Poole’s Bay feels so vividly alive you’ll want to book a ghost tour — or maybe burn some sage. Seriously, the creepy brides alone deserve their own spin-off. There are still a few secrets left dangling (as any good middle book should do), but it all works to build anticipation for what promises to be a mind-blowing finale. And yes, the ghosts are terrifying, but there’s also a sense of love, legacy, and sisterhood grounding everything — because Nora never forgets to bring the heart. Haunting, mysterious, romantic, and utterly immersive, this book is gothic glamour with a supernatural twist. If you like cursed objects, ghostly women in white, and puzzles that unravel like a Victorian tragedy, then start with Inheritance and get ready for one wild ride through the mirror. Roberts has created something seriously magical — and I cannot wait to see how it all ends. Thank you NetGalley and the publisher for the ARC. I’ll just be here, staring into my bathroom mirror nervously until book three drops.

4 Stars⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️This was a stretch to give 4 Stars here, but the truth is I do love Nora Roberts and the way she can write mythology. This was not my favorite though. This is book#2 in The Lost Bride Trilogy and the books should be read in order to follow them. There are seven brides, generations of women in the Poole family that have been murdered on their wedding day or during the birthing process at the Seven Brides Manor. Yikes! That’s enough to give you a chill! The book unravels a story of the wealthy Poole family and a jealous witch, responsible for the deaths of these seven women over generations. Sonya Poole inherits the manor from an uncle she never knew existed…a twin to her dad, separated at birth. When she learns of the mansion having ghosts and haunts she moves in anyway determined to drive the dark witch away and break the curse on the house. Ah! The curse…intriguing. I waffled between hot and cold throughout the entire book. It dragged in many spots, and I think too much unnecessary filler was the reason. Sonya and her best friend Cleo lived at the manor and their daily life encompassed the story with their boyfriends Trey and Owen. Because I don’t want to send out a negative vibe about the story, and I might be inclined to, here is what I liked about it. I loved the ghosts and the impact they made in the story. The eerie feeling of the spirits in the manor was brought to life, perfectly. Hester Dobbs was such a bad witch…The witch we loved to hate! The history of the house was amazing, but the family tree and ancestors were challenging to follow. I struggled with the different generations of Poole’s and keeping them straight. When Sonya traveled to the past through the mirror I enjoyed the vibe it brought but it didn’t completely satisfying me. I wanted more. Of course the ending is a cliffhanger, prolonging it to end in the next book #3. Read it and make your own judgements. Can someone just tell me what happens at the end of book #3? I may not read it. :(

4.25 🌟 Mood/ Seasonal Reading: springtime I adored the first book in this series so I was hoping I would experience the same joy from its sequel. I can say that for the most part I did! These books have such a familiar and comforting nature to them, despite their spooky theming. They flow effortlessly to the point where 10 hours in I was almost done the book yet I could’ve sworn I just started it. It had all the essential qualities from the first that made it so successful for me: coziness, creativity, a bit of horror, hot romance, mystery and more! Sadly, this one did lose a bit of steam for me. I found it focused more on the personal lives of the characters (which I adored!) instead of moving the story along. I lost a bit of interest in the main plot. Honestly, I would’ve been okay to just listen to their lives continue as normal with a few ghosts in as side characters. I think the main plot is what’s losing me. I also grew a bit tired of our main character experiencing something scary or traumatic and everyone immediately rushing to her and needing the recap. It was a lot of this. While I understand why, it just felt overused. I absolutely can’t wait for the next in this series I am hoping it returns to a bit more of the magic the first contained. I’m not looking forward to waiting until November!

The narration on this was spectacular! I really liked what the plot of this book was about. A haunted house, a curse, and which it was perfect. I would for sure listen to this again. Thank you Macmillan audio for the gifted audiobook.

The Mirror is such a wonderful blend of romance, mystery, and fantasy. Nora Robert’s has always been a comfort read for me. These were the first romance books I read and as an adult and since picking up my first Nora Roberts has always been an auto-buy author. The Mirror is the second book in the Bride Trilogy and is such a great continuation of Sonya’s story. Sonya has inherited a mansion in Maine from a long lost uncle with one stipulation, she must live in the house. When Sonya gets there she discovers a home that is haunted by many different ghosts and one evil spirit. Sonya works to discover the deaths of the brides who were murdered in the mansion and how to defeat and banish the evil spirit. I enjoyed this installment of the Bride Trilogy. One of the aspects of Nora Roberts books that I enjoy and seek out is her depiction of found families and female bonds. Across the board I think she does an exemplary job of portraying women as strong and compassionate and highlighting the importance of friendships for females. This book did not disappoint in that aspect. I will say that The Mirror was a bit slower then some of the other books she’s written, it also leans much more on the ghost hunt and the other relationships in the FMC’s life and less on the romance which I missed but I anticipate the next book will have more of that. I listened to the audiobook of this and I loved the narrator’s depiction of most of the characters with one exception, there was a character from New Orleans and the way the narrator depicted her voice grated on me. Unfortunately she’s in this book much more than the first. This is a great book to read if you are looking for a compelling ghost story with a sprinkling of romance. Thank you macmillan audio and netgalley for the audio arc.

It is 3 am and in a Victorian Mansion on the coast of Maine the ghosts are walking. A woman jumps from the widow's walk casting her curse, a bride dies in a bedroom giving birth, another in ballroom and more in other rooms of the house. Sonya has gotten used to living with ghosts, she even likes most of them, but it is her job to break a curse going back generations that has claimed the lives of seven Poole brides. She is the only one with the blood needed to be able to stop the witch ghost of Dobb's before Sonya herself becomes another victim. I enjoyed Inheritance last year when we got to know Sonya and some of the ghosts living in the manor with her. As she found a new man to love and set up her life with her best friend Cleo we explored the rich history of the manse and all of the baggage that comes with it. The Mirror picks up right where Inheritance left off with Sonya and Cleo about to do the impossible and walk into a mirror and the past. I enjoyed the Mirror, we still explored some of the bride stories of the past and got to feel some of the fun of living with a house full of spirits. This book was far more character driven than the last as we work our way through the brides deaths in the past to learn more of their stories and how Dobbs is keeping a hold on the Manor. There are a few tense moments and some great personal and professional ones for Sonya that I enjoyed living through with her. But, it reads like a southern gothic meandering along the way leisurely until we get to where we are going at the end. There is one more book in this series and The Mirror is setting the stage for that well. It will be interesting to see if and how Sonya will be able to get the best of the ghost of a witch in her house and what will happen to the rest of the ghosts trapped there if she does. A little romance, some cooking explorations, a get back at the ex moment and some pet fun all wrapped up inside. Narration: Brittany Presley is a well established narrator who killed it with her performance in this book. She continues her narration from the first book and matches the character voices well. She was able to really bring the fun of Sonya and Cleo's friendship out and is able to capture the voice and tone of the story well. I listened at my usual 1.5x speed. Performance: ★★★★★ Character Separation: ★★★★★ Diction: ★★★★★ Pacing/Flow: ★★★★★ Sound Effects: none Thank you to Netgalley for the audiobook copy for review. The free copy does not impact the content or rating of the material

I can’t wait for the 3rd book! I really enjoy the first two.

This is the second book in The Lost Bride Trilogy by Nora Roberts. When I read the first book, Inheritance, I remember being quite upset that I was going to have to wait a year or more for the second book. I was really into the story and didn't want to wait for the rest. Description: When Sonya MacTavish inherits the huge Victorian mansion on the coast of Maine, she has no idea that the house is haunted. The footsteps she hears at night, the doors slamming, the music playing, are not figments of her imagination. In her dreams she sees glimpses of the past. In the present she finds portraits of brides. And when she has visions of an antique mirror, she is drawn to it, sensing it holds dark family secrets. Then one night the mirror appears and Sonya glides through this looking glass, into the past—and sees a bride murdered on her wedding day, the circle of gold torn from her finger. It is a scene that will play out again and again—a centuries-old curse that must be broken—and a puzzle she must solve if there is any hope of breaking the curse. My Thoughts: This one started off a little slow and it took me awhile to remember what had happened in the first book. Things got going a little further in and I was once again totally immersed in the story. I love the characters Sonya MacTavish and her friend, Cleo. They make a good team and have each other's back. Their families and friends are great characters too. The house they live in, though beautiful, is eerie with the various ghosts at play and the awful witch who cursed the brides. I just want everything to work out for Sonya, but looks like once again I have to wait for the next book to find out. Sometimes I think I should wait until all the books are out in a series before I start reading them so I don't lose the plot before the next one is released. I'll never learn - I always want to jump in. Nora Roberts is a great author and has spun some amazing stories. I am loving this one! Thanks to St. Martin's Press through Netgalley for an advance copy.

The Mirror by Nora Robert’s was a great follow up to the first book, Inheritance, in the Lost Brides Trilogy series. I enjoyed that The Mirror picked up right from the point that The Inheritances left off. Chloe had moved in with Sonya and had settled in nicely making great use of the studio Chloe set up to complete the art she had promised to Owen in exchange for him building her a boat. Sonya and Trey do not disappoint either as their relationship has deepened. Chloe and Owen have finally given in to their feelings for each other. Cooking has become very important to Chloe and she derived lots of pleasure from cooking for her friends. In The Mirror, Sonya begins to feel an urgent pull towards the mirror every time one of her departed relatives wanted Sonya to witness something that happened to one of them long ago. Sonya feels the summoning sometimes at 3 in the morning and sometimes in broad daylight. She feels defenseless to resist even though all of her friends have insisted that she should be accompanied by one of them. The pull had become so strong at times that Sonya was unable to hesitate or deviate in any manner. All of them, Sonya, Chloe, Trey and Owen have pledged to break Hester Dobb’s curse on the Poole manor house any way they can. They are tired of her tactics that she used to try and scare them away. Life for Sonya and Chloe at Poole Manor was good if they ignored the constant presence of Hester Dobbs. Will they figure out a way to free Poole Manor from the curse Hester Dobbs placed on Poole Manor all those years ago and finally rid Poole Manor of Hester Dobbs all together? I can’t wait for the last book in The Lost Bride Trilogy to find out. I listened to the audiobook of The Mirror that was brilliantly narrated by Brittany Pressley. Thank you to Macmillan Audio for allowing me to listen to the audiobook of The Mirror by Nora Robert’s through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.

With the way Nora Robert’s set everything up in book 1, I think this is a really great book 2. It provides a bit more back story while definitely having me hyped for the 3rd book. It’s hard to explain what I enjoyed about this book other than, it just felt like it was building up to whatever is to come. I love Sonya and Cleo as besties. I love the romances that are slowly blooming. I love the setting. I love the ghosts. The witch storyline. I’m very excited to see how things conclude.

I really wish there was a family tree in this book because I have such a hard time keeping everyone straight. This one was good and of course left on a cliff-hanger. I felt like there were parts that were unnecessary, but overall, this was good!

Story 4.25 stars. Narration 5 stars As with the first in this series, this one ended on a cliffhanger. I despise cliffhangers and just feel that an author of this caliber could find a way to work around it. This literally ended in the middle of a pretty horrifying scene. There’s one more book so I guess about a year from now now I’ll know what happens finally. I enjoyed the listen and thought the narration by Brittany Pressley was pretty stellar as is her usual for me. I’d classify this as romantic horror. Kinda like romantic suspense. Only horror with a malevolent ghost as the villain. There’s also many other ghosts to enjoy so that took away from the horror aspect as these were nice ghosts. So anyway, I’ll be here waiting for the next one. It’s a good story!

4 stars I ve been waiting for this book and I can say that it was totally worth waiting.The storyline was much more than I expected,there were lots of points where I felt close to halle,with the eldest daughter problems,her loneliness and with her past relationship.I wasn't expecting this book would make me cry,and make me feel deeper emotions than just romance.But it did. I did my makeup today and it ended up ruining after I finish this book from both sad and happy tears. And for Henry,he is the daydream itself.Other than his kindness and his beautiful personality I loved him because he made halle feeling less lonely even when he was dealing with his own problems. What it bothered me just a little was them not labelling themselves but I understood why they behaved this way This book has been my favorite out of the series.The smut was proper,not too much and it gave me butterflies while reading.And most of all I'm so happy to see other boys and girls,the family.I missed them

HENRYYYYHALLEEEE 🥹🥹🩷🩷🩷 they were so mf cute. the friendship. their dynamic. the friend group! i missed this universe so so much. now hear me out… jj deserves a book 🙈

Oh, where do I even begin with "Daydream"? This book has completely stolen my heart, and I'm not sure I want it back! Hannah Grace has crafted a story that's like a warm hug on a chilly day – comforting, sweet, and leaving you with a lingering sense of contentment. Can we take a moment to appreciate the humor in this book? Grace has a knack for blending emotional depth with genuinely funny moments. I found myself chuckling out loud one minute and reaching for tissues the next. It's this balance that makes "Daydream" such a joy to read. Now, I will say that if you're looking for non-stop tension and drama, this might not be the book for you. The conflict here is more internal, with both Halle and Henry working through their own issues. Their romance is a steady, comforting presence rather than a rollercoaster of highs and lows. Personally, I found this refreshing, but I can see how some readers might crave more external conflict. In the end, "Daydream" is a book about growth, self-discovery, and the transformative power of love – both romantic and platonic. It's about finding your place in the world and the people who make you feel at home. Hannah Grace has created a story that will stay with me for a long time, and I can't recommend it enough. So, if you're in the mood for a book that will make you laugh, cry, and believe in the power of love and friendship, pick up "Daydream". Just be prepared to have your heart completely stolen by Halle and Henry. Don't say I didn't warn you! Thank you @prhinternacional for the ARC

☁️☁️ That when you laugh I want to listen to it forever. I'd tell you that when I daydream, I think of us. And all the things I want us to do. And all the things I want to do to you. I. Love. This. Book. So. Much. This book right here is Hannah Grace’s best work yet. It is a dream that I'll gladly not wake up from. This is a story that is written from the heart. I’m sitting on the sidelines watching Halle and Henry fall in love one page at a time, while I grin like a besotted idiot. The development of their friendship was so natural. The story flowed naturally, and their conversations were so satisfying to read. I lost count of the times when Henry did something sweet. Just to illustrate my point: Henry got Halle daisies (because he remembered she had a dress with daisies!!!!), put his finger around the loop of her jeans to pull her towards him, came over to help her bake after practice, and when he instantly realized he was being too blunt after noticing Halle’s expression. He loved the cookies she baked. 10/10 perfect guy. ☁️“You should come watch me play. I’m much better than your ex.” ☁️ “Your brain creates the most beautiful artwork and says things to me that make me feel so safe and so cared for. Your brain makes you a friend people like Russ can rely on.” ☁️ “I didn’t know what you like. Anastasia said sunflowers and Aurora said peonies, but I remembered you have a pink dress with tiny daisies on it so I thought they might be your favorite.” ☁️ “I think the right person makes you the person you were supposed to be in the first place. I don’t agree that you become a different person. That suggests people can’t change through all the other factors that make people evolve that aren’t romantic.” AND… He sketched her 🥹, painted on her 🤭, played all sorts of games just to win stuffed animals for her. And all these excluded the things he said. Holy christ. I don’t want to spoil too much for those who haven’t read this book. And Halle was just so sweet, wonderful, kindhearted, hardworking and gentle. Infinite dreamy sighs. Excuse me while I float away in a fluffy daydream.

“This might be my favorite romance book, but we’re my favorite love story.” This book was so good! This was a sweet and heartwarming romance about love, mental health, friends, family and being true to yourself. Daydream follows Henry, a hockey star who is struggling with one of his classes and can’t fail since he’s the captain of the team. Henry runs into Halle at a bookstore when she is setting up for her book club. Halle and Henry make a deal if he helps her with her novel she will help him with his class. The deal is that they can’t fall in love. I became immersed in this story from the very beginning. The plot was intriguing and the pacing was nearly perfect. The writing was engaging and easy to follow. The characters are relatable and complex. I really like Halle, she is friendly, a bit shy but opens up when she gets to know people, sweet, selfless, and caring. I can relate to Halle because similar to her I am shy with new people. Halle’s character development was great, she became more confident in herself and realized that she doesn’t always have to put other people before herself. I love Henry, he’s such a cinnamon roll, a green flag character, sweet, charming, friendly, and loyal. Henry’s character development was well done, I enjoyed seeing him find his motivation and what works for him when school is overwhelming. I loved how considerate he is of Halle and her feelings. I really liked the side characters especially Aurora, Russ, Cami, and Emilia. I enjoyed the interactions between Henry and Halle and the characters from the other books. I wasn’t a fan of the drama with Halle’s ex but I’m glad that she stood up for herself. The tension between Halle and Henry was great, but I felt like a spark was missing. I liked that their relationship developed over time, but I was hoping there would be more time with them together. There were a few romantic scenes that made me smile and giggle. I really appreciated that the author discussed anxiety and included neurodivergent representation. The ending was sweet and I’m glad it had a happy ending. I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys romance, great characters, neurodivergent representation and awesome character development.

(⭐4) ⋆˚࿔ 𝒄𝒉𝒂𝒓𝒂𝒄𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒔 ᝰ.ᐟ 𝘩𝘢𝘭𝘭𝘦 📚 omgggg when i tell you i relate to halle on a SPIRITUAL LEVEL. eldest daughter burden is not for the weak lemme tell you that 😭✋ i literally felt like halle was a reincarnation of me. hannah grace has to be spying on me or something because the way i felt like i could relate so hard to this character on such a level is just mind-blowing. but honestly, halle was such a sweetheart. i really liked her and i'm honestly really happy to see representation for a people-pleasing, family-managing, therapist-acting girl because YES. i adored seeing how she eventually stood up for herself and grew so much as a character (kind of thanks to henry), and it lowkey made me so proud of her. 🥹💗 AND AN ASPIRING AUTHOR TOO? that's it, halle is me. i am halle. don't talk to me. i really loved how halle got everything she deserved; e.g a group of friends who genuinely love her, a heap of weights lifted off her back... while there were a few weird moments in this book (i'm only gonna say the words 'audio' and 'app'. if you know, you know) i found i really did like her. OH MY GOD I ACTUALLY WANTED TO JUMP THROUGH THE PAGES AND THROTTLE EVERYONE IN HALLE'S FAMILY THO. the way her family treated her made me sososo mad and i just wanted to take out my rage on my pillow (by screaming into it). but i'm really glad about how everything ended. my girl halle deserves a break 😭 ᝰ.ᐟ 𝘩𝘦𝘯𝘳𝘺 🖌️ tell me why this man was so different to the henry i remember in icebreaker. no but i was so so excited for henry's book because i wanted him to find love and be appreciated so bad and he finally did!! he was also super relatable. i, too, feel like crashing out if people are too loud or if someone touches me slightly when i'm in a bad mood or if i need to do something, i procrastinate until the very last second because i 'work well under pressure'. i guess what i'm saying is that the characters in this book are a lot more relatable than i expected them to be. it made them feel super real! especially henry. also i ADORED the scene where he brought halle to the art gallery. i don't even know why i was so shook but that moment was SO SWEET? 😭💗 ᝰ.ᐟ 𝘴𝘪𝘥𝘦 𝘤𝘩𝘢𝘳𝘢𝘤𝘵𝘦𝘳𝘴 ✨ while we did have the familiar recurring cast of the Maple Hills hockey team, i felt that we didn't really have the same feeling of the huge hockey friendship group (although it kinda makes sense with the progression of time). i LOVED cami though. she was amazing. just a girls' girl all around. AND AURORAAA MY FAV GIRL IS BACKKKK WOOOO!! she was such a joy to see again in this book, and i really loved her interactions and relationship with halle. also more aurora and russ crumbs? thank you hannah grace ilysm omg 😭💞 ⋆˚࿔ 𝒑𝒍𝒐𝒕 this book was less laugh-out-loud funny than wildfire was, and it was definitely a lot slower and less heavy on the hockey component. it didn't subtract from the 'college charm' of the atmosphere though, which i do appreciate. i loved the dynamic between halle and henry, and it honestly was so nice to come back to this world (even though i hateeeeddd icebreaker) to see henry's happy ending. ⋆˚࿔ 𝒇𝒊𝒏𝒂𝒍 𝒕𝒉𝒐𝒖𝒈𝒉𝒕𝒔 overall, i'm slightly disappointed that this wasn't a five star, as i've seen SOOOO many stellar reviews for this one, but i'm really glad it was at least a four star. wildfire will still remain my fav in this series... i miss you aurora and russ... 🥹 ✎ᝰ. pre-read! okie dokie let's see how this one goes!! i really didn't like icebreaker buuuut i really loved wildfire... i hope this one will be a hit ☝️

“What would you do? If you wanted to charm me?” “I’d tell you how beautiful you are. That when you laugh I want to listen to it forever. Id tell you that when I daydream, I think of us.” I related so much to Halle, her eldest daughter struggles, her issues with friendships and also her people pleaser tendencies. Its like this book was written about me😆 Mr Henry ‘forehead kisses’ Turner is just a sweetheart that made me swoon. “This might be my favourite romance book, but we’re my favourite love story.” I love a straight shooter so his bluntness was hilarious to me The romance was the best friends to lovers ive read because Hannah actually built the friendships on page rather than starting the book off with them already being friends, it really allowed me and the reader to root for them and feel part of their love story. It just missed the 5⭐️ rating from me because it really was a bit too long and I’m not typically a fan of books with SO many characters like this. Over 15 names possibly more! To remember who everyone is was a chore but by the end I grew to love the friendship group.

This book was so cute and I feel like it’s a book that can speak to a lot of people🥹 I can relate a lot to Halle and it was refreshing to see a character work through things in a way that is relatable. And Henry is such a sweetie pie😭

Henry and Halle supremacy🧎‍♀️ RTC!

4.5!! - these two characters were like me put together - never felt so seen🤭

4.5 stars I love this series! Henry’s book is the one I’ve been waiting for. I was so excited to read it. Halle is one of the most relatable characters. From one oldest daughter to another… if you get it, you get it. ‘Wildfire’ is still my favorite of the series, but this was a close second! I loved the slow burn/friends to lovers vibes! Audio book source: Libby Story Rating: 4.5 stars Narrators: CJ Bloom & Emmanuel Ingram Narration Rating: 4 stars Genre: Romance Length: 13h 21m

4.5⭐️ i cannot believe how long i put this book off i loved it so much

4.75💕 This is everything to me

I loved the story of Henry and Halle. I wish more men were like Henry. It makes me sad that, unfortunately, that is not the reality we live in. I felt like I saw a little bit of myself in Halle, and that made me like the story even more! But, in my opinion, I didn't think this was Hannah Grace's best work. I thought the other two books in the series had more smut, I could be wrong since it's been a while since I read them but that is just what I remember about them. And maybe Hannah purposely made this book have less smut than the other two, I don't know lol. But I think this book was probably my least favorite in the series, which is so sad to say because it was so cute and fluffy and ughhhhh. Okay sorry, I am rambling lol, I'm done now, enjoy ◡̈

as an eldest daughter, I feel so seen by this book. Hannah Grace has done it yet again! The story of Halle finding herself through her work, friendships, and relationship was so so special. To have such a sweet boy like henry fall into her life and then walk through it together was amazing. I love the depth to this book, and also always a good bit of spice. Definitely a great, speedy read :)

Trama/Plot ⭐⭐⭐ Personaggi/Characters ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Stile/Style ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Spicy 0,⭐ Decisamente il migliore tra i libri che compongono la trilogia di Maple Hills: Henry e Halle sono due ventenni normali, con problemi normali e che, soprattutto, parlano un linguaggio adatto alla loro età! Finiti gli sproloqui da psicanalisti che erano il tallone di Achille degli altri personaggi (Anastasia su tutti). Mi sono ritrovata in entrambi: tanto nelle difficoltà in campo sociale di Henry, quanto nella convinzione di Halle di doversi sempre far carico di tutto e tutti. Ottimo libro! *** Definitely the best of the Maple Hills trilogy: Henry and Halle are two normal twenty-year-olds, with normal problems and, above all, they speak a language appropriate for their age! Gone are the psychoanalyst-like ramblings that were the Achilles heel of the other characters (Anastasia above all). I identified with both: both in Henry's social difficulties and in Halle's belief that she always has to take care of everything and everyone. Excellent book!

4.25⭐ Halle and Henry might be one of the most realistic couples I've ever read about!! The development of their friendship until they realised their feelings was so good and they had such a good connection, I want a friends to lovers like this 😭 definitely my favourite characters of this series 🫶🏻

Warning: you will need a box of tissues while reading this 4.5 ⭐️

Omg. I've finally had success with an Abby Jimenez book. This was so cute! What a breath of fresh air! I really enjoyed this book so freaking much. And if it's helpful to anyone- I am not a fan of the first two books in this series and more or less was about to give up on Abby - it's nothing that she as an author is doing wrong. I've just found her stories to be a little too Hallmarky for my taste? Maybe not Hallmark, but just not my type of cheese? Anyway, to my point- if you are someone that was on the fence you may just very well love this one, because I was really surprised by how much I enjoyed it in comparison. ╰┈➤ 𝓠𝓾𝓲𝓬𝓴 𝓢𝓾𝓶𝓶𝓪𝓻𝔂 ⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚ Emma and her best friend Maddy are travel nurses, working in hospitals three months at a time while seeing the country. A few weeks prior to moving to yet another destination, Emma stumbles upon a trending Reddit thread titled 'Am I the Asshole' written by a man in Minnesota who thinks he's cursed. Each time he's had a failed relationship, the ex partner ends up finding their soulmate. Emma having similar experiences as of late, the two devise a plan to break this curse and date each other only to end it after the summer- in the hopes that they will each find their person. ╰┈➤ 𝓜𝔂 𝓣𝓱𝓸𝓾𝓰𝓱𝓽𝓼 ⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚ You know what, just thinking about to the core events of the book now. I think for me personally where this story is different than the other two Jimenez books I've read is that it offers more depth. The characters are relatable and down to earth. Everyone knows how to peel a potato and sweep a floor here. They experience highs and lows and life challenges. They're all still very humorous and had me laughing out loud a few times. : ̗̀➛ The MMC- Justin. He's literally the best. Sweet and considerate, he brings her lunch while she's at work. : ̗̀➛ The FMC- Emma. She has some emotional baggage which is completely understandable once you meet her mom. But she's also resilient and strong willed. She's determined and kind hearted despite everything she's been through. There's nothing exceptionally different with this rom-com in comparison to others- in the sense that much of it is predictable. However, I quite enjoyed, what for me- delivered more oomph and less caricature like characters than I'd gotten used to from Jimenez. ⋆✴︎˚｡⋆ Connect with me on Instagram ˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ The summer vibes. ☀️🍉🍧⛱️🎡🌊

4.25 stars if he wanted to, he would. 💜🥹 justin… born to be a cutie patootie, forced to be a fictional character. that’s literally all i have to say. i can why this is the romance book of the summer. 💕 (i’m in a review slump… cut me some slack, thank you. love you.)

i do remember that I LOVED this one, but I don't recall anything prior today, cuz that's how terribly my brain works! 🤦‍♀️🤦‍♀️ 4.25 stars 🌟 ----------------- I will write a review for this later , hopefully, i will remember something by then !😭

She is, in fact a diva - Beyonce...kinda

Took me forever to have the desire to read a romance, but omg I loved this! The Minnesota girl that I am loved all the references, and the relationship between Justin and Emma felt so real and heartwarming 🥹❤️ ———————— Friends I am SO EXCITED bc my fellow book-loving friend and I are going to Abby's live book launch event tonight!!!!!! 😍🤩🙌🏼 Somebody hold me back bc I will be fangirling SO HARD I love this author so much! Literally kicking and screaming!!!!!!!

✩ 4 stars ✩ “You're not asking too much," he said. "You were just asking the wrong person. Ask me instead.” What to Expect: ➼ Found Family ➼ Forced Proximity ➼ He Falls First ➼ Trust/Commitment Issues ➼ Online “Meet Cute” ➼ Summer Fling ➼ Dating to Break a “Curse” ➼ Dysfunctional Family ➼ Childhood Trauma - Emotional Abuse/Neglect ➼ Dual POV All hail Abby Jimenez, the Queen of character development. Justin and Emma are so multifaceted and feel as real as you or me. It’s becoming more and more common to write characters with trauma or mental health struggles, but very few authors do it well. It often feels more like checking a diversity box than anything else. Abby Jimenez is the exception. I am always impressed by how much detail she is able to convey without the story feeling bogged down with them. When it comes to writing complex characters, she is unmatched. I also loved the portrayal of each of their unique family struggles and how they impacted their lives. They had very different backgrounds but were able to find common ground and be a support for each other. I’m rooting for them as if they were real people, and in my opinion; that is the sign of a great book. Part of Your World is still my favorite from this series, but this was a great read! “What are you thinking?” I asked. He didn’t answer for a long moment. When he did, he did it with his eyes closed. “All I ever think about is you.”

4.5 🌟 I lovedddddd loved loved the ending (and the way Abby wrapped everything up and tied it all together with the other books)! Justin is my favorite kind of guy, and I’m so glad things turned out how they did for Emma. I liked the first 2 in the trilogy just a littleeeeee bit better, but loved them all!

I was between 3 ⭐️ and 4⭐️ for this book the whole time. At the end Abby just somehow ended up connecting everything together and I was kidna shocked how it all worked out. Are we getting Dough and Maddy next? Orrrrr??

“The best kind of love doesn't happen on moonlit walks and romantic vacations. It happens in between the folds of everyday life.” ACTS OF SERVICE GIRLS RISE UP

4.25 stars!! “Why not forgive? In a world where you can choose anger or empathy, always choose empathy.” i can’t believe i’ve been sleeping on abby jimenez - this book (and mainly justin) was way more than i ever thought to expect. i’m not always a huge fan of these popular contemporary romance authors, and i think i lumped abby in there with the rest of them (oops, my bad). let me tell you - this book, THIS BOOK right here is making me rethink everything. so let’s start with the premise - when i first read the blurb i instantly thought of that movie with dane cook, you know the one, where he’s the good luck charm? so i was intrigued to see how it would play out in book form. this book was such a ride - from the very beginning it was laugh out loud funny and had me running to text my besties because, and i don’t say this lightly, justin was a DREAM. his surveys, exit interviews and date invites were hilarious and wholesome all in one. i was impressed. and that’s a big deal because most of the time men don’t impress me (lol). even though justin was the clear star of the show, emma was also a really great fmc to follow. she was relatable with her baggage (and there was baggage with a capital B) but also so level headed and profound in the way she viewed the world and those around her. i love a character that can make me reflect on my own like and emma was this character. overall, if you’re looking for a fun romance filled with all of the cute and wholesome moments AND good drama and emotions, you should definitely give this one a try. i highly recommend it and now have to go back and read the first two since i read them out of order. 💌 also, big thank you to one of my fav girlies, Hoda for putting me onto this book - you were right, i loved it 🥹🫶🏻 more quotes i loved (just because) “Sometimes the best way to show love or be kind to someone is to meet them where they are.” “Maybe home isn’t a place. Maybe it’s a person.” “Unhealed trauma is a crack. And all the little hard things that trickle into it that would have rolled off someone else, settle. Then when life gets cold, that crack gets bigger, longer, deeper. It makes new breaks. You don’t know how broken she was or what she was trying to do to fill those cracks. Being broken is not an excuse for bad behavior, you still have to make good choices and do the right thing. But it can be the reason. And sometimes understanding the reason can be what helps you heal.” “Must be willing to eat my discarded pizza crusts, no weirdos.” .・。.・゜✭・. .・。.・゜✭・. .・。.・゜✭・. why did i wait so long to read this 🥹 i’ll be back with a review in the morning <3 ꒰ pre-read. ꒱ feeling kinda slumpy and indecisive on what to read so i’m gonna give abby jimenez a try. don’t mind me starting at the third book in the series 🤪 if i love it i’ll go back to the others i promise! i’ve heard such amazing things about this one so i’m hoping i love it! 💌

I love the way Abby writes. The mental health representation in this book was everything. I have so much to say but don’t know if I have the right words. I just loved this book and I love Justin. This story was so unique and so well written. I’ll think about it for a while <3

જ⁀➴ 𝟒.𝟓𝟎₊˚⊹🏝️ 𝟘𝟝/𝟛𝟘/𝟚𝟝—𝟘𝟞/𝟘𝟙/𝟚𝟝 i CANT believe i put this book off for so long because this book is actually SO worthy of being the #1 book of the summer! emma and justin? ADORABLE!! they were so cute together and she had the best found family with his siblings!! i know a lot of people say it’s insta-love, but i think it’s more a book rather than developing on HOW they fall in love but more how they deal with it and progress with their love. i literally did not want this book to end! i loved the way the epilogue was done (by a reddit thread to match with the rest of the story!) justin is actually so hilarious and feels like such a comfort character! the running inside jokes they had made the book feel so sweet. at first when i read the synopsis of this book i was like “what? how is this connected to the read of the series?” but now, as i see how the author connected these characters to the older characters i can’t decide how i feel about it. on one hand, i think it was fun and cool to see the older characters again, on the other it felt a little tacky? abby jimenez’s books are usually FILLED with family drama and this book was no exception! as per usual, the fmc was also very set for her share of emotional trauma! at some points i did feel like yelling at her, but overall i really liked her! overall this is definitely a book i might reread in the future to tab it, and it is perfect for the summer/beach! i can’t decide if i want to round it up to 5 or round it down to 4 so don’t be surprised if the rating is constantly changing but overall i would definitely recommend this book to anyone! ╰┈➤ tropes to expect! ✎ online reddit meet-cute ✎ found family ✎ dating pact/fake dating ✎ he chases her ✎ summer romance ₊˚⊹ ᰔ 𝐩𝐫𝐞-𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐝: i read the first two awhile ago and have been wanting to read this one for AGES but i restrained myself just so i could read it while i was at the beach!! i’ve only heard good things about this so this is highly anticipated!! ☀️⛱️

Whew! What a ride. Oh sure, there's a few things I could complain about-- the premise sitting on a MASSIVE coincidence, a flimsy excuse for going rogue instead of contacting an attorney, yada yada... but who cares?! This is a cracktastic unputdownable game of cat-and-mouse. I'm going to spare you a plot summary because a) you can easily find one if you wish and b) I went into this knowing absolutely nothing and I had such a great time experiencing it all. It's just a super compelling action thriller that moves between a man wrongly convicted of killing his three-year-old son and the FBI agents on his tail. Hard to believe it was 400 pages because it was so fast-paced that it felt really short. David was a great narrator-- a rough-around-the-edges father who is desperate to discover the truth about what happened to his son. The fact that the FBI agents are always breathing down his neck kept the tension high and the thrills coming. I can’t wait for this to show up on Netflix.

This was the most un-Harlan Coben book by Harlan Coben I think I have read, which isn’t a bad thing. I like it when an author can take me by surprise by completely changing up their vibe and giving me something that feels unique to them, yet remains in their wheelhouse. When I initially read the synopsis, I was worried I wouldn’t be able to pick this book up until a later date. The premise is based on a father murdering his young son, and I just gave birth to a little boy less than a year ago. After a trusted friend went in first and assured me after the first few chapters, the heaviness of that aspect in the plot is moved to the back burner, I decided to give it a go. I’m glad I did, as this was a thriller that moved with breakneck speed and was wholly entertaining in every sense of the word. I usually like to take time to expound on the characters and sense of place in Coben’s novels, but this one is a bit different, and I think the less I say about the entire thing the better. In fact, if you can go in blind, I highly recommend doing so. Keep in mind that you will need to suspend your sense of disbelief in every way possible, but the ending flourishes in a grand spectacle that lovers of fictional conspiracy theories come to fruition will devour. If you love a good OTT ending like I do, you need to pick this one up immediately. *Many thanks to the publisher for providing my review copy.

REALLY enjoyed this one. Fast-paced, action-packed. Solid twist I couldn’t predict. Definitely wanna read more from him!

3.5 stars, rounded up. Solid mystery. No giant twists, but lots of action and fast paced. Harlan Coben's strength is pulling the reader into the story with a unique plot and interesting characters. This book focuses on David Burroughs, who has been in prison for the past five years for killing his three-year-old son Matthew. He doesn't remember doing it, but he had been known to sleepwalk and he had been drinking, so there's definitely doubt. His former sister-in-law Rachel visits, the first visitor he has had since being in jail. She has something to show and tell him that is almost unbelievable. A photo that shows that Matthew might just be alive. Now David is desperate to get out to try to find Matthew and uncover what really happened that night. I was rooting for David all along, the mystery of what happened to Matthew and what happened that night and afterward is multi-layered and really intriguing. The plan to get David out of prison and the plan of investigation is wild, but mostly plausible on the surface. I didn't love the FBI agents--I just doubt they would be that snarky with the people they are interviewing. I also thought some of the things that happened were way too convenient. However those issues were minor in the scope of the book. Overall this is just a fun, quick read sure to entertain fan's of thriller and especially Harlan Coben's fans. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

David Burroughs is five years into a life sentence for the brutal murder of his three year old son Matthew. Except he’s innocent which, of course, most inmates would say. However, his first ever prison visitor over those years is his sister in law Rachel who shows him something that gives us pause for thought and consider that he might, just might, be telling the truth. Rachel is a former investigative journalist, so can she help David to set the truth free? First of all, let’s get the fact that I love Harlen Coben’s books out of the way and admit I’m probably a captive audience with this one! However, if the first few lines that narrator David utters don’t yank you in, I’d be surprised. You are in David’s head for a fair bit of this book with his memories, his varied feelings and the necessity of surviving a potentially brutal prison experience. It does become a suspend disbelief credulity stretcher but I just go with the flow as somehow Coben manages to get his readers to go along with his audacious plots and it is immersive escapist reading which is just what I need! It’s a tense rollercoaster of danger, fear, recklessness, bravery and desperation and it has you on the edge of your seat. There are some good twists along the way to the ending which is perhaps a little neat but not unexpected. So why not five stars then since I clearly enjoy it so much? Well, there are two FBI agents SA Max Bernstein and SA Sarah Jablonski who spoil it for me especially at the start of their involvement. They act like a really annoying, irritating comedy duo and some of the dialogue that zips back and forth between them - yikes, does it ever jar. Bernstein definitely improves but I can’t get around the fact that I feel their first appearance is so out of place. Overall though, let’s ignore those two clowns because at the end of the day, I’m entertained as usual by an author whose books I always look forward to diving into. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Random House UK, Cornerstone for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

David is five years into a prison sentence at a maximum-security prison for murdering his son. He claims he did not kill his son. He has no memory of ever doing so but a neighbor testified she saw him burying the murder weapon. In the time since he and his wife, Cheryl have gotten divorced, and she is remarried. When his former sister-in-law, Rachel comes to visit with a photo in hand, it sends David into a tailspin. In the picture there is a boy with the same birthmark as his son. David knows in his heart that this is his son, Matthew. The son he is serving time for killing. A son he knows he never killed. But if Matthew is alive and well, then who was the dead boy in his home and who has his son? This was a gripping and hard to put down book for me. I was on the edge of my seat wanting to know the truth. There were some parts where I had to suspend some disbelief and go with it which I was more than happy to do so. This was a twist filled ride and I enjoyed every second of it. Gripping, hard to put down and well written. #IWillFindYou #NetGalley #HarlanCoben #GrandCentralPublishing Thank you to Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own. Read more of my reviews at www.openbookposts.com

the setup… Five years ago, David and Cheryl Burroughs woke to find their three-year old son Matthew brutally murdered in his bed. Somehow, David ends up accused and convicted of his murder and is serving a life sentence in a maximum security prison in an isolated section. Cheryl’s sister Rachel suddenly comes to visit him, his first since he’s been there, and shows him a photograph from a vacationing friend with a boy in the background bearing the same birthmark as Matthew. As incredible as it seems, David and Cheryl both know it’s his son. After five years of not caring about anything, including his own life, David is hellbent on escaping and determined to find Matthew. the heart of the story… Well, now. From the moment following David’s discovery that his son is alive, this story had me holding my breath, especially while he was still in prison. I loathe stories about prison life so I was willing to suspend any level of beliefs until he got out of there. Then it became a journey to figure out not only where Matthew is living but why was David obviously set up for a murder and who was the child in that bed. There aren’t a lot of moments to breathe as the search for David by two highly skilled FBI agents was relentless and smart. David’s also resourceful, with a little help from friends, some from strange corners. the narration… I’m now used to Weber narrating Coben stories and he’s the perfect choice for his kind of storytelling. He’s gifted and he helped ratchet up the tension and excitement. And, he does sarcasm like no other. the bottom line… This was hard to put down as the pace never lets up. Every time I thought David might be relatively safe to catch a break, something would happen to mess that up. There are the typical twisty moments but there’s more about David’s commitment to find and rescue his son that captured my heart and soul. His transformation from a man without a will to live to someone with everything to live for was inspiring. Just bring your seat belt because this isn’t an easy ride. Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to Brilliance Audio for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

I’ve read quite a few Harlen Coben novels over the years and I find that I need to be in a certain state of mind to fully appreciate where he’s going to take me. This one is a great example: the setup is somewhat wacky – David Burroughs was imprisoned five years ago for the murder of his own son, though can’t recall all details of that fateful night and isn’t truly sure whether he did it or not – and now I’m just waiting for the surprise that’ll truly kick the story off. That comes when he’s shown a picture of a boy, captured in a recent holiday snap, who shows a striking resemblance to his ‘dead’ son. The tale is replete with a cast of characters straight out of Wacky Races (for those old enough to remember the cartoon series), including a prison chief who’s best friends with David’s father, a family of despicable plutocrats and – best of all – a couple of FBI agents who carry on a hilarious Abbot and Costello act throughout. Yes, it’s all totally unbelievable but, true to form, it’s also highly entertaining. It’s a fairly short read and the action never stops. Coben cleverly sidesteps reality by weaving a complex series of events, co-incidences and sense defying escapades as Burroughs wrestles with his memory, his conscience and everyone who is out to thwart him in an effort to discover the truth and perhaps even a son who he was sure was dead. Despite my scepticism, I quickly found that I was anxious to get back to the action whenever I set the book aside. An ideal beach read? Yes, but also (as I discovered) great for late nights when you can’t sleep and you just want something light and diverting to focus on until sleep drags you away. My thanks to Random House UK for supplying a copy of this book, via NetGalley, in return for an honest review.

Untitled??? How bizarre. It’s called I WILL FIND YOU!! David Burroughs is five years into a life sentence for the brutal murder of his three year old son Matthew. Except he’s innocent which, of course, most inmates would say. However, his first ever prison visitor over those years is his sister in law Rachel who shows him something that gives us pause for thought and consider that he might, just might, be telling the truth. Rachel is a former investigative journalist, so can she help David to set the truth free? First of all, let’s get the fact that I love Harlen Coben’s books out of the way and admit I’m probably a captive audience with this one! However, if the first few lines that narrator David utters don’t yank you in, I’d be surprised. You are in David’s head for a fair bit of this book with his memories, his varied feelings and the necessity of surviving a potentially brutal prison experience. It does become a suspend disbelief credulity stretcher but I just go with the flow as somehow Coben manages to get his readers to go along with his audacious plots and it is immersive escapist reading which is just what I need! It’s a tense rollercoaster of danger, fear, recklessness, bravery and desperation and it has you on the edge of your seat. There are some good twists along the way to the ending which is perhaps a little neat but not unexpected. So why not five stars then since I clearly enjoy it so much? Well, there are two FBI agents SA Max Bernstein and SA Sarah Jablonski who spoil it for me especially at the start of their involvement. They act like a really annoying, irritating comedy duo and some of the dialogue that zips back and forth between them - yikes, does it ever jar. Bernstein definitely improves but I can’t get around the fact that I feel their first appearance is so out of place. Overall though, let’s ignore those two clowns because at the end of the day, I’m entertained as usual by an author whose books I always look forward to diving into. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Random House UK, Cornerstone for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

This was like watching an action movie, while riding a roller coaster, and drinking six energy drinks ALL AT THE SAME TIME-very exciting, but you very much need to be able to suspend disbelief for full enjoyment

A father goes to prison for murdering his son. For years, he refuses visitors. Finally he lets one in only to find out that nothing that happened is what it seemed to be. This was actually my first book by this author. It was a pretty wild ride. A good book, lots of action. Nothing super mind blowing in my opinion. The ending seemed quite a bit far fetched. Overall, I felt this was entertaining - I would say 3.75 rounded up. I am not sure this author is as brilliant as everyone makes it seem though as I expected more twists. The action was good though.

An entertaining, if somewhat formulaic read. If you've read a few Harlan Coben books, you probably know what I man. The books blur together, in terms of plot and characters, but they do tend to be pretty gripping all the same. I'm not complaining, nor do I want to sound dismissive. I was looking for something fast-paced, engaging and not difficult or stressful with which to spend a few hours, and that's exactly what I got. The story centers around a wrongfully convicted man, who finds out that the son he supposedly killed, may be alive. Coben's books often feature fathers with lost children, and though this is a little predictable, it's a theme that tends to emotionally resonate and makes you root for the protagonist. I would not be surprised if, I Will Find You, gets it's own Netflix adaptation, as so many other books by this author have. Overall, a satisfying read and one I would recommend, if you are looking for some not-too-stressful thrills.

-BOOK REVIEW- Title: I Will Find You Author: Harlan Coben Genre: Thriller Pages: 336 •Quick Deets• A murdered child The wrong man convicted Whodunnit and why •Rating• ⭐⭐⭐⭐ 4 stars I recommend this book! •Review• Coben never disappoints for a good whodunnit and why thriller. This was told from multiple points for view and you just never knew where it was going to lead. I loved that we also got the point of view from the detectives working the case. Great book! •Similar Recommended Reads• I will Find You Don't Look for Me Room

The plot of this thriller really stretches your credulity but if you can manage to suspend disbelief, it's quite an entertaining read. David Burroughs is in the fifth year of a life-sentence for killing his three-year-old son, Matthew, when a visitor shows him photo proof that his son is still alive. But to find Matthew, David must escape from the penitentiary... Lots of exciting action drive this thriller. David is an interesting character, pretty flawed and prison-hardened. He reminds me of a pinball, bouncing from one desperate situation to the next in pursuit of the truth. The two FBI Special Agents on his trail have a comic routine down pat as they go about their witness interrogations. One is determined to just do her job and return the convict to prison but the other begins to think about the evidence they are uncovering and dig a little deeper. I received an arc of this new thriller from the author and publisher via NetGalley. Many thanks! My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

"David and Cheryl Burroughs are living the dream - married, a beautiful house in the suburbs, a three year old son named Matthew - when tragedy strikes one night in the worst possible way." This mystery kept me on the edge of my seat to find out what happened next. It is propulsive, twisty, and kept me guessing.

Harlan Coben has once again come up with a plot that is as unique as it is compelling with his stand alone thriller I Will Find You. Right from the first page there are questions just begging to be answered just by meeting David Burroughs who’s locked up in prison, convicted of killing his baby son. He has always protested his innocence but has become resigned to his fate, taking beatings and accepting his now failed marriage and loss of all friends. It’s not until his sister-in-law Rachel visits him to show him a photo that may, just may, show a boy in the background that could be his son that his life kickstarts again. It’s from this flicker of a possibility that the touchpaper is lit and the action takes off in the most unbelievable fashion. Not only does David have to get himself out of prison but he also has to confirm that the boy is his son. Finding answers to the many, many questions that are racing through his mind is made difficult by the fact that he has to evade the police who are closing in on him. From one little clue in the background of a photo, David manages to take his quest from Maine to New York and through to the wilds of the retirement capital, Florida. If all thrillers were delivered with this type of frenetic action from page 1 I’d be a happy boy. Sure, his method of escape is a little convenient at the top and the close calls are predictable through the middle stages, but that’s forgiven by the sheer entertainment value. A highlight of the book for me was the introduction of a pair of FBI agents who have been tasked with the job of finding David and returning him to his prison cell. Max Bernstein and Sarah Jablonski are one hell of a team who manage to perform the most entertaining interviews with persons of interest. They’re formidable in their approach but also, for the reader at least, wildly amusing in the way they bounce off of each other. They’re very Harlan Cobenesque characters and I definitely want to see more of this pair (please). This is a really good seat of the pants thriller that throws caution to the wind in a bid to completely capture my attention. It worked and I was thoroughly entertained by the imaginative plotting and moments of devilish humour that helped carry the more serious undertones.

Would've been 5 stars if Max and Sarah hadn't been so insufferable.

My first Harlan Coben book and I really enjoyed it! Featured in this reading vlog: https://youtu.be/HlGeoP7ACzU

*www.onewomansbbr.wordpress.com *www.facebook.com/onewomansbbr I Will Find You by Harlan Coben. (2023). David and Cheryl are married, living in a beautiful house and have a 3-year-old son, Matthew. But one night David wakes up, covered in his son's blood. He knows he didn't do it, but the overwhelming evidence against him puts him in jail. 5 years later Cheryl's sister Rachel visits and drops a bombshell - she shows him a photo that a friend took at a theme park, and a boy in the background looks exactly like Matthew. In order to find his son and clear his name, David has to discover the real story of what happened that night. Which means he needs to escape prison... I always know when I pick up a book from this author I'm going to enjoy it. This one is no exception. Are some of the events in the storyline on the wrong side of believable? Sure are. But it's just an easy read that easily sucks the reader in and you'll happily follow along the action; stranger things have happened in reality so I'm happy to go along with it. If you've read any of this author's books you know there is always a big twist or two that changes the context of everything - I picked one of the big ones in this story before it happened but still appreciated the reveal. The narrative is well-written and the storyline is engaging; would make a great holiday read. Overall: if you enjoy the suspense/mystery/thriller genre, you'll probably like this book.

BIG thanks to both Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley for the opportunity to read and review an early copy of I Will Find You! Expected publication March 14, 2023 Five years ago, an innocent man began a life sentence for murdering his own son. Today he found out his son is still alive. Now he must break out of prison to save his son, clear his own name, and discover the real story of what happened. No sweat, right? I was thrilled to get my hands on this early copy of I Will Find You! Usually, I'm a total snob when it comes to books that aren't 100% realistic, but when it's a book written by Mr. Coben, I couldn't care less. This is a well-written book and a fun escape from everyday life. I hated to put it down!!

Really, I enjoyed this story. It started out as a typical Harlan Coben but the ending was actually a happy one. It was a little predictable but so glad it turned out good, or better than it could have.

Ok let’s get one thing clear about this book. It’s a little bit silly. That’s not a negative just an observation from the outset. It’s the story of a father serving life in prison for the murder of his three year old son but, when 5 years later a photo surfaces of what appears to be his son alive and well he decides he has to escape and find his son! That’s the gist of it. Sounds intriguing right? And a little bit silly? Well it is both and to be honest I loved it. A great bit of escapism with a bit of a mad story, shut out the outside world and reality and strap yourself in for the ride here, you will have a blast. Engaging, fun and well plotted, this book reads a lot shorter than it is. Always a good sign. This one is definite hit for me. I’m on a roll of great reads at the moment. Long may it continue. Thanks to the publisher for the ARC through Netgalley.

great story & very unique plot. initially, the details are too in favor of the main character but don’t let that turn you off. the antagonists keep it a page turner and i was super engaged until the end. definitely recommend

3.5 stars rounded up Tons of action and intrigue in this fast paced thriller.

Harlan never disappoints. This wasn’t the shocking of plot twists but he still kept me on the edge of my seat.

4.25 stars “So Nesta had become a wolf. Armed herself with invisible teeth and claws, and learned to strike faster, deeper, more lethally. Had relished it. But when the time came to put away the wolf, she'd found it had devoured her too.” I am irrationally annoyed by how much I enjoyed this. I read the reviews and was prepared to snicker my way through the purring, the ridiculous sex scenes, and constant assertions of "my mate." However *sigh* this series just does something to my cold cynical heart. I laugh at it, but I am incapable of hating it. So take my hand, lovelies. Let us venture into my detailed thoughts, which I have thoughtfully assembled into a list with no discernible pattern or theme: -Nesta is so bitchy sometimes. I get that it's complex and there's a certain feminism in portraying someone like her as a protagonist instead of a villain, but jeez, girl. Learn some basic manners. I occasionally wonder if SJM went too far in making Nesta the selfish stepsister in ACOTAR. It's hard to shake off that image. She does attempt to justify it in this book by explaining that Nesta was angry at her father for giving up and not providing for his daughters. Nesta was ready to let them all starve to prove a point -Rhys says to Nesta, “Of course you have a choice. You always have a choice here,” like he didn’t force Nesta out of her flat, force her to live in one of his residences where she can't leave, force her to train with Cassian, force her to work at the library, etc. Surely there are better ways to stage an intervention. I know they did it out of love, but Tamlin did what he did out of love, too -Speaking of, everyone hates Tamlin because he gave Nesta and Elain to the King of Hybern (which he did to save Feyre), but when Rhys threatens to kill Nesta if she hurts Feyre, that’s somehow okay. (view spoiler) -Rhys and Feyre are supposedly equals, but he refuses to tell Feyre about the dangers of her pregnancy. Nesta is portrayed as the bad guy for telling her sister the truth -Can we stop worshiping Rhys now? Please? -I like that Nesta asks Cassian how he likes his blowjob. It normalizes communication during sex -SJM is too lazy to think of actual names for magical places and items. Under The Mountain sounds ominous if you think about it, but then there’s the Harp, the Mask, and the Crown -I really liked Nesta's character arc: her struggle with trauma and depression, her cold rage at her father for refusing to provide for them and the steel pride that prevents her for apologizing to Feyre for her past behavior, the self-loathing and insecurity, the female solidarity with other victims of sexual assault and misogyny. On that last note, I've never understood why Nesta and Elain were so upset with being being transformed into beautiful, powerful High Fae back during ACOWAR. SJM explains it more by linking the violent act of being forced inside the Cauldron and changed against her will with rape/sexual assault. -While I adore the themes mentioned above, SJM writes the same arc over and over. All of her female protagonists (Aelin, Feyre, that girl from House of Earth and Blood) wrestle with crippling depression at some point. She recycles plots and characters and writing phrases. Gets pretty old -The ending is thematically confusing. (view spoiler) My review of A Court of Thorns & Roses My review of A Court of Mist & Fury My review of A Court of Wings and Ruin My review of A Court of Frost and Starlight

1.) A Court of Thorns and Roses ★★★★ 2.) A Court of Mist and Fury ★★★ 3.) A Court of Wings and Ruin ★★★ 3.1) A Court of Frost and Starlight ★★★ [2024 reread] ★★★★ i feel like this book is very polarizing among readers, but i think i land on the unpopular side with believing this book is maybe sjm’s best. this is truly close to a five stars for me, and i think i was able to appreciate even more rereading it. in this first book of the acotar spin-offs, we see nesta and cassian, both doing immense healing and growing. this book does star nesta, and truly seeing her reclaim her life, her safety, her agency… it was so beautiful. the very basic premise of this book is that nesta and cassian are tasked with tracking down three magical items, one of which one of the human queens may be using. we get to see nesta learn her own powers, we get to see her train with cassian, we get to see her love - both herself and new friendships… and yes, cassian - and we get to see her heal the way she needs to heal. it was honestly very powerful and, again, i really do not think sarah gets the credit for this book that she deserves. oh, and there is a romance novel loving sentient house who stole my heart all over again. sometimes, all you really need is a friend who knows how to keep you warm in the way you need to be kept warm. i just loved this with my whole heart, friends. i have now finished my reread of what is out in the acotar series and… i had such a good time rereading all of these. I think my biggest takeaway is… i didn’t love rhysand (this feels wild to even type). i feel like he was truly book boyfriend status back in the day, but now? i feel like he made me upset way more than he ever made me swoon during this reread. And this book really solidified that, and i think it was extra amplified because cassian is such a good boy. but again, this was such a fun reread that i really enjoyed doing, and we will see if i can reread throne of glass very soon! trigger + content warnings (with minor spoilers for this story!): ptsd, grief, loss of loved ones in past (parents, siblings), blood, domestic abuse in past, child abuse in past, sexual assault in past, talk of rape in past, murder, death, talk of war, sexism, misogyny, nightmares, talk of captivity in past, drowning, attempted assault and rape, talk of suicide ideation, withholding very important medical information, high-risk pregnancy, ableist and dated language for people with disabilities, emergency child birth scene (involving death of both mother and baby… this world has the power of magic so things end up okay, but i think this could be very triggering to some readers, so please use caution.) [2021 first read] ★★★★ listen, i can't believe we are here either. but this just truly impacted me (and made me cry) so much. i will say I feel a little biased because nesta and cassian are two of my favorite characters from this entire series but... i still didn't expect this to be so beautiful. and nesta finding these friendships and seeing them heal together, see their worth together, love unconditionally and unapologetically together? regardless of how hard and scary the journey to those steps were to even get to? seeing nesta realize she's not a bad person, no matter what the world makes her mental health believe? i really loved it. blog | instagram | youtube | kofi | spotify | amazon

** spoiler alert ** Nesta, the most unlikeable person in literature, is understandably upset about being turned fae against her will. The lightning rods of her ire include her family and a magical bathtub. When her brother in law finally puts his foot down and sticks her in the Tower of Sauron, she pouts until a 500 year old man with bat wings yells at her. Nesta decides to retaliate by learning how to use stairs. She and the very old but hot winged man proceed to have PornHub sex in every room of the tower, which is also sentient and is 100% watching them all the time. How Nesta’s cervix survived the sex described is a mystery. She eventually stops being a huge bitch all the time (in too much cervical pain?) and saves her sister from a death her brother in law knew was going to happen and did nothing to prevent. Also there’s a hike that almost kills her. And a Death Swamp. Maybe lesbians? And Eris, who is my toxic trait. 2/24/25 reread update: Once upon a time there was a woman who thought Cassian was a useless himbo and that woman was me the end. Bonus Chapter: Azriel’s POV Azriel is infatuated with Elain and his ardor is understandable — who wouldn’t want to bang a bowl of cottage cheese? He gives her the thoughtful, personal gift of a necklace at solstice and we find out what a little horndog he actually is when he practically takes her in the living room in a tornado of lust. I don’t yuck anyone’s yum so if he’s super into life-sized marionettes who garden, more power to him. They’re interrupted by Rhys, the High Lord of cock-blocking, who reminds Azriel that Lucien is upstairs and could challenge him to a fire duel or whatever fae dudes do, and also that he’s in love with Mor (thanks, boss). This is a bit of a sanctimonious stance to be taken by Rhys, who once sent his mate into a cannibal’s house for fun, but what are you going to do. Stamping off loudly, Az goes to the House of Wind and his shadows flirt with Gwyn because they’re all ramped up with nowhere to go. Azriel regifts his thoughtful, personal necklace to Gwyn. Could this be a new romance? Or is Azriel just going to be alone forever because it sure seems that way.

[2022] edit: changed my mind this is more of a 4 star than a 5🙃 _________________ I'm sobbing that was so beautiful All hail Queen Nesta and SJM for making me love her so much I don't know what to do with myself now. Like actually, I think I'm gonna be in a book hangover for weeks— no, months omg I cannot. This has to be the most times I've ever cried in a book I swear to god I'm still crying right now. From the beginning of the book to the end...even the acknowledgments , all of it destroyed me. My heart— This has been said many times, but I love you so much Sarah. Sarah, my queen. Sarah, my goddess. My love for SJM will never cease to exist. ═══*.·:·.☽✧ ✦ ✧☾.·:·.*═══ 🛑Note: The first part will have NO SPOILERS, while the 2nd will definitely have SPOILERS. I'll have a warning when it comes to that. ═══*.·:·.☽✧ ✦ ✧☾.·:·.*═══ "Everyone deserves happiness. The road there isn't easy. It is long, and hard, and often travelled utterly blind. But you keep going. Because you know the destination will be worthwhile." This is Nesta's special journey. Nesta's journey through dealing with her trauma. Struggling with the pain she's been in and healing. Finding the ability to love herself. I didn't think SJM could write a better book for mental health than ACOMAF, but I believe right here, she did exactly that. There wasn't a single scene where I didn't feel like my heart was breaking. This was such an emotional ride. I could actually relate to Nesta and while it isn't as severe as her, there are times where I'd also hate myself and feel like I deserve nothing. And seeing Nesta deal with all of this -- it broke me in so many ways. To have her in so much pain and think that she herself has to change in order to be "fixed"... ohmygod no I swear I cant.😭🤚 Then there was Cassian. I love how he wouldn't give up on Nesta and even while trying to help her, he still didn't let her get away with everything. He kept reaching out his hand throughout it all. But in the end, the only person who could heal Nesta was Nesta herself. You can help someone as much as you want, but at the end of all that, it's up to them to see past that darkness and find the light. To love themselves and be happy with who they are. To heal the parts of you that hurt so much and hurt others. im crying again dammit This book hit me so hard. I'm actually such a mess. I never thought I could love a book this much. Not surprised it was Queen SJM that did this to me. I will never forget the impact Nesta's story had on me. There's no doubt that I'll be rereading this so many times in the future. Already I feel like rereading. My god, what has she done to me *sobs* is this what love feels like? ═══*.·:·.☽✧ ✦ ✧☾.·:·.*═══ 🛑SPOILER part of the review below. Do not go past this if you haven't read ACOSF.🛑 ═══*.·:·.☽✧ ✦ ✧☾.·:·.*═══ She would not be mastered by anything again. She was the master of herself. I know I talked about Nesta already but seriously she's such a queen. Cassian wasn't the only one there for her. We're introduced to new characters in this book and I love it. Honestly, it had to be my favourite part of her story. Nesta's friendship with Emerie and Gwyn was so, so, so wholesome and sweet. Each of them had their own past that haunted them and were afraid for the other to find out. But that's exactly what made them fit so well together. That moment where they all shared their secrets with each other, realizing that the other wouldn't be judging them...I cried so much not surprising omg it was so beautiful to see them open up. Their love for each other was tested especially when they had to participate in The Blood Rite. I was so shook, I actually didn't think they'd be doing it, but ohmygod that was so stressful. I was terrified SJM would destroy me again and kill Emerie or Gwyn. Thank god she took pity on our poor hearts. Also, omg them training to be Valkyries dsfdsfgd YES YES YES. I LOVED that so much. And to see them in action during The Blood Rite against those bastards??? Perfection. but also really stressful bc my gurls🥺 ALSO THE FRIENDSHIP BRACELETS OHMYGOD I CANNOT. HEARTBREAKING AND BEAUTIFUL. I legit hope Gwyn and Emerie play bigger roles in the next two books, especially *ahem* because I have some ships in mind.😏 Yes, I may be too early but I believe in EmeriexMor and AzrielxGwyn🙏 ═══*.·:·.☽✧ ✦ ✧☾.·:·.*═══ "The first time I saw that look on your face, you were still human. Still human, and I nearly went to my knees before you." Tell me, what's one of the most heartbreaking scenes you've ever read? I'll tell you mine -- CHAPTER 50. That was so heart-wrenching, my heart died. My own sisters were looking at me like I was insane. But something even more heartbreaking? CASSIAN CRYING That completely and utterly destroyed me. I was dying on the inside. Just thinking about him crying, is making me cry. I swear to god, I literally put my heart through torture reading this. Seeing through Cassian's POV is the greatest gift we could've asked for. All the flaws and insecurities he feels, I'm in so much p a i n. I adore him even more than before. He was there for Nesta and Nesta was there for him, my heart- "Forgiveness is not that easy." "Forgiveness is something we also grant ourselves. And I can talk to you until these mountains crumble around us, but if you don't wish to be forgiven, if you don't want to stop feeling this way...it won't happen." Hello? Please stop destroying me. Please, Cas. "You don't need to become some impossible ideal. You don't need to become sweet and simpering. You can give everyone that I Will Slay My Enemies look—which is my favourite look, by the way. You can keep that sharpness I like so much, that boldness and fearlessness. I don't want you to ever lose things, to cage yourself." STOP. THE. PAIN. *cries* Cas, when did you become so wise and give such heart crushing speeches?? This is one of the most beautiful lines I've ever read. No question about it. Also, to finally find out what was in the solstice gift Cassian wanted to give Nesta -- it was A BOOK. Okay imma stop right there, I'm crying again. I cant do this.🥺😭 (And Azzy & Nesta's friendship...*sobs* beautiful. HE GAVE HER A FAELIGHT FOR READING AS A SOLSTICE GIFT. PLEASE, MY HEART-) ═══*.·:·.☽✧ ✦ ✧☾.·:·.*═══ "That's the key, isn't it? To know the darkness will always remain, but how you choose to face it, handle it...that's the important part. To not let it consume. To focus upon the good, the things that fill you with wonder." "The struggle with that darkness is worth it, just to see such things." Am I really dedicating a whole section to The House of Wind? Yes, yes I am. I absolutely love Nesta, but my god The House of Wind is the BEST part of this book. Absolutely amazing and kind. I didn't I could love a house so much, but here I am. Nesta wished for a friend and the House became that friend for her. It encouraged her to do more, pushed her to try more. The House reads romance novels. I'm crying, I love the House so much. And the darkness that swirled at the bottom of the library?? I can't believe that was the heart of the House ohmygod please I love it. The way Nesta accepted the way it was, just like the House did that for her...sdfgdsfs I'm in pain. *sobs* too much for my heart. AND IT GAVE NESTA CHOCOLATE CAKE AND ROMANCE BOOKS. What's not to love about the House??? woah wait, why is this reminding me of celaena with her love of chocolate cake and books *shook* The House of Wind is e v e r y t h i n g. ═══*.·:·.☽✧ ✦ ✧☾.·:·.*═══ "I went into the Cauldron, too, you know. And it captured me. And yet somehow all you think of is what my trauma did to you." (This is Nesta's book, but I just have to say this.) I'm guilty of this too, but I think most of us hated Elain because of how we saw her, being sweet, kind and useless...and judged her right away, forgetting that she also is still suffering going into the Cauldron and with what happened in the war against Hybern. Just like Nesta, Elain has a different way of showing her trauma and that's by hiding it away and making it look like she's okay, using the image everyone thinks of her being--sweet and kind. It's just like we all think of her and hate her for that. Everyone expects Elain to be one thing, so she acts like that BUT is that truly Elain? So yeah, I judged her too early. (Feysand's POV really helped with this too) I shouldn't hate her right away because there's still her story to be told. I'm actually excited to see that. But even knowing all of this, I still don't like Elain.🤷‍♀️ I understand it and everything but just something about her rubs me off the wrong way. I don't hate her, but I don't like her either. I have no doubt Sarah will make us love, or at the very least, like Elain next book. Also, I seriously do not ship her with Azriel. I believe Azriel and Gwyn would be such a beautiful pair ohmygod I'd love that so much. If the three brothers get with the three archeron sisters...no no no, please no. And I absolutely love the Azriel POV. My heart is hurting so much for Azzy🥺 He needs the love he deserves. Omg every time he'd appear as the "chaperone" for Nesta and Cassian--omg I was dying of laughter. I loved those scenes. Poor Azzy having to deal with Nesta and Cas, tsk tsk naughty Fae. But the friendship between Nesta and Azzy ohmygod my heart, im crying it was so beautiful. Azzy have Nesta Also, something else as to why I think AzrielxElain wont be endgame is because during the solstice dance, both Cas and Eris talk about how smothered/plain Elain is wearing black, which I feel like is SJM's way of saying that Elain isn't compatible with The Night Court and it's darkness & shadows. ahhh I truly feel like she's going to go to another court in the next book. Also Azzy's shadows disappear when they're around Elain. Meanwhile, the shadows dont disappear around Gwyn...they come alive around her. I don't know about you, but it looks like SJM is trying to say something👀 I stan Gwynriel “I am the rock against which the surf crashes." “Nothing can break me.” AND THE FACT THAT AZZY SINGS AND GWYN SINGS SDFGSDFD I CANT😭🤚 ═══*.·:·.☽✧ ✦ ✧☾.·:·.*═══ "I'll deny it to the grave if you tell anyone, but I missed you too, Cursebreaker." Helion is amazing sdfgdsfsdf I love him so much. I think we can all agree with needing more Helion these next few books. And for Lucien to find out the truth🥺 We need a Lucien book so bad omg so many books needed. I'm so curious as to what really was going on when Nesta asked about Jurian & Vassa and Lucien replied sharply HMM I may be reading too much into that, but something's going on ughhh I wanna know more about those three. ALSO, ERIS. There is SO MUCH MORE to Eris then is shown. I really want to see more Eris and his story. I believe there's a lot more to him and Cas even sees that he's a decent guy. Oh, another thing I forgot to mention was the fact that Nesta Made three magic weapons and one of them she named the sword Ataraxia, which means Inner Peace...I'm in love. I stan Nesta so much. She grew to be so much stronger than she was before annnnnd the tears are coming in again.😃✌ This reminds me of Feyre and Nesta's relationship. *sobs* It brings me joy to see the two finally understand and show their love for each other. No matter what, Feyre wouldn't give up on her either. She tried so hard to help Nesta and I love Feyre so much for that. Unlike *cough* some people *cough* Rhysand. I actually despise him SO MUCH, it was so messed up. The way I hate this guy with every fibre of my being😃 Although, I have to say that when Nesta apologized to everyone it irked me. Like yeah, she did say harmful things to them, but the Inner Circle did too?? Honestly, they should've apologized too, mainly Rhys and Amren but ah, that didn't happen *rage* they should grovel at her feet. OMG WAIT. JUST ONE MORE THING I REALIZED. THIS: THAT WAS AELIN. AELIN WAS THE RED SHOOTING STAR OHMYGOD I AM SHOOK FR WTH OMG I DIDNT NOTICE THAT THE FIRST TIME WHAT THE HELL SARAH. OMG YOU WITCH, I LOVE YOU. FDDSFGDSDF AELIN APPEARED OHMYGODD I CANT GET OVER THIS. AELIN FLEW THROUGH THE 26 REALMS (Okay, NOW I'll stop) All in all, this was absolutely perfect in my eyes. minus the too much smut Sarah has once again made me fall in love with her book and now I don't know what to do with my life. I pray that the next book is about Az and I'm hoping that it comes out next year. Thank you, Sarah, for creating this beautiful and inspiring story. In the beginning And in the end There was Darkness And nothing more. ═══*.·:·.☽✧ ✦ ✧☾.·:·.*═══ Pre-read Review: I'm going to pretend this is the cover: Gorgeous art by @bxromance

↠ 4 stars Nesta and Cassian truly deserve everything oh my god. I'm so glad I took a chance on this one since they were two of my favorite side characters in the previous books. They actually killed this. A Court of Silver Flames is everything you could possibly want in a novel, it's heartwarming, bold, and sexy. Three combinations I did not know I needed, but am very thankful for. Hereafter whenever I say that I don’t like the acotar series, this book will not be included in that statement. Also I feel inclined to mention that this book is adult fantasy and includes content more suitable for 18+ readers. Please keep that in mind if you are under the target age group as this is a completely different genre than what the rest of the series was originally shelved in. That is all. Maybe a more comprehensive review to come? We'll see. Trigger warnings: blood, violence, murder, death, death of a loved one (mentioned), grief, PTSD, abuse, sexual assault (mentioned), rape (mentioned), alcohol consumption, slut shaming, childbirth complications, depression, scars, suicidal thoughts

** spoiler alert ** Definitely prefer Feyres POV. I missed Rhys terribly, and the small moments we had with him were usually unpleasant since we were viewing him through Nesta’s eyes. I love Cassian to death but Nesta, for the first 2/3 of the book, was so insufferable I sometimes had a hard time picking up the book. I also found her transformation from worst person in the world to hero to be unrealistic. All this being said I was still addicted to it of course.

‘’So live, Nesta Archeron." “That’s the key, isn’t it? To know the darkness will always remain, but how you choose to face it, handle it … that’s the important part. To not let it consume. To focus upon the good, the things that fill you with wonder ‘’ '’ Tell yourself, I am the rock against which the surf crashes. Your thoughts are the surf. Let them crash over you.” 4 stars Love the emotional journey , the mental health rep , the romance that doesnt just fix the struggels and trauma that Nesta has and shows that. that’s important too know and i love how Sarah includes that in this story of healing. The things i didnt found perfect where that there was too much smut and too much smut talking which annoyed the shit out of me. It was just too much unnecessary porn. + some charracters from the inner circle acted out of charracter too me and where annoying sometimes and i didnt support some of the ways they acted like. Like Rhys what happend too my bby. * sobbing in a corner * like he just acted ugh .But the emotional journey in this is amazing and beyond that and I love it somuch. it broke my heart and then made it come back together again. The first part of this review doesn’t have any spoilers that can ruin the book for you. The second part of this review has spoilers in it but that part is marked with a spoiler tag. The quotes above are in my opinion beautiful quotes and not spoilers , the quotes in the spoiler section are spoiler quotes. Krizzie did it omg. , I did it , I finished this beautiful big book and all I feel like doing now is screaming into the void for the rest of my life , is that possible? If yes , sign me up then please. This is a story of healing , a story of struggling , a story that deals with trauma and how too get trough it and how in the end you can get trough it only if you want too fight it and want too get trough it. This story shows us all that a billion of people can say too you get trough it , work trough your issues , deal with them but in the end you have too push the button around and accept that you are feeling bad , that you are dealing with trauma and your mental health is not well and then work trough it. Nothing can fix you , only you can by facing yourself and your issues. This is the big message behind this story , the story of Nesta Archeron. The story of Nesta who lived. And this message that this book gives trough the whole story hit me so hard personally. I have felt these things , felt like I couldn’t fix myself because I didn’t accept my issues and didn’t push the button around too get better. No other person can fix you , love can help you , friend can help you but in the end its your journey towards better days and you have too do it yourself. This is so important for everyone and the way Sarah shows that with this book and again raises awareness with this mental health journey in a fantasy book is just. Stories like this are so important and can help so many people , this story inspired me on my own journey. This story focusses mainly on mental health and follows the journey of getting trough your trauma and issues and Sarah has done this again so beautiful. Overall I loved this book , so much. The emotional journey of Nesta and the struggels she went trough and the message behind this book is the main thing I love about this book and is so beautiful and in that way this book feels really similar too a court of mist and fury If you liked a court of mist and fury I am 99 % sure you will like this too. I also loved the importance of friendship in this book a lot , I loved the romance between Cassian and Nesta and the fact that he sees her and isn’t scared and how they both compliment each other with who they are , their banter , the journey they went trough also together , the way my precious Cassie supported Nesta in this journey , having double povs and getting too know them both more. But I also loved the other more fantasy plot in this book , I was at the edge of my seat and we learn more things about the world which I loved. We have some great inner circle moments also. The only thing I have too say about this book that is a tiny bit negative is that the smut is very heavy and I did love the smut scenes but it is definitely NA/Adult. And sometimes it became a bit too much scenes so it became more normal and not that special which could get a bit repetitive.. Also i see somuch potential for the next book and i am 99 % sure its going to be azzie without elain and i am here for it. Spoiler part , more talk about the inside content of the book No major spoilers !! just more inside content. (view spoiler) Also the mask on the cover makes somuch sense now i get it, you all who readed know what i am talking about 👀 omg will the next book have a crown and a harp on it ? Hmmm ... also theories ; Azzie will be with Gwyn and i am here for it , Mor will be with Emerie. + opinion on the azriel chapter - I hated how it had smut in it again. didnt we have enough of that? i didnt like that and wanted some more depht. so meh. ‘’ A home. The House of Wind, Velaris, this court … they were her home.’’

the inner circle is just the most precious thing ever and darling you cannot convince me otherwise

Holy cheese balls, this was some wild ride. There were a lot of polarizing scenes. I mostly loved it, but the things I didn’t, I hated them. I’m going to start with the bad, because I need to vent. - (Spoilers below) - I actually hated Rhysand in this book. Absolutely loathe him. All his choices were wrong, all his reasons were wrong. He lied to his mate about her own body. Her baby. He had no right to do something like that. Not only that, he forbade everyone from telling her. And everyone agreed without question. Wtf? And then we are supposed to accept Nesta is the bad one for being honest? Fuck Rhysand, he even had the nerve to order Cassian to take Nesta away from his territory before he killed her. Just the way Rhys hated Nesta in general pissed me off. His ill intended remarks about Nesta were even more infuriating when he decided to use her to find the magical objects and test her own magical swords. Rhysand telling Nesta she always has a choice is fucking rich of him when they had sent Nesta away against her will, evicted her from her home and tore down the whole block of apartments (to hell with the other tenants, I suppose). He didn’t grovel enough to Nesta by the end of the book. It was nowhere near satisfying. And the way he thought showering her with presents and materialistic shit only showed his own privilege and how out of touch with reality Rhys functions. He and Feyre were a bad caricature of who they used to be. It’s sad and frustrating. SJM just ruined them for me. I won’t be able to re-read ACOMAF for a long time, if ever again. And it was one of my favorite books of all times. So yeah, I’m angry. And worst of all, in this book Rhysand became what Feyre ran away from in ACOMAF; Someone overly protective that witholds vital information for her own good. Make it make sense, please. Same can be said about Amren and her attitude towards Nesta. Who does she think she is to suggest not telling Nesta she had forged three magical swords? Honestly, I’d rather Amren had “died” by the end of the third book than seeing her acting like this. The audacity to suggest Rhysand should colonize the other Courts and become High King of everyone. History is full of white men “conquering” other countries full of brown and black people, there’s a name for that, dear Rhisie. Did Amren go completely mad to suggest some of these Courts would willingly and happily give their home away because apparently it’s Rhysand’s birthright? The audacity to think these Courts would give away their identity and freedom because Rhysand deserves it. I’m still baffled. I’m angry Nesta felt like she had to apologize to these assholes and no one apologized to her in return. I’m angry they didn’t support her and made her feel worse, and yet somehow she ended up grateful to them. When she went down on her knee and bowed in front of Amren, I wanted to throw my book against a wall. Rhys, Feyre, Elain, Amren... they all belittled and mistreated Nesta when she was depressed and nearly suicidal. They left her alone for months and one day, they decided they'd had enough and shipped her off to be dealt by someone else. I’m still reeling at Feyre being worried about what people might think of them because of Nesta’s behavior. Some sisterly love. I love how Nesta said no one shipped Elain off when she was catatonic. The double standard was so blatantly obvious. Nesta made them uncomfortable and that’s why they wanted to remove her, not because they were worried, but for selfish reasons. Elain was perhaps the biggest disappointment simply because I didn’t see it coming. The first time her sister needed her, Elain decided to ignore her. Nesta fought for her to the very end, to the point of breaking herself in the process and Elain couldn’t be bothered to even try when Nesta was at her lowest. And they didn’t even have a conversation to fix things up. But being fair, Elain is in a very toxic and unfair situation herself, too. No one is asking her what she wants (which from that bonus chapter, it's obviously Azriel). They are just waiting for her to finally accept the mating bond with Lucien, so they can avoid conflict with the Autumn and Spring Courts. Her own family has taken her voice and own agency away from her. And she has allowed it perhaps believing there isn't other option. But the moment sweet, quiet Elain says "enough", Cauldron help them all. The horrendous slut shaming Amren, Elain and Rhys threw at Nesta was disgusting. Especially Elain, because there’s nothing I hate more than hypocrites. Apparently she cares about waiting until marriage but she actually had sex with her human fiancé. And somehow she ignored that part while she slut shamed her sister for sleeping around. And then Amren confirmed you can be one of the oldest beings still alive and be a bigot. Good for you Amren, here’s your “you’re disgusting” pin. Azriel became the biggest mystery in the book, but his bonus chapter left me with a bittersweet feeling. Don’t get me wrong. It was great to finally be in that filthy mind (SJM didn’t joke when she said he’s a freak in bed) but the way he talked about Elain, like he was entitled to her–because in his mind it’s three sisters for three brothers–like she wasn’t a human being and just an object he deserved. I hate Lucien for his possessiveness over someone who doesn’t even want to be in the same room as him but at least his excuse is the mating bond. What excuse does Azriel have? And then Rhys had to go and remind us how awful he is. The way he spoke to Azriel was unforgiving. Your brother is suffering and you threaten him?? And when he suggested Azriel paid for sex, I hate it when fantasy books normalize prostitution. Hated that remark so, so much. I’m still seeing red just thinking of Rhysand in this book. After reflecting on Azriel, I believe his trauma is preventing him from creating real connections. That’s why he spent 500 years pinning after Mor, even when he knew it was never going to happen. And when he managed to get over her, it was to fall for another unattainable woman. I think deep down he wants Elain because he knows he can’t have her, and that means keeping everyone at a safe distance. And his entitled over Elain is just his insecurity and self loathing manifesting in that twisted way. I used to ship Azriel and Elain so much, and now I hope it doesn’t happen. I can see Gwyn is going to be his mate and he’s going to be so blind by his entitlement over Elain, that he won’t even see it. And I know I’m going to hate that. Thank you SJM for ruining another Illyrian for me. Speaking of Illyrians. Fuck those mysogynistic pricks. They can all rot in hell for all I care. As of right now, I don’t care about the Night Court, The Court of Dreams (snort), Velaries or the Illyrians. They have all let me down and acted in horrendous ways. I’m only interested in the Valkyries from now on. SJM has gone mad if she believes there’s a pass for all this bullshit. I’m actually mad as hell that I can see the influence of JR Ward all over her writing style because it’s obviously suffering from it. But there’s a reason why I gave this book a high rating and here is why: Nesta Archeron, aka Queen of Queens, was everything I had hoped for and more. Being in her head felt so liberating after so many books in Feyre’s. Suddenly characters were acting “different”, being more honest and thus more horrendous, there were cursing and not that annoying “vulgar gesture” nonsense anymore. You can tell how unreliable Feyre was as narrator. And how much more real and human Nesta is than her sister. Nesta’s journey to healing was arduous, the story didn’t take short cuts, we were there with her in every step of the way. There were good days, there were bad days. The symbolism of the 10.000 steps paralleling her own personal journey was amazing. Nesta truly earned her happiness with teeth and sweat and tears. It felt very satisfying to see her climb that fucking mountain and conquer her life back. Nesta’s breakdown felt cathartic and liberating. I broke along with her, feeling everything she was finally allowing to get out. I was there with her, marveling at the emotional level this book was taking me to. Even though I hated the trek to that lake, with Cassian so uncharacteristically cold and unfeeling towards a broken and suicidal Nesta. He could’ve told her Feyre wasn’t mad at her, instead he chose to let her believe the worse and fester in her own agony. Cassian is not like that in any other moment of the story. It felt contrived and a weak plotdevice to “force” Nesta to the breaking point. The way the story centers around mental health issues and abuse survivors moved me to tears on several occasions. Learning to be vulnerable enough to open up to others, even though their reaction terrifies you, learning to love yourself, even the darkest parts, and accepting your past mistakes and forgiving yourself were the pillars in Nesta’s journey. Nesta is just the most relatable character out there. From reading romance books, her new female friendships, the way she fantasized about two hot men and how she expressed her sexuality. The way she hated and doubted herself at every step. We have all been there. I felt like I was Nesta while reading. Just in this book, Nesta retrieved several millennia-lost magical objects, used them without losing herself, created new magical objects with her bare hands, killed the worst thing trapped in the prison, became a Valkyrie, killed the cursed queen, found her chosen family, helped other women with their trauma and circumstances, mastered 10.000 steps and climbed an impossible mountain, winning the Blood Rite, seduced a man with three dances to the point of receiving a marriage proposal right there, saved the life of her sister, brother-in-law and newborn nephew, sacrificing most of her powers in the process, found her mate and even created a connection with The Mother. Let that sink in. The nivel of baddassery that Nesta Archeron achieved in this book is unfathomable. I loved how a big part of this book was dedicated to the sorority among women and the way most men disrespected and disregarded them. And how, together, they found the way to grow strong and fight back. My Valkyrie babies will always have a special place in my heart. Give me a whole mammoth of a book about the new Valkyries training and fighting in sisterhood. I want to read about Nesta, Gwyn and Emerie training new female recruits and creating an unit ready to fight against any Big Bad coming their way. My Vakyrie sisters fighting together and winning the Blood Rite gave me an overdose of serotonins. Nesta thinking she had found her chosen family in Emerie and Gwyn made me cry. I’m so happy she found people who loved her unconditionally. That little something with Emerie and Mor made me scream. I want them to have their own book. I want Mor to set things right with everyone and be honest and loving with her wife (mate???). I’m imagining Emerie in the middle of the Inner Circle dynamics and I’m loving that. Gwyn felt so special to me from the start. I loved her story, her personality. And more specially, I love the idea of her being Azriel’s mate. I want her to go out there, have a life, and be happy. Imagine her giving some attitude to everyone else in the IC. These people need her, lbr. Nesta and the House were my favorite thing. it was absolutely delightful and brought a smile on my face. And knowing Nesta created the sentienness of the House out of pure loneliness and need for a friend only made me love them even more. I was so afraid something was going to happen to that house, I was ready to die for them!! I know people love to bash SJM for her sex scenes. But as someone who’s read a lot of smut, I have to admit I consider the sex scenes in this book to be some of the best out there. In terms of realness, even with all the over the top nonsense (such as ginormous penises), their desires and the way they acted felt really genuine. The fact that Nesta participated actively, and openly enjoyed sex was a breath of fresh air compared to all these protagonists who lay back and let the man do all the work. Did anyone else notice how women in romance novels don’t give head or pleasure the man in any way but allowing penetrative sex? It’s tedious, unrealistic and boring. Nesta Archeron was created to break all the contrived ideas about what a female character should be like and I’m here for all of it. Cassian is my new favorite male protagonist in the ACOTAR universe. Not only was he funny and sensible, he actively fought for equality among the Illyrians. He was not afraid to show vulnerability and emotions. He openly cried. Like Nesta said, he’s a good man. He was there for Nesta in all the different ways she needed. He fiercely protected and loved everyone in his life. I feel like apart from Nesta, he’s the character who shined the most. The fact that he secretly took dancing lessons for Nesta made me swoon for real. And I love the idea of a big mating ceremony, so everyone knows they love each other 🥺 Overall, I loved Nesta’s journey. The rest was just noise. Fuck them all. My girl climbed that mountain. —- These are not mine but represent my feelings perfectly:

“Welcome back to the Night Court, Nesta Archeron.” Nesta’s story was gorgeous and enraging and tear-jerking and sweet and I wouldn’t have had it any other way. There’s no possibility of me being able to write a review without spoilers so don’t read past my spoiler warning if you haven’t finished the book :) Also, this review is not going to be coherent at all because at this point I don’t care about grammar, I just have to get everything out before I forget my thoughts. Warning: MAJOR SPOILERS FROM THIS POINT ON. ⇢Nesta Wow. If you hate Nesta after reading this book then… I honestly don’t know what to say because that seems impossible. I think it goes without saying that I loved Nesta’s journey. (I’m going to try not to refer to it as an arc because I don’t think it was exactly a redemption arc since it was more of a healing or spiritual journey of sorts.) I loved how while Cassian was a part of that journey, so much of it was her alone, as well as her with her own “Inner Circle” comprised of Gwyn and Emerie. I had really hoped that Nesta would find her people in this book, and it certainly delivered on that front. And it was honestly such a good decision for Emerie and Gwyn to heal alongside her because it just made everything feel even more powerful. “A chosen family. Like the one Feyre had found for herself.” And the whole Valkyrie concept was fantastic! I loved how powerful they became not just mentally, but physically, “Tamlin shrank from her outstretched finger, claws digging into the earth. “Put that finger down, you witch.” Nesta smiled. “I’m glad you remember what happened to the last person I pointed at.” She lowered her arm. “We’re going now.” She stepped back to where Cassian was already waiting, arms open. He wrapped them around her waist. Nesta glanced to Eris, who gave her a shallow, approving nod, then vanished. Nesta said to Tamlin before they shot into the skies, “Tell anyone you saw us, High Lord, and I’ll rip your head from your body, too.” I think the only thing that annoyed me about Nesta’s journey was that as much as it was about her growing, I hated that (MOSTLY AT THE BEGINNING) it felt like she owed the Inner Circle something. Like she had to get better for them, to apologize to them. Maybe this is only my perspective because I understand where she was coming from when she made the bad decisions in her life, but I would have liked to see the IC understand that even though she hurt them, they hurt her too and that they had no right to treat her the way they did. She owed them nothing, but the way the book played out earlier on it really seemed like the IC just blamed her for everything which really annoyed me. But we’ll get into my feelings about the IC later. ⇢Nesta and Cassian Okay so I really didn’t know what to expect for them going into this, but I definitely didn’t think that SJM would pull a death trope situation or have them end up with anyone else because that doesn’t seem to be her style. Okay maybe I did have expectations lol. (Also, I just realized that I made it seemed like they died or something- THEY DIDN'T!!) But guesses aside, I really liked their romance. It was definitely not my favourite part of this book, but it was still pretty good and achieved what I wanted going into this novel. Nessian was never going to be my favourite couple in this series so I wasn’t disappointed that I didn’t fall head over heels for their relationship like I did for Feyre and Rhysand’s when I first read ACOMAF. “Cassian smiled at her, and the world faded away. The music was no longer the most beautiful thing in existence. He was. Nesta couldn’t stop it then. The answering smile that bloomed through her at last, stealing across her face, bright as the dawn.” I wasn't going to mention this but I sort of want to talk about it now so I will. THEY WERE MATES. I honestly didn't know if SJM would make them mates because it's supposed to be super rare, but I shouldn't have even considered that she wouldn't because she loves soulmates, doesn't she? I definitely wouldn't have cared if they weren't mates so I also didn't care all that much that they were, so all I want to add to that is that I'm glad that the mating bond didn't play a huge part in their story. I'm glad that while it did play a role, it wasn't as focused upon as in ACOMAF and ACOWAR. ⇢Other Characters This book taught me so much about perspective. Because when you read ACOMAF AND ACOWAR, it’s easy to fall in love with the inner circle, but you forget how skewed your perspective is, reading from the pov of Feyre, who obviously loves Rhysand and all of the others. Now I’m not saying this book made me hate the Inner Circle or anything, but oh my god did my perception of them change. (Mostly Rhysand and Amren but also Feyre and Elain.) Reading from Nesta’s perspective was a breath of fresh air and it was so interesting to see the IC from the point of view of someone who doesn’t hero-worship them like everyone else. Okay, that was all my really nice way of saying that I HATED RHYSAND in this book. OH MY GOD, I WANTED TO MURDER HIM FOR THE FIRST 75% OF IT. By the end of the book that hate had mostly lessened but holy he was unbearable and just way too rage-y for me. Like I get that it was because of the baby (which I will talk about soon) but CALM DOWN SIR. Edit: Now that it's been a while since I read the book, I definitely don't feel the same rage towards Rhys that I did. I still don't understand some of his actions but I no longer want to murder him lol “You are to treat Gwyn with kindness and respect.” ^ You don’t even understand how angry I was at Rhys after he said that.. WHY WERE HIS OPINIONS OF NESTA SO LOW??? But all those rants aside, Mor was gone for a big portion of this book so I hope we see her more in the next one. We also didn’t see that much of Elain (which was surprising considering her relationship with Nesta), but omg the scenes that she did have were ICONIC. “But Elain said, “I went into the Cauldron, too, you know. And it captured me. And yet somehow all you think of is what my trauma did to you.” As promised, onto the Feysand baby, as people have been calling him. I really didn’t want the Feysand baby to be a thing in this book, because you know, LIVE FEYRE!! YOU HAVE HUNDREDS OF YEARS!! WHY DO YOU WANT AN ANNOYING CHILD SO EARLY? But yeah it happened so whatever. ALSO WHY THE NAME NYX. LORD SAVE ME. I MEAN IT’S NOT TERRIBLE BUT IDK it just bothers me. Okay, rant over. Honestly, I liked how the baby played into the storyline even if what happened with Nesta’s powers is one of my least favourite tropes, so I won’t complain too much. I guess I was just disappointed that after all Feyre went through she didn’t end up savouring her freedom for that long. Not that the baby is going to rid her of her freedom but I think you get my point. ⇢The Plot Okay I literally just realized that I totally forgot to talk about the plot oops. So I personally think that ACOTAR is a very character-focused series, so I was quite surprised by how much happened in this book. I mean there were so many mini-plots and conflicts and it was way more than I was expecting. I actually really liked that, but it was definitely a bit harder to follow than the other books so I get why other people weren't a fan. I loved the rite part and the conflict with the Kelpie, and I'm super interested to see what conflicts continue on to the next book! Warning: Spoilers for the Bonus Scenes. ⇢Azriel Bonus Scene OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD PLEASE TELL ME THE NEXT BOOK IS NOT GOING TO BE A LOVE TRIANGLE OH MY GOD I ALREADY KNOW IT IS UGHGUGHUGH. *Cries tears of anger* BUT AT LEAST THERE’S A POSSIBILITY FOR ELRIEL? AND NOW AZRIEL x GWYN?? WHAT IS HAPPENING??? Okay now that I got that out, I honestly don’t see Azriel and Gwyn becoming a couple. Not just because I like Elriel because honestly I could see myself liking either of them with someone else, but simply because Gwyn doesn’t seem like someone that SJM would have as a main character, and because I feel like the next MC will be Elain so that all of the sisters get their story written before anyone else like Mor or Vassa. Please let me know what you think if you have an opinion on this, though. Also please note that I am an Elain stan ALL THE WAY. I hate all the Elain slander I've been seeing recently. I really need to reread this bonus scene because the one I read was incomplete and messed up so I didn’t grasp everything fully, so hopefully, I can read it properly soon because IT WAS SO GOOD. ⇢Feysand Bonus Scene Okay, I definitely didn’t like this bonus scene as much as Azriel’s, but it was still nice to see them happy I guess. And I like the name Nyx a tiny bit more now. I’m still angry at Rhys so I can’t appreciate his perspective rn lol . ⋅ ˚̣- : ✧ : – ⭒ ❦ ⭒ – : ✧ : -˚̣⋅ . My A Court of Silver Flames Playlist: this is me trying by Taylor Swift Angels Like You by Miley Cyrus God is a woman by Ariana Grande my nesta archeron playlist MY BLOG ❦ MY SPOTIFY ❦

So Nesta had become a wolf. Armed herself with invisible teeth and claws, and learned to strike faster, deeper, more lethally. Had relished it. But when the time came to put away the wolf, she'd found it had devoured her too. ✅ Cassian ❤️ ✅ Smutt / Sexual tension ✅ Female power/friendship ✅🆗 Action ✅🆗 Plot (intense ending!) 🆗 Nesta 🆗 Rhys being OTT ❌ Not enough Lucien 😠 3.5 stars First, I would recommend reading this deleted Nesta-Cassian scene from ACOMAF before reading ACOSF because some events that are mentioned in ACOSF happened or were explained in this short chapter. Nesta was definitely not one of my favorite characters from the ACOTAR trilogy. I saw the potential for character development, and I knew she was complex, and that her behavior was more than just her being a bitch, but I admit that a part of me was dreading reading this book. I was so excited to see more of the Court of Dreams, but I was afraid to be disappointed because this book revolves around Nesta and her journey to forgiveness and happiness. I don't quite love her, but she grows a lot in this book. "The first time I saw that look on your face, you were still human. Still human, and I nearly went to my knees before you." "Your power is a song, and one I've waited a very, very long time to hear, Nesta." I also need to say that I love Cassian even more than I did before. He is amazing, but I also must say that there was something missing from his POVs. It's as if the author focused on giving him more depth and making him more dimensional, but while doing it she lost the funny, sarcastic, and flirty behavior that I loved so much in the previous books. Besides that, he is great though, and his relationship with Nesta is well developed, except maybe the "just sex" phase that lasted too long, I would have liked to see more depth in their moments together! I admire Cass's patience. He knows Nesta as a cold-hearted yet broken woman, and she's hurt him time and times again, and yet he keeps coming back for her and trying to be what she needs. They make a good combination of a sexy-yet-chaotic relationship. There is not as much action in this book as in the previous ones (except for the last 200 pages that were quite intense, I am still not over the adrenaline rush that came with these last chapters), it is more about Nesta's healing and fighting her inner demons. I would have preferred a story centered around Lucian rather than Nesta, but at the same time, I think her story is something that we needed, and it will definitely help the plot progress further in the next books (hopefully because it’s a long book that felt a little useless). Talking about the plot, I think that's the main reason I did not enjoy this book as much as I thought I would. Even though I loved to get to know Nesta, and I adored every Cassian moment, I feel that the plot was really relayed to the background. There were some meetings with Eris and some political moves, but not much happened regarding the threat of war and the quest for allies until the end. I would have liked for the political part of the story to take more room in the book. I was expecting this book to be the beginning of a new trilogy, but it is more of a standalone romance set 14 months after the end of ACOWAR. There are clues that indicate that a bigger plot is coming with the introduction of a new powerful player and new powerful relics, but that's about it. Honestly, there are no major twists in this story, which is surprising. It is a good sexy and funny romance (with steamy hot scenes), and a great story of redemption, acceptance, empowerment, and forgiveness. It's just that in comparison with her other books, this one is quite basic and was missing some intricate details and plot twists that we are used to with SJM (I know that this book is supposed to be more about the characters, but I was still hoping for a better and more complex plot). I need to finish by saying that there is not nearly enough of Lucien in this book. I MISS HIM! 1. A Court of Thorns and Roses ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 2. A Court of Mist and Fury ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 3. A Court of Wings and Ruin ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 3.5 A Court of Frost and Starlight ⭐⭐⭐ Follow me on Instagram 🙂

may i just say. i LOVE a book about a meanie. nesta's anger and resentment for the world was so relatable. i find nesta far more interesting than i find cassian, so her story really resonated. sometimes i felt this book took cheap stabs at talking about mental health and healing, like using the word "trauma" a lot and having meditation be a big focus for nesta. i wish those bits had been folded in more naturally, but i did really like the discussion around self-worth and vulnerability. although this book was 750 pages, it didn't seem like it. most of the book was the same cycle of scenes, but it didn't feel repetitive. i enjoyed the new characters (and gwyn and nesta had so much chemistry i'm furious they never even kissed) and appreciated appearances of the original cast. one thing that brought this book down for me is the shift from this series being in first person to third person. i just prefer first person so maybe it's subjective, but the tone changed so much with a third person narration style, almost like sarah was letting the reader into the story instead of nesta herself, which i don't like. it's the difference between a book saying "i was worthless," which is the character admitting something about themselves directly to the reader, and a book saying "she was worthless," which could either be the character thinking, or the author TELLING you that. i much prefer the unambiguousness of the first. the next thing i didn't love about this book was that the ending felt rushed and melodramatic. i know there's gonna be another sequel after this, but it feels like nesta's problems solved themself fast and then that was that, but i wanted to continue seeing nesta's fire and have a better idea of where all the characters are at and not just the main sisters. but this book did tick a lot of boxes for me. miserably raunchy sex? yes. (even though i have LOTs to say about it). actually no, fuck it: full paragraph about the sex. first of all, thoughts and prayers to mor for losing her virginity to cassian's horse schlong. second of all, i can't believe their first sex scene is (view spoiler)! also the fact that sarah j maas can say cock but would rather write something ridiculous like "the hidden pearl of bundled nerves nestled gently between the apex of her thighs" instead of clit was exhausting. sometimes i was overly aware of bad editing while reading these scenes because the language used could be so repetitive that it took me out of the scene. i just wish there was more variety, beause you could tell by the end of the book that sarah was like "aight then they had sex again." because she'd already written the same type of scene over and over. ok that's all about the sex. more things i liked: this book really said Smart House (1999) rights because i LOVED nesta and the house. i would die for gwyn. loved seeing azriel from cassian's point of view (although it was jarring to hear him say "suck your cock"). uhhh idk what else. it was gripping. nesta being a bitch made me happy. wish there was more lucien. since there was no real setup for the next book since this one ended so fast, i'll bet there's gonna be another novella before the next sequel. idk i have so many random thoughts about this that i'm not sure my review made sense. i loved nesta but couldn't not see cassian as a greasy himbo. sarah j maas's raging heteronormativity strikes again at the end with (view spoiler) but the more i think about this, the more loose ends i'm realizing exist. hmmm.

I was praying that this book would do Nesta and her healing justice and I feel as though it did. I loved the introduction of the new characters and even the 700 pages left me wanting more. My emotional attachment to these characters is probably the reason for my love for this book but the complete truth is that I really really enjoyed it.

"See, that right there is the problem. You and the whole rest of the world seem to think I exist just to find someone like him." Bryce Quinlan lives in a world full of fae, werewolves, angels and demons...and in a world full of high-rise apartments, internet and cell phones. "The forecast didn't call for rain." She scowled at the sky. "Someone must be throwing a tantrum." Crescent City is the one place where all forms of magic (and technology) intersect into one, unforgettable town. But there's a dark side to the city. "...the cities were little more than pens for the Vanir to trap and feed on the humans - and their humans." And that dark secret swallowed Bryce's best friend alive. Now, two years later, Bryce is (finally) back on her feet...just in time to see the signs appearing. Signs that indicate that whatever caused the first incident is itching to come back - bigger and more deadly than ever before. "Some bad shit's going down, isn't it." WHEW. This one was wild...and hella confusing. For the first 300 pages or so, I felt really lost and I honestly almost put the book down. There was SO MUCH info-dump world-building that my head was spinning and I was NOT having a good time at all. Just imagine chapters with sentences like this thrown all around: "Pollux atonius, Sandriel's triarii commander - the Malleus, they called him." And so, I turned to the reviews. Everyone and their mother was praising this book to high-heaven, with the stipulation that you really need to get past the first third of it. So I...gave up...on trying to remember all of the minor details (sorry butterfly-shifter, you don't get to stay in my brain) and just went with the flow. AND LET ME TELL YOU - WOW. Seriously wow. The remaining five hundred pages knocked my socks clear across the country. It was insanely good. But, keep in mind that the first third did make me want to hurl it against the wall. BUT, I am totally pre-ordering my copy of the sequel literally over a year in advance cause gosh-dang I can't live without the next one. YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads

3.75 ⭐️ I’m definitely interested to continue the series & see what happens!

The last 200 pages of this book..... I AM DECEASED. Say what you want about SJM, but there's a reason why her books (fucking FIFTEEN+ books) are still super popular and profiting. My head needs to pull my brain together after all that. Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |

4.25 stars because it took me over a month and 400 pages to really get sucked in. But once I was in it, I was IN. IT. I loved the mystery at the center of this book. It had me guessing until the very end, and all the loose ends were tied up nicely. Bryce is great. Hunt also exceeded my expectations as an MMC. Love the guy. And I loved how much of this book was about friendship. I have no idea where book two is going, but the epilogue has me intrigued.

I've mulled this over for a few days and decided to settle on a 4 star rating. This book is nowhere near perfect, but it sure was A LOT of fun and I'll definitely carry on with the series when the next book comes out IN A YEAR AND A HALF. I forgot how long the wait can be in between fantasy books and I HATE IT HERE Also: (view spoiler)

↠ 4.5 stars Just popping by to say, yes, I actually enjoyed a book written by Sarah J. Maas, in the year 2021. House of Earth and Blood is the first in a new adult fantasy series I would pitch as unsolved crime meets a fantasy world and the two unlikely allies teamed up to solve it. Half-fae Bryce Quinlan's life was torn apart the day she discovered the horrific murders of her friend Danika and her pack after returning home one evening. Two years later and the case has run cold, but Bryce still wants the death of her friends to be avenged. With the addition of new information, she is called to work alongside Hunt Athalar, an enslaved angel whose sentence will be reduced so long as he works by her side. Together they will unearth what really happened all those years ago, something that threatens the very fabric of their world and everything they hold dear. This is by far Sarah J. Maas's best work to date. As someone who struggled a lot with her other books, I recognize the incredible transition from her last series to this one. The fact that this is placed into the adult fantasy genre certainly gave her more room to write what she wants without holding back this time around. Crescent City is definitely a book that throws a lot of information up front at its readers, but gives a high payoff to those who take the time to immerse themselves in the world and its incredible cast of characters. I was immediately impressed by the amount of time taken to set the stage for the events that would later come to dominate the plot development. There clearly was a lot of effort put into the placement of these elements of note, to the point where so many went right over my head until they were later called upon in the final chapters. Like a set of dominos that were carefully arranged, only to come elegantly crashing down in the finale. As for the romance, it went above and beyond what I was initially expecting. If there's anything I love, it's reluctant allies who team up to solve a mystery, only to then fall horribly in love with one another. This gave me that, and then some. Bryce and Hunt transition from begrudgingly working together, towards finding healing and closure with the help of each other, and there is something really powerful in that. These two really were one of my favorite parts about this book, which is surprising. After that explosive ending I am really looking forward to settling back into this series come November. More Ruhn content please. Trigger warnings: violence, blood, murder, gore, alcohol consumption, death of a loved one, depression, drugs, discrimination, misogyny, parental neglect, PTSD, sexism, slavery, slut-shaming, substance abuse, attempted suicide

** spoiler alert ** Part One: The Hollow & Part Two: The Trench If you’re a fan of not knowing what the fuck is going on, you’re in for a real treat. We meet Bryce, who is half-fae and whose body is described in great detail, and Danika, who is Nehemia if she was a werewolf. Then there’s Bryce’s secret half-brother, Ruhn, who has one side of his head shaved so you know he’s, like, totally badass. Did I mention Hunt? He’s a cop who is also a fallen angel, complete with bird wings. He’s grumpy because he has to murder twenty-two hundred people before his boss will let him get laser tattoo removal. Bryce and Ruhn’s bio dad is the Autumn King, who is definitely not Beron. Danika dies via honey badger and Bryce honors her by wearing word art jackets. In this universe, hell is spelled Hel; isn’t that the cleverest thing you’ve ever heard? SJM thinks so and proceeds to use the word seventy-five thousand times. A busted horn has gone missing, which is upsetting a lot of people. The most charming cast member is a fire sprite, a tiny flame that watches trash TV — Calcifer with boobs, if you will. Speaking of boobs, Bryce’s are huge, in case you missed it. Part Three: The Canyon & Part Four: The Ravine Hunt’s lips curve upward every three pages and his wings rustle constantly. So many breaths are blown out that it’s a wonder no one has passed out from lack of oxygen. Danika’s mom, while still a massive bitch, is not quite the unthinkable bitch Bryce thought and is more of a regular bitch. Bryce summons a hot cat demon using salt. There is much blinking, which is true to real life but usually doesn’t require this much mentioning. A medwitch who presumably trained at the Torre Cesme develops Narcan using demon venom from Bryce’s sleek, shapely thigh. We discover that Danika was exceptionally bad at passwords, as hers was tattooed on her person. Hunt, ever the trooper, doesn’t let a little thing like his wings being severed off prevent him from fingering Bryce on the couch. Despite Hunt’s betrayal, Bryce is still horny for him and is also just a horn. Micah treats us to a Bond-villain speech and then gets Dysoned. The Summit turns into the Worst Meeting Ever and Bryce makes the Drop. Do Hunt and Bryce finally bang? Nope.

The only way I could get through this extremely LONG book was by reading with an audiobook. The beginning was slow. The end was intense. Expected WAY more sexy times (so don’t go into it thinking there will be a lot of it). But I was quite satisfied by the end - looking forward to more!

One painful lesson Sarah J. Maas has taught me was to guard my heart — to expect the unexpected. It’s a tired cliché phrase, I know, but Throne of Glass taught me to brace for betrayals, for truths that cut like broken glass, for secrets that rearrange everything I thought I knew. I opened this book feeling adrift. Characters, places, names spilled across the pages until I felt lost in a glittering, chaotic map. The pacing sagged at times for an 800‑page world; SJM’s ambition sometimes felt like a tide pulling me under. And yet Bryce surprised me. Her reckless, party‑lit exterior hides a fierce, trembling loyalty. She loves with a ferocity that bruises and heals. Fragile and unflinching, she felt achingly real — a beautiful contradiction I didn’t know I needed. The final 20% of this book redeemed everything. It surged with excitement and revenge, with shocks that landed like thunder and friendships that held like shelter in a storm. SJM tore at my chest with Lehabah, Danika, Conner, and Fury — the kind of heartbreak that was also a benediction. The loyalty and friendships are both the best and worst parts of her books — she always breaks and touches my heart in equal measure. And then the epilogue — a small, bright wound of possibility. Finally, I want more of Hunt and Ruhn. The epilogue intrigued me, and I’m eager to read more about the princes of Hel.

Every year I wait patiently for the new C. J. Box books to come out. When they do, I put them on the wait list at the library so I can read them as soon as possible. I have been a fan of Box for several years now and have read everything he has written including all of the exploits of the Wyoming Game Warden Joe Pickett as well as the Cassie Dewell novels. For the most part, I have enjoyed all of these although recently some of his novels have contained a little too much conservative politics. Battle Mountain was a real page-turner but it did include a rather heavy dose of political views. This is the 25th novel in the Joe Pickett series. It picks up where the last novel, Three-Inch Teeth left off. Nate Romanowski, the ex-special operative and falconer is on the trail of Axel Soledad who ruthlessly killed Nate's wife. At the same time, Joe is recruited by the Wyoming Governor asking for help in finding his son-in-law who seems to have disappeared in the Wyoming Sierra Madre near Battle Mountain where he was working with an elk outfitter. While Nate and fellow falconer Geronimo Jones are on the trail of Soledad, Joe is also in the same area looking for the Governor's son-in-law who it turns out had already met up with the very violent Soledad and his group of recruits who are planning an attack on a group of high ranking military and political personages called the Centurians who are gathering at a remote ranch in Wyoming near Battle Mountain. So will Nate and Geronimo be able to stop Soledad and get justice? I enjoyed this one overall. It was full of action but was mostly a story about Nate with Joe playing somewhat of a secondary role. As I said, it did have some definite political points of view including a very negative view of the military commanders and the FBI. I would recommend this one but I do wish that Box would stay within the bounds of his earlier novels and leave the politics out of his stories.

CJ Box...always a good read!!! Box is a damn good writer!!!

In C.J. Box’s 25th and newest Joe Pickett novel - “Battle Mountain” – we pick up the pieces of destruction that took place in last year’s book “Three-Inch Teeth”. Dallas Cates and Axel Soledad wreaked havoc and death on Joe and Nate Romanowski’s families, leaving them in emotional tatters. When “Battle Mountain” begins, Nate is off the grid again and hunting for Soledad, seeking revenge for the man who caused him so much personal pain and loss. Unfortunately, Nate is also realizing his time living on the grid in a civilized manner has made soft and vulnerable, and he needs to find and renew his killer instinct in order to accomplish what needs to be done. This time, Nate realizes that he will need help, and he knows exactly where to go for it… As for Alex Soledad, he’s not sitting around waiting for Nate to attack. He’s busy on a mission of his own, gathering weapons, ex-military soldiers and anti-government protestors in preparation for an attack on the country’s most powerful military and defense contractors. If he succeeds, Soledad can strike at the heart of America’s highest military leadership. At the same time the game warden in the county of Twelve Sleep, Wyoming, has been called to meet with Governor Rulon who has a personal favor to ask. Rulon’s got his nephew, Mark Eisele, a job working with an elk-hunting guide near Battle Mountain. The problem is that his nephew and the guide have gone missing. Rulon needs Joe to go find them before word gets out to the press and public that the Governor’s nephew can’t be found. More importantly, before Rulon’s wife and his daughter, Mark’s wife, find out and hold Rulon responsible. Joe heads out to Warm Springs, where he and the local game warden, Susan Kany, begin their search for the two missing men. Joe is trying to keep things under the radar, but things are not going well for him. Local law enforcement is not believing anything he says, and Susan knows that he’s withholding key information. What neither Joe nor Nate realize is that both of their paths are headed for an ultimate showdown with their biggest enemy, who will be executing his biggest act of retribution of his own, at Battle Mountain… I have now finished all 25 of C.J. Box’s Joe Pickett novels (and related short story collection). Most of them binged over the last six months. And what a rewarding this reading experience has been for me. Many hours of fun, thrilling, and emotional connections have been made with Joe, Marybeth, their daughters, Nate, their friends, associates, and supporting characters. On a personal note, Governor Rulon has been one of my absolute favorites. His fast thinking, always several steps ahead of everyone else, and charismatic no-nonsense attitude in dealing with others makes him so interesting to me. And he serves an important role in both putting Joe in dangerous situations yet also be his biggest political protector. “Battle Mountain” also introduced two new characters that I hope we get to see again in future books. There’s FBI Special Agent Rick Orr, who’s been tracking Nate’s activities for a while. Usually, FBI agents have played the role of bad guys or spoilers in the series, but Orr seems to be different, a more rebel-type-of government agent that bucks the system and could play a potential role in Nate’s future activities. Who knows. We’ll see. The other one is lawyer, Cheryl Tuck-Smith, a seven-foot-tall lawyer. We don’t learn a lot about her, but her interactions with Nate was interesting. She could also play a role with Nate and Geronimo in future storylines. Let me add a few comments about why I enjoyed this book and series, and then one constructive piece of feedback about how I felt on the ending of this one. C.J., Box has done so many wonderful things with these Joe Pickett novels. The plotting, characters, and settings mix together in a masterful recipe in the mystery/thriller genre using a modern western style that delivers a winning formula. In my opinion, his plotting skills are excellent, especially as weaves storylines over multiple books, setting things up in one that will come back and pay off in later books. It made me glad that he had already published over 20 books when I started this series, so I could just pick up the next one after finishing the last one. Unfortunately, now that I’m all caught up, I have to wait a year between each book, and that really sucks. Oh well. For me, C.J. Box’s strongest skill is his characters, built on the foundation of Joe Picket, his wife, Marybeth, and three daughters, and Joe’s brother from another mother, Nate, who serves as Joe’s physical protector much like Hawk does for Spenser in Robert B. Parker’s classic mystery series. Nate takes care of the things that Joe’s personal code won’t allow him to do. Nate and Hawk are two of my all-time favorite literary characters. I also want to add that C.J. Box writes some of the strongest female characters. Marybeth is smart, analytical, mentally and emotionally strong. So are her daughters – Sheridan, April, and Lucy – each in their own ways. I am strongly endeared to Sheridan, watching her grow into an independent, headstrong woman and falconer. I love April’s robust spirit after all that she’s been through and suffered from. I would love to see her private investigator role be explored in future books. I also look forward to seeing Lucy’s future, which should be bright and full of potential success. These characters, their relationships, strengths, weaknesses, challenges, conflicts, and growth, are what drives this series. Their love of family and each other, is the heart of this series. It is C.J. Box’s secret sauce that compels his readers to keep coming back over and over again to find out what happens next to them. Joe’s family is our family. Nate’s battles are our battles. Joe and Marybeth’s daughters are our daughters. What happens to them, happens to us. It is personal. And that is the magic C.J. Box delivers to us. It’s why I keep coming back. My only complaint about “Battle Mountain” is that I feel like C.J. Box was short when it came to the book’s ending. ** WARNING – BRIEF SPOILERS FOLLOW ** ** WARNING – BRIEF SPOILERS FOLLOW ** There were several storylines that were missing their payoff moments. For example, I loved Sheridan’s moment of strength with Sherriff Bishop, but the outcome of their interaction is not shown, takes place offscreen, and is only referenced to briefly. I felt robbed of not experiencing that moment directly, as well feeling like that part of the storyline was set-up and then just dropped at its most crucial moment. Also, Nate’s reunion with his daughter is also offscreen and only referenced to briefly. I also felt robbed of not experiencing that moment directly. Missing the emotional payoffs left me feeling letdown and disappointed. Maybe that’s just me, but after such emotional set-up it feels wrong not to get the payoff side of it. ** END OF BRIEF SPOILERS ** ** END OF BRIEF SPOILERS ** Overall, this was a strong 5-star rating until the end. Per my comments on missing out on two of the emotional payoffs, I am knocking it down half-a-star to 4.5-stars. I realize that this rather immaterial and may come across as petty to some readers. If so, I understand. I am still loving “Battle Mountain” and the Joe Pickett series, which has easily become one of my favorites. Now, I just have to sit back and wait a year until the next one comes out… That feels like a long time from now…

Battle Mountain is the 25th book in the Joe Pickett Series from CJ Box. "Nate Romanowski drops off the grid after Dallas Cates kills his wife. Nate knows that Alex Soledad is responsible, so he starts searching for him, wanting his revenge. The governor asks Joe Pickett to help find his son-in-law who disappeared along with the guide he was working with. Joe and the local game warden trace him to the area of Warm Springs. They have no idea their paths will converge at Battle Mountain." This series has always included falconry and it's even more prevalent in this book. There are even a couple of "Woo-woo" moments with Nate and one of his birds. Soledad is one of those charismatic bad guys that seems to be able to convince people to do bad things. (There's also a funny oat milk moment.) Box has shown he is not afraid to kill any character and there are tense moments with some family. The final scenes on Battle Mountain are pretty wild. I am not an outdoorsy person but I still enjoy these stories. Joe and Nate are great characters and this is another great story from Box.

Wyoming Game Warden Joe Pickett is back in book #25 of this long-running series. Getting revenge on ultra-evil bad guy Axel Soledad is the hub of this mystery but our three musketeers (Nate Romanowski, Geronimo Jones and Pickett) come to it from different angles. Little do they know that Axel is planning a mission that could 'alter the trajectory of this nation itself.' Very exciting action from start to finish if you are looking for some escapism. I didn't really care for the political views expressed by certain characters in this story. It's kind of an 'us versus them' attitude I think we could do without. Many thanks to the author and publisher for providing me with an arc of this new mystery via NetGalley. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

I began reading CJ Box's Joe Pickett novels when he first started many years ago, the golden era for the series. For those who are more recently introduced to this series, this book is another high adrenaline, high octane thriller and you will not be disappointed in that regard. I love the game warden slant that Joe Pickett gives and he is far and away my favorite character. I was happy to see Governor Rulon back, as I love the back and forth between him and Joe. Nate Romanowski I have mixed feelings about. I far prefer the books that center on Joe, and this one had way too little of Joe. The last couple of books have become increasingly violent, and when at the big shootout at the end, each weapon was lovingly described in detail I had to roll my eyes. A bit too Tom Clancyesque for me. I'm sure there is an audience for this, but I'm sad to see one of my favorite series going this way. Another thing, I don't mind hearing viewpoints different than my own, but this book felt like I was being hit over the head with the characters justification of why it was ok to kill people in the government. Very heavy handed. Box used to be more subtle. I don't read to be lectured. Nevertheless, I mostly enjoyed the read and sped through it. I keep hoping we'll deviate a bit more to how the books used to be. If you haven't read the series I wouldn't start here. I'd go back to the beginning. The love I developed for the characters back then is what keeps me reading today. I can't dispute that Box writes a very readable, unputdownable series.

This is the 25th book in the series and I enjoyed it as much as the others. In this book, Nate and Geronimo go after Soledad for the murder of Nate's wife and the burning of Geronimo's house. As they discover more about his where abouts, it becomes clear that he is planning to massacre a large part of the government as they gather for a retreat. At the same time, Joe is searching for the governor's son in law, who was on a hunting trip. They all end up at a place called Battle Mountain, and all hell breaks loose.

I've only read a handful of C.J. Box's Joe Pickett novels, but this new one is the best so far. Fast paced, engaging, good characterization. In fact, while Joe Pickett has an important role to play in the proceedings, this novel features more of falconers Nate Romanowski and Geronimo Jones. It seems the mountainous country of Wyoming and Colorado is a magnet for in-state terrorist and militant groups. This one goes a little deeper, as there is a connection between the lead conspirator Alex Soledad, Nate Romanowksi, and Joe Pickett - - with a score to settle. Enjoy this for what it is. Adventurous escapism. Just forget about the varying point-of-view and politics of some of the characters and go along for the ride.

Technically not a stand alone…The reader is reminded of the family death and destruction from ONE man, Axel! The governor, Rulon, has asked Joe to help find his son-in-law, guns were bought, wealthy men at a mountain retreat, friendships bloom again, a little girl without her mom, The MOUNTAIN and a couple of twists. Enjoy

** spoiler alert ** I enjoyed parts of Battle Mountain very much, but I found other parts to be muddled. Once again, there was massive confusion over “Antifa”. They were portrayed as university hippies, who didn't know history but were anarchists. Towards the end of the book, the term antifa was no longer used, but they became known as activists and hippies. Were they antifascists or anarchists? Let me tell you about my mother-in-law who was an anti-fascist in Italy. She was involved with the resistance. Her village had actually saved and hid US soldiers. When the Nazis came through, they found proof that American military had been there. They shot and killed men and boys in the village, including my mother-in-law's first husband. She had been shot in the chest over something that was found in her house, but survived. She was clearly against Mussolini, who was a fascist. Now there is an example of antifa. This brings me to the veterans who were all victims in this story, but were not antifa. Honestly I don't know what they were. Nate bemoaned the equipment that was left in Afghanistan, but there is no mention of the fact the Afghan National Security Force (ANSF) and the Afghan Army were supposed to take over for the US and were left what they needed to fight the Taliban. They had very bad leadership so nothing went as planned. Shouldn't Nate have known all of this? There's so much the author could write about groupwise: there are Groypers, US Nazis and white supremacists galore, KKK, fake Christians, political groups that absolutely hate women, politicians who have a deep loathing towards anybody who doesn't suffer from sunburns, billionaires who pay no taxes while wanting to pollute the Earth. I can't picture Nate or Geronimo Jones, wanting to hang out with anybody in these particular segments of society. Long story short, can we please, please, stop with the antifa garbage? Write what you know, CJ Box, we love it when you do.

Would've been a 5-star read if not for Box's flimsy politics.

Another entertaining CJ Box read. The usual cast of characters but with new challenges. A window into the world of the sparsely populated West, Wyoming in particular. Keep your eye on Sheridan in future books (just a hunch).

Joe Pickett receives a call from Governor Rulon for a special assignment which always to tumult. Meanwhile, Nate Romanowski has been off the grid since Alex Soledad killed his wife and Joe and MaryBeth are raising his little girl, Kestrel. Now their paths are going to unexpectedly converge at Battle Mountain. #25 in the series and it is another good one!

I haven’t read any of the previous Joe Pickett books. I think it would be a good idea to read them in order only because you get insight to some of the characters. It was a slow build with a predictable ending. It was a little violent at times too.

Joe Pickett 25 Battle Mountain by C.J. Box 4.25 Stars challenging dark emotional hopeful reflective sad tense Medium-paced Plot or Character Driven: Character Strong character development: Yes Loveable characters: Yes Diverse cast of characters: Yes Flaws of characters are a main focus: Yes The good thing is...that I'm caught up. The bad thing is, is that I'm caught up. Oh, well. Now the wait starts...for the next novel. I'm glad this story proceeded to conclude...what was left, from the previous novel. Good to have Nate and Geronimo in this story. They are an unlikely duo. Both of them are falconers, but Nate is a "bit" more. IYKYK Governor Rulon is back in office, which brings complications to Joe's life, but also...someone he knows (for the most part) has his back. Now that Rulon has the power to manipulated Joe's life, again...the entire story revolves around the following task that Rulan gives him. A secret mission. Ugh. Poor Joe. Loved the introduction of Game Warden Susan Kany, who know Sheridan and went to school with her. I'm not sure we're ever going to get Sheridan...in this role, but it is good to see the influence on the younger Game Wardens...that Joe has inspired. Now...will he live up to her expectations. Hmm? Also, the true colours of Sherif Bishop is revealed. This is a things that's been drawing closer...and needs to be finished IMO. Axel (one of the great villains of this world) is a central figure in this story, too. How he's able to "rally the troups" to his cause...is scary, in many ways. This story has a satisfying ending...so I'm excited to read the next novel...when it has been published.

Fairly typical of Thor. Fast paced, bringing in all of the alphabet agencies, and tying everything up neatly at the end, except for that pesky lingering question that wasn’t even addressed - who was Claire Bennet’s handler? I suppose we’re waiting for book 25 next year to get to that piece.

Another fine thriller from Brad Thor. For much of the book, there are two parallel storylines as Scot and two FBI agents try to each solve terrorist attacks on the Norwegian embassy and on a multi-country summit. Scot is also trying to protect the life over a former government official. The bad actors seem to be two groups - a gang of white supremacists and a group of highly trained former federal agents. Are both groups being coordinated by the same people? Both groups eventually come together and determine that current and former government officials from the FBI, Secret Service and CIA are all involved. The only thing I didn't like as well as they way the author makes his current federal government somewhat mirror our actual federal government. He then seems to use this book as a way to poke at potential (rather than actual) weaknesses in our actual government. I don't really appreciate authors deciding that they can tell us how our government should be running. Their "expertise" isn't any better than anyone else's. Stick to foreign adversaries and radical internal groups.

This is a rather typical Thor book in the Scot Harvath series — well written, extensively researched, and presented in a way that is, at times, downright difficult to put down. If you've read Thor before, you'll receive from this book exactly what you expect going in. If you're a fan of Thor and the series, definitely give it a go. If you're a fan of the genre, you can do worse than picking this book up for your daily read.

Brad Thor is a fantastic writer that consistently delivers great books year after year. Edge of Honor was so so good that I nearly finished it on a long travel day. Already looking forward to next year's thriller...

The Enemies Within A wild story that, given current events, is terrifyingly believable. The characters are well drawn and the technology realistic. I had a hard time putting the book down at bedtime.

Over the top action and entertaining as always. Fun thriller from Brad Thor

Good story! But... As usual, another killer Scott Harvath story! But...it felt rushed. No spoilers, but there just wasn't the same plot details I've come to expect from Mr. Thor's books. The last half of the book felt rushed, no deeper dive into the why of the story, or deep details of the bad guys. Don't get me wrong, I thoroughly enjoyed, just felt a bit cheated is all. Can't wait for the next one!

## The Book in 1 Sentence Harvath and his new bride take on a cabal of insiders threatening the world order. ## Brief Review This is an extremely short book, but does trickle in some of the more recent concerns with [a threat from within](https://www.durbin.senate.gov/newsroo...), rather than an external threat. The action is well paced and very well described with the right elements to keep you involved. A weird place to start the series, but if it is going to quasi-reset, then it works. ## Why I Read this book New book in one of my favorite series ## In-Depth Review (Favorite Quotes) Lets start with the "bad." This book was short compared to the other more recent ones, like 60 pages shorter than average-ish. You kind of feel it in the fact that you feel it is missing something. Not anything of value per se, buy just something. The story is still full and make sense, but maybe it is the ending and just a good bit taking place "off-the-page." Even with that, the pacing is good. The story itself is really interesting. To be honest, I feel it is one of the more plausible stories he has had. Between ego, corruption, fear, and broken promises, there is a lot here that speaks to what is going on now. With that, I also see an underlying issue with government and that is the institutional bureaucracy within the US Government and all the issues that come with that. Especially when people feel cheated out supporting this party or the other. Brad Thor had a series, I think it was only one stand-alone book with a couple ties ins to others, called "The Athena Project." The description of the female operative is really well done and I think could be a place for him to revamp and revitalize that series. It has a place in the world he has built kind of like [[Lioness]]. ## [Rating](https://epicscreentime.com/rating-rules) This might be one of my favorite in the series. It was short, but well paced. The action is on point and doesn't make you feel that Harvath is Superman. There is a humility and honesty in this book that I don't think I realized was missing in the last ones. I also just really like Harvath and Sylvie's story together and how they work with and for each other. This is an 8. I really hope the series continues like this. Want to get a hold of me? Email |

It is hard to believe that EDGE OF HONOR marks the 24th novel from author Brad Thor to feature American hero and patriot, Scot Harvath. For me, it feels like just yesterday that I was blown away by the first novel, THE LIONS OF LUCERNE --- still my favorite Thor title. Scot Harvath is a newlywed and he and his wife Solvi have just finished six months of globe-trotting purely for pleasure before returning to life in high-stakes spy service for their respective countries of the U.S.A. and Norway. During their lengthy honeymoon there is a new political regime running the U.S. in the form of a new President who has promised to clean up the political landscape and thus far has only heightened the level of criticism from his opponents and those that did not vote for him. Couple that with a series of deadly explosions outside the Vice-Presidential residence that Scot and Solvi were in the middle of, and you quickly realize that something big is in play. One of the decisions made by the new regime was to cut the secret service protection provided to members of the prior Presidential team. This has some of them on the run to the point where some dangerous and well-armed trained killers are hunting them down even invading the location where the Ambassador to Norway resides in Washington D.C. Solvi is called into action to help protect her home countries representatives while Scot is nabbed by the Carlton Group, his employers, to locate and find whoever is behind the very precise and personal attacks being made against current and former political figures in this country. Harvath builds a formidable team of trusted allies around him but is shrewd enough to see that there is a high-stakes conspiracy reaching the highest level of government that he may be working at counterpoint to. His loyalty is to his country and leaders, those who threaten it and are not used to being able to tell who the good guys are. Internal hate groups including many members of national White Supremist groups may be involved along with those who are obviously special forces trained and making up the bulk of the threat to the peace that Harvath must correct. There are not many authors in this genre who truly have their pulse on the machinations of the global political landscape like Brad Thor does. With both domestic terrorism, external threats from long-standing enemies like Russia, and a growing faction of online terrorism, Scot Harvath definitely has his hands full in a situation that is far more complex than he expected while still being firmly planted in the current world we all live in. EDGE OF HONOR delivers! Reviewed by Ray Palen for Book Reporter

Brad Thor's latest installment in the Scot Harvath series is another adrenaline-fueled ride that, while not my absolute favorite, is a highly enjoyable and worthwhile read for fans. I found myself tearing through the pages, a testament to Thor's knack for crafting a compulsively readable narrative. What truly stands out in this book is the masterful way Thor weaves in current-day issues. The plot feels eerily ripped from the headlines, creating a sense of urgency and relevance that has never been more effectively executed in the series. It's a powerful reminder of why we turn to thrillers—they often reflect the anxieties and complexities of our real world. The character dynamics were a high point for me as well. The new FBI duo was a fantastic addition, bringing a fresh energy and a compelling subplot to the mix. Their chemistry and contributions were a welcome change of pace and a highlight of the story. On the other hand, the book does fall into a familiar pattern. While I understand this is the core appeal of the genre—the reliable formula we've come to love from authors like Thor and Vince Flynn—it's also worth noting that the unbelievable, almost superhero-like feats of characters such as Scot Harvath are a bright-light reminder that this is fiction and pure escapism. I did feel that the main antagonist was a bit underdeveloped. The villain was, for lack of a better term, "meh," and didn't feel as menacing or memorable as some of Harvath's past adversaries. Despite this minor criticism, the book is a great addition to the series. It's a quick, entertaining read that will satisfy long-time readers and get them excited for what's next.

In Edge of Honor, Brad Thor plunges readers into a covert operation that’s as morally fraught as it is pulse-pounding. The protagonist—a seasoned Navy SEAL—is tasked with a mission that tests not only his tactical skill but his ability to navigate shifting allegiances and political landmines. Thor wastes no time: the action kicks off early and rarely lets up, with tight chapters that propel the story forward like a well-planned assault. What makes this novel stand out is its focus on the mission itself. The stakes are immediate, the objectives clear, and the obstacles formidable. Whether it’s infiltrating hostile territory or decoding the intentions of supposed allies, the tension is constant and grounded in real-world plausibility. Thor’s attention to operational detail adds authenticity without bogging down the pace. While there are echoes of past regrets, they serve more as fuel than distraction. The heart of the book lies in the choices made under pressure—what honor demands when the rules blur and the cost of failure is measured in lives. A must-read for fans of military thrillers who crave action with consequence. Thor proves once again that he knows how to write missions that matter.

Another solid entry from Brad Thor. Harvath foils a plot on home soil instead of running around abroad, which made for a nice change of pace. I like how Thor always ties things to current events and the political climate. The claims about the president in this one was clearly Trump-inspired, and the book pulls in allusions to radicalized political discourse. The character Caughlin felt like a Tucker Carlson / Alex Jones mash-up, and the presence of far-right extremist groups kept the plot timely and grounded in reality. The “chaos for chaos’s sake” angle of the attacks stuck with me. It raises questions about what real-world events are driven by true motives and what’s just engineered to stir up division, discord and distrust. The plot got a little too convenient in spots, but it was a page-turner and kept me up late. At this point, I feel like the reader gets what they want in the form of cameos from the favorite usual suspects we have seen throughout the novel, but similar to the Entourage movie, it may come at the cost of this not being a 5 star review. How old is Harvath supposed to be at this point anyway?? 55?? Still a badass, and curious what the future holds for one of my favorite characters out there.

After the events of the past few books, Scot and Sølvi decide they needed a break. Scot resigned from The Carlton Group, and Sølvi took leave. They spent six months honeymooning around the world. Back in DC for Independence Day celebrations, they get tangled up in an attack on some protesters which, of course, is the tip of the iceberg of a conspiracy to topple the president and shatter the nation. One of Brad Thor’s greatest strengths is his ability to take the pulse of the state of the world. Here, he has taken the deep political divisions that exist in America today and ask some what-ifs. This president does not resemble the current real life president, but the hatred some of the country feels toward him is. What if… other politicians or other nations take advantage of that? What if… podcasters and social media can be manipulated to spread a specific message? What if… disenfranchised men can be convinced to attack innocent people they don’t know just to sow discord and fear? This is a book that will make you think about who the enemy actually is and who might be behind the voices we are listening to. I enjoyed this book and would recommend it to lovers of action thrillers. Not family friendly due to profanity and violence.

"Edge of Honor" by Brad Thor plunges readers into a high-stakes world of political intrigue and global conspiracy, with America's top spy, Scot Harvath, at its center. After a six-month honeymoon abroad with his new wife, Sølvi, Harvath returns to a vastly changed political landscape in the U.S., marked by a new administration and escalating power struggles. His quiet return is shattered by a brazen terrorist attack in Washington D.C. that he and Sølvi narrowly escape, quickly pulling them back into the shadowy world they had momentarily left behind. As the initial attacks escalate and domestic and international threats intertwine, Harvath finds himself navigating a complex web of deceit where trust is fleeting and the very fate of the nation hangs in the balance. The narrative unravels a deep-seated conspiracy involving shadowy elites and potentially even elements within the U.S. government, aiming to bring the country to its knees. With enemies at every turn, including long-standing adversaries like Russia, internal hate groups, and highly trained operatives, Harvath is forced to rely on his unique skills and a newly formed, trusted team to uncover the truth.

** spoiler alert ** In the 24th Scot Harvath thriller, Scot Harvath returns from a six-month honeymoon with his Norwegian wife, Sølvi, to a divided America under a new administration. Planning a quiet Fourth of July, they're thrust into action when gunmen attack protesters outside the vice president's residence, leading to a deadly shootout at the Norwegian Embassy. Harvath, retired from the Carlton Group, protects a former ambassador amid rising unrest over the president's unfulfilled promises. Sølvi guards the Norwegian PM during a NATO summit. Parallel investigations reveal terrorist attacks orchestrated by a cabal of white supremacists, rogue ex-federal agents (FBI, CIA, Secret Service), and Russian intelligence aiming to destabilize the U.S. through disinformation and violence. Harvath teams with the Carlton Group, ex-CIA Chief and FBI agents to uncover betrayals by U.S. officials who want to see the President resign. Harvath saves the day again and he and Solvi enjoy the Independence Day celebration. Another great page turner!

Brad Thor delivers yet again as Harvath brings the fight home. At first, I have to admit, I felt myself wanting more gritty action. I love the way Thor describes foreign lands, introducing us to worlds most of us, thankfully, will never know. Though not lacking in action, it just felt "different," for lack of a better description. There was no clear-cut villain with a sinister plan to root against. There were no foreign religious or political zealots to loathe. They don't have legions of minions marching in their streets chanting for death to the US and our allies. They don't profess their deep-seated hatred of our way of life. Instead, they claim quite the opposite. That's when the genius of Thor's plot line occurred to me. The villains in Edge of Honor live in the shadows... no name, no face, no soul. They don't have the benefit of shouting their plan from the rooftops. They whisper them in dark corners, because they are one of us.

The 24th book in the series. I read the last two back-to-back to catch up. See my review of Shadow of Doubt to get my feelings on this title character and the author. One of the things I like about this series is that the stories closely resemble current events and technology, the author stays closely aligned with our news cycle and world events. In Edge of Honor it is very similar to the current Trump administration, and America’s growing distrust in its own government and security administrations. Of course, the bad guys are tending to be Russians in all these latest novels. Hurray for the hero, Scot Horvath, again.

It might be because I have not read Thor in a bit but I actually enjoyed this book much more than the past few entries in the series. Scott is finally back on the states, and the plot for this book is much more simple and happens over a few days rather than months and spanning so many places. It was easy to keep up with and enjoy. At the same time I am read for Scott to retire. I think that we are getting to a point where the character just needs to be let go. It’s been enough. I’m ready for the series to end. And with the new book being published this year we will see what happens. 4/5 stars

Scot Harvath and his bride have spent six months traveling around the globe on their honeymoon only To return to an attack on the Norwegian Embassy. This throws them Into the midst of turmoil,deceit,and Political politics. The stakes are high and the CIA and FBI are involved In the conspiracy. There are Enemies all around and Scot and his people hope they can ring it all to a satisfying conclusion and Apprehend the right people. This is a well written book and series and has plenty of action and thrills. Recommended.

Love a good Grisham novel! This is not a legal thriller, but a murder mystery set on Camino Island. It is the second book in this series but can absolutely be read as a stand alone. It is a fun, twisty read that I read in a weekend. Bruce Cable returns in this book after his adventure Camino Island. He is the owner of Bay Books, the indie bookstore that everybody wants to visit. The store is about to welcome back Mercer Mann, the writer with a connection to the Island. But Hurricane Leo has other ideas and is headed straight for them. Most people head for the mainland but Bruce stays to try to protect his store. In the aftermath of the storm. Bruce is told of the death of writer and friend Nelson Kerr. At first look it appears that it was the storm that killed him but the closer they look the more it appears to be murder. Local police get nowhere with the case so Bruce and his friends start investigating . Who would want Nelson dead and why? Could his unpublished manuscript hold the key? I really enjoyed this fast paced and thrilling story. Grisham fans will love it, even if it is not a legal thriller. His writing is brilliant and his characters full of life. Highly recommend. Thank you Hachette Australia for my copy of this book to read.

Typical Grisham…which I always enjoy! I like the familiarity of his novels. The characters and setting of the Camino series are likable and interesting! Looking forward to reading the third of this series!

Back to Camino Island and the gang! First book is much better.

This novel is a true page-turner, driven by a compelling plot and a memorable cast of characters. From the very beginning, the story moves at a brisk pace, making it difficult to put down—I finished it quickly because I was so eager to see what would happen next. The characters are well-developed, each with distinct quirks that add depth and make them genuinely likable. Overall, it’s another strong book from Grisham and one I would highly recommend to fans of fast-paced, character-driven fiction.

The continuing adventures of Bay Books, it's owner Bruce this time taking centre stage, and the writer community on Camino Island. Points to Grisham for finding a plot that allows him to bring back all of the characters from the first book, and giving them a new story. The action veers somewhat unrealistically into pharma-conspiracy and hitmen and the interest drops a bit once we leave the island, and the central characters, behind in the 2nd half of the novel, but overall a satisfactory sequel.

This book took me awhile to read but not because of the book but the fact that I was moving and renovating while reading it. I enjoyed this book a lot and loved the way the story unraveled. The characters were well developed and the plot moved at a constant pace. Another great book by John Grisham! Highly recommend.

Camino Island is a resort island in Florida inhabited by some of America’s most popular writers Nobody knows that Hurricane Leo is heading straight for the island. With hurricane changing direction, the governor orders an evacuation of the island, but some of the residents decide to remain including Bruce Cable of Bay Books. The Hurricane is devastating, killing many people and leveling houses, hotels and businesses. While Bruce survives, his writer friend Nelson Kerr (a former trial-layer who had written several spy thrillers) dies The local police is overwhelmed with the disaster management tasks and Nelson’s death appears to have been an accident, but Bruce, mystery author J. Andrew Cobb and Bay Books intern Nick Sutton spot some clues that suggest another explanation and they begin to search for the real killer. Camino Island is not a hub of crime and no one can recall the last time a homicide occurred there. The Bay Books trio start their own investigation before seeking the assistance of state authorities, private investigators and the FBI. Their inquiry focuses on Nelson’s recently completed novel, which has not even been sold to a publisher. Maybe something in that manuscript lead to his death… According to Grisham’s style, simple becomes complex, the first clues lead to more clues but the most fascinating character is Leo, the category four hurricane that grows, pauses, regains strength, stalls, turns away and back again Grisham’s prose is both powerful and brilliant , he still still leave you wondering where it is all leading right to the very end.

This is a very well-written story. A slow burn novel that really puts the reader in the mood. The pace of the story is slower than what I usually read but I really enjoy the way the author described the characters and events. For a crime novel, the progression is very steady. There are many opportunities for a twist, but the plot treaded on slow and steady. (view spoiler) Not all parts of the story are believable. Notably, if I'm behind the massively powerful organization trying to protect a scandal, I would probably go ahead and let the author write a fictional story about it. After all, someone crazy enough to believe a fictional novel won't gain many sane followers. Thus the foundation of this murder story stands on shaky grounds. Buried underneath an adventure of writers and book lovers trying to uncover a murder mystery that happened to someone in their inner circle, there is a recurring theme: sometimes beneath terrible things are hidden heinous acts, if only waiting for someone to discover it at the right time. On the surface, the main characters discover a murder buried under a deadly hurricane. Later on in the story when they try to infiltrate someone inside the facility, they were given a story even more shocking and disgusting. Ugliness is everywhere: behind closed doors and in offshore accounts. Sometimes when you uncover a wreckage of rotting abhorrence, you only find more the same stuff at the bottom.

This book was just okay to me. It was not one that I wanted to keep reading and could not put down. I have read many John Grisham books and they've all been great but this one just did not do it for me. It was okay. It was an interesting story with interesting characters and it was enjoyable to read. I get that he may be wanting to try something a little lighter and it was enjoyable. Like I said, I did like the characters and would read the other book just to see what's going on with all of them. But a little disappointed.

The first third was kind of slow. A friend is killed, and foul play is suspected. Things tie back to a book the friend was writing, and it slowly snowballs from there, involving some lecherous old men. Noel's boy toy dies, and now she wants Bruce to stop philandering... My grandmother recently passed away from Alzheimer's, and so this was fresh in my mind. The final week, her body wouldn't let her go. I cannot imagine the pain and suffering related to what was done in this book. Things I hated: Having to read "not an ounce of fat on her" at all, let alone more than once This book was written in 2020, and according to scientific studies, the healthiest low body fat percentage seen in extreme women athletes is 14-20%. So stop with these ridiculous, demeaning sayings that would mean the woman was dead. We get it. You don't like fat women. Michael Beck's narrative voice got incredibly annoying for some of these characters, and there was a whole disc (5 or 6) that I wanted to just chuck out the window. But I would never do that to my local library. It had an excellent last half and a great final third. 3.5 Stars rounded up.

Camino Winds is John Grisham's 2nd novel in his "Camino Island" series. I thoroughly enjoyed being back on the Island again. Hurricane Leo veers from its predicted path heading straight for Camino Island. Florida's governor has ordered an immediate mandatory evacuation but Bruce Cable (owner of Bay Books) decides to stay put and ride out the storm. The hurricane is devastating: insurmountable damage, severe flooding and a dozen people lose their lives. One of the supposed victims is Nelson Kerr, thriller writer and a friend of Bruce's. His injuries suggest that the hurricane wasn't the cause of his death, he was murdered. Who would want Nelson dead and why? A great mystery! I hope John Grisham has us returning to Camino Island.

Took about 80 pages to finally get into this book. It's a decent, yet nothing compared to A Time to Kill.

As a hurricane strikes the small barrier island, Camino Island, the town is on the brink of disaster. In the midst of the storm's horrific devastation of the beautiful island, a young writer Nelson Kerr, is found dead in what initially appears to be related to the storm. We learn later that his death was caused by foul play. Bruce Cable, the owner of Bay Books, is closely connected to the movers and shakers of this closely knit island community, including the victim, Nelson Kerr. Grisham takes the reader on a ride through all the post storm drama while authorities search for Kerr's killer. Camino Winds has all the elements of a top notch thriller. I would highly recommend.

4.0 stars— After reading Michael Connelly’s last book, in which Harry Bosch was missing for a significant portion of the novel, I was very unhappy. In fact, I spent my entire review of “The Waiting” whining about it. Therefore, it came as no surprise to me that in Connelly’s newest book,”Nightshade”, Connelly introduces a brand new detective to his growing list of main characters, Detective Stilwell. (No first name given). Stilwell is a detective with the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department who was banished to head the department’s substation at Catalina Island after a dust-up with another detective in the department was resolved by moving Stilwell out of the department’s main headquarters. Of course, the inevitable happens and a dead body is discovered attached to an anchor in the department’s jurisdiction and Stilwell begins his investigation. The investigation leads down a twisty path involving numerous other crimes and corruption from within the government. Stilwell is as relentless as Bosch and never stops working on a case until he gets to the bottom of everything. Connelly once again does a fabulous job of keeping the story moving with many twists and turns that draw you in and keep you interested until the end. I did have a few issues with some of the boating terms used that had me lost as to what was going on. I also felt the book took some time to get into, and I was bored at times during the early going. Connelly also has a bad habit of introducing huge numbers of characters and then expecting the reader to remember exactly who everyone is when Detective Stilwell brings them back up in the investigation. Expect to use the search bar in your Kindle reader several times in order to have your memory jogged as to who each of the characters is in order to keep from becoming lost. I still gave the book 4 stars though because after I reached the halfway point and understood who everyone was, I really enjoyed the cat and mouse game played by Stilwell with each of the bad guys and his relentlessness in getting to the truth. All in all —a solid 4 stars for the newest addition to Team Connelly.

I read and rate this book 3.5* and raise it to 4* as I am a HUGE Connelly fan. I have been listening to his books since you could put an audio cassette in the car and listen about Harry Bosch (they came in a book form of 6-8 tapes). The plot has been reviewed multiple times so here are my thoughts. I put this book down repeatedly. I didn't feel the need to find out about the next clue or action scene. I also was not invested in any of the characters as another reviewer pointed out did we even learn Stillwell's first name. I was never invested in the storyline, and he seemed to just disregard any kind of procedure (and this was very much a police procedural book-little action). The girlfriend seemed to suffer from some form of island agoraphobia and seemed surprised he had to do police work. If this had been a new author, the book would have been good 3* but I would not feel the need to follow the series.

the setup… Detective Sergeant Stilwell works for the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, assigned to Catalina Island, where all the misfits are sent for penitence. He was with the Homicide Division before he found himself ensnared in department politics. While he’s investigating a poaching incident on a protected reserve, he gets a report of a body weighed down in the harbor. It appears to be a woman who has dark hair and a purple streak, later identified and nicknamed “Nightshade.” Stilwell attempts to work both cases despite the murder belonging to the mainland group and finds himself reckoning with high profile suspects and his nemesis in Homicide. the heart of the story… Stilwell is a unique character on the island, content with his assignment on Catalina but still resentful of how he got there. He’s a renegade but not outwardly so and has the respect of his subordinates and the others in law enforcement. Stilwell has great instincts and a strong moral compass but doesn’t shy away from the gray lines. It didn’t take long for me to root for him and take an instant liking to the man. the narration… Will Damron is a perfect voice and fit for Stilwell. He’s one of my favorites and delivered another great performance. I hope he’s the permanent voice of the series. the bottom line… I’m a die-hard fan of Harry Bosch so Stilwell had big shoes to fill, which he stepped into nicely. The cases were interesting and the procedurals authentic and realistic. Stilwell knitted the clues together to figure things out without a lot of drama and I happily followed him. The Catalina Island setting just made it even more delicious. I’m so ready for more of him and this series. 4.5 stars Posted on Blue Mood Café

I have family members who have read a lot of Michael Connelly and the multiple series that he has. Somehow I never got started on them, but I can see I might need to check them out. Nightshade is set on Catalina Island... it sounds so beautiful, but like any tourist area, there is a dichotomy, with travelers and some very wealthy coming in to enjoy luxury, while those that take care of them struggle financially. We are introduced to Detective Stilwell, and fine out that he's a cop who upset the hierarchy on the mainland, so he's been sent to work on the island. As well, it seems like all the officers working with him have been sent to the island as a form of banning or punishment. Stilwell gets called out when someone finds a body in the harbor; a body that was not meant to be found - as it was weighed down with an anchor. Because it's a homicide, it falls outside of his jurisdiction. But while investigating another crime on the island, he keeps finding clues and information about the dead girl in the harbor. He's ruffling feathers of his former colleagues, but the more he digs the more he finds some dark secrets on the island. This was really well done and enjoyable to listen to. The characters are interesting and could easily be the launch of a new series. I'm between a 4 & 5 on this one, but will definitely be reading more from this author.

Story 4 stars. Narration 4.5 stars A new detective is introduced in this new series by an author who is known for his police procedural mysteries among other similar books. It takes place on Catalina Island off the coast of California. Detective Stilwell was put on Catalina Island after a mess up-not of his making. So he starts out as an underdog although you realize very soon that he is a good homicide cop. He’s been there long enough to have already formed a romantic relationship. There’s two cases he gets involved in pretty much on the same day. One involves the beheading of a protected buffalo and the other is the murder of a woman. The investigation is very involved and other people die along the way. I appreciated the intricate plot, especially the murder part. Things move really fast in the second half of the book. I kept expecting certain things to happen, but no. However, things I wasn’t expecting did happen so this kept me listening. I have been a fan of this author for almost 30 years. I always enjoy his writing and I do recommend his books. Narration was good.

4.5 ⭐️ Harry Bosch con neopreno. Me ha gustado Still.

Once again Michael Connelly dazzles us with his knowledge and research into police procedural issues, interpersonal conflicts among colleagues and the politics of administration of "justice". Excellent drama, personality conflicts, struggles to overcome the challenges of those who would obstruct truth and justice for the sake of doing as little as possible to resolve cases for the sake of raising case closure numbers for selfish gain & career goals. Fortunately, Detective Stillwell is our intrepid investigator who is willing to risk his life and career to find the people responsible for the crimes that cross his path. He uses his investigative acumen and political insight to overcome the obstacles he needs to resolve to achieve his mission not dissimilar to Harry Bosch. Stillwell has a strong moral compass which I like. I find it interesting that we never do find what Stillwell's first name is in this novel and I wonder if the author is intentionally being parsimonious about revealing who Stillwell is, like the peeling of an onion so to speak....Stillman may be a complicated person one with many layers. Maybe the author will gradually reveal more details as the series progresses...... Not sure that Stillwell and Tash Dano are suited to each other. Clearly, they have strong attachment to each other, but are they compatible in the long run? I guess we'll find out.

Another great Michael Connelly book. This one has a new character and I like him, but I love Bosch. Love him in the books, love the character on the TV shows. This is a good story and I liked the character and will definitely read more of the books but I'm giving it a 4 stars because it is new and will take me a while to get used to it. Story is about another police officer who is sent to Catalina Island to be in charge and as soon as he gets there a boy is washed up on the shore, very complicated, of course. I definitely recommend.

Michael Connelly, who brought us Harry Bosch and Renee Ballard, appears to have a new detective series with Sergeant “Stil” Stilwell. He is the top cop in Avalon, on Catalina Island off the coast of California. A body has washed ashore and has shaken the quiet touristy town. And Sergeant Stilwell, who’s up to the task, has a crime to solve despite the fact that he’s been ordered to stand down in deference to the LA homicide division. A bonus for me that I’ve been to Avalon.

Another very well-plotted book by Connelly that somehow manages to weave three different stories together effectively. While the new setting (for him) of a book set on Catalina Island was interesting, I personally felt it was a lot less compelling than his usual setting of Los Angeles. (And as someone with zero desire to read about boats and sailing, reading about the differences between a ketch and a normal sailboat and other things of a nautical nature I found incredibly banal). The new protagonist, Stilwell, grew on me, but I honestly would prefer more Ballard books than Connelly exploring this new locale and protagonist. 3.5/5

*** 9/22/25 *** Somehow finished this book a whole season ago and did not finish my review - busy summer! This novel is the ground floor of a new series by Connelly with Detective Stilwell's superiors trying to sideline him to tiny Catalina Island off the coast of LA. But we have a mysterious crime with a protected buffalo, and then - a murder - to contend with. Stilwell has a girlfriend in this book, and is navigating local relationships as well as police politics as he tries to progress with his investigations and create a sense of security and 'buck stops here' with the locals. I was a tiny bit underwhelmed with the character development of Stilwell, but that could be mitigated in book 2 of the series, whenever that may come out. Still a good start to a new police procedural series by a king of them. 4-stars. *** 5/29/25 *** Just started this new Michael Connelly book, the first in a (hopefully) new series about Detective Stilwell, dispatched to live on Catalina Island, off the coast of Long Beach/Los Angeles. If you're from LA, you will love the references to our region and the island. I'm only 18% in, and already we have a LOT of characters, a lot of bad guys, and undercurrents of some nefarious plots/schemes beneath the surface. Should be a good one - review coming soon.

enjoyed this novel by Connolly on a new series as couple of cases get interwined many twists and turns

I've been a big fan of this author for quite some time (just for grins, I counted reviews of those I've posted since I started my book blog in 2013, and there are 13 in there). So getting the chance to sample the first in a new series put a smile on my face for days. Now that I've finished reading, the smile is still there and I'm looking forward to the next installment, but I have to say I'll need more time to really warm up to the new guy in town - if for no other reason than I just can't trust anyone who apparently doesn't have a first name (or maybe that's a plot hook reminiscent of Leroy Jethro Gibbs). Actually, Stilwell is on an island - Catalina Island, to be exact. Once a detective for the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, he irritated the powers-that-be there enough that they deported him to the island where all the department misfits go - a place where they figured he couldn't get in much trouble (and if he did, it wouldn't be their problem). To kick things off, he responds to a report of a female body that's been found at the bottom of the harbor; she's in pretty bad shape and is devoid of any identification except for the purple streak in her hair. At the same time, a buffalo turns up in even worse shape at a local preserve - the victim, presumably, of a poacher. Immediately, Stilwell takes charge of both investigations (with a bit more emphasis on the human victim, understandably). And in short order, he runs afoul of some of his former LA colleagues who now would like nothing better than to kick him to the curb. If that weren't enough, the investigation leads right through the doors of an exclusive men's club on the island - and wealthy, snooty males don't take kindly to having their domain invaded by common folks like the police. The rest of the book is focused on the two investigations, both of which have the potential to end Stilwell's career (if not his life) as well as fleshing out his character and that of several key characters I assume will play central roles in future books. The plot held my attention - as have those of every other book I've read by this author - so I'll definitely be watching for the next one. Meantime, thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for the opportunity to get in at the beginning.

Michael Connelley has a stable full of classic characters, including retired Detective Harry Bosch; his half-brother and Lincoln lawyer defense attorney Mickey Haller; the intrepid investigative reporter, Jack McEvoy; and more recently, Renee Ballard, in charge of the LAPD’s Open-Unsolved Unit, where Bosch’s police officer daughter, Maddie volunteers when not working her beat. I greatly liked and appreciated all of three of them for their own strengths, flaws, and drives to do what they think is best to serve the betterment of society. Now, Connelly is introducing a new character to his lineup – Los Angeles County Sherriff’s Detective Stillwell, who has been punished for not playing well with other officers, removed from his homicide investigations on the mainland and exiled to Catalina Island, where he serves as the administrative focal for the local police team. When the book begins, Stillwell has been adjusting to a more peaceful lifestyle outside of the craziness and department politics that came with his prior job. His attention is now focused on the drunk and disorderly incidents that come up with mainland guests visiting the island’s casino every weekend, as well as petty thefts, vandalism, and other petty crimes. He’s even exploring the potential benefits of a new personal relationship with one of the island’s own residents. Except for the local mayor and newspaper editor, life is looking better, that is until… … Detective Stillwell gets a report that a body has been found weighed down in the harbor by a local marina worker cleaning the bottom of a boat. It turns out to be a female Jane Doe, with the only identifying trait of a streak of purple dye in her hair. In addition, Stillwell is also working on a couple of other cases, including the poaching of a federally protected animal on a local reserve, a violent attack at a bar on one of his team’s officers, and the theft of a sculpture from the Black Marlin Club, a private escape the rich and powerful. With an inexperienced and young police team to work with, Stilwell has his hands full. When Stillwell’s boss assigns the Jane Doe case to a Homicide team led by the same Detective Ahearn that caused his banishment to Catalina, Stillwell decides to go around the lines of authority and find the killer on his own while working his other cases. However, the harder Stillwell works, the more Ahearn is determined to get him not only in trouble, but kicked off the force. Ahearn appears to be willing to sacrifice solving the case if it can get Stillwell canned. As Stillwell tries to find justice for Nightshade, a name he has given Jane Doe, he finds that her murder involves closely guarded secrets of a darker side of an island that was intended to be an idyllic escape from the realities of life… First of all, I love me some Michael Connelly crime fiction. For me, he is one of the master storytellers and in my top three favorite writers. Period. No discussion to be had. I have never read a book of his that I didn’t enjoy and I don’t think that I have given him anything less than a 4-star (out of 5) review. So be forewarned, that I have a bias for his writing, but I think it is well defended in truth. If you like the mystery genre and/or crime fiction, Connelly should be on your Mount Rushmore. Having said that, there were several things that I really enjoyed about this one-off from his big three leading star characters, and a few things that I struggled a little bit with. Let’s start with what I liked. Connelly’s no nonsense, straight forward storytelling style and sense is totally present. From the first page, you are pulled into the story as a front seat passenger, right along with Detective Stillwell, another law enforcement officer trying to do the right thing, but not adept enough to avoid the pitfalls that bite you in the backside when you go outside the established political structure of how the Los Angeles Police Department works. Connelly is such a masterful and polished writer. He uses his previous newspaper writing experience to intertwine three ongoing investigations and multiple secondary character relationships in a connected, peal the onion plotting and pacing that provides a gripping reading experience. I felt like I was standing next to Stilwell several times trying to tell him what to do and say as he interviewed various characters of interest as well as when dealing with Ahearn (by the way, what a jerk!). The story and mysteries flowed effortlessly from one scene to another, one conversation to the next, and one twist to another until the multiple climaxes paid off. There was no extra verbiage or unnecessary descriptions taking away from the story’s focus. Connelly uses his characters, plotting, and setting to paint a beautiful canvas. In this particular book, he introduces Catalina, a picturesque island off the coast of Southern California, to play a large role in the location, scenery, and atmosphere of the story. Interestingly enough, Catalina is considered a beautiful tourist destination that can only be reached by a ferry, boat, helicopter, or a private plane. In addition, as Connelly describes in the book, cars and trucks are not allowed to be driven on the island. Transportation is either UTV’s, bicycles, or walking. Catalina provides a great setting for crime fiction and Connelly magnifies its use to the highest degree possible. And now for what I struggled a bit with. I enjoyed the characters for the most part, especially Tash who turned out to be my favorite person in the entire book. I really connected with her, emotionally connected with her arc, and would love to learn more about her in a future book. On the other hand, Stilwell felt like a combination of Harry Bosch and Renee Ballard. Like them, Stillwell is committed to be his being a detective and solving his cases come first over everything else. Over family, friends, hobbies, or any other interests. He takes his professional responsibilities seriously and is addicted to the work to the point that he sacrifices of everything and everyone around him, including the very ones he is in close personal relationships with. That is what drove me a bit crazy while reading this book (and I need to be careful to avoid spoilers hers). Stillwell kept pushing Tash aside and ignoring her feelings and needs because his job is his passion and identity. It’s all that he knows. And even after (be careful here on spoilers) being taken off the investigation and going through a serious emotional event with Tash, Stillwell is right back to his work the very next day and putting aside her stress and fears. Seriously? Come one dude… This is not the way to behave in a relationship… Now, let me be clear. I have come to know and understand this type of obsessive behavior that exists not only in Connelly’s world of criminal investigators, but in many other mystery series too. That by itself is okay. However, what drove me crazy (again, be careful about spoilers) is that when you get to the ending of the book, Stillwell’s never really confronted about his selfish behaviors or made to see that he is being an absolute pig to the very person he proclaims to love. Tash never calls him on it, nor makes him face his disrespectful behaviors. And I thought she would have a completely different reaction at the end of the book than she did. She did not seem bothered by it very much, if at all. Maybe it’s coming in a future book, but how she acted at the end of this one left a level of serious frustration with me. One that is still bugging me as I write this review. As I tried to process my concern, I went and paged through many of the reviews for this book on Goodreads, but I didn’t really see anyone addressing this issue, so it seems like I am in the minority when it comes to readers viewing the situation as I did. So maybe, I should let it go and not worry so much about it. And more importantly, did this issue keep me from enjoying the novel. Absolutely not. The mysteries were strong; the characters and conflict were good; the setting and plotting smooth and well delivered. Overall, this book was a joyful and immersive summer read. Character relationships aside, I look forward to another outing with Detective Stillwell, Tash, and the other characters, including Catalina Island. Although I will always prefer Connelly’s focus be on Bosch, Haller, and Ballard (in that order), I am smart enough to recognize that he has created another unique and flawed character in Detective Stillwell that may grow and develop into a future winner. And let me close with this personal thought… You know what you get with Connelly – an excellent crime fiction experience second to none. Period.

Detective Stilwell. Oh boy does he have his work cut out for him on the Island. I am not sure if this book was meant to come across as a little bit on the silly side, but that’s the vibe I was getting and it somehow worked for me. I found myself laughing out loud a few times and other times rolling my eyes and wanting to put in a request for better officer training and maybe another officer or two in rotation. Hopefully they will have some additional training before the next book. I deleted a smiley face and I guess that mentally deleted the rest of what I was going to write. Not my day for writing reviews I guess. I can’t for the life of me remember what I was just going to type. This review also did not go as planned 🤦🏼‍♀️. That’s a bit irksome. Sorry! Original rating and review posted 6/1/25 8/26/25 update: I remembered what I found so fun as I was reading this book. It has never happened to me before, that I am aware of. I was listening to this book during the exact dates (including THE YEAR, which is what makes it stand out) part of it was written to be taking place!! I have read/listen to books before and a date is mentioned, and I realize, oh hey, that’s today’s date. But never with the same year. I am not sure why I found this especially fun/cool, but it was😊. So I am sharing.

"This place - you landed in a real dump out here...you know that? I mean, look at it. It's full of fuckups, old farts, and fiascoes". LA detective Stilwell finds himself 'exiled' to the California Island resort of Catalina... Soon finding himself investigating a decapitated Buffalo and a dead girl/woman found in the harbor. Loved the new setting...Connelly has certain themes in his books that do come out here....so SOME of the twists and turns were predictable. Looking forward to more...

I really liked this first in a new series from Michael Connelly. Nattens Skugga or Nightshade is all about detective Stilwell placed on the island of Catalina after some disagreement on the mainland. I love the setting and the quirky characters. I think Island life would be something for me. Usually there isn't much crime on the island but Stilwell have a full workload anyhow and sometimes people die due to violence. It was good getting something else than Ballard, Bosch or Haller and I look forward to the next book in this series.

** spoiler alert ** Excellent Connelly book with a new setting and main character that I quite enjoyed. I enjoyed the cases as well and the interwining and twists and turns of each is pretty classic Connelly. The ending was also different than what I usually expect from a Connelly ending in ways that were both good and bad. I liked that he avoided the thing that he has a history of in Bosch where some explosive event of death prevents Bosch from actually making an arrest. Instead Stillwell arrests both suspects. However, I felt the murder case that is the namesake of the novel was a little more open-ended than a typical Connelly book. We are told that Stillwell has no doubts that Crane did it and Stillwell gets a pretty damming recording, but Stillwell even admits the case is a bit weak but there's no follow up on that. Maybe it's something to put in a future novel that will affect Stillwell's character arc. I'm not sure but it was a little surprising. Overall I really enjoyed this. I'll definitely read more if Connelly writes more.

I am definitely a loyal Michael Connelly fan. Nightshade is very much a book in the Ballard and Bosch mode with the added pleasure of being set on Catalina Island. Connelly’s writing is, as usual, A+. The opening chapter was a little slow, but after that it was a quick read in a pretty generic style. I think I only highlighted one sentence for rich language, but if you love a police procedural, as I do, it was a couple of days of watching the very competent investigators put the clues together. Connelly’s strength is also his weakness. The characters are pretty much interchangeable from one series to another, with very little charisma. The story builds to a peak about 72% in and the action lasts for a few chapters, then the story reverts back to a methodical narrative and conclusion. Would I recommend it? Yes, if you want a diversion from the rest of your life. I’m not sure I would pay full price for it, but if you can get it from the library, I’d say, Go for it.

I was excited to see that Michael Connelly had a new series out. I've been a long time fan of this author. I liked this one, I just don't think it hit the heights of some of this previous works. The authors style here feels familiar and its well written. There is suspense, twists, and what we have come to know and expect from this author and genre.

Not as good as Bosch. What would I give this if I didn’t love all the Bosch novels? Difficult to say. The problem for me is that Stilwell is too like Bosch and therefore we compare them. Neither play quite by the rules but have a strong sense of ethics. The story worked but the romance side of things absolutely didn’t. I didn’t think it was convincing and it made me squirm a bit. Not great! But I think still a 4 star novel. I will keep going with the series but I hope he drops the romance side of things cos it is not his strong point!

4 Stars⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Michael Connelly has written another gripping crime novel filled with suspense. This is only the second book of his that I have read, but I have discovered he is a fantastic crime writer. I found myself gasping with an unexpected twist or two popping up. Detective Sargeant Stillwell from LAPD has been “exiled” to the Avalon substation after departmental politics have hung him out to dry on a past case in the city. The Chief wants him out of sight, and in a lowkey position. As politics would have it, he has rubbed some fellow officers wrong and his lazy partners wanted to close a case “for the greater good of all concerned.” Stillwell is not a lowkey person and his cases and evidence on his investigations have always been thorough. So now in Catalina he runs down pick pocket offenders, drunks and minor offenses. Soon Stillwell finds out the politics in Catalina are not much cleaner than on the mainland. “The water is muddy”. Unexpectedly, we have a couple murders, a kidnapped woman and a buffalo beheaded that unravel in Catalina all within a short timeframe. Whoa! Two big cases unfold and Stillwell jumps on them vigorously. A woman’s body wrapped in garb has emerged in the harbor of Catalina below a boat. What has happened? She has a purple streak through her hair and later is found to have the nickname Nightshade…A flower known to be poisonous. Note: this girl is said to be bad news with history of chasing men with money… The search and investigations are laid out by breadcrumbs and things continue to escalate until the end. I’m not going to spoil it, so just know it was intriguing and good. I recommend it to crime followers.

I liked this a lot better than I do many of the recent Bennett clan books. The plot was more believable, the characters more well developed. I really enjoyed Hollis, especially. Nice counter to Bennett and it was nice to see Emily back. Glad Macy got what was coming to him in a non violent sense. I liked how the plots interwove with one another, especially the somewhat surprising ending to the parallel plot just as it was getting to the meat of it. I was also pleasantly surprised at the turns to Brian's arc. Formulaic long weekend read, but those aren't always bad. (view spoiler)

It is refreshing to have a NYPD detective that has a huge family that he is devoted to be the protagonist in a book. I wonder though how long it will take for Michael Bennett to actually become married? If I were to look back at previous books I believe that he has been considering marriage or been engaged to Mary Catherine for at least the previous two books. However, when an author has a good thing going why not stretch it out. I wondered why the book was named "The Russian." Can you guess why? Here we have not just a serial killer but also a spy. Wow. Who would have thought that plot up?

Another crime solved by Michael Bennett on the eve of his wedding.

Typical James Patterson crime thriller that follows his usual writing style. Short chapters, quick pace, easy read. It’s a formula that works for him and he’s successful with it. This is a Det. Michael Bennett “thriller”. Although I’ve gotten away from his books for a while, I’m still invested in him and his family that are in every book. Guess that’s why I keep coming back !

Really good book. First book I have read of the Michael Bennett series. I loved that you saw a lot about his family which was really nice. Also the case was really interesting. It was a bit weird that the book was called ‘The Russian’ but you only hear that he was Russian at the end.

This was a good story and I enjoyed listening to it.

Another Michael Bennett case that does not disappoint. Detective Michael Bennett is entertaining and a gifted cop. Love this entire series!

Newer to the detective genre, but I liked it going back and forth between the perspectives to see them collide at the end.

The world’s bestselling author, Patterson continues to crank out best sellers, one after another. It’s easy to see why he’s so popular, always at the top of any bestseller list. (Anyone who has given over three million books to school kids and the military and donated more than seventy million dollars to support education has my vote.) “Patterson’s writing career is characterized by a single mission: to prove that there is no such thing as a person who ‘doesn’t like to read,’ only people who haven’t found the right book.” If you are a Patterson fan, you’re in for another well-written thriller with a compelling plot. “Weeks before NYPD detective Michael Bennett is to marry his longtime love, an assassin announces his presence in the city with a string of grisly murders. Each victim is a young woman. And each has been killed in a manner as precise as it was gruesome.” Everyone should occasionally pick up a Patterson mystery; it’s light reading in between the heavy stuff and helps to recharge the batteries.

A bit bizarre but typical Bennett

Michael Bennett Thriller #13. This is actually my fifteenth Michael Bennett book as in addition to the regular novel I read 9.6 as well as 10.5 ~ Yep I am a fan! Michael is one of my favorite JP characters. I enjoy stories that include his family of 10 adopted children, his finance Mary Catherine, and Grand Father Monsieur Seamus Bennett. In this story, Michael and his partner are very involved finding the serial killer who is terrorizing New York with gruesome gory murders. His investigation is taking him away from valuable family time. Pressure is on from the major’s office to solve this case quickly! Although I am a big fan, I wasn’t happy with #12, therefore I wasn’t expecting much from this story ~ but aww I did like it more than I thought. I didn’t like the disturbing murders, the lack of respect of not only other lives but just how rude people can be, the how so many are full of hate and quick to put down others for how they look and act, and oh yes don’t like that nasty profanity which also is full of hate and disrespect. I did like the young detective who is injured and has to take a leave. He states he hopes to come back as he wants to be a cop and make a difference and help people. Then there is sweet thoughtful Mary Catherine who is full of love! Awww but in this story the family as well as myself are excited about Michael’s and Mary Catherine’s upcoming wedding. Additionally Personal Note: I have read all the novels in the Michael Bennett series. Yep! I had a “Book Crush” on loveable, a bit rough but certainly nice Michael. But the Michael I knew (and loved) had changed and not in a good way in #12. His language was much too nasty for me. I get that sometimes nasty language fits the situation but I always held Michael in a higher place. Although this story has nasty language, at least Michael’s language wasn’t horrible!

The Russian by James Patterson is the 13th Book in the Michael Bennett Detective Series and it does not disappoint. As we re-join the Bennett clan excitement is on the horizon. Brian has been released from prison and is back home and Michael and Mary Catherine are about to get married, finally. Also, Jane has her first boyfriend, a fellow student at the Catholic School all 10 of the Bennett kids have attended. On the work front, Michael, an NYPD Detective has a new Partner, Brett Hollis and a new adversary to torment that being John Macy, Assistant to the Mayor and overall pain in the butt. An assassin/serial killer is targeting young women all over the city, stabbing them with sharp objects and mutilating their left eye. Michael Bennett is on the case, tracking down the serial killer, dealing with the endless red tape of the FBI, dodging questions from the Mayor's Office and trying to keep his accident prone sidekick on the job and out of the hospital. As with all the books in the Michael Bennett series, there is a delicate balance between Michael Bennett's work life and his equally chaotic home life and Patterson maintains the delicate balance between the two, sort of like walking a tightrope. I enjoyed this The Russian by James Patterson and would recommend it to all readers who are fans of the series. Like other books from James Patterson, it's an easy read with short chapters and it keeps the reader moving.

Emotional 4.25 stars “Here’s to no murders next year.” The Last Devil to Die is a mystery about a murdered friend connected to a drug deal gone wrong. Our favorite septuagenarians/octogenarians are back! When one of their friends is murdered, it is up to The Thursday Murder Club to solve the crime--connecting them to the dark underworld of the drug trade and antiques fraud. This is the fourth book in the series, and while it can be read as a standalone, the emotional aspects of the narrative might not resonate if you are not familiar with the characters or the series. With Elizabeth preoccupied with Stephen’s care, Joyce takes the lead. Ron is Ron, while the reader finally learns more about Ibrahim’s past. A new friend comes into the fold, and some new residents of Coopers Chase find themselves in scandalous situations. Also, the criminal characters are entertaining, and I especially enjoyed Garth’s character. Donna, Chris, and Bogdan also play significant roles. This is an emotional and heartbreaking read. Osman handles a delicate situation with care. He balances the hardship with love and support. He also weaves in a lot of fun and humor. This is one of the few series that makes me laugh out loud. Osman shares in his author’s note that he is working on a new series, so it might be some time before we see our friends from Coopers Chase. I will miss them. I received an ARC of this book from NetGalley and Penguin Group Viking in exchange for an honest review.

The fourth book in the series may be the most emotional one so far. Here, Richard Osman has fully shifted the focus from “who is the murderer” to “what it means to grow old without disappearing.” There is still a mystery, there is still a death, but they feel more like an excuse to spend a little more time with these characters. The plot once again revolves around a death that initially seems straightforward, but gradually breaks apart into more complex and uncomfortable truths. The investigation is not the tightest in the series and at times feels loose, even secondary. Readers looking for an Agatha Christie–style intellectual puzzle may find themselves slightly disappointed. But that no longer seems to be Osman’s goal. The greatest strength of the book lies in its characters. Elizabeth, Joyce, Ron, and Ibrahim feel more human than ever. Elizabeth in particular is faced with something far more frightening than murder: a loss that cannot be investigated, explained, or fixed. For the first time, Osman almost completely removes the humorous armor and allows the pain to remain quiet, awkward, and real. The humor is still present, but more subdued. Joyce once again brings warmth and lightness, yet even her observations carry a more melancholic tone. The book speaks about death not as a sensation, but as a part of life that arrives without warning and without fairness. This makes the novel more mature, but also heavier to read. My main criticism is that the mystery gets lost among the emotional layers. Some plot threads appear and disappear without leaving a strong impression, and the final reveal is less impactful than the internal changes in the characters. But perhaps this is entirely intentional. The crime is not the center. The people are. Unfortunately, the library I belong to does not yet have the fifth book. But that may actually be a good thing, because it is comforting to know that if I ever want to return to this kind of world, there will already be one waiting for me. Pre_read: I got them up to the fourth book from the library, I’m continuing the thriller and mystery series.

I really enjoyed reading this. A Thursday Murder Club book is like checking in with good friends after being too long away. I had been in a bit of a reading slump. Like, I have been reading books, but nothing's made me feel like I did reading this in months. As always, there's humour, pathos and all the warm feels. The mystery was well done, as usual. I loved every word and have already gone on to the next (see, there was craft in my so long putting off reading this one!). I recommend the entire series and haven't read one yet that I would tell someone to skip. As long as Osman writes these, I'll read them.

Now here is a series I have read in order. And…I recommend readers do the same. It makes it easier to keep up with the characters and their backgrounds. Where do I begin? At the end. “That’s the thing about Coopers Chase. You’d imagine it was quiet and sedate, like a village pond on a summer’s day. But in truth it never stops moving, it’s always in motion. And that motion is aging, and death, and love, and grief, and final snatched moments and opportunities grasped. The urgency of old age. There’s nothing that makes you feel more alive than the certainty of death.” So…What could the Thursday Murder Mystery Club be up to now? Let’s just say there are a lot of murders, convoluted mysteries and plenty of characters to put on a list to keep track of… But…It is a quick, warm-hearted, entertaining, fun, emotional read that will have readers guessing, laughing and crying at any point during the story. And…When a new resident comes in and asks Joyce, one of the regulars… “Am I a member of any clubs at Coopers Chase?” Her retort is perfectly fitting and definitely a sign that there will be more Thursday Murder Mystery Club meetings in readers futures… “I think that’s probably a conversation for another day, don’t you?”

Not my fave but i’m def not complaining 🤭

4 brilliant stars! Well, what a delightful surprise! As I was so disappointed with the 3rd book, I had lowered my expectations for this one. But I was hooked on it as soon as I started it and I decided to prioritize this reading. The development of the storyline was terrific! As for the writing, there was so much heart into this work. And I’m not saying that just because the story became a bit sentimental or emotional. There was something very special about it. But it’s not flawless. Regardless, it’s highly entertaining. I do recommend the audiobook, which I had the pleasure of listening as I read the ebook. It’s a very fast read. I wonder how far the author will go with this series. I do hope that he will offer at least two books. Ebook (Kobo): 288 pages (89 chapters!!), 89k words Audiobook narrated by Fiona Shaw: 10.9 hours (normal speed) - Bonus: interview with the author and the narrator

Love this series and I love the characters. This one is a little sad as well, but I really, really liked it.

Nice to have older people being capable.

Another entertaining and yet at times also a thoughtful and sensitive experience from Richard Osman. Possibly my favourite in the series. I probably wouldn’t though buy it for an elderly relative unless they are hardcore fans as it deals with some topics that could be upsetting. Though it is a standalone story I think that you would probably be more engaged with the characters if you started with book 1 of the series. For info the author is beginning a new series with new characters. For fans of the original series further books will follow in the future.

Caitlyn Sullivan comes from acting royalty, beginning with her great grandfather Liam Sullivan, a Hollywood legend. She began her own acting career young and became a child star in her own right. However, her abduction at age ten during a family celebration in Big Sur permanently changed the course of her life. As she matured, Cate’s path led her in a myriad of directions and relationships until she settled into her true calling as a voice actress, which led her back to the home where she was taken and to the family and boy (now man) that once provided her refuge. In recent years, Roberts seems to be drifting more towards contemporary fiction with elements of romance and suspense. I’m one of those fans whose loving the shift as no one writes these kind of stories better. I was only a few moments into the book when it started to captivate me, pulling me into the warmth and strength of the Sullivan family and its strong ties and history. Cate was surrounded by love, tradition and multigenerational family members so her abduction disrupted a life that was predestined for success. The impact was portrayed subtly and with authenticity, not going down any dramatic tracks but showing how that trauma influenced her personal and career choices. I’m being deliberately vague about the details as this book covers Cate’s life as a child through adulthood. One aspect I will elaborate on, though, is her career as a voice actress. If you entertained thoughts of what that entails you might want to reconsider. Much is shared not only about the business but the creative art of the performances. It was illuminating and fascinating, made even more exciting because it was being delivered by one of the best voice actresses in the business, January LaVoy, my personal choice as most favorite. She delivered her “typical” great performance but I have a new level of respect for her artistry. Despite the story having a low level of suspense (except at the beginning which had my heart racing), I very much enjoyed being in a Nora Roberts world that spanned a couple of decades. The richness of the characterizations, settings and storytelling is always a staple and I loved being in it. If ever there was a time to choose the audio version, this is it given that the main character is a voice actress and it’s narrated by one of the best. Cate’s romance with Dillon Cooper is a slow burn but in today’s market of instalove, it was a welcome change. And, she took a circuitous route to get back to him. This one really worked for me and I was sad when I reached the end. Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to Macmillan Audio for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

Hideaway was my first Nora Roberts read. I thoroughly enjoyed it and will be reading more from her. This was a family drama with plenty of suspense. I loved the beautifully descriptive narrative, the settings of LA, Big Sur and New York so clear in my mind. This would make a great movie. This story had something for everybody, greed, love, family, betrayal, fame and fortune. It kept me hooked from the beginning. Caitlyn Sullivan is just 9 years old when her life changes forever. Her family are Hollywood royalty, her dad, grandfather and great grandfather all screen actors. At a family function at the family ranch she is kidnapped and held for ransom. But she is not your typical 9 year old and she manages to escape and get back to her family. If that isn’t bad enough the people behind it all are very close to home. The events of that evening shape her future. She can never escape from it and struggles with relationships and finding her career path. But she is smart, and she is a survivor and won’t let anything get in her way. Can she return to the family home and make a life for herself or will the ghosts of the past haunt her forever? Thanks to Hachette Australia for my advanced copy of this book.

Hideaway is the latest standalone novel from bestseller Nora Roberts; I didn't realise it was romantic suspense but I enjoyed it despite not being into anything romance-based. Caitlyn Sullivan, a daughter of Hollywood royalty, was already a star at ten, but still loved to play hide-and-seek with her cousins at the family home in Big Sur. It was during one of those games that she disappeared. Despite her glamorous background, Cate was a shrewd, scrappy survivor, and she managed to escape her abductors. Dillon Cooper was shocked to find the bruised and terrified girl huddled in his ranch house kitchen—but when the teenager and his family heard her story they provided refuge and comfort, reuniting her with her loved ones. Cate’s ordeal, though, was far from over. First came the discovery of a betrayal that would send someone she’d trusted to prison. Then there were years away in Ireland, sheltered and protected but with restlessness growing in her soul. Then, finally, she returned to Los Angeles, hoping to act again and get past the trauma that had derailed her life. What she didn’t yet know was that two seeds had been planted that long-ago night—one of a great love, and one of a terrible vengeance… This is a high-stakes contemporary love story with lots of action and a decent pace. Cate is an interesting protagonist who is gritty with a strong and charismatic personality, even at the tender age on ten, and as the book unfolds the more intense it becomes; it has you hanging on every word desperate to know what happens. I loved that I immediately felt a subtle darkness and sinister atmosphere and it is so sophisticatedly done that it puts those "opposite to subtle” thrillers to shame; this is what Ms Roberts excels at. It addresses the issues of family ties, the unremitting desire for revenge, and the complications of love. This is the perfect escapist read for those looking for something easy and unchallenging as it requires no thinking at all. The cast of characters, however, do feel a little cliche or stereotypical, which was a shame. I will pick up her next book written under this nom de plume as so many people rave about them but I think my favourites will always be the ones written as JD Robb. This will appeal mostly to those who enjoy women's fiction/chick-lit and/or those into lighter suspense novels rather than those that are full-on. Many thanks to Piatkus for an ARC.

The Sullivans of Hollywood fame have all returned home to Big Sur to celebrate the life of their patriarch Liam Sullivan who has passed. Nine year old Caitlyn is playing with her cousins out back when she's kidnapped. Authorities believe it's an inside job because of the tight security in place on the estate. Cate manages to escape her captors, running through the woods until stumbling upon a house with a light. Little does Cate know this harrowing ordeal and the after shocks will follow her the rest of her life. Hideaway is her story of living with the ultimate betrayal and eventually, over the years, finding her way to overcome it. Nora Roberts excels at writing family sagas - the complicated relationships, family dynamics, love, betrayal. Her books have a comforting familiarity to them that I find enjoyable. While I found Hideaway a bit predictable, it is a good, solid read that unfolds at a steady pace. The suspense and angst are low key as is the romance. It's a story of deceit, manipulation, and vengeance, but even more . . . a story of strength and the ability to move beyond adversity to find true happiness. Characters are well-fleshed out as relationships develop slowly making them more believable. I will say that the reveal of the villain early on dampened the suspense a little more than I would have liked. I missed not having a last minute surprise or shocker at the end. Having said that, Hideaway is an engaging, enjoyable read that reminded me of some of Roberts earlier works. It will be a great summer read, maybe on the beach. Highly Recommended! 3.5 Stars *A special thank you to St. Martins Press for a paperback arc of this book. **Review at: Cross My Heart Reviews

4th read: wish I could get all the first time feels all over again. 3rd read: still a good story though I wish I could get all the first time feels all over again. Hideaway is the story of Cate Sullivan, the prodigy of a famous Hollywood family. She is kidnapped as a child and that trauma, with its underlying hurtful revelations, ripples throughout her life, re-shaping it from what could have to what can be, disrupting her set path, affecting not just her but her entire family and that of Dillon Cooper’s and forcing her to turn into a new direction. I have to say upfront, I couldn’t believe it when I was lucky enough to get approved for the ARC of this book. Nora Roberts is my favorite author in the world. Her books saved my life, shaped my future and I can’t thank her enough for her stories. So I was over the moon when I got the ARC. My first ever Nora Roberts ARC! I was both excited and terrified to read Hideaway. The excited part is easy to understand but dread because, what if I hated the book? Or what if the story didn’t speak to me? My principles wouldn’t allow me to give a less than honest opinion. I can’t in good faith ever fake a positive review when I don’t like the book. But thankfully, my fears turned out to be groundless. This book! This book was such a treat for me. So many good feels from it. So many strong emotions it evoked in me. That’s what most of Nora Roberts’ books do to me. They make me feel so much, such a depth of emotion and for a person with apathy, that is a treasure beyond any price. Hideaway was filled with strong characters, not just Cate and Dillon but also the side characters were so good, well-crafted, each one with their own unique voice and personality. I admired Cate a lot, everything she went through, the courage it took to face her fears, to build up a different future for herself than the one she’d planned. Facing an unknown, not knowing where you’ll end up, who you’ll become, what you want to do with your life, finding your purpose can hold so much fear and dread. It takes a lot of strength to keep going, keep fighting for who you want to be. Ah, Dillon! What is it about Nora Roberts, that her heroes always sneak in your heart and make a place for themselves? I loved the teen Dillon and the college-bound one. The adult Dillon was irresistible. He made a good contrast to Cate. He knew exactly what he wanted from his life and he was content and happy with his path. I loved both families and all the side-characters were a delightful addition to the whole story. The plot-line had a simplicity that made it easy to read and the ending was kind of fast but interesting. This book was about the value of family holding together and friends being there for you. There was the heartbreak of hurt but it all fit in with the story. Writing this review makes me want to re-read the book all over again and that says it all, doesn’t it? I think it’s the incredible measure of an author’s talent when the story she crafted leaves you with a wonderful sense of contentment and the urge to re-read the book right after you finished reading it. https://nomadicworlds.wordpress.com/2020/05/19/arc-book-review-hideaway-nora-roberts/

A legacy of Hollywood royalty sets the scene for this beautiful new story from Nora Roberts. Hideaway was nothing like I expected from reading the blurb, and I mean that in the best sense. The Sullivan family was a force that I immediately fell in love with from the moment the story started with Caitlyn's Grandpa and his journey from Ireland to becoming one of the most respected actors in the world. Think, Cary Grant but IRISH!! Some of the reviews for this book are less than stellar, for me though it was one of a kind. That might be because it is a story unlike, I have never read before or because the family reminded me a lot of the family everyone longs to be a part of. The suspense part was a bit predictable and there were times especially towards the end where I felt like she could have wrapped up the book sooner. Even with that though, it wasn't obnoxiously long around 450 pages. There is no reason to go in depth to what the story is about the blurb does a fine job of it. Nora Roberts was the first author that got me into the romance genre so I will always have a special place in my heart for her and her books. I've read better and I have read worse, but I still thoroughly enjoyed this story.

Charming, cozy, and captivating. As always, Nora presents a wonderful story full of family, love, drama, and humor. Once again, she presents both family and the characters’ passion for their professions in ways that captured me completely. While it’s not joining my favorites among her works, Hideaway is a book that I have every intention of revisiting.

Nothing like a good Nora Roberts book! Spanning some twenty years the novel is based on an insider kidnapping of young Caitlin Sullivan for a hefty ransom. The child is found and those responsible punished. The plot whizzes along with some interesting (albeit expected) twists and turns. Revenge, drama, gossip, family bonds and relationships dominate. I really enjoyed the Sullivan family despite their wealth and fame. Caitlin’s story was lovely, as were her relationships. G-Lil was a highlight and Dillon the rancher was equally enjoyable. So typically a Robert’s read, and I thoroughly enjoyed the escapism!

Quite a different read from the author's previous works. The writing was nuanced and complex. The story flowed quite a few years from Caitvs disappearance in childhood to her escape from the kidnappers and the betrayal she underwent at the hands of a loved one. The story made winding roads as the mid section slowed up considerably. But the last section more than made up for it. Overall, it was a good read.

This one read like Danielle Steele for me, but I enjoyed it. Light read, little mystery, now I want a house in Big Sur.

A book full of love and crime… my two favourite things to read. I loved moving between warmth and bitterness and how this booked absorbed me…I now need a glass bridge, sea views and a rancher. The only reason I didn’t give this book 5⭐️ was because it didn’t have you guessing. I would have liked some twists and turns.

RTC - do the audiobook!!!!

Sometimes you need something a bit lighter to get you through a reading slump and Hideaway by Nora Roberts did that for me. Not only did I enjoy the story (and short chapters!) but the main setting of Big Sur. As if that weren’t enough there’s details on how an audiobook is recorded. This would appeal to lovers of Broadway, Hollywood, small-scale organic farming, and Irish-American families. There’s suspense as well, but some of the “bad guys” seemed like caricatures. That was a minor quibble as I loved the main characters so much. A firm ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ for me and happily I was able to start another book I’m enjoying.

4.5 ⭐️ Had to take my time with this one because it demanded to be felt. Loved.

me, howling at the moon hornily ali said actually edging & incredibly sticky sweaty sex is hot? and i said "it smells like a sizzling fajita skillet in the boudoir? bet." i enjoyed this, though i didn't enjoy it quite as much as Bride. i wanted a leeeeettle more relationship dev beyond "i am so horny i want to rip my skin off when you're near, my sweet knot- taking girl" but even with that minor complaint, i'm not mad. i spent the day leisurely reading this and giggling and kicking my feet. nothing beats the way that ali pulls my favorite microtropes out of my head and puts them to the page. like two of the reveals? i was foaming at the mouth & panties. also i'm gonna say ali is my favorite romance author writing today ok bye

Ate this up. Although I didn’t care for the use of the terms “fuckwaffle, “jizzmuffin,” etc.

life is worth living

1.) Bride ★★★★ “I would throw away my pack, my life, and my entire world for you. Which is the exact reason I cannot have you.” let me make the preface shorter than i wrote for bride, but paranormal romance (on my mom’s bookshelves) raised me, so i will forever have a really big soft spot for the subgenre. and i fear that ali hazelwood’s pnr is elite and just extra works for me and my reading taste! mate stars misery’s best friend, serena, who is half werewolf, and is isolating herself for many different reasons. she has just had a really hard life and doesn’t know much of her past, but has recently received news that has made her harbor many secrets that are very much building up inside her. oh, and the alpha of the northwest pack, koen, is her mate, but they are both choosing to just accept that and not attempt to form any sexual or romantic relationship - serena, because of her secrets, and koen, because he has taken a vow of celibacy to prove his pack will always come first. and both of them truly just need to focus on the danger that is slowly coming for them both. but the thing about werewolves is that sometimes you only want your mate to help you with… certain things™️. which leads to making the sexual tension build up in this so insanely good. like, some of the best “forbidden” edging (for lack of a better word) i’ve read in a long while! koen was truly sexy and really did make me wonder why i haven’t been reading more werewolf romances. i will say, i did enjoy bride more, but i still really recommend this one, and i can’t wait for more in this series. content warnings from the author (please use caution for potential spoilers): death of several people within the context of a war between different species (vampires, werewolves, and humans) is mentioned, frequent mentions of blood, abductions, descriptions of suicide, threats of assault, including sexual, and of violence, poisoning and attempted murder, attempted kidnapping/harming of a child (she is unharmed), death of parents, explicit and graphic sexual content, knotting, cursing and vulgar language, cults/brainwashing, mating cycles, child neglect (in the past), discussions of terminal illness, drugs, discussions of infertility, discussions of pregnancy other trigger + content warnings i found while reading (ali's books really do have such good tws - i am always so thankful and impressed): threat (and maybe insinuation) of sa to a young girl in past, misogyny (negative light), vomit, drugging, gun violence, bomb/explosion violence threat, amnesia, a medical professional wrong diagnosis / not seeing the whole picture blog | instagram | youtube | wishlist | spotify | substack ♡ The Love Hypothesis ★★★★★ ♡ Love, Theoretically ★★★★ ♡ Not in Love ★★ ♡ Two Can Play ★★★★ ♡ Cruel Winter with You ★★★★ ♡ Deep End ★ ♡ Hot for Slayer ★★★

I NEED MORE BOOKS IN THIS UNIVERSE

── ⋆˙⟡ 4 stars! ★ ﹒⌗﹒contains no spoilers﹒౨ৎ˚₊‧ “if someone had given me a piece of paper and asked me to list everything i liked, everything i dreamed of, everything that i was sure would make me happy, you would have been the final product of it.” ﹒ ⋆ ꩜ ⋆ 𓂃 ₊ ⊹ ⟢ ⌗ ⋮ my thoughts♟️ ིܳ ﹾ ⸝⸝ ৎ okay so i’m gonna be honest. i’m surprised. i mean yes, i liked the first book, but that doesn’t mean i expected this one to work. i don’t have great history with this author and i usually find her stuff way too cringe for me. there’s always a certain level of secondhand embarrassment in her books, and most of the time i can’t push past it. so even though i liked bride, i still went into this one assuming it’d probably suck. and yet somehow? i had a good time. not saying this wasn’t cringe—because it absolutely was—but it landed just within the range of cringe i can tolerate. which is unfortunately a win in my book. i also kinda went into this forgetting literally everything from the other book, which is insane considering i read it like two months ago. but it didn’t really matter? the plot is simple enough that i was able to follow along and still be interested. i was actually keeping up with things. fully engaged. but yeah, the beginning was definitely the roughest part for me. that’s when the cringe hit the worst. the language, the dialogue, the “humor”… it was rough. the amount of times i had to pause and go “what the hell did i just read” was too many. the whole jizzmuffin thing? traumatic. and it wasn’t just that. there’s random tiktok lingo tossed all around that does not belong in a romantasy world. i swear this book is gonna age like milk. the squirrel mentions were also… something. weirdly funny sometimes, but mostly just ??? and the whole heat thing? yeah… not even touching that. but once i hit around the halfway point, i stopped caring about the cringe and just let myself be entertained. and honestly? it worked. ﹒ ⋆ ꩜ ⋆ 𓂃 ₊ ⊹ ⟢ ⌗ ⋮ characters♟️ ིܳ ﹾ ⸝⸝ ৎ serena i liked more than i expected to. i didn’t care about her plot in the last book at all, but she worked here. she didn’t annoy me, which honestly feels like a win. she didn’t do much to stand out either though. like i was neutral in the most literal sense. ৎ koen is the definition of “he’s fine i guess.” he didn’t annoy me. but also, nothing about him felt new. i liked him in the moment, but couldn’t tell you anything about him now. ৎ side characters were also just fine. well. everyone else was okay. except misery. i remember liking her before, but wow. here? her dialogue drove me insane. she felt too tiktok coded to the point of being unbearable. ﹒ ⋆ ꩜ ⋆ 𓂃 ₊ ⊹ ⟢ ⌗ ⋮ romance♟️ ིܳ ﹾ ⸝⸝ ৎ i hated the nickname. hated it. please bring back normal nicknames in books i am begging. but aside from that… the romance actually worked. i mean… mostly. there were definitely moments where i was like “what the hell is this” but for the most part it was good. the tension was good. their dynamic made things fun. i wasn’t obsessed, but i was invested. ﹒ ⋆ ꩜ ⋆ 𓂃 ₊ ⊹ ⟢ ⌗ ⋮ extras♟️ ིܳ ﹾ ⸝⸝ — the squirrel beef. don’t ask. — the humor was just so painfully unfunny. — the werewolf elements felt so watered down sometimes. — let’s be clear. there’s no reality where this isn’t cringe. — and can i just list all these weird ass words… jizzmuffin. shitmuncher. cockwomble. cumduck. twatwaffles. cumbucket. fuckwaffle. deadass i’m sure i didn’t even get half of them… ﹒ ⋆ ꩜ ⋆ 𓂃 ₊ ⊹ ⟢ ⌗ ⋮ overall♟️ ིܳ ﹾ ⸝⸝ ৎ look. maybe my bar is just so on the floor after months of crappy books, but this was fun. cringe and weird and occasionally unhinged, yes, but entertaining. and that’s really all i wanted. ── ⟢ ・⸝⸝ entry 0358 ❞ ☆ 🖇️ pre-read 𖥻 ＜꒱ i liked bride. mostly. which is wild considering how most ali hazelwood books and i do not get along. so going into this? yeah i have no idea what to expect. could be great. could be a disaster. 𓏲 ⟡ bride ⋆ ꒰ ✦ ꒱ ⌗﹒ 01 bride — 4 ☆ ⌗﹒ 02 mate — 4 ☆

✩ 4 stars ✩ What to Expect: ➼ Forced Proximity ➼ Fated Mates ➼ Alpha Werewolf x Human Hybrid ➼ Slow Burn ➼ Found Family ➼ Female Friendship ➼ Forbidden Romance ➼ Paranormal Romance ➼ Duet Narration - Ellie Gossage & Teddy Hamilton ➼ Dual First Person POV This was a really enjoyable read, but I didn’t love it quite as much as Bride. Based on the tropes, I feel like this should have been a solid 5 star read, but his commitments as alpha kind of squashed most of the tension that could have built up during their forced proximity. As much as I hate insta love in contemporary romances, it feels a little bizarre not to include it to some degree when the MC’s are fated mates. Even if they are burying it under mutual contempt or stubbornness, I need to feel that intense connection between them. In this book, it truly felt like neither of them felt more than a base attraction for the other for the first half of the book. If it weren’t for her circumstances, it seemed like neither of them would have ever made a move and they would have just gone on with their lives as if she wasn’t his mate. It was just kind of a weird dynamic in my opinion and it somewhat lessened my interest in their relationship. There was a little less quirky banter in this book than in most of Ali’s books. Don’t get me wrong, I think witty banter is one of Ali’s strengths, but many of her FMC’s feel like the same character in different fonts. I appreciated that she switched things up a bit for Serena. Serena’s half Were status makes her very “special” in their world but I liked how “normal” and relatable she felt otherwise. I tend to also really admire the very sacrificial characters and she definitely fits that description. Overall I thought this was really fun, but I wished the romance gave a little more in the first half. Still definitely worth picking up! I really hope Ali writes more paranormal romances in future! ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ Pre-read: FINALLY!!!! I need this to deliver! Ali, please don’t let me down! ¡Attention! We have a cover!! 😍 ≪ ◦ ❖ ◦ ≫ Connect with me on Instagram

Koen (being the ALPHA that he is) single-handedly carried this book on his back… whilst talking you through it 😏🥵

very fun when you ignore the fact that the author is writing the same reylo dynamics in all her books. if it works, it works i guess.

Somehow Mate felt like classic Ali Hazelwood...but at the same time, unlike anything else she's written. While this is a romance technically speaking, I would argue that it's a character book focused on Serena as she adjusts to Were life and politics—with a healthy dose of a romance. And Serena was incredible. She's easily my favorite Ali Hazelwood FMC. She's sunshiny and upbeat and complemented both Koen and Misery perfectly. I was heavily invested in the pack dynamics and political tension among the Weres, Vampyres, and Humans. In that regard, Mate seemed like a contemporary fantasy. And I loved how Ali Hazelwood significantly expanded on the world-building established in Bride. Because of the plot focus, I feel like I could've been a bit more connected to Koen. I would've liked to see more of their relationship developing on page, since it seemed like he was off on Alpha-business for a fair portion of the book. But his and Serena's banter and slow burn tension when he was in fact present? And forbidden romance?! No notes. The pacing was solid overall, but there were times when I felt the plot was a bit all over the place. I think Mate could've been shorter since some scenes felt too filler-y and long. But such a good time though!

4.25⭐️ I haven’t had this much fun with a traditionally published book in ages. Actually high stakes! A believable-enough mess! Knots!

3.75⭐️ Fun. Fast. Furry. Not as good as the first book. But Bride had vampires. So it was never gonna be a fair fight. I will say that I feel personally attacked by the use of "my gland" and I am seeking reparations from Mrs. Hazelwood at this time.

What do you mean by Koen Alexander is not a poet? 🐺 Her laughter adjusts the spin of his atoms. 🐺 He wants to show her every corner of his territory. The deep blue lakes and the snow-capped peaks. Moss-draped trees and rock spires. He wants to be with her for each marveled intake of breath. 🐺 He easily resigned himself to a lifetime without her, but . . . Simply put, he is unwilling to contemplate a universe in which she no longer exists. 🐺 It’s odd, what her absence does to him. She is missing, but she fills and floods every part of his life. 🐺 He is afraid— not only of what might happen to her, but also of what he might do to the world in retaliation. 🐺 My eyes lock with his, willing him to understand. “You are the heart of this pack, Koen.” He nods. Even as he says, “And you are mine, Serena.” 🐺 “How perfect you are. I spent the last twenty years hoping that if there was a mate for me out there, I’d never come across them. And then I found you, and, Serena . . . there isn’t one thing I would change about you. Or one single thing I regret about knowing you.” And this is also why this Ali Hazelwood era will never end 📝 He sighs. Tightens his hold on me. “Such a fucking nuisance.” I wonder why it took me until this very moment to realize that it’s been his way of saying I love you all along. 📝 “Serena.” I hear the blurry edge of his smile. A quiet sigh. “I would throw away my pack, my life, and my entire world for you. Which is the exact reason I cannot have you.” 📝 And he won’t be able to let go of her until he’s certain that she’s unharmed and whole, because that’s the bottom line: he doesn’t really trust the world to treat her right if he’s not around. She’s simply too beautiful. 📝 Cute, how she thinks he’d ever let her out of his sight. 📝 And I stop breathing. Because every single thing I glanced at, grazed, examined, eyed, or even considered when we were at the grocery store, every single thing I decided to walk past, every single thing I told myself I didn’t need— every single thing has somehow made it here, inside Koen’s house. 📝 He’s an immovable object and an unstoppable force. And he says, slowly, “If you think I’m going to let you die, Serena, you know fuck all.”

I loved this story - much more than Bride! The slow burn nearly killed me and I loved the tension! The audiobook was AMAZING!

i miss this book 😭 this was exactly what i needed 💕 Her laughter adjusts the spin of his atoms. Simply put, he is unwilling to contemplate a universe in which she no longer exists. these are my favorite quotes of Koen 💘 🐺🧬🐺🧬🐺🧬🐺🧬🐺🧬🐺🧬🐺🧬🐺🧬🐺🧬🐺 (btw, can you guys recommend me books like this?) ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️.75

⌗┆4 stars🪿₊ ˚! ↳ spoiler free review ⊹"if someone had given me a piece of paper and asked me to list everything i liked, everything i dreamed of, everything that i was sure would make me happy, you would have been the final product of it." ┆⤿ thoughts 🧦 ⟡ lets be very clear: there is no universe where this isnt cringey and painfully unfunny…but theres also no universe where i didnt have a fun time 😛😛 yall im getting GOOSEBUMPS thinking about the spice. im usually not a huge fan of spice, but this was actually goo, which i feel really weird saying…anyway the audiobook was SO GOOD! teddy hamilton was LIFE ⟡ this is just one of those books you read for entertainment…and i was entertained! ofc it was cringey and had millennial humor, but there was nothing i absolutely hated! koen CARRIED this book. if you gave him a different personality this book would be a 1 at best. hes just perfect. ┆⤿ characters 🧺 ⟡ serena. i liked her a lot more than expected! i didnt care for her plot at the end of bride so i was nervous going into this, however, i loved her! ⊹”if today was my last day, i’d be happy to have spent it with you.” ⟡ koen. God…koen 🧎‍♀️‍➡️ WHY DID I LOVE HIM SO MUCH?!? not to get too freaky but this man is the definition of dominant and possessive. i love love love how he treated serena ESPECIALLY when he found out she was sick! this man was head over heels for her ⊹“her laughter adjusts the spin of his atoms.” ⤿ ⊹₊ ˚october 29th, 2025 ➤ november 1st, 2025 ⊹₊ ˚ ── ࣪˖ ࣪ ⊹ ࣪ ˖ ── ⌗┆pre-read 🪿₊ ˚! ⤿ ⊹₊ ˚mate, ali hazelwood ⊹₊ ˚ saw teddy hamilton was a narrator for the audiobook…IMMEDIATE LISTEN 😼😼 i didnt loveeee bride, but i have high hopes for this one 🤞

4.5🌟 I think I’m truly in the minority here when I say that I liked this wayyyyy more than Bride. Oopsies. 🤭 I can’t tell if that’s because I was now able to go into it with the knowledge of what this genre would look like with Ali’s writing, or if it’s because I just simply liked it more 🤔 (for this reason, I should’ve done a Bride reread, but I’m too lazy) I had so much fun with this. It’s honestly impossible not to with Ali’s writing. She always has me laughing out loud and then giggling & kicking my feet. And lemme just say… Koen… whewwwww 😮‍💨 my man knows how to talk a girl through it 😫😫😫😫 oh my gawdddddd. The first 🌶️ scene caught me off guard and girl I was sweatinnnng!!!! And then yall know what other two chapters I’m talking about…. SHEEEESH😭 that was crazy. And I absolutely ate it up The forced proximity & angst from them not being able to touch each other…. 😫😫 excellent choice with that one, Ali. 👏🏻🙂‍↕️ I loved Serena & Koen hehehe they had great chemistry together. This had such a good ending, too. I can’t decide on a set rating for this atm, so you might see it fluctuate between a 4 and a 4.5 for like a week. Sorry ✌🏻 A few quotes I loved: "There could never be disappointment, because there were never any comparisons, or expectations, or hopes, or standards to meet. There's only... He casts a glance around the room, searching. Then his eyes settle on me. "There is only you, Serena." “I will want you no matter what. But you are also..." He licks his lips. "If someone had given me a piece of paper and asked me to list everything I liked, everything I dreamed of, everything that I was sure would make me happy, you would have been the final product of it." “Her laughter adjusts the spin of his atoms.’ "I know that you took an oath. And I know that this is doomed. But... Koen. There is very little that I wouldn't do for you, if you were to ask me." "Serena." I hear the blurry edge of his smile. A quiet sigh. "I would throw away my pack, my life, and my entire world for you. Which is the exact reason I cannot have you." “I want you to tell me what you need, and I want the privilege of giving it to you. I want you to use me." A kiss on my collarbone. “I spent the last twenty years hoping that if there was a mate for me out there, I'd never come across them. And then I found you, and, Serena... there isn't one thing I would change about you. Or one single thing I regret about knowing you." ‘Simply put, he is unwilling to contemplate a universe in which she no longer exists.’

4.25ish ⭐️ (audiobook 5⭐️) Well, this was seriously a blast, I had such a good time with this one. The banter was chef’s kiss. I was laughing out loud more times than I can count. These two are pure comedy gold together, and as far as paranormal romcoms go, this one definitely delivers. The audiobook is straight-up perfection. Both narrators killed it. I didn’t even know Teddy was narrating, and what a lovely surprise MY BABY!!! They brought all the characters’ playful energy to life so wonderfully. I smiling for like 70% of this book. And then there’s the whole mating/claiming/heat thing that’s somehow incredibly …..hot?? I don’t know, I’ve learned not to question these things and just roll with it. There was a moment in this book where it felt like these two were going at it for hours, maybe they were? We definitely paused the story for a nice little fck fest..10/10. And you already know that 🪢ing goes crazyyyyy😂 I absolutely loved how these two could not get enough of each other. They literally wanted to crawl inside each other and die. By the end of this book my man was so down bad, so damn obsessed … just how I like them. Just casually, inhaling her. I really enjoyed the pack dynamics, the territory drama, and the culty story line. It kept me hooked almost the entire time. Overall I had such a fun ride with this one and really loved it!

Women can be heroes. 4 1/2 stars. Kristin Hannah certainly knows how to take a sledgehammer to your heart and she is NOT afraid to do it. Hannah's reads are so powerful and harrowing that I can forgive a few negatives, like here I think the major plot points of the story are quite predictable-- yet they still hit me like a ton of bricks, their impact not lessened by the fact I'd seen them coming. Maybe this one was easier to predict as I'm getting used to the author's formula. Her novels take us to vastly different times and places but she uses similar tricks to engage the reader. I’m not complaining: it works. This book is an epic on women in the Vietnam War. Hannah introduces us to bright-eyed and naive nurse Frances "Frankie" McGrath, who longs for a place on her father's "Hero's Wall" and so volunteers for service in Vietnam. It is an understatement to say she didn't know what she was getting into. Frankie finds herself in hell on Earth, struggling to help put together men who have been blown apart, watching Vietnamese children die from napalm burns, losing friends for a cause none of them even understand. Those sensitive to graphic depictions of injuries should steer clear-- as a nurse in Vietnam, Frankie witnesses some of the most horrific things in our world. "We've developed the skills to save their bodies, but not their lives," Captain Smith said. But this is not just a story about the war itself. It is a story of a young woman's growth, aging impossibly in a short amount of time. Her friends, Barb and Ethel, keep her spirits up at the worst times, and the funny dialogue between them is a major highlight of the novel. She falls in love and this, too, gives her hope for the future. How could she go from red alert sirens and saving lives to butter knives and champagne? Only half of this story is set in Vietnam; the other half is about coming home and living afterwards. It's not easy to say which one is more difficult. There was no hero's welcome for those returning from Vietnam. Veterans were cursed at and spat on. Many were left with irreparable damage from their time in the war. For some, it was the loss of a limb. For many, it was the loss of something harder to explain. While psychiatric help began to be offered, it was typically for male veterans. As with several of Hannah's other books, she once again shines a light on the women who have been erased from history. The female veterans she spoke with for this book told her how they often heard "There were no women in Vietnam." I cannot imagine how it must feel to risk your life, sacrifice your youth and peace of mind, and be told that it didn't even happen. Another horrible, ugly, powerful book from one of my must-read authors. As well as graphic injuries, this may not be suitable to those sensitive to depictions of substance abuse and (view spoiler).

4.5 ⭐️!! I love a book about strong women, especially one written by Kristin Hannah and ESPECIALLY about ones who served our country and were told to their faces that there were “no women in Vietnam” (but still persevered) Frankie is one of my favorite FMC of Kristin Hannah’s, we see her in the beginning blindly and naively joining the nurses in the midst of the Vietnam war, then watched her become so strong while seeing so much loss. Not just that, but how she coped coming home when no one would listen to her or validate her which was so heartbreaking and frustrating…it was all such a JOURNEY!! The pacing was so quick with always something happening which kept me super invested from the beginning The storyline & ending became a bit predictable, but I appreciated the realistic depiction of women in the war & the female relationships Frankie made!

its taken me so long to write this review because i dont really know what to say. there really isnt anything i found partially amazing or bad about this. it just... is. if that makes sense. objectively, i appreciate the highlighting of women during a time and circumstance where they went supremely unacknowledged. i think KH handled the conflicting feelings americans have about the vietnam war as best as she could and i found frankies story to be worth reading. subjectively, i guess i was wanting to feel something more. i have had fantastic experiences with KHs books in the past and this one just wasnt quite on the same level as what i am previously used to. so again, nothing terrible about this book at all. its well-written and a good piece of historical fiction set during an uncommon time period. but i do feel like, even though this was a positive reading experience, i have read better from this author. ↠ 3.5 stars

.·:*¨ 4.25 stars ¨*:·. in typical kristin hannah fashion, this book was equally devastating + addicting. you know those books you could universally recommend to anyone despite their age, genre taste, and personality? this is one of those. ≪•◦ ❈ she’d begun believing that she was stupid and learned slowly that she was just human.❈ ◦•≫ ╭┈┈what to expect┈┈╮ ・❥・an army nurse’s POV during her service in the Vietnam war ・❥・an in-depth look into America as it was protesting the Vietnam war and veterans were coming home to a divided America ・❥・PTSD, love + loss, alcohol/substance abuse, depression, intense war descriptions (somewhat explicit injury scenes during war) – AKA lots of emotional turmoil ・❥・familial misunderstanding, love, forgiveness, and hurt ・❥・a woman losing herself, finding herself, and then doing it all over again and again ・❥・an absolute emotional ROLLERCOASTER ・❥・strong female friendships <3 (no one writes these better than kristin hannah!) ≪•◦ ❈maybe happy now, happy for a moment, is all we really get. happy forever seems a shitload to ask in a world on fire.❈ ◦•≫ this was honestly such a heavy read (i was also on my period, so that didn’t help) and it made me emotional multiple times. this author is one of the few that i can count on to upend my emotions every single time because her characters just feel so HUMAN. they are imperfect, make mistakes, struggle, and then find happiness where they can. this isn’t my favorite book by her (‘firefly lane’ is a 6 star and absolutely destroyed me)... but take that with a grain of salt PLEASE. i don’t give out 4+ star ratings lightly and kristin hannah continues to deliver every time. her books make me enjoy historical fiction without ever getting bored or being overwhelmed from excessive info dumping. this one will sit on my shelf for a very long time and it’s one i’d recommend to literally anyone. ⋆ ★

4⭐ Genre ~ historical fiction Setting ~ California, Vietnam, Virginia, Montana Publication date ~ February 6, 2024 Est page Count ~ 480 (35 chapters) Audio length ~ 14 hours 57 minutes Narrator ~ Julia Whelan POV ~ single 3rd Featuring ~ nurse, sexism, some graphic scenes, death, miscarriage, PTSD, reckless behavior, substance abuse, suicide attempt, infidelity Part 1 ~ 1966 ~ California & Vietnam 21 year old Frankie is missing her brother after he heads off to Vietnam with the navy. She enlists with the Army since they're the only branch that will get her over there quickly. This part is full on war and all the chaos that it entails. Oh Frankie, I salute you for your service, but not for your decision making when it comes to men. Part 2 ~ 1971 ~ 1982 ~Virginia & California & Montana She has completed her tours and is understandably having a tough time. It really dives deep into how getting back into civilian life is not easy to do. She joins the protests. She tries to look for support, but gets turned away for being a woman and not having actually been in combat. Her journey to get her mental health in check is a long one, but eventually she gets there and uses her experience perfectly in the end. It was really hard to listen to her father disrespect her time and time again, but different times I suppose. The friendships she made with Ethel and Barb were ones to last a lifetime as they each know what the other has lived through. They'd drop everything to be by her side when she needed them the most (not sure how they were able to get to her so quickly, cuz it's fiction I guess). Overall, as expected, it was well researched, but I do think this could have been cut down quite a bit. Narration notes: A superb job as usual. She really brought the story to life. *Thanks to the author, Macmillan Audio and NetGalley for the audio copy. I am voluntarily leaving my honest review* Connect with me ➡ Blog ~ Facebook ~ Twitter

Whoa, this was good. Maybe my favorite of her books now. Also, it's got plenty of sad things, but it didn't feel as truly crushing as The Four Winds or Winter Garden (both of which I really loved).

The first Kristin Hannah book I read was The Nightingale and it was phenomenal! I also loved The Four Winds and The Great Alone. I have five or six other Kristin Hannah books sitting on my bookshelf waiting to be read. The Women is about women nurses who served in the Vietnam War and what life was like when they returned home to the US. Frances, aka Frankie, is the main protagonist who experiences tragedies, trauma, PTSD, and relationship challenges. Highly recommend!

**Many thanks to NetGalley, Erica Martirano at St. Martin's Press, and Kristin Hannah for an ARC of this book! Now available as of 2.6!!** "A woman is like a tea bag - you never know how strong she is until you put her in hot water." - Eleanor Roosevelt Frances "Frankie" McGrath knows that nursing school is just the beginning for her...but the men in her life don't quite agree. With her brother heading out to Vietnam to follow in the footsteps of the men in McGrath family, his goodbye party is a wake-up call to Frankie...and she feels a pull she just can't ignore. Why aren't any WOMEN featured on her father's "Wall of Heroes?" In the words of the poet Dylan, the times were 'a-changin' and a 'safe' and sheltered life at home in the California sun just doesn't seem like the right fit for Frankie. She feels compelled to put her skills to use overseas, and to be the first McGrath woman to serve her country as part of the medical corps. Despite her family's protests, Frankie ends up enlisting in the Army Nurse Corps and proudly takes her place alongside other brave men and women ready to save lives - no matter the cost. But Frankie's innocence and lack of experience lead to a rude awakening the minute she hits the soil: her two roommates (who will become besties) Barb and Ethel quickly show her the ropes and remind her not to drink the water...and that the prim and pristine nurse outfits that might work in the States have no place here. Her hooch (slang for a 'thatched hut or improvised living space' is not exactly a cabin from summer camp...and Frankie learns that the type of horrors she's going to see on a daily basis....well, they weren't exactly depicted in her nursing school textbooks. Dealing with the constant threat of ending up a casualty, and learning how to perform surgical procedures on the fly, Frankie has her hands full...and throw in a questionable romantic entanglement or two, and it's CERTAINLY more than she bargained for... Eventually, Frankie's tour comes to an end, and she looks forward to the warm embrace of the family she left behind...but nothing could have prepared her for what she finds when she returns to the States. Not only is she not afforded a hero's welcome...she's met with scorn, ridicule, and a family that seems ashamed of her service. The country itself is divided, and because so many believe the war itself to be a mistake, there are protests, anger, and vitriol coursing through the veins of the citizens of the United States. Frankie is even met with statements like "There were no women in Vietnam," leaving her floored, hurt, and terrified about what a return to civilian life will be like for her and her friends. As tensions continue to rise and Frankie fights for her rights as a Vietnam veteran AND a female in a rapidly changing environment, a flood of mental health struggles threaten to disrupt her life...permanently. Can Frankie learn to process her trauma, fight for her rights AND discover what life after the war looks like for her...or will the aftershocks of a senseless war keep her mired in pain and unable to move forward...at all? If there's one thing that's evident in all of Kristin Hannah's historical fiction, it's that she's spent FAR longer than many of her contemporaries burying herself in research about the time period (and oftentimes, the battle) at hand. Her books have a specific feel to them, one that is simply bursting with detail about the sights, sounds, smells, and look of the scenery in play. However, with all of this detail teeming from each page, I've found that at times it feels like Hannah is OVER explaining and almost justifying what time period we are in a bit TOO often, while simultaneously expecting the reader to have the level of familiarity she does with some of the background of the time period. A great example of this: TaB is mentioned as a beverage of choice many times throughout the book...as if to say, "Remember? It's the 1960s!"...but when intricacies of wartime life and vocabulary a reader who may not be familiar with the Vietnam War much at all (such as myself) such as the aforementioned "hooch" are presented with little explanation...it feels like a missed opportunity. I realize Hannah's books are fiction and not a textbook: however. coming into this book with little context about the war itself and what the day-to-day looked like in Vietnam, THAT would have been interesting to learn, rather than to just surmise what I THOUGHT it might be via context clues. There's a second hallmark of Hannah's writing that was certainly present here: she leans into telling stories of strong women battling the patriarchy, and demonstrating that they are as powerful as men, if not more so. Frankie certainly fits the bill at first glance: she's smart, determined, brave, and even a bit headstrong, and as a reader, at the beginning of the book, I was all in with her journey. However, once you get to actually KNOW Frankie...she's a bit of a mess when it comes to decision making, and to be honest, it made it incredibly hard to empathize with her at times. For a woman so determined to forge her own path and be independent, she relies HEAVILY on her friends to bail her out time and time again (which due to the magic of fiction and storytelling, they are consistently able to drop everything at a moment's notice), and despite CONSISTENT clues that men in her life are toxic, Frankie ignores this information and continues to pursue these options. NOT TO MENTION when she ends up with a wonderful man in her life later on, she basically treats him like The Backup Guy and drops him like a bad habit. This sort of disparity in our MC made her more than a bit unlikable, and despite the empathy I felt towards her overall situation, I also felt like she purposefully got in her own way FAR more than was necessary to make the drama in the story work. There's also the small fact that Frankie is the ONLY person we hear from....for the ENTIRE book. All 480 pages of it. With fascinating side characters like Frankie's two pals Barb and Ethel, and even some of the people she meets after returning home from war that seemed...to be blunt, more likable than Frankie, we only see the turn of events from her perspective. This book felt more like it could have been called "The WOMAN," in all honesty. Aside from not hearing from Frankie's pals, another glaring opportunity that was missed was the chance to hear from ANY of the women in VIETNAM in a real way. There are very few interactions between Frankie and these characters...but I don't see why this needed to be the case. As an author who has made it her mission to tell these type of stories, a way to flesh out this book (and still probably cut down on page count!) would have been to include the perspective of some of the women fighting for survival in their own country, at LEAST in the first half of the book. I would have gladly dropped some of the seemingly endless descriptions of bombs, blood, and some of Frankie's mooning over the aforementioned Bad Guy to hear more of THESE stories. Perhaps the final 'hallmark' of a Hannah book in and of itself is tragedy: there WILL be deaths, and plenty of them. This is also a bit of a pain point for me personally when reading her books, because at times it can be easy to telegraph exactly who will meet their demise...and even sometimes WHEN, for the benefit of the plot. I don't mind a couple of these 'predictable' instances, but with Hannah's books, they can have the feel of a thriller that just didn't know when to quit and has a few too MANY twists. Despite these areas for opportunity in this particular novel, Hannah continues to forge ahead with her long-standing mission of exploring the other side of the coin: rather than a male-dominated, patriarchal view of all things war-related, it is the bold and brilliant women who were the backbone of many a turbulent time. She perhaps could not have picked a more complex conflict to explore, and with such divide about what it means to be a true patriot still ringing true today, this quote from MLK perhaps sums up the ramifications of a nation still feeling the aftershocks today: "The war in Vietnam is but a symptom of a far deeper malady within the American spirit." And if there's anyone with the strength to cure ANY malady...who better than a nurse? 👩‍⚕️ 4 stars

₊˚⊹ 4.25 stars 𓍢ִ໋🧡˚ i need a bonus chapter or smth — like, im crying wth 😭🫂 ────୨ৎ──── ₊˚⊹ pre-read 𓍢ִ໋🧡˚ buddy read with the incredible and amazing haritha!! tysm for reading this with me bestie 🥹💌 im super excited to see how this goes <3

Like the author I, too, was quite young but recall the Vietnam war. I remember the horrifying news coverage when it finally emerged, the My Lai massacre, the protests, and the other events touched upon in this novel. I do not recall anything at all about the female nurses who served. Hannah’s novel goes about correcting this omission. These nurses served tirelessly amid heavy artillery, searing heat, and seemingly unending onslaughts of casualties. Upon their return home they were plagued by PTSD just as their brother vets but without anywhere to find help. An historical novel that was overdue and, for the most part, deftly handled.

3.5 stars Women’s wartime contributions is a topic I’ve been interested in for awhile now. For this historical fiction novel, I was pleased to see Kristin Hannah chose to focus on the nurses who served during the Vietnam War. She was able to capture the extreme working conditions as well as post war life. Its well-known veterans during this time period were not exactly welcomed back with open arms due to public sentiment about the war. Female veterans also didn’t receive much support from fellow veterans or even the US government. Unfortunately, the story has a soap opera quality to it at times. The main character, Frances “Frankie” McGrath, has an interesting character arc but there is one particular storyline that could have been eliminated. Doing so serves the overall story better as the ending would pack more of an emotional punch. (Yes, I’m trying to be vague so I don’t dip into spoiler territory.) Even though The Women isn’t my favorite book by this author, it still was a good read because of the historical content and depiction of women who served during this time period. Thank you to St. Martin’s Press and Netgalley for providing a free advance digital copy! All thoughts expressed are my honest opinion.

Another emotionally draining read. I wanted to cry the entire time for Frankie. The devastation throughout the book was unimaginable. I feel like every time I read a book from Kristin Hannah I learn so much. I’m not the same person before and after her books.

It never occurred to me that women would be erased from the Vietnam War because my mother was a nurse there. She was the head of her MASH unit and collected a pension for her service until she died. I guess the difference for her was that she served in the South Korean army. So this book evoked in me pride for her service, questions about her youth, sadness that we never really talked about her time there, and shock over how the US nurses were treated (who did the men think were doing all the nursing duties at a time when male nurses were so rare?????). A full circle story. A couple of loose ends tied too neatly for me but otherwise, an excellent telling.

The Women was definitely one of the most emotionally taxing books I’ve read in a long while! Emily and I were hollerin’ and premeditating the murder of our kindles at certain points. 😂 So much happened to our poor main character, Frankie! I couldn’t help but rage against the very real situations that this fictional character was put through. My family had an unspoken ‘don’t ask don’t tell’ rule around my grandfathers’ Vietnam service. Apparently that was the rule with almost all veterans of the time after the terrible treatment they experienced—both from the government and anti-war protesters. This book opened my eyes to a lot of new information about the war, both during and after the fighting. The rage I felt seeing the women who fought tirelessly to save lives being dismissed was unmatched. Kristin Hannah explains in her afterword that she spent decades interviewing these brave women to write this book, and it shows in the attention to detail. I felt the whole spectrum of human emotions in this book. The Women deals with themes of grief, ptsd, war, addiction, betrayal, and guilt. I had to stop reading a few times because of how emotional I was. The amount of screaming Emily and I did together was super exciting, especially in the last third of the book. 😅 Frankie went through so much (honestly too much) in this book. I was fuming over some of the things that happened. This poor girl could NOT catch a break. There were several amazing female characters in this book that could’ve taken some of the plot trauma, but it felt like it was all dumped on Frankie. It felt unrealistic—not that those terrible things happened, but it all happening to just one woman felt statistically improbable. I would’ve loved a POV from Ethel or Barb to help spread the experiences (unique to the female veterans) throughout the characters. Kristin Hannah once again made me cry and rage all over the place, but I’ll keep coming back for more 😂 Thank you to Emily for walking through the fire with me! Our yap sessions remain unmatched 🩷 Pre Read: Buddy reading with my girl emily 💕 Ready to let KH make me cry again 😭

4.5💫 speechless. this was so emotional and broke me in true kristin hannah fashion. ive never learned much about the vietnam war and enjoyed how educational this one was not only with what happened during the war, but how people acted and how veterans were treated. this was such a powerful story about womens experience in and after the war. the way veterans were treated was so heartbreaking to read about and is an aspect of the war i had no idea about. my grandpa is a vietnam war veteran and never talks about his experience because it was so traumatizing, and i cannot imagine first hand how horrible being in this war was when i felt sick reading about it and the horrors the people went through. i love the friendships that were formed between the women and how they continuously showed up for one another. all of kristin hannahs books have such strong, powerful women and its one aspect i really appreciate about her books. i feel like most of this book was a punch in the gut, but there were so many heartwarming moments too. i definitely recommend the women. one of my favorites by her

I’m gathering my thoughts brb

John Grisham is my favorite author for legal thrillers. His books never fail to keep my eyes glued to the pages as the drama unfolds. Many ethical and moral dilemmas are always brought forth with different character interpretations of what is right. This one involved international intrigue with law firms in several countries and lots of flying back and forth from country to country with negotiations happening everywhere it seemed. Description: What became of Mitch and Abby McDeere after they exposed the crimes of Memphis law firm Bendini, Lambert & Locke and fled the country? The answer is in The Exchange, the riveting sequel to The Firm, the blockbuster thriller that launched the career of America’s favorite storyteller. It is now fifteen years later, and Mitch and Abby are living in Manhattan, where Mitch is a partner at the largest law firm in the world. When a mentor in Rome asks him for a favor that will take him far from home, Mitch finds himself at the center of a sinister plot that has worldwide implications—and once again endangers his colleagues, friends, and family. Mitch has become a master at staying one step ahead of his adversaries, but this time there’s nowhere to hide. My Thoughts: This book has a lot of characters and a lot of details to keep track of what is going on. Not a problem as everything is front and center and about as dramatic and traumatic as it could be. The characters are vivid and come alive on the page. Mitch is once again in the center of a hurricane trying to hold everything together. There were definitely some things that were hard to believe - like how did Mitch get a license to practice law again? Why in the world was Abby picked as the go between by the kidnappers? You just have to suspend belief and go with the story. It was an engrossing read and I enjoyed it. I liked The Firm more though. Thanks to Doubleday Books through Netgalley for an advance copy. This book will be published on October 17, 2023.

As I have described in previous book reviews, it is time for one of my annual late Fall rituals. The leaves are falling (or if you are in Seattle, the rain is falling). College football is in full gear and the winter holidays are starting. It’s time to build a fire in our fireplace, open the new John Grisham novel, “The Exchange”, and escape into the legal world of thriller fiction. Over the last couple of years, Grisham has been changing things up and trying new approaches rather than just relying on his normal underdog-do-gooder fighting the evil and powerful corporate villains. Last year it was a trip back in time to the crime and corruption on the Mississippi coast from the 1940’s to the 19080’s. This year he revisits the past as well as explores a new type of legal thriller. “The Exchange” brings back Mitch and Abby McDeere, the young couple from Grisham’s first breakthrough novel “The Firm” published back in 1991. “The Firm” told Mitch and Abby’s story of joining the Memphis law firm Bendini, Lambert & Locke following Mitch’s graduation from Harvard Law School. However, the firm was set-up by the mafia to launder illegal money and evade taxes. After the two of them discover the awful secret, their lives are at risk as they try to expose the crimes and flee to safety. “The Firm” was mega-bestseller, launching Grisham’s super-successful career as a legal thriller writer, and a hit movie starring Tom Cruise probably helped contribute some too. In the Author’s Note at the end of “The Exchange” Grisham comments that his readers over the years continue to write to him asking “Will we ever see Mitch and Abby again?” The answer is yes, and 32 years later we the follow-up “The Exchange” to find out what happened to our two fictional heroes. Now, there are a few interesting things about “The Exchange” and how the book is being marketed. First, the it takes place 15 years after the first one, in 2005. The second item of note is that the book cover doesn’t really tell you what the sequel is about. It does two things. It lets you know that Mitch and Abby are living in Manhattan, New York, and that Mitch is a partner in the largest law firm in the world (that’s probably not a surprise). It also teases the new storyline with a vague description that Mitch will find himself in the middle of a “sinister plot” with “worldwide implications” and that “this time there’s nowhere to hide”. When I read the book jacket, I really glossed over that and didn’t really realize that the plot specifics were being held back. When I started reading the book, and things got going, I started to understand that cover description was holding back on purpose. I truly was better off not knowing more about the storylines beforehand. And I am going to do the same, and stay away from sharing the overall plotline so that you can have the same sense of discovery and enjoyment in your reading experience. What an excellent marketing approach – focus on the return of Mitch and Abby without giving anything away about what the new story is about. We, as readers, are so excited to have them return, that this could have almost been a cookbook and we still would have bought it. Sorry, that’s also an inside joke you’ll understand after reading it. It also allows (and here I tread lightly) Grisham to continue his exploration of new areas of the law to explore. Without giving too much away, Grisham expands his scope of the law into international geo-political spectrums. This is what I would refer to as an international political/legal thriller. It is a new and interesting flavor for his readers that it worth taking. Throughout he still sprinkles in his personal views on capital punishment, solitary confinement, and the value of someone’s life in ways that you know are personal and dear to him. Trust me, you are never bored with a Grisham novel, and that is true with this one. The key to Grisham’s success as a writer, shines through in this book. He is a master storyteller and his writing style just demands your attention is such a fluid and effortless manner. His descriptions are brief, focused, and vivid. His dialogs are sharp and flow like a Robert B. Parker Spenser novel at its best. More importantly. Like Stephen King, Grisham is a pure in heart storyteller, and his storytelling skills are pretty flawless – smooth and flowing prose with no wasted or unnecessary words, a constant focus on moving the conflict forward while pulling on your emotional heart strings. I especially appreciated that Abby’s role was expanded and she played an essential part in the storylines. She and Mitch were equal partners and her role was just as important as his. I also like the continued use of the Scully & Pershing law firm by Grisham. It’s Mitch’s firm in this book, but was also the firm in Grisham’s previous novels “The Associate” and “Gray Mountain”. Overall, “The Exchange” was another enjoyable fall outing with one of my favorite authors. For me, Grisham sets such a high bar for his readers that sometimes it’s hard to review his work with full objectively, since beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. I believe that that the key to Grisham’s continued success is his exemplary power to tell a captivating tale and this one was, although different in scope and focus, was still a strong and well-delivered read. See you again next year, my author friend and master storyteller… I can’t wait… And who knows if and when Mitch and Abby may show up again…

Special thanks to NetGalley and the author for a free, electronic ARC of this novel received in exchange for an honest review. Expected publication date: October 17, 2023 “The Exchange: After The Firm” is John Grisham’s latest legal thriller, set fifteen years after “The Firm”, featuring the same protagonists, Mitch and Abby McDeere. Now, Mitch and Abby have started a new life with their twin boys, after escaping the mob and the catastrophic destruction of Mitch’s former Memphis law firm. Mitch is a successful attorney at one of the largest firms in the world and Abby is a cookbook editor and it isn’t until Mitch gets a call from a colleague in Rome, asking for a favour, that their protected world is once again thrown into chaos. It has been many years since I read “The Firm”, so it wasn’t fresh in my mind. I vaguely remember the main characters, and the high points of the plot, but I don’t have enough recollection to speak to how much of a sequel this book actually is. Needless to say, I was able to enjoy this novel without having to have “The Firm” fresh in my mind. This novel takes place all over the world; from Mitch and Abby’s home in New York, to Rome, Morocco and Libya, so it definitely offers its fair share of exotic locales. Mitch works with his law firm to save Giovanna, a young up-and-coming lawyer who has been taken captive in Libya, and there’s a fair amount of tension and suspense. Of course, there’s a legal case at its core, so those looking for Grisham’s traditional legal storylines won’t be disappointed, but this time it’s an international case, which leads to Mitch’s ever-increasing frequent flyer miles. I like the relationship between Mitch and Abby, and I became more engaged with this novel as it went on. I’m a sucker for non-traditional settings, and Libya and Morocco are about as non-traditional as you can get. The ending played out the way I hoped it would and it was conclusive enough that readers won’t be left hanging for another fifteen years. Grisham is a writing legend for a reason, and “The Exchange: After The Firm” is creative, sleek and modern. Whether it can be exclusively called a ‘sequel’ is up for debate, but it can definitely be read as a stand-alone, so readers can jump into this one without having to re-read “The Firm”.

Like many readers, I’ve wondered if John Grisham would revisit Mitch McDeere at some point. This is a great thriller but it lacks a bit on the legal thriller side and fans of The Firm may feel it didn't adequately deliver as a follow-up to Mitch's storyline. Full review on my blog! Setting and Context The events take place about fifteen years after the events of The Firm. Mitch McDeere is 41 years-old, still married to his wife Abby McDeere, and they have two sons. Abby and Mitch live in Manhattan, where Mitch is a partner at Scully & Pershing and Abby is a cookbook editor. Plot Mitch and Abby finally have the life they could have had if Mitch hadn’t accepted the offer in Memphis. Mitch is at one of the high-paying, high-profile law firms in New York City, he’s a partner, and he works on cases for their wealthy global clients in addition to a few pro-bono cases each year. Mitch is tired of the pro-bono work, where he has taken on (and lost) a series of death row cases. He agrees to help out with a lawsuit for Luca Sandroni, a partner at his firm out of the Rome office who’s dying from pancreatic cancer. The client is a Turkish construction company that is suing the government of Libya for an unpaid debt of $400 million. At Luca’s request, Mitch takes the case and agrees to let Luca’s daughter Giovanna—an associate at the London branch of their firm—come with to assist. When on their travels to see the bridge that is at the center of the lawsuit, Mitch comes down with severe food poisoning and Giovanna goes to the site without him. While on her outing, the drivers and guards protecting her are murdered and Giovanna is kidnapped. In the wake of this horrible event, a mysterious woman contacts Abby with explicit instructions that the price to return Giovanna alive is $100 million. As videos of violent murders populate the news and the media becomes aware of the beautiful, young attorney who was taken, the pressure is on to figure out how to get her back. Amidst the struggles navigating foreign governments, the firm’s insurance policy, and raising the money to secure her return, Mitch can’t help but wonder who is really behind the crime and whether their efforts will be enough to save her. Did Mitch’s past come back to haunt him? Review This is a gripping story and a reminder why John Grisham is a perpetual best-seller when his books come out each fall. The Exchange leans much more into a crime thriller than legal thriller (though some legal commentary is included throughout). You won’t find a courtroom or even an extensive legal narrative throughout the book. This book could have featured any lead, though Grisham chose to make this Mitch McDeere’s story. I enjoyed the book a lot, though it felt more inspired by Tom Cruise the actor than Mitch McDeere the character. Fast-paced and engaging, this book delivers a great plot but may disappoint readers who were looking for a stronger tie to the Mitch McDeere we fell in love with. The Mob never forgets, right? But so far, they have left Mitch alone. Read as a standalone Mitch McDeere book rather than a sequel, it’s a thrilling premise and I was engaged in the plot the whole way through. The beginning included some great scenes where we learn some about what happened to Mitch and others following the events of The Firm. There’s a fun little twist later in the book that also pulls together those events. The audiobook is outstanding. The narrator Edoardo Ballerini lends an easy tone, the right inflections, and handled the variety of accents with ease. I did see an interview with John Grisham where he acknowledged the Mob is still out there and perhaps that could still be explored. A third Mitch McDeere book, perhaps?? All is forgiven if you deliver that, Mr. Grisham!

Well, the ending wasn't a direction I'd have foreseen (nor chosen, for that matter), but getting there was quite a trip in this, the follow-up to the author's super-popular 2010 book The Firm. It was good to see what Mitch McDeere and his wife, Abby, have been up to since they narrowly escaped with their lives after he turned informant against his old law firm and its ties to organized crime. And that, I suppose, is the biggest issue I have with this book. Somehow, I just can't see powers-that-are looking the other way when they know a man stole, and is hiding, a huge amount of money - even if it once belonged to the mob and the guy who stole it is a hero of sorts. But apparently, $10 million somehow got lost in the shuffle (we all know one hand of the government rarely knows what the other is doing, but still...) I, on the other hand, am not quite so forgiving; the money wasn't Mitch's to keep. But mine is also not to reason why, and besides, the rest of the story is interesting, timely and held my attention throughout. And this is now, not then; Mitch is a successful and valued partner at the auspicious law firm of Scully & Pershing at the ripe old age of 41. Abby is a senior editor who honchos cookbook creation and publishing, and together they have twin sons Clark and Carter. Smooth sailing, yes? Well, that's about to change; his boss asks (read: demands) that he go to Rome to see Luca Sandroni, the head of a partner firm. One of Luca's best clients, it seems, is being cheated out of payment for building an ill-fated bridge in Libya and needs a hot-shot attorney like Mitch to argue the case in front of an arbitration board in Geneva. Mitch was actually looking forward to representing Luca's client, right down to personally visiting the bridge; that went south when Luca's daughter Giovanna - who accompanied Mitch to the bridge - is kidnapped. Subsequently, the kidnappers demand an ungodly sum for her safe return - choosing a reluctant Abby as the go-between. And that's just the beginning; the rest of the story, of course, deals with trying to find Giovanna [alive] with help from sources who won't be discovered by the kidnappers and coming up with $100 million in a very short time, mostly from sources who outwardly, at least, refuse to pay ransom under any circumstances. While there's no courtroom drama, it's pretty heady stuff - all well laid out with a few potshots at some of the people, institutions and issues who (IMHO) well deserve them as well as intriguing groundwork for (I hope) another sequel. All told, well done - and I thank the publisher, via NetGalley, for the opportunity to read and review a pre-release copy.

We first met Mitch McDeere and his wife Abby in John Grisham's The Firm, the novel that launched him into superstar of thriller writer fame. Now, after 15 years initially on the run and then working his way into partnership in a leading law firm with a beautiful view from the 48th floor and an enviable life in Manhattan, Mitch finds himself embroiled in an international imbroglio, which seems to only be handled by jumping into private jets and staying in hotels like the Ritz or the Hassler. I get the opinion that Grisham has further plans for Mitch. No proof of that or teasers at the finale of this fast-paced, back to doing what he does best novel, just a gut reaction. Also, who knew Grisham was such an epicure? As much page space was devoted to fine meals (both consumed and laying ignored) as to the thriller at hand, and the fact that Abby has found life as a cookbook editor with a kitchen equipped for her authors to practice their scrumptious experiments on Mitch and his family. At times, the novel made me more hungrier than spine chilled.

The Exchange catches up with Mitch and Abby McDeere fifteen years after the events in The Firm. They now live in Manhattan and have two sons and successful careers. Mitch is continuing his law career, and Abby is an editor. Mitch takes a case thar his old friend Luka was working on and agrees to Let Luka's daughter, Giovanna, assist in the case. Mitch and Giovanna head to Libya, where his clients are suing the Lebanese government over unpaid bills for a bridge that was built at the request of Gaddafi. When Giovanna is kidnapped by terrorists, it's up to Mitch to raise the ransom of $100 million, or else she will be killed. Will Mitch be able to raise the money to save her? I really enjoyed this book. It could be read as a standalone, but I think it's better to read The Firm first if you haven't already. The characters aren't fully fleshed out, but they're good enough. The pacing is good, I was hooked from the beginning. I'd recommend this to fans of Grisham and those who like a good international thriller. My thanks to Double Day, author John Grisham, and NetGalley for gifting me a digital copy of this book. My opinions are my own.

This one started off really great and I could see where motive for a murder was coming. An old lady claiming she has a suspiciously large amount of money and assets with no one to claim them. This book lost me a bit in the middle. It seemed very repetitive and was just describing the lawyers life. I felt it should have been cut down about 50-100 pages as it seemed unnecessary. It picked up again once the old lady died under suspicious circumstances and the trial that occurred after. I would give this book a 3.5 overall. I am rounding up, because I always like to be generous being one of the first reviewers of a book, but I do think this book should have been quite a bit shorter in length. Thank you to netgalley for this free advance copy in exchange for an honest review.

In typical John Grisham style, The Widow entertained with a drawn-out yet juicy legal battle, but this time around there was the added benefit of a well-plotted whodunnit. Multilayered and fully fleshed out, the storyline twisted and turned throughout the 400 pages. It was, however, the trademark revelation in the middle that got under my skin. An absolute shocker I just barely saw coming, it promised plenty of potential ramifications for all those involved. Piled on top of the smile-inducing courtroom scenes and easy-to-follow drama in this murder mystery novel, it wasn’t the only surprise in store for me as I flew through the book from cover to cover in one suspense-filled evening. A compelling tale filled with lawyers behaving badly and a taut, small-town atmosphere, there was a lot to love by the time I reached the end of the neatly wrapped-up conclusion. That being said, there were a few flies in the ointment for me. Topping the list was the extremely slow pace, which felt somewhat tedious at times. Already written in Grisham’s familiar slightly dry manner, the gratuitous details and unneeded scenes merely detracted from the plot in my mind. In all honesty, a little bit of editing could’ve gone a long way, as there was a dynamite premise just waiting to breathe. After all, between the convincing lies, dirty schemes, and shocking levels of deceit, the scores of suspicious characters kept me mostly in the dark for much of the novel. I mean, even the protagonist was on the wrong side of morally gray. So if you also love well-timed twists and oodles of intrigue, you’ll be sure to agree that Grisham managed to deliver yet another barn-burner of a tale made for fans like you and me. Rating of 4 stars. SYNOPSIS: Simon Latch is a lawyer in rural Virginia, making just enough to pay his bills while his marriage slowly falls apart. Then into his office walks Eleanor Barnett, an elderly widow in need of a new will. Apparently, her husband left her a small fortune, and no one knows about it. Once he hooks the richest client of his career, Simon works quietly to keep her wealth under the radar. But soon her story begins to crack. When she is hospitalized after a car accident, Simon realizes that nothing is as it seems, and he finds himself on trial for a crime he swears he didn’t commit: murder. Simon knows he’s innocent. But he also knows the circumstantial evidence is against him, and he could spend the rest of his life behind bars. To save himself, he must find the real killer…. Thank you to John Grisham and Doubleday Books for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own. PUB DATE: October 21, 2025 Content warning: gambling, violence, divorce, poisoning

Anyone who is familiar with Grisham’s work knows what to expect going in. John always masterfully delivers a tense legal thriller but in his upcoming work The Widow, we get this plus a whodunnit element! The Widow is pure entertainment. Full of interesting characters including a Saul Goodman type lawyer, unlikable money grubbers, and a persnickety old lady, it keeps the reader invested in the story. The mystery kept me guessing until the very end and I was surprised by the big reveal. Fans of John’s prior works as well as readers who enjoy a good crime mystery will love The Widow. I alternated between reading the book myself and listening to the audiobook. The audiobook is narrated by Michael Beck who did a great job. The Widow by John Grisham will be available on October 21. Many thanks to Penguin Random House Audio for the gifted audiobook!

For a full spoiler version of this review, please check out my blog, spoiledbooks.blogspot.com The Widow by John Grisham — 3.5 stars rounding up I cannot believe this is my first John Grisham book… what have I been doing all these years? 😅 This one follows a struggling small-town lawyer who thinks he’s stumbled onto a life-changing opportunity when an elderly widow hires him to rewrite her will. Of course, things spiral quickly (as they do), and suddenly he’s in way over his head. I really enjoyed the fast pace, the legal details, and surprisingly, the humor—plus the March Madness bits were perfectly timed. That said… the ending didn’t quite hit the way I wanted. Still, a very readable, entertaining thriller—just not a total knockout for me.

"#1 New York Times bestselling author John Grisham is the acclaimed master of the legal thriller. Now, he’s back with his first-ever whodunit, even more suspenseful than his courtroom dramas, as a small-time lawyer accused of murder races to find the real killer to clear his name." Simon Latch is an attorney down on his luck financially and personally until Eleanor Barnett walks into his office wanting help rewriting her will. She claims she is worth millions and has no one to give it to. Things move along slowly over the first half of the book as Simon and Eleanor work together and he background checks everything. Around the halfway point things heat up. Eleanor is involved in a car accident and Simon finds himself arrested. The last half is full of suspense as Simon works hard to clear his name and things come to a shocking conclusion. Is this my favorite Grisham novel? Did I find it his most suspenseful yet? No, it did not have me on the edge of my seat as books such as The Firm, The Pelican Brief, and The Runaway Jury did. It covers a compelling topic and is perhaps more realistic, and the last half is suspenseful and I did enjoy it and highly recommend adding it to your fall TBR. Many thanks to NetGalley, Doubleday Books, and John Grisham for an advance reader's copy in exchange for my honest review. Thank you to @prhaudio for an advance listening copy. The audio performance by Michael Beck was excellent and brought the characters to life.🎧

I do enjoy a good courtroom scene: the tension, the legal jousting, the drama of the impending outcome. And Grisham does this kind of thing as well as anyone I’ve come across. But here, though there is a court case, most of the action takes place outside of the courtroom. Simon Latch is a lawyer in a small Virginian town. He’s reached his forties but considers himself a bit of a failure: his marriage is on the rocks, he has no money in the bank and his caseload largely comprises of the drafting of wills and a few small bankruptcy cases. He’s not going to get rich any time soon. But one day, a lady in her eighties walks into his office, and he suddenly senses the opportunity to take on a case that will earn him more than he ever thought he could dream of. As Eleanor Barnett tells her story, it becomes apparent that she’s a thrifty widow with a stack of company shares and is in need of a new will. Managing her estate following her death would be rich pickings indeed, via the huge fees he’d charge for his services. It’s hard to say whether I liked Simon or not. He’s had some bad luck, but most of it seems to be of his own making. Also, at his core, he comes across as a self-serving guy who’s only tenuously interested in the welfare of others. That said, he does have some redeeming qualities: he loves his kids and, in truth, he’s fundamentally honest. There are a number of strands here as the story plays out, and I genuinely found it hard to predict how it would all finally unfold. I found it entertaining, sometimes amusing, and overall pretty satisfying. The courtroom action was great – I just wish there was a little more of it. My thanks to Hodder & Stoughton for supplying a copy of this book in return for an honest review.

Attorney Simon is a likable morally-grey character. He's got a lot going on in his life including an impeding divorce, a gambling problem, and few professional prospects. Not only is he in a rut, but he's not exactly a stand-up guy. He judges his assistant based on her appearance and is fully ready to take advantage of an old woman because he thinks she might be extremely wealthy. But when Simon is tested, he proves that there's more to him than a seemingly shallow lawyer. When he's accused of murder, his feelings and fears are so genuine that I forgave him his earlier mistakes and desperately rooted for his exoneration.

I received a copy for review purposes. All opinions are honest and mine alone. Simon Latch is a lawyer who’s down and almost out. His marriage is sliding towards divorce and it’s getting nearly impossible to keep it from impacting the kids, gambling is ruining everything, especially the business; he just can’t keep going like this. Small town lawyer, small town clients, it’s NOT working; at all. Enter Eleanor Barnett - an octogenarian with millions; the answer to Simon’s prayers. If he does things right, her account could be worth in excess of half a million this year; all his problems solved in one tiny old lady. Will Simon treat her right? Is Eleanor telling the truth? What about her step sons? The other lawyers? Things don’t go right and Eleanor dies after being in a car accident. Simon has a feeling that something isn’t right. All the above and many other questions get answered in this first ever “who done it” penned by prolific, much honored author, John Grisham. For those expecting his typical courtroom drama, you might be a little let down. There are some chapters devoted to traditional Grisham lawyering and they garner a glorious five stars but the preponderance of this tome is focused on mystery solving and character building. I wouldn’t be surprised if Simon Latch was to appear in another novel or two. For much of the story, I wanted to skip or scan pages; hurry things along. I’ve gone back to look at a few of the side stories and they don’t figure into the main mystery at all. Their contribution to the character is minimal so I can only assume their purpose is to build the page count up to its whopping 400+ tally. If the editor had trimmed 50-60 pages, the reading experience would have been much tenser, which for this genre is a good thing. The only thing that was trimmed in this book was the ending and it was so unsatisfying I was actually cranky about it. Maybe my ARC was missing something? In keeping with his usual style, Grisham keeps the violent and sexual content at a G - PG level. What’s turned up some is the foul language. There aren’t any f-bombs but IMO, there are too many other expletives tossed around. It’s sad to find yet another author who consistently took the high road has taken an unnecessary detour. Because of the slow moving mid section and lazy use of language, I offer 3.5 stars for THE WIDOW. Due to his impressive and excellent body of work in total, I’ve rounded up📚 Read and Reviewed from a NetGalley eARC, with thanks

Police procedural stories are one of the genres that I really do enjoy reading. They’re definitely a niche within the crime/thriller/Suspense category. Courtroom drama stories are also in that category, and it’s not usually one that I read because I do enjoy the suspense in the action within the story. But I made an exception with this book because it sounded interesting. The author tells a story that we would probably see in a courtroom today. Senior citizens and wills and greed that happens when people pass away. Let’s not forget the money grab. What I didn’t see coming were the twists that Grisham put into the story. But I shouldn’t have been surprised. People act poorly because of who someone is or what they perceive them to be. Judging people because of the profession that they happen to be in. Making assumptions about people. What I definitely wasn’t surprised about was the whodunit… Grisham is a best-selling author because of the storytelling abilities that he has, and he leads us down the garden path. With that said, I really wanted a bit more suspense than what we were given. The story is solid, interesting, although it lagged a little bit in the middle for me. But I wouldn’t be surprised to read about this type of thing in white crime court docs. The Widow is entertaining with a few surprising twists along the way, Grisham style. Check it out. ~~~~ * I voluntarily read and reviewed an advanced copy of this book. All thoughts and opinions are my own. ** Full review - https://amidlifewife.com/the-widow-by...

Never have I ever read a book by John Grisham I did not like. Of course some have been stellar and some just solid good. This book is solid good. The story of a morally grey small town lawyer who ended up tugging my heart strings. Lately Grisham has done a lot of work publicly to help individuals wrongly convicted and imprisoned. He is a member of The Innocence Project a group that fights tirelessly to help wrongly incarcerated individuals. When reading this book I saw the connection between the storyline and the real world work his organization is doing. The book really shows how complicated and tangled our judicial system can be. Simon Latch is such a well developed character. A small town lawyer who ends up having to be his own detective after being accused of the murder of an 85 year old client. It is a good solid read and a legal mystery I think you will enjoy reading. Thank you to the revered John Grisham and his publishing house Doubleday for this NetGalley copy of The Widow.

The Widow John Grisham As I have described in previous book reviews, it is time for one of my annual late Fall rituals. The leaves are falling (or if you are in Seattle, the rain is falling). College football is in full gear, racing towards the 12-team playoff, and the winter holidays are starting. It’s time to open the new John Grisham novel, “The Widow”, stay up way too late on two straight work nights, escaping into the legal world of thriller fiction. Although this one’s being promoted as Grisham’s first mystery novel, it is really a hybrid – what I will call a “legal mystery thriller”. This is the story of Simon Latch. He is not your typical John Grisham lead character that is being chased by bad guys while trying to fight an ethical battle. He is a flawed lawyer living in a small rural town in Virginia. He’s been in business for himself for over 18 years and the results are not good. He is just making just enough to pay bills thanks to some illegal sports gambling on the side. He loves his three children dearly, but the truth is he and his wife no longer like each other. Divorce is where they are headed, sooner than later. This is also the story of Eleanor Barnett, an 85-year-old widow who thinks that she just made a big mistake and needs Simon to make her a new will. Something seems off about her besides her frugal attitude and lack of trust. Somehow, she seems to be connecting with Simon, and according to her, nobody knows that her husband left her with a load of Coca-Cola and Walmart stock. She’s been able to hide these investments along with a large amount of cash from pretty much everyone, including friends and family. Her only concern is her husband’s two dead-beat sons from a previous marriage that she wants Simon to protect her estate from. Simon sees this incredible opportunity being handed to him and grabs it with both hands. He agrees to work hard to keep her wealth a secret and plots out an escape plan from his current wife and situation. However, things begin to happen that he can’t control. Eleanor has secrets and her behaviors keep pulling him in to take care of her growing needs. Before he knows it, she’s in a car accident that hospitalizes her and leads to him being arrested for a crime he cannot believe – that of murder! Simon knows that he is innocent, regardless of how bad the circumstantial evidence shows otherwise. With the entire town believing he killed someone and his family being forced to go into hiding, Simon has to find a killer before he spends the rest of his days in prison… After finishing “The Widow” I am a bit torn and conflicted. I am feeling well-spent yet also left frustrated. On one hand, it had a lot of the Grisham strengths that readers have come to expect and rely on from him. He is a masterful storyteller – smooth and fluid in his prose, engaging in his ability to capture the reader’s attention and emotional commitment, and once he has you, he never let’s go. You are along for the whole ride all the way to the end. I swear, he could write a cookbook and I would read it with enthusiasm that I didn’t know that I had. Yet, on the other hand, I also had some struggles with this one. I need to be careful not to give away any spoilers, so I am going to dance around the specifics a bit so as to not negatively impact someone else’s reading experience. For me, the first half of this book (200 pages) was a slow burn. A really slow burn that kept wondering when things were going to pick up. If it wasn’t for the book cover description that already told me what was coming, I would have had some serious moments of wondering what all of the work that Grisham was doing to set up his plotting what about. That does not mean that the first half wasn’t interesting, because it generally was. However, it involved a lot of time spent on introducing characters and setting up multiple storylines that would later come together and be needed in the second half. But truth be told, the slow burn didn’t provide the same level of danger and worry that usually comes with a Grisham legal thriller. More importantly, it just wasn’t as compelling as I was hoping for. Now that didn’t mean the payoff in the second half didn’t pay off on all of the build-up, because for the most part it did. Grisham connected most of the dots and brought an (albeit expected) emotional climax that left a poignant and indelible mark on this reader. However, at the same time, there were some pieces of the storylines that either were either dropped or felt a bit forced, but I won’t provide examples to avoid spoilers. Also, there was an important action taken by two of the characters that helped trigger and drive all of the second half conflict, but an explanation was never provided as to why they knew the information they had. Where or from who would they have received it. Certainly not from the killer. It was easy to ignore this plot point hole while reading the book (because Grisham is such an excellent storyteller), but after finishing the book, it kept coming back to me that this was a major plot point that just didn’t make sense. I apologize because this sound like an unfair teaser, but after reading the book, I think you will understand my point. The other thing that I wanted to mention is that Grisham used this story to make a point. One that you can tell is deeply important and personal to him. Because of that, he had to force the structure a bit to deliver the suffering emotional journey that Simon went through. For me, the court case decision didn’t align with the evidence, but that was part of the reality that Grisham wanted us to experience from the front seat. When you get to the end, everything he was trying to show came through brilliantly in the end. Grisham taught, pleaded, and preached on the unfortunate weaknesses that exist in our legal system. What I found really compelling on a personal level was that Simon was far from being a knight in shining armor. He didn’t help himself in several selfish and flawed ways and contributed to putting himself in a bad situation. But for me, that made his journey even stronger, because the cost was so high in many ways. As Grisham showed, the impact of legal outcomes affects so many more than just the one being charged and tried. In a nutshell, the last half of the book brought everything home (other than my constructive feedback listed above) and delivered the emotional impact and moral lesson that he intended. For me, that absolved most (but not quite all) of my critical comments. For me, I am going to error on the side of brevity and focus on what worked in this one, because what worked well made all of the difference for me.

The Widow is the best John Grisham novel that I've read in years. Grisham writes with an energetic and vibrancy that has been missing in his last batch of novels. The story itself is classic Grisham, Simon Latch is barely making a living as lawyer in Virginia. Simon's specialty is prepping wills which begins his involvement with a wealthy widow, Eleanor Barnett. Eleanor wants Simon to look over her previous will where Simon discovers a loophole that will help pay off his own debts. An unexpected event turns Simon's life upside down in which he can lose his career, family and life. The Widow is being touted as Grisham's first mystery rather a legal thtiller. The plot is based on the legal process of the will, Simon as well as the supporting characters are Grisham's stock characters and it wouldn't be a Grisham novel without a big trial. The major difference is that the story is more character driven rather then narrative which is a trademark of a good mystery. The Widow is Grisham at his best. For those of you that have been waiting for Grisham to get back into top form then.grab a copy of The Widow to remember what put him on the bestseller map. over 30 years ago.

** spoiler alert ** Yeah, this is another stunner from Grisham. Just like a 69 yo man compared to a 32 yo man, this novel might lack the atomic bomb energy of “The Firm” or “The Client” or “The Runaway Jury”, but it sure as hell makes that up with its layers and profundity. Don’t get fooled by the lighthearted tone of the first part — after all, Grisham has always had a great sense of humor — and be ready to dive into a very serious topic that he is very passionate about. This topic is the miscarriage of justice, something that sadly still happens too often. Grisham has a long-standing and deep involvement with the Innocence Project, serving as a board member and ambassador for the organization. His activism began after researching his nonfiction book, "The Innocent Man," which tells the story of Innocence Project clients Ron Williamson and Dennis Fritz, who were exonerated after years of wrongful imprisonment. The Widow rotates around law and greed, classic Grisham. While some scenes are a bit slower than others, they are still important because without them, the court scenes wouldn’t be as masterful and mesmerizing as they are. By the end of this novel, you’ll be reflecting on how easy it is for a miscarriage of justice to take place, and about how extremely important the role of a juror is in our society. In fact, if you’re ever called to be a juror, that might as well be the greatest responsibility you’ll ever have in your life outside of your family. I’ve seen with my own eyes, as a juror myself about 8 years ago, some other jurors being blinded by ignorance, anger, personal issues, aggressively trying to go for a guilty verdict when there was not even a hint of a piece of evidence. Some of them were feeling vengeful because of the time that being on a jury was demanding out of their lives. That’s not the kind of people that you’re proud to have in your community. Luckily for the accused, the wiser minds prevailed that time. From an interview with the author: A: I had a big problem with the ending, which is unusual for me. I always know the ending before I start a book. I take a lot of time to outline the story and to really plot through the story before I start writing. I have these rules of writing proper fiction and that’s one: Do not write the first scene until you know the last scene. It was a unique experience for me. When I got to the end, I didn’t like it. My wife really didn’t like it. My agent, who is also my editor for 35 years, didn’t like it. So I said, “I’ll keep writing.” Now, the last quarter of the book is a whole new, major plot. ——— Read as audiobook, read by Michael Beck, who uses a convincing southern accent, although his pronunciation of “BECAUSE” made my ears bleed every time, as you can almost see the inflating of his cheeks like a puffer fish before making the letter “B” explode out like a petard.

The Widow immediately hooked me in the first chapter. Simon, a lawyer a bit down on his luck, certainly not raking in the dough, lands a seemingly lucrative client. Meanwhile his marriage is all but over and he his gambling problem is just adding to his woes. He goes all in, thinking this client is the answer to all of his problems. Until he is accused of murder. This is a perfect blend of a legal thriller with a classic whodunit. The writing is superb and the character development was impressive. John Grisham definitely still has it. I will say the pacing felt a little inconsistent, slow in many parts and then a rapid fire race to the finish.

4 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ The Widow by John Grisham is a crime thriller novel about a small town lawyer named Simon Latch. Simon is facing a tough divorce, financial issues and the biggest one of them all a murder charge. Simon's life was relatively normal untill Eleanor Barnett, a widow stepped into his office and requested a will be drafted. After an accident, Eleanor is hospitalised and Simon is charged with a murder, only Simon didn't kill anybody. With time running out can Simon find the killer and prove his innocence? This is John Grisham at his best yet again and I consumed every bit of this book from start to finish. Although the story goes from steady to fast paced once the plot twist hits, I can commend John Grisham for starting off the novel in such a way. As you read you truly get to see the relationship between Simon Latch and Eleanor Barnett form, he becomes her lawyer and begins to look into her estate and the how she came about own all the money she claims. You also get a cleaner picture of Simon's life, his children, looming divorce, his love for gambling and his financial woes. What makes this such an entertaining read is the narrative writing style from John Grisham. It's serious and at times funny and witty, I simply enjoyed it from start to finish. What really took the cake for me was the characters he later introduces that support Simon during his case of pleading his innocence and trying to find the true culprit of the crime. John Grisham has a way of writing and introducing characters full of depth, charisma, charm and real personality. He blows me away every time, truly my favourite writer of all time. The lawyer jargon is not entirely verbose or difficult to understand, and if you do find it hard there's nothing a quick Google search can't clearify. I won't say too much surrounding the story because it could give it away but the novel touches on themes of deception, greed and false accusations. Grisham wrote a non fiction true crime book titled "Framed" last year, and while reading I felt this novel emphasis on how certain verdicts done by the jury can be wrong. Especially when there is a solid lack of evidence or proof towards the culprit, I found the novel eye opening, entertaining and simply enjoyable to read. So if you are a fan of crime thriller lawyer mystery then I highly recommend giving John Grisham's The Widow a read.

*Audiobook “… but your client is dead and you bought the cookies.” I did this one as an audiobook. I’ve noticed with Grisham books it’s easy to settle in and lose yourself in them…you feel like you’re right there in the action. He paints the picture within his pages and you’re guaranteed a good read. I immediately was interested in the MC, “The Widow” (Eleanor). She recently changed her will and used Lawyer, Wally to do so. Well he “hid” a sum of money to be paid to him upon her demise. So another lawyer, Simon Latch gets involved and he wants to get her money too. The thing is Eleanor, The Widow is a handful…if Simon thought his life was complicated before, well Eleanor is treating him like her bestie and having him get her out of speeding tickets, drunk driving accidents etc. The next thing you know she’s in the hospital and ends up dead. Seeing the attys get swindled was hilarious. The MCs fascination with Tilly’s changing body was constant, that’s what I know most about her, she was a little squishy and then got toned up and started wearing cute outfits. Overall a fun solid read which was enjoyable from start to finish.

On a long road trip, my husband and I listened to the audible production of “A Gambling Man” by David Baldacci, narrated by Edoardo Ballerini and Brittany Pressley. The production of the novel is amazing. I think it’s Hachette Audio who did it. At any rate, Ballerini narrates most of the story except for the female voices. Pressley interjects her female parts throughout the story. Both Ballerini and Pressley provide an outstanding performance, providing imagination fodder for the listener. The story takes place in the late 1940’s, post WWII. The snappy dialogue involves the colloquialisms of the time. Women are “dames”, legs are “gams”, and the pace of the narration is in-line with the cadence of the time. I could picture Carole Lombard and Fred MacMurray as the main characters, Liberty Callahan and Alloysius Archer (aka Archer). The dialogues in this story are a joy to listen to. The story begins when Archer wins a 1939 Delahaye convertible in a card game in Reno. Archer plans to go to California where he can apprentice as a private Investigator. Archer picks up a dame, Liberty Callahan, who wants to leave Reno in pursuit of a Hollywood career. Of course, the couple run into trouble as they travel. When they get to California, Liberty immediately finds a job performing in a burlesque card club. Archer begins his apprenticeship with the legendary and former FBI agent Willie Dash. His first job is a blackmail scandal, which involves the main performer at the same burlesque club where Liberty works. Baldacci shines in his plot twists and turns. Dead bodies seem to turn up everywhere. Of course, there is a town “godfather” who is corrupt and runs the town. Archer is told by Willie Dash to “follow the money” and it leads Archer into some sticky situations. The story is great. It’s involved and full of unforeseen plot developments. What we enjoyed most though was the performance. The narration is pitch-perfect, catching the nuances of the time. I highly recommend the audio.

Every time I read a David Baldacci novel I promise myself I will read more of his books. He is an excellent author and really do want to read more of his books. This is the second book in the ‘Archer’ series and after loving the first one ‘ One Good Deed’ I was really looking forward to reading this one. In truth it took me a while to get into this one but eventually everything started to click and by the end was ready for another Baldacci novel. Set in 1949 California, Aloysius Archer is on his way to start a new job with a renowned Private Investigator in Bay Town. While stopping off at a casino in Reno he meets an aspiring actress Liberty Callahan. They travel together heading west to California, where Archer is tasked with finding out who is doing everything they can to disrupt the appointment of a top official. Then two seemingly unconnected people are murdered at a burlesque club. In a tight-lipped community, Archer must dig deep to reveal the connection between the victims. The book is well written with very good characters, after a fairly slow start the novel really stepped up a level and makes a fascinating read. Full of suspense, great characters and an intriguing plot. I would like to thank both Netgalley and Pan Macmillan for supplying a copy of the novel in exchange for an honest review.

David Baldacci never disappoints with his well executed plotlines and intriguing characters. Aloysius Archer is an character that draws you in with his gentlemanly actions and sense of what is right. I love that this series is set post war with the world starting to change in alot of different ways. After the events of the first book, One Good Deed, Archer is ready to move on from Poca City and heads for California to become a Private Investigator with Willie Dash. He stops in Reno on the way where luck is on his side. After a windfall at the casino, he buys a car to help a man and meets Liberty Callahan, a dancer with stars in her eyes. The pair head to Bay Town and a new life. Archer is immediately thrown into a case of blackmail and murder which will take him to the darkest depths of his new home. Baldacci makes you feel like you have stepped back in time with his fantastic descriptions of the fashions, the attitudes and the atmosphere of the places in this book. I do love a crime thriller and can't wait for more from Archer. Thanks to MacMillian Australia for my copy of this book to read.

For the last couple of years, Baldacci has been producing two books a year, and focusing most of his attention on his series characters of Amos Decker (Memory Man), Will Robie, and John Puller. However, back in 2019, Baldacci introduced a new character – World War II veteran Aloysius Archer – in “One Good Deed” and opened readers up to a different historical era, that of post-war, 1949. I greatly enjoyed reading that change of pace set in the past, as well as Archer’s chivalrous character. Now, Baldacci has brought Archer back for his second outing – “A Gambling Man” and continuing his historical adventures into 1950. The book starts off with Archer, having left Poca City in his rearview mirror, making his way to California where he hopes to get a fresh start and start a new career. Thanks to his relationship with Detective Irving Shaw, Archer hopes to apprentice with Willie Dash, a former FBI agent and a successful private eye. On the way there, Archer gets off of the bus in Reno, Nevada, and the craziness begins. There he meets Liberty Callahan, a musical performer and actress, working her way to Hollywood. She leads him into a gambling win that adds to his stash, and a run-in with an older man ends up with Archer driving an extremely rare 1939 French Delahaye convertible. Getting himself out of Reno is not easy, and with Liberty as a traveling companion, they both hope for the best that California can offer. Upon arriving in the Southern coastal city of Baytown, Archer lands a job working for PI Dash as his apprentice, and on his first day they have a case thrown their way. Douglas Kemper, running for Mayor, has received a blackmail letter, threatening to expose an affair between him and Ruby Fraser, a young singer at the local adult club, Midnight Moods. Kemper insists there is no relationship and has no idea who could be coming after him, other than backers of his political opponent. Dash and Archer take the case and begin their investigation. They meet with Ruby and interview Kemper’s wife, whose father, Sawyer Armstrong, runs all of the major business in the city. Sawyer owns the key businesses in Baytown, including Midnight Moods, where Liberty is trying out as a fulltime singer. He controls the real estate, prostitution, gambling, and coastal sipping. And to make matters worse, Sawyer doesn’t like people talking with his daughter and sicks his two goons on Archer to let him know who’s running things. Then the investigation foes from political to deadly when someone is murdered and the stakes raised. Before he knows it, Archer finds himself in the middle of family issues, small town corruption, and deadly secrets that could very well cost him his life before his new career even gets started… There are a several good things to like about this book and Aloysius Archer. The first is Baldacci throwing himself into a historical time piece. It’s his own ode to Mickey Spillane and Dashel Hammett. The early 1950’s is far from today’s world full of technology, tools, and devices. It requires a strong ability to not only describe things like dress styles and transportation vehicles, but also truly understand the proper political and social norms, and enough details from post-World War II to provide the depth and quality needed to portray the true historical context. For example, Baldacci uses the social and legal inequality between men and women in that time period to propel and strengthen his story. My only criticism is that it seems every character in the book smokes constantly. I understand that smoking was a widespread social custom, but seriously, not every single person was a rabid smoker. Archer’s first book did a great job of introducing him and establishing his background. The problem was that it raised the bar and expectations for a second book. However, the good news is that this was almost as enjoyable a read as the first one. For the most part, Baldacci maintained the high level of quality throughout Archer’s second outing. His almost effortless, rhythmic writing style was there, stronger than ever. He connects his plot, characters, and style together like the lyrics of a good Eagles hit song that you just sing along with and get lost in the music. His books are a smooth and fluid read. There are no disruptions or hiccups in the flow of words. His language is descriptive, but focused on moving the story forward with mystery driven elements, action sequences and, moments of discovery along the way. Baldacci knows his characters and he shares them with us on an intimate level. As Archer works his way through the clues and deals with the obstacles thrown his way, important information is revealed step by step, like peeling away the layers of an onion. For an author that produces two books a year, Baldacci shows that he hasn’t lost his ability to create intricate plotting, character depth, and pacing. Overall, “A Gambling Man” is an enjoyable journey back in time when things were different and America was recovering and rebuilding following the devastation of World War II. For me, I consider this some of his most enjoyable work, reflecting fast-paced plotting, vigorous elements of mystery, and strong multi-dimensional characters you can appreciate. I am definitely interested in reading more Archer gumshoe adventures. Something tells me Baldacci feels the same way…

Aloysius Archer, or just Archer, as he prefers being called is the latest protagonist in David Baldacci's world. Here he is on his way to Bay Town, California from Poco city and on his way stops at Reno. Trouble is Archer's middle name as it keeps finding him! So after a fair few of them in Reno, he reaches Reno to work as a PI under the tutelage of ex-FBI agent Willie Dash. Their first case together - a blackmail scheme of the town's Mayoral candidate. But before long, people start dying and Archer is caught up in the maelstrom of events.... Please read my detailed review from the link below https://www.aniblogshere.com/a-gambli... Do read📖, like👍🏼, comment💭 or share🚩.... It's encouraging 🙏🏼 #nytbestseller #newyorktimesbestseller #murdermystery #thriller #crime #thrillernovel #thrilling #mysterious #bookfan #bookreviewer #bookworm #booklover #booklove #booklovers #bookbuzz #books #bookreview #bookstagram #bookstagrammer #bookblogger #bookblogging #blogger #suspense #book #booksarelife #agamblingman #davidbaldacci #aloysiusarcher #bookreviewsofinstagram

Video review coming soon... (my book tube channel) 'A Gambling Man' is David Baldacci's latest thriller. It stars Aloysius Archer - whom we last saw in 'One Good Deed'. Following the events in Poca City, Archer is on his way to California to see if a potential apprentice with a Private Detective will work out. He makes a stop in Reno, where after some action, he picks up a load of cash, a fancy automobile called a Delahaye and an aspiring actress named Liberty Callahan. Eventually, they reach Bay Town, California, a stopping point for would-be and failed stars. Archer gets the P.I. job and is immediately embroiled in a string of murders. I will be honest. Archer is the most forgettable Baldacci hero. Even Atlee Pine, with her set of ho-hum stories, is more memorable than Archer. I had to look up 'One Good Deed' to find out who Archer was and what he had done in his debut. I had given a high rating to that book which means that while the story is probably good, the lead character is quite bland. Essentially, I was starting 'A Gambling Man' without knowing who Archer was or why he was in Reno. 'A Gambling Man' is a slow burner and is unlike any other Baldacci I remember. The tone ranges from a noirish detective fiction like L.A. Confidential to an Alistair MacLean story like 'Fear is the Key'. There is a bit of action, but mostly it is Archer figuring out what is happening. I think this old school detection is the book's highlight, and kudos to Baldacci for trying out something new. But that said, there are several issues. The story starts in Reno and is set up for Archer to get his iconic car and become friends with Liberty Callahan. A plot set-up in Reno ultimately goes nowhere, and this is quite disappointing. In my opinion, we could have started the story with Archer in Bay Town and explained away the presence of the Delahaye and Liberty in a paragraph. The second issue is the pacing. The book is slow, and it takes a while to get into the story. In my case, I had to read about half the story because I was sort of hooked on to it. After this point, the pacing improves. I am not sure the cause and effect here, but the first half is a trudge. The third issue is that the author glosses over some plot points in the ending. We don't get to see some threads resolved while others are just papered over in the ' they lived happily ever after ' sort of way. Where the book does excel is in the detective work (mentioned earlier) as well as creating a 1950s kind of atmosphere. I like how Archer and his boss actually have to spend time going through books, records, legal records etc as well as canvas witnesses and informers. Archer, as such, is a decent character but I feel that Baldacci needs to add something extra to make him stand out. Overall, I liked 'A Gambling Man'. It will not figure in Baldacci's top 10, but neither is it bad. It is a flawed book that is entertaining once you get past the initial sections.

Not quite noir… A GAMBLING MAN is book 2 in David Baldacci’s Archer Series. It can easily be read as a standalone but you’ll have a better understanding of what makes Archer tick if you read book 1, ONE GOOD DEED. There are two new characters that will remain in the series - Liberty Callahan, a wannabe actress who can belt out torch songs and is a crack shot with her derringer and Willie Dash, a top notch Private Investigator with serious health issues and deep community knowledge. He’s Archer’s boss and mentor. Archer and Liberty meet in Reno under wild, Mob motivated experiences. They flee, (are chased?), to California, ending up in Bay Town. She really wants a career in Hollywood. He has an interview with a P. I. in town to see about a job and learning the business. He gets hired and starts immediately and she decides to stay for a year, after Archer negotiated a sweetheart deal at the hottest late night spot in town. Baldacci creates a dynamic setting in Bay Town. Readers will walk the streets on both sides of the tracks. He gives lush descriptions of the land and sea and is able to infuse historical and political data without using the dreaded info dump. Much of the action happens after dark adding to the noiresque feel. Characters are Baldacci’s super power. Regardless of how big or small a character’s role is, they are developed, given literary respect and enough time to make an impression on readers. Some reviewers have accused the author of being cliche with these characters and the story but I posit that is part of the period of time and charm associated with a book from this genre. Baldacci was skillful in keeping the book from becoming bogged down into a Noir Nightmare. Recommended for fans of 50’s Gumshoe Mysteries. This is NOT a thriller. It’s an early procedural with short chapters, memorable characters and a plausible plot📚

Not in love with this series, but still going to read the next one.

I have loved hard boiled noir detective stories since i was young, and A Gambling Man by David Baldacci is just that. It's the second book about Aloysius Archer and they only get better for every book. It's almost 1950 and Archer is moving west to see if he has what it takes to be a private investigator. On his way he wins some money in a casino in Reno and that leads him to a 1939 Delahaye and the company of liberty who wants to be a moviestar. After a long roadtrip they get to Bay Town California where Archer takes his first steps as a P.I. Then the troubles arrive, while investigating a blackmailing it soon turns into murder. I really like this new series, well written as everything by Baldacci.

Twisty, colourful, and unpredictable! A Gambling Man is a menacing, action-packed mystery that picks up right where One Good Deed left off, taking us back into the life of Aloysius Archer as he now makes his way to Bay Town, California, by way of Reno, NV, where he befriends the luscious Liberty Callahan, wins a nice bit of cash on the roulette wheel, and attracts the attention of a ruthless gang of thugs before arriving on the west coast and taking up the position of junior PI to the infamous Willie Dash and working on a blackmailing case involving a mayoral candidate with extremely influential in-laws. The prose is sharp and brisk. The characters are multilayered, flawed, and principled. And the plot, including all the subplots, intertwine and unravel seamlessly into a mysterious tale of mischief, mayhem, corruption, coercion, politics, suspicious motivations, criminal behaviour, dangerous endeavours, red herrings, deduction, lies, and murder. Overall, A Gambling Man is an ominous, sophisticated, entertaining addition to the Archer series by Baldacci that I am confident will more than satisfy fans of 1950s noir with its action, adventure, violence, and straight-up detective work. Thank you to Grand Central Publishing for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.

It's obvious, to me at least, that Baldacci has long wanted to write a Sam Spade or Phillip Marlowe book and that he invented Archer so he could do just that. A good noir-ish tale that has lots of dispatching of bad guys. The tale is peppered with "dames", murderous muscle and fast cars. Enjoy!

This homage to the SoCal noir genre that flowered in the works of Chandler and Ross MacDonald was kind of a mashup of "The Long Goodbye" and "Chinatown," but hey those are two good role models, and it's all part of the fun. Wow, these characters sure smoke and drink a lot, but since they seem to be able to shake it off quickly, more power to 'em. The hyper-focus on what everyone was wearing was a little weird (like down to the color of the headbands on their fedoras). I don't know if it was an attempt to be cinematic, or to evoke the period more vividly, but it struck me as odd (especially when one of the characters was wearing an anachronistic polyester skirt - not introduced till 1951, I think, per Google). But nobody loves a nitpicker, so far be it from me to quibble about a well done and loving tribute like this. Fast fun read from the most mispronounced man in the library.

Like the main character Archer, but must admit that this storyline was heavy with many other characters of which I found tricky to follow at times. Overall, an enjoyable read.

Baldacci gives us a sequel that's better than the intro novel for Aloysius Archer, "One Good Deed."...Archer is heading West to California, like many of the Greatest Generation did in the Post-WWII years...Baldacci goes all Raymond Chandler(Philip Marlowe)/Robert Towne(Jake Gettis), as Archer and his PI boss, Willie Dash, uncover the dirty deals for the future, of his new California home Bay Town...I really wasn't sure of this series reading "One Good Deed," but I really loved this "throwback" effort in the "noire" genre...This "hardboiled" detective series must only work in California...Winner!!!

So I am enjoying this Archer series. The period of the 50’s is different. Archers interaction with the various females in his life, the investigative techniques…. All roll Into a nice backdrop for ten various storylines.

I enjoyed A Gambling Man more than I did the book that introduced me to Archer. This does take us back to the days when you could be a successful Private Investigator. I did question if Baldacci should be going back in time, but I am now longer questioning him. A rare car with a bit of a story and a night club singer makes for a fun story. How did this book find me? I've been reading Baldacci after being introduced to Memory Man (Amos Decker #1). I'm working my way through Baldacci's work.

I enjoyed reading this second book in the trilogy. I may get around to book three soon. Archer is a likable character and Baldacci knows how to spin a tale.

Witty, fast-paced, occasionally silly, and featured a really likable protagonist. It takes a lot for me to be invested in a crime/thriller book like this one. It felt true to the time the story took place, without apologizing for or pretending away the ugly parts. I loved that the main character sometimes made mistakes in his new role, despite generally having the skills to be a good private eye. Occasionally I had to roll my eyes though, especially near the end, for a little bit of cheesy dialogue and a few plot conveniences.

Easy to read and packed with adventure, I always enjoy Baldacci's stories. And A Gambling Man was no exception. Set in the late 1940s, this novel has a strong sense of atmosphere. Right from the start, you get a very old-timey vibe. But what I really enjoyed about this book was Archer's character. Archer is a principled, straight shooter. He may be fresh from prison (and a very tough guy) but he's also portrayed as really good. He's quick to give credit where credit is due, help out those in need, and has high moral standards and respect for women. He's not perfect, but he is a very likable character. It was a lot of fun following along with his journey to becoming a private investigator. While the story isn't necessarily fast-paced, it does have a complex and entertaining mystery. Well set, and with interesting and likable characters, A Gambling Man was 400 pages of entertainment.

It is a few years after WWII and Army vet and recent prison parolee Archer hops a bus heading West with the goal of meeting a PI in California who has promised to give him an opportunity to learn his business. He is sidelined in Reno where luck in the casino results in a flashy French convertible, some cash and a meet up with Liberty Callahan, a showgirl with vocal talent who hopes to get to Hollywood to become a movie star. Along the way there are many obstacles in the form of violent gang members, politicians and enough dead bodies to populate a cemetery! This book is fast moving with a complex plot, well drawn character and dialogue straightforward out of a 40’s gangster movie.

SO THRILLED TO HAVE GOTTEN MY HANDS ON A COPY OF THIS BABY! GOING TO BLANKET TOWN NOW, HOLD MY CALLS! HAHAHA JK NO ONE CALLS ME BYEEEEE! FINISHED!!! a lovely book, gooey sweet and cozy as fuck.

This sequel wasn’t necessary but it was still tears beyond.

There is so much to unpack here. From this book being a wholly unexpected sequel to the new characters which were quite adorable. Let's start at the beginning. Which is the abuse Arthur Parnassus had to suffer through once he had been orphaned. All this should be in the past since he transformed the "orphanage" on Zoey's little island once he took over, giving his 6 charges a loving home. Not to mention that he's now happily in love with Linus to the extend that not even Calliope is against them. ;) Naturally, though, the problems didn't end with Linus needing to learn a lesson. Because the government is so much worse than Linus or even others in his previous job ever could be. So a hearing is used as an excuse to lay into Arthur and using Lucy (one of the new characters) as a weapon. I'm glad the story didn't go too lovey-dovey with its message so not every government employee is a nice person in disguise as that would be too unrealistic even for a fantasy story such as this. Equally, not everyone is deplorable. Instead, we get a nice look at power-hungry assholes and their minions all the way up the food chain, but also how good people still exist when the system is rigged. Once again, the best part of the book were the children. I loved all of them (though I do have my favorites *fake gasp*). They - and Calliope - gave the bad guys hell, so to speak, and I was so here for it. A wonderful continuation of the story (though I still do like the first installment more) which had me sigh contentedly. It did raise my hackles in between and I don't agree with the author about everything, but the book did feel wholesome and was cute.

"The House in the Cerulean Sea" is one of my favorite books. It was wonderful. Since I love the book so much, I was undecided about reading 'Somewhere Beyond the Sea'. What if it was a bad sequel? Well, thankfully it wasn't. However, it was not as amazing as its predecessor. We have so many characters returning. Arthur Parnassus and Linus Baker are now an item and are in the process of adopting those amazing magical children. Also, a new child is coming to live with them. He is a Yeti who enjoys theater and who makes you want to protect him. We also have the "Department In Charge of Magical Youth" sending a new investigator to Marsyas Island to evaluate if Arthur Parnassus can continue keeping the kids around. DICOMY believes Arthur wants to keep the kids and plans to use them to take over the world. I listened to the audiobook, which I thought was narrated fabulously. I love all the children (especially Luci), and every time they were present, they just made me happy. So why not a five? I thought the conflict's resolution was just too easy and too perfect. Would I read another book with these characters? Absolutely!! Cliffhanger: No 4/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Not as good as the first book, and not totally necessary, but just as lovely and emotive. I love this series more than words can say. Once again an important reminder that the future is as bright as we want to make it. 🩷

So wholesome it hurts

"Hope is a thing with feather. And hope is a thing with fire." 3,5 stars, but I'm rounding up to 4. I will still forever love these kids, but I expected a bit more from this one. But I suppose my standards were set way to high with the first one. I just wasn't so sure, how all of a sudden the kids all started to act more grown up, even though not that much time passed since the first book. Like sometimes I had to remind myself this is kids talking and not some grown up adults. (but I still loved their little shenanigans moments, and the fact that they got more confident in that time) I still very much loved just how openly Arthur and Linus loved each other. And perhaps part of me actually wished for more of Arthur's past, because we were promised his backstory, but I feel like we haven't learn much more than we did in the first one? Pre-read: A SEQUEL TO THE HOUSE IN THE CERULEAN SEA??!?!?!?!?! Can we skip to September 2024 like right now?

The House in the Cerulean Sea ★★★★★ Somewhere Beyond the Sea ★★★★ “Even the smallest of things can change the world, if only one is brave enough to try.” The House in the Cerulean Sea is one of my favorite books ever. I still remember getting emotional from reading it and even crying a bit, something that rarely happens when I read. In my opinion, it was a perfect standalone story. One day I am browsing the internet, I see it suddenly getting a sequel. I was equally excited and scared, will Klune be able to pull it up like he did in the Green Creek series or will it be a flop and a way to milk more money from his most popular and successful book. I can happily say after finishing it that it was an enjoyable continuation of the story. The biggest challenge is capturing the same vibes and tones the first book did and I think Klune succeeded in that. There are cozy fantasy vibes with humor, magic and some tension behind all of that. With about 15 chapters over 400 pages, the pacing was smooth, and I was engaged throughout despite the lengthy chapters. The characters are what made the first book a grand success and they continue to shine in this book. While the first book focused on Linus, this is Arthur's story, from his past to his current self. We get to see all the children from book 1 with an additional unique character in this book. As in the last book, each of the kids were peculiar in their own ways and they are all so lovable that it is hard to pick a favorite. I don't think the plot is very original here, Arthur is facing DICOMY - Department In Charge of Magical Youth- who are trying to scrutinize him and his magical children and trying to confiscate them for their own uses. While this plot isn't groundbreaking and is reminiscent of many stories—it’s well-crafted and entertaining, akin to a Pixar movie. “If you go into a situation expecting the worst, it may cloud your ability to see what good can come from it.” I ended up giving this book four stars which means I enjoyed it a lot, I think book one was a bit better, but I can't exactly say why. My fears about the sequel diminishing my love for the series were unfounded; if anything, it deepened my appreciation. Kudos to Klune!

4.5 stars. I loved this sequel and thoroughly enjoyed spending more time with Arthur, Linus and each of their magical children. This series makes my heart smile - it's heartwarming, funny and joyful. I hoping that there'll be many, many more Cerulean Chronicles books to come. The Story: Welcome back to the island of Marsyas, where Arthur Parnassus and the love of his life, Linus Baker, hope to adopt the magical children in their care. But when he is summoned to a governmental hearing to unearth the secrets of his past, Arthur faces a crossroads. Everything in his life hinges on this hearing – his future, his family’s future, and the future of every magical being in the world. What could possibly go wrong?

In his Author's Note, T.L. Klune says he wants to be known as the anti-Rowling, someone who champions LGBTQIA+ rights. The villain in this book is called Jeanine Rowder. *chef's kiss* As an aside, I was idly scrolling through my friends' reviews of this book and saw one that complained the Author's Note was "too political." Instantly off my friend list.

I love those kids so much 🥹😭

welcome to my main character era. i love emily henry. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... i’ve loved her since the first incarnation of my reading accounts, when i discovered a million junes based on an act of love from the universe, probably, and never looked back. i loved her fascinating, unique, sometimes creepy always lovely magical realism filled with banter and growth and stunning images. when she moved to romance, her books felt less like My Books, ones written specifically for me, but it was kind of wonderful to see them be The Book for so many other people. and then this one came along. and i hate to center myself again, but… just kidding. this is the same person who genuinely said yesterday that the rain was holding out for her walk home exclusively. i have no problem with indulging in narcissism, so: this one feels pretty made for me. i love sisters, and here our almost-as-important close-second relationship after the romance is between two crazy close sisters. i love nora, our cold and tough and mean but on the inside very kind and lovely and of course book-obsessed protagonist. (it will come as no surprise that i relate to her. or, well, relate on the first and third points.) i love charlie, who passes my single requirement for romance novel love interests with flying colors. (this single requirement is, of course, being obsessed beyond logic with our main character.) i love banter. it is the best part of any romcom and it isn’t close. this has plenty. i love having-it-all happy ever afters. i love when the magic perfect ending doesn’t just include love, but like 9 other neatly tied up subplots ending with confetti and rose petals or whatever too. i love being a tall girl, and i love that this book recognizes our struggle!!! i love dream jobs. i love tropes. i love mean-girl characters. i love little kids. i love books!!! when it came to this book, it feels like — beyond my missing magical realism, and the not-very-enemies beginning of this enemies to lovers, and some excessive sister sneakiness — i loved (almost) it all. bottom line: emily henry forever!!! 4.5 ------------------ reread update there's no problem that can't be solved by rereading every emily henry book --------------- pre-review please respect my privacy at this time (deciding whether to give my third romance five star ever). review to come / it's either 4.5 or 5 --------------- currently-reading updates this is the best day of my life --------------- tbr review anyone have any tips on hibernation?

I appreciated how deep the romantic relationship went in this one. A lot of romance books I read feel surface level at times, but this one felt very meaningful. The sibling relationship was a big highlight for me with this book and seeing them work through a big hurdle together was one of my favorite elements.

It was a book about books, it was a book about lovers. It was a book about books about lovers, it was a book about lovers of books. But above all, Book Lovers was a lovely book. Emily Henry really charms here. She knows her audience and delivers with grace, harnessing the aesthetics of book love amidst the sexual tension of two publishing professionals with a tendency for ferocity. As a fellow book lover, what really resonated was the way Henry captures the tendency to find narratives in the world around us, though for Nora this sef-type casting has allowed her public life as ‘the villain in someone else's love story,’ to rule her romantic life ‘because people like me don’t get those endings.’ With a keen eye for the classic elements of a romantic comedy, Book Lovers delightfully both subverts and satirizes tropes while simultaneously leaning into them in surprising ways that makes this story as humorously engaging as it is endlessly adorable. ‘Sometimes, even when you start with the last page and you think you know everything, a book finds a way to surprise you,’ Nora thinks, and this book captures that feeling so effortlessly. It’s the anti-Hallmark film Hallmark film narrative that acknowledges, sure, its fun to mock the stereotypical cliches and feel like you are above them, but you know deep down you still enjoy watching them even if you don’t care to admit it. Besides, who doesn’t want to save a small business while also falling in love!? Now sprinkle in all the book lover joys of small town indie bookstores, enemies-to-lovers coming together while editing a riveting novel, metaphors about not wanting to finish books and endlessly referencing favorite books to better explain a situation, and you’ll see why it is nearly impossible to not fall in love with Book Lovers. ‘She wonders whether what comes next could ever live up to the expectations. She doesn’t know. You never can. She turns the page anyway.’ Seriously though, I really loved this. It’s such a feel-good book that I simply could not put down. I love the aspect of the novel of all the juxtapositions of people and places with their fictional counterparts. The adorable small town of a novel is lackluster and lame, though maybe a place that can be beautiful if you give it enough time. Or the fictional Nora, Nadine Winters, that shows up in Dusty’s newest novel and forces Nora to confront her own public persona. I also loved the characters. Charlie is so wonderful and I adored his full commitment to Nora, smitten and supportive every step of the way. He could certainly charm the pants off me, watch out Nora. But she was delightful too. It’s so easy to fall in love with them both. And I gotta say, Charlie running and indie bookstore while having a full time job really hit deep. Representation matters, thanks Henry. I also loved the discussion on book endings, especially the ones that are ‘a reminder that there are things in life so valuable that you must risk the pain of losing them for the joy of briefly having them,’ which warmed my heart as a fan of messy or sad endings. Granted, this book does run a big long and the ending starts to drag but overall this book just made me happy. ‘ Maybe love shouldn’t be built on a foundation of compromises, but maybe it can’t exist without them either.’ While I found Happy Place a bit underwhelming, I found that all of the elements of this one worked really well. The banter is funny and adorable and I liked the calm pace that really let the scenes and characters breathe. The tension builds quite well and I enjoyed that Henry could discuss heavier themes amidst a rather sweet story as the slow understanding about Nora and her sister’s relationship was one of the most endearing aspects of the book. And not just the cutesy vacation checklist which leads to some good gaffs, but the tension between Libby wanting to he her own self and Nora wanting to always show she can support people and be reliable. I think what really makes this work is that there is more than just a romance going on—in fact Nora find the romance to be stressful because it distracts from her other problems. It makes a good balance, especially with the sister narrative getting equal time as the romance narrative and Henry handling heavier subjects to counterbalance all the cuteness. Like a good mixed drink, gotta add a some bitters to balance the sweetness. ‘I still feel like a city person, through and through, but maybe it’s possible to have more than one home. Maybe it’s possible to belong in a hundred different ways to a hundred different people and places.’ All in all, Book Lovers stole my heart. But how can it not when it so marvelously plays with the tropes of person and place aligning to make you swoon. Henry excels at giving a sense of place that draws you in and feels as much a character as those walking around it and here I found myself full up in this small town romance and everything that came with it. Because this book has a lot: publishing, small town charm while also embracing big city charm, hot guys, hot cousins of the hot guys, family drama, saving a small business, bad local theater, scandalous backstories, Bigfoot erotica, and did I mention hot guys? Book Lovers is a winner, and yes Emily Henry, ‘the romance gods would be proud.’ ⅘ ‘The last-page ache. The deep breath in after you’ve set the book aside.’

I used to be a fan of emily henry but after reading this masterpiece I’m a whole ass air conditioner.

4.5 stars!!! The banter was SO good!! I love love love the setting and the main characters. Emily Henry’s books are always big hits for me. I also really love the family plot going on just as much as I loved the romance. Overall it was such a unique and refreshing take on the typical big city girl goes to small town romance. And it’s a grumpy x grumpy which I’ve never read before and I LOVED that aspect of it.

3.75 stars “Is there anything better than iced coffee and a bookstore on a sunny day? I mean, aside from hot coffee and a bookstore on a rainy day.” i have to be honest, i was very hesitant about giving this book a second chance. it was my first emily henry book and i didn’t end up enjoying it as much as the others but i’m so glad i did end up picking it up again. after getting to know her writing more, i’ve come to realize how amazing her writing really is. i think the main reason i found this book disappointing the first time was the fact that nothing makes up for the sadness you experience in the third act conflict. it was hard to get into the book bc the references were a bit confusing at first, but it does get better!! “I’ve always considered myself an introvert, but the truth is I’m used to having people on all sides of me. You adapt to living life with a constant audience. It becomes comforting.” It isn’t just that I loved growing up in the city—it’s that every time I see kids sleepily shuffling along en masse at the Met, or setting their boom box down on the train to break-dance for tips, or standing in awe in front of a world-class violinist playing beneath Rockefeller Center, I think, How amazing it is to be a part of this, to get to share this place with all these people. “I had standards and a life, and I wasn’t about to let some man destroy it like it was merely the paper banner he was meant to crash through as he entered the field.” “it wasn’t about missing my ex so much as the loneliness of being unable to trust myself with anyone.” All this time I thought being seen as monstrous was the worst thing that could happen to me. Now I realize I’d rather be frigid than what I really am, deep down, every second of every day: weak, helpless, so fucking scared it’s going to come apart. spoiler alert! nora. where do i even start with her? she was honestly amazing! this books helps you come to understand how much pressure nora really was under as an older sibling who had a younger sister depending on them after the death of their mother. she was expected to have this hard shell and has learned to do so after experiencing so much heartbreak. she’s learned to not let emotions get in the way of everything and i admire her determination and independence. in the beginning, it’s seen that nora was an empowering person who was earned her place and she lives her life adjusting to these stereotypes that are placed on everyone. a cynic, you could say. i think the fact that the thing that truly broke her was her sister leaving really shows us the person that she is. she had to deal with the fact that ppl would end up seeing her as a shark, yet she never cried until it came down to her sister. deep down, she cares abt her family dearly bc her sister is all she’s got left of it. nora was able to put up with libby’s shenanigans bc of her love for libby, despite how many secrets she kept. “A man who craves complete honesty, the realist who doesn’t always understand when he’s not seeing realism. Charlie, who wants to understand the world but has learned not to trust it.” “I’ll take you home whenever you want,” he says. “But if you want to stay, and you wake up screaming, it’s okay. I’ll make sure you’re okay. And if you want to stay, and then change your mind, I don’t mind driving you back at four a.m.” “I remember exactly how you feel, Nora. Like fucking silk.” “What about what you want?” I demand. He looks at me like he believes I could give it to him, and I want to, so badly. “Who’s making sure you’re happy, Charlie? What about your heart?” He tries to smile; he’s too bad at lying. “Do people like us have those?” i have to be honest despite the fact that i loved charlie, i feel like there was not much depth to him. he was quite a boring character and i myself feel guilty for saying it. his past isn’t talked about as often, possibly to convey the fact that it didn’t need to be talked abt given that they were similar, but i do wish we still got to know more about him. he was always there for her and all we know about their connection is that he is always willing to go where she was. nora had the responsibility of her sister and is willing to do anything for her, while charlie was willing to do anything for nora. i feel as though this book shows that as an older sister with the responsibility of making everything seem okay, you need someone to make sure you’re doing okay too. “Not just because Charlie and I are so similar, but because he’s right: we belong. In a way I don’t understand, he’s mine, and I’m his. It doesn’t matter what the last page says. That’s the truth. Here, now.” “Stephens,” he says, tone dry once more, “if you’re the villain in someone else’s love story, then I’m the devil.” Maybe love shouldn’t be built on a foundation of compromises, but maybe it can’t exist without them either. Maybe that’s why we as a species love stories so much. All those chances for do-overs, opportunities to live the lives we’ll never have. i feel like the reason why i loved the relationship between her and charlie was bc it was like she finally had someone to lean on after being the one everyone depended on. she didn’t have to care for him like everyone else, rather he was able to look after her. charlie was someone that always knew her and understood what she was like. there was no explanation needed, they just understood each other from the start. he was always willing to be there for her and comfort her at any time. with charlie, it was as if nora was the one who would spot him in a crowd of people. they never had to hide who they were with each other bc it was just known. i feel like the story jumped a bit fast with this book but nonetheless i still ended up liking it “And just so you know, those bangs do not make you more approachable. You just look like a hot assassin in an expensive wig.” “All I just heard,” I say, “is hot and expensive.” i think that the enemies to lovers aspect was more realistic than in other romance books, which j appreciated. typically, i’m not a fan of enemies to lovers in contemporary romances simply because they take the meaning and make it into a big deal over a small fuss the characters have. however, i much enjoyed it in this situation bc it was reasonable and i felt as though it was different. plus, the banter was to die for and i was living for it. i do wish that it was a bit more of a slowburn bc within the first 100 pages, they already kissed. another factor is that the line is blurred between when they go from being attracted to each other to loving one another. they establish this bond from the beginning but never make it clear when they start to truly love each other. i also felt as though they said i love you way too early in the book. it’s very confusing with this trope. they also establish this connection that they have from the beginning bc of how similar they are but really it becomes hard to understand them. “Please don’t apologize for letting me know you.” “Your nightmare brain,” he says, “is my absolute favorite, Stephens.” given the way nora and charlie’s relationship started, i really wasn’t a fan of their bond. hear me out: would u enjoy it if they were talking about their feelings and all of a sudden nora talks about how she wants to jump him? it completely ruins the moment. it is just layered on to the moment that they shared and it is unrelated. their relationship started on pure attraction which i myself am not a fan of, but i do acknowledge the fact that it was well written!! the sexual tension between them was just chefs kiss and the way they carried themselves?? i just wish it didn’t mention how attracted she was to him even after everything happened between them. spoiler alert from this point on!! “She’s frustrated with how much I work, and that’s creating distance. The distance has her keeping secrets. The secrets have me frustrated with her. It’s a self-fulfilling prophecy, keeping us locked in an invisible, unspoken argument, wherein we both pretend nothing’s wrong.” “My heart stings. I remember that feeling, of not being enough. Of wanting so badly to be what Libby needed after we lost Mom and failing, over and over again. I couldn’t be tender for her. I couldn’t bring the magic back into our life. All I had on my side was brute force and desperation.” “Libby was wrong when she told Sally I am just like Mom. Mom worked nonstop to chase something she wanted. For me, it’s running endlessly trying to escape the past.” without Mom and Libby, there is no home. I didn’t know it was possible to miss a person this much while she was sitting right next to you, so badly everything in you aches. the sister relationship infuriated me so much. libby and nora claimed to be two peas in a pod and in this book, it’s clear that they have drifted apart. the miscommunication on both of their parts was unbearable simply bc nora felt this compelling need to fix everything for her sister, and libby wasn’t willing to understand nora. this book highlights their relationship and how much love nora has for libby. nora always put libby first bc of how important family is, despite how much she works, and libby suffers from guilt knowing she’s stopping nora from living the life she wants. it really is a never ending cycle between the two of them. i understand on libby’s part about how she was worried about telling her sister that she was moving but i truly wish she went about it better. she was careless in the way she acted and while nora thought she was someone to lean on, libby felt more like she was becoming her mother, a workaholic who didn’t care about boys. i think it rlly opened my eyes to the fact that libby didn’t pay attention to all the things that nora did for her and the meanings beneath them. i have this problem where i keep accidentally constantly reading about annoying younger sisters as a younger sister. tbh the third act conflict was built up from the very beginning and i feel as though it was handled so well. they were able to accept the fact that they weren’t able to be together and just decided to cherish the time they had together. they also didn’t have any miscommunication which i appreciated. charlie and nora are both the kind of ppl who care deeply about their own family, despite the flaws that they have because of how much they love them. they went off their own ways, and i think that nora deciding to choose herself and charlie staying for his family really emphasized that. the entire trip, nora continued to put libby first until it affected their relationship for the worst, and charlie tried his best to be there for his dad even though his dad clearly told him that he didn’t want him there. i feel as though the ending was perfect bc their family decided that it was better for both of them to be happy together rather than choosing family. other emily henry books! ִ ࣪𖤐◞ ꙳ ๋࣭ ⭑ ` beach read people we meet on vacation happy place funny story great big beautiful life pre-review i would like to announce.. i indeed did end up liking this book the second time around. i enjoyed hating this book with everyone else while it lasted rtc pre-read review did i think this book was disappointing? yes. am i giving it another try? also yes. buddy reading this book with ml riri 💘

We've ALL seen that Hallmark movie (or at least part of it) featuring that hustle-and-bustle big city couple, where one half of the couple travels to the small town...and suddenly finds EVERYTHING they've been missing. The charm of a local yokel, with small town values and a bigger-than-the-sky heart sweeps in and shows them that the cold and callous big city and workaholic lifestyle just isn't what it's cracked up to be. The city slicker then comes to their senses, immediately breaking off the relationship with the seemingly callous and high-strung half of their relationship, and the NEW pairing live happily in small town bliss until the 'cows come home.' (Because there are probably cows, let's be real.) But what about the OTHER high-strung half of Couple A? What on EARTH happens to them? Such is the basis for Emily Henry's latest, Book Lovers. Nora is a literary agent by way of Miranda Priestley--the cold, Peloton-obsessed, workaholic Type A who is always the 'dumpee' in the aforementioned scenario. She's cycled through enough of these type of relationships to see the writing on the wall, but hasn't quite figured out how to break the spell. She forms an adversarial connection with Charlie Lastra, an editor, who just can't see the appeal of her client Dusty Fielding's latest, declaring it 'just isn't her best'. Nora feels she can both prove him wrong and keep a promise to her little sister Libby by taking a long trip to Sunshine Falls, North Carolina, where Dusty's latest takes place. She has a checklist of 'items' to complete, akin to the usual Hallmark movie plot points, to help her find love (well, she'll at least humor her sister.) But the LAST person she expects to see in this trip is the one man who can really make her blood boil: none other than Charlie Lastra himself. What on earth is he doing in THIS particular small town? What does this ugly twist of fate have in store for Nora...and is her little sister Libby hiding a big secret of her own? Will Nora find something buried deep within her that will have her questioning EVERYTHING? With no ability to 'flip to the last page' of her time in Sunshine Falls, will she follow her heart...no matter WHERE it leads? I've come to expect three things from Emily Henry's romances: 1) I'm going to laugh out loud, at least once. Probably many times. I'll also probably snort at least once and wish I could be 1/10th as witty as her characters. (Or just wish I could be friends with her characters...I'd settle for that!) 2) Her romances always have the same 'feel' without feeling repetitive. SUCH the sign of a good writer. You can pick up any of her books, and know it is irrefutably HERS. No over the top icky sexual scenes, just the perfect amount of spicy heat without being too graphic, and characters you want to see together so badly it HURTS by the time they actually do get together! 3) Deep emotional undertones and side plots that will catch you off guard. In this story, Nora's relationship with her sister really threw me for a loop and had me reflecting on my own life and relationship with my little sister. She dives right into these complicated relationships, giving them just as much weight and bearing as the main romantic relationship, and it helps to balance out her books. You know her characters as complete people, which is so important. Romantic relationships can be so fulfilling, but the most important relationship you will ever have is the relationship you have with yourself, and Henry never forgets that in her writing. Although her books never seem to grab me quite at a 5 star level, they're always SO close and as much as I anticipated this read, it lived up to every expectation. Emily Henry is just one of those writers who is like a cozy and familiar blanket you can snuggle with after a hard day and know she will provide you exactly the comfort and joy you need. (Even if it isn't Christmas time!) 🎄😉 4.5 shining stars! Nominated for Best Romance in the Goodreads Choice Awards!

“I can read you like a book.” 3.5 stars Book Lovers is an enemies to lovers romance about a literary agent and an editor whose mutual love of books draws them together. Nora and her sister, Libby, vacation to Sunshine Falls, a town featured in a bestselling novel. Libby challenges workaholic Nora to find love and sleep under the stars. Essentially, Libby wants Nora to experience a hallmark movie come to life, while all Nora wants to do is work. All plans go out the window when Nora discovers Charlie Lastra, an arrogant editor, is also in town. Sparks fly, and it seems like a romance novel come true, but secrets and obligations work to keep the two apart. Narrated solely by Nora, she is a likable heroine who is quick-witted and intelligent. I enjoyed her voice. On the other hand, I wanted more of Charlie and less of Libby. One thing the characters have in common is their love of books, so it is hard to dislike anyone. I loved Nora's commentary on bookish tropes and litearary references. What didn’t work for me was Nora’s backstory. Not so much the story itself, but it became redundant. My other favorite moments were the emails between Nora and Charlie, especially concerning the topic of BigFoot erotica. This was a fun escape that makes for the perfect summer read. As much as Nora isn’t a fan of romance tropes, Book Lovers is a little bit formulaic, and it was my least favorite of Emily Henry’s books, but it is still an enjoyable read. Nora and Charlie's characters make up for the faults, and much in tune with Nora's character, the ending is perfect.

"You," he says, "are much weirder than I though." "Well, for what it's worth, before tonight, I assumed you went into a broom closet and entered power saving mode whenever you weren't at work, so I guess we're both surprised." "Now you're being ridiculous," he says. "When I'm not at work, I'm in my coffin in the basement of an old Victorian mansion." Oh, the bittersweet tears I shed because of this book on this very fine saturday morning... "We're going to have so much fun, Sissy! And you're going to fall in love with a lumberjack." "If there's one thing that makes me horny," I say, "it's deforestation." "An ethica, sustainable, organi, glutenhfree lumberjack," Libby amends.

july 2025 edit: PLEASE DAVID CORENSWET FOR CHARLIE PLSPLSPLSPLSPLSPLSPLS IDGAF ABOUT PAUL MESCAL OR HIS BANGS!!!!!!!! THIS IS THE CHARLIE WE NEED. okay. my official emily henry ruling is in. book lovers > beach read > people we meet on vacation. i read henry's most recent romances back to back, just for accuracy's sake, and oh my god. it feels like two completely different people wrote book lovers and people we meet on vacation, maybe because henry wrote the latter during the height of a pandemic and the creative juices weren't all there given that we were, you know, battling a global disease. like.....not a single joke landed in people we meet on vacation. not one. just 300+ pages of no laughter. me reading people we meet on vacation: 😐😐😐😐😐😐😐😐😐😐🤨😐 me reading book lovers: 😂🤣😂😂😂😂🤣🤣🤣😂🤣😂😂 night and day. beyond the fact that i maintain alex/poppy had no real chemistry and just wanted to fuck really bad (and had been edging themselves for over a decade), i think my personal tastes were way more suited to this book. so here are my official book lovers metrics. if you ARE and/or HAVE any of the following, i think you'll enjoy this book + are part of its intended audience: • made loving books a personality trait at some point in your childhood to overcompensate for a lack of friends and/or emotionally available authority figures. not-like-other-girls-ed yourself into a private corner of your public library to cope. yeah, you. probably had personalized bookmarks. used to sit in the sunlight at your local borders, before they went bankrupt and disappeared. cited belle as your favorite disney princess on the basis that she carried a book in the beginning of the film and was therefore so much smarter than all the other princesses, even though you always found mulan hottest for reasons you couldn't quite pinpoint (later, it will all make sense, trust me). get over yourself! but also, this book is for you. • have been told you have "resting bitch face" by the people in your life. • have a predilection for men who would let you peg them if asked. charlie lastra has incredibly strong my girlfriend pegs me energy. he would wear a t-shirt with this slogan to sleep, even. very simpy. if nora said, "bend over and arch your back while you're at it," yes, he might waggle a pair of eyebrows referenced one too many times by his creator, he might throw in a funny punchline to offset how fast it gave him a boner, but he would bend over. he might say something along the lines of, "oh, is it that kind of night? did one of your authors attempt to reject a big structural edit? rookie mistake," or, "before you've bought me dinner? i'm not that slutty, stephens," but he would do it (he is that slutty). he would absolutely bend over. and if nora bought herself a strap, he would find it hot. don't shake your head. he would. he 10000000% would. he is that kind of man. my kind of man, if you will. • dream of an ice queen in stick-thin stilettos domming you into oblivion on a memory foam mattress. nora cannot be that woman for you, unfortunately, but we can still dream (as we have learned from this book). • have ESC (Eldest Sibling Complex). if you have this complex, you are the intended audience of this book. if you had to parent in place of your actual parents, this will strike an emotional cord in you. if you were forced to embody all things safety and security for your younger siblings. if you only ever felt comfortable crying alone in the bathroom, with the shower running, while listening to adele's discography. if your single parent worked from open until close. if you have ever said, "i didn't ask to be born!" even ironically. if someone forgot to pick you up from school at least once, leading to an awkward phone-call made by your government-assigned legal adult from the after-school program you attended at the time, who subsequently sent you a pitying look while you twiddled your thumbs in their office. in other words, if you were the guinea pig child and are now paying for therapy because of it. you deserved better❤️ • you are touch-starved. don't worry—you, too, will find a charlie lastra to gently cup your face while you shed an actual tear for the first time in like, ten years (GO TO THERAPY!!!!!!!). • have a capricorn moon. go on astro.cafeastrology.com right now and find out. you grew up too fast. you were called the """""mom friend""""" (ew) at some point. some might call you """repressed""" or """"""emotionally unavailable."""""" you prefer the term SEXY HOT COOL MYSTERIOUS UNKNOWABLE HARD-WORKING ENIGMA WITH A PRACTICAL WORLDVIEW THAT SOME MISTAKE FOR A PSYCHIC STREAK. please find a therapist. • are into men who lean more feminine than masculine (they only ever had sisters growing up and it paid off). funny bisexual energy. listens to bad bunny and omar apollo’s music partly because of latent sexual attraction energy. understands the anatomy of a joke energy. men who would fist-bump you if you showed them your female manipulators spotify playlist. • just want to be loved. enough said. if you are any of these things, you may be entitled to financial compensation and also a physical copy of this novel. this isn't technically speaking a rivals to lovers book, but the sexy banter is there. there is no bullshit third act conflict buoyed by miscommunication and/or lying that forces the main couple to gasp and go, "HOW COULD YOU?!?!?" only to dash off into a wall of melodramatic mist. this is a mellow, slow-moving, emotionally healing romance between two people who were NOT the hot kids growing up, but are now really funny because of it and can clock who WAS the hot kid growing up based off of how little personality they currently have (hint: shepherd). the 60-70% mark drags a bit, and i wanted more nora/charlie content, but i find i'm supremely satisfied by how their romance unraveled. there were no crazy stakes, no explosive arguing, no sudden "BECAUSE I LOVE YOU, BITCH!" revelation of feelings, because, let's be honest, when two funny people meet, it's only a matter of time before they're fucking. there is a lot of eldest/youngest sibling subplot; hopefully you will enjoy the catharsis of that subplot because you are unwell and want to be told you can stop taking care of the rest of the world for five seconds. this is emily henry at her best. her male lead and her female lead are BOTH interesting, funny, and smart (neither flags behind). her male lead understands his place in the relationship (not quite as SEXY HOT COOL MYSTERIOUS UNKNOWABLE HARD-WORKING ENIGMATIC as nora is, but still just happy to be there) and even insists that he likes her more than she does him (AND THAT IS THE ONLY WAY WE ARE ACCEPTING M/F COUPLES FROM HERE ON OUT! OKAY? THE HERO HAS TO OPENLY LOVE THE HEROINE MORE, OR HE IS DELUSIONAL AND UNGRATEFUL!). her prose is its strongest. her jokes land. the meta awareness of her world, its insistence on both subverting tropes and succumbing to them by turn (as lady gaga would say, UNAFRAID TO REFERENCE OR NOT REFERENCE!), the nature of a book about books, really worked for me. there's a self-awareness to the narrative limits of book lovers (look up 'HEA ending romance genre,' for example) that really serves it. and though i've begun to pick up on henry's recurring motifs/habits/fallbacks, this was by far her most enjoyable romp. the couple makes sense. they want to make it work. they have chemistry. they're convincing. and charlie will one day get pegged. i just know it. a few comedic highlights: "Libby," I say. "I understand that you met the love of your life when you were twenty years old, and thus have never truly dated. But imagine for a moment, if you will, a world in which thirty percent of your dates end with the revelation that the man across the table from you has a foot, elbow, or kneecap fetish." — This place looks like a Cracker Barrel had a baby with a honky-tonk, and now that baby is a teenager who doesn't shower enough and chews on his sweatshirt sleeves. — "What did your phone do to you?" "It's not the phone so much as the sociopathic super-bitch who lives inside it." Charlie says, "Most people just call her Siri." — "I once had a sex dream about the green M&M," Charlie says bluntly [...]. so true, king. now bend over.

I’ve been a huge fan of Emily Henry since Beach Read first came out, and Book Lovers is another winner! This is the author's third adult romance and I adored it, though it’s surprisingly not a 5 star read like her two previous ones were. It's still REALLY good, because I love Emily Henry’s writing and her sense of humor. If you love books that are all about books/publishing, this is for you! Nora is a literary agent and Charlie is a book editor. They’re sort of enemies – they just don’t get along because of their rough first meeting. Now, they're both away from NYC and bump into each other in the small town of Sunshine Falls, NC, after Nora’s sister drags her out for a trip together. These two finally grow closer when Charlie becomes the editor for Nora’s biggest author client, and the romance that grows is the absolute sweetest. Nora and Charlie were fantastic characters! Their banter and wit was perfection, and I loved how you could so clearly tell how hard Charlie was falling for Nora, even though we sadly never get his POV. It does get a little heavy and emotional with Nora dealing with the growing gap between her sister/best friend and how unsure she is about her job, but all of it was written incredibly well. I didn’t expect anything less from Emily Henry. I just wasn’t quite as IN LOVE with the romance here as I was with BR/PWMOV. It's still a solid, worthwhile read, and if you enjoyed Emily Henry before, I have no doubt you'll enjoy this one too! ***** This was the most bookish book ever, and I adored it! Nora and Charlie were great and had me feeling all the feels. Their banter and wit was *chef’s kiss*. I can’t say this tops BR/PWMOV for me, but I’m always impressed with Emily Henry’s writing and sense of humor, which she nailed once again. Full review to come! ***** Hello yes I need this so badly.

This book ticked all my boxes for a fun rom-com: • Snarky, witty banter which had me laughing out loud more than once • Characters who love books and reading: Charlie, the likable hot guy who just so happens to be an editor and Nora, the city girl, who is a career-driven literary agent • Cozy small-town setting • Lots of bookish talk • Enemies to lovers • Steam but the door to the bedroom is closed with just a small crack. (Matter of fact I wanted them to get a room so they would stop lusting after each other like sex-hungry teenagers). We know where the story is going in a rom-com, so it is all about the journey, which I found engaging and fun. When Nora takes her sister, Libby, up on an offer to go on a month-long trip to Sunshine Falls, NC, Libby has a bucket list for her sister, built around familiar tropes in rom-coms, including falling in love with a lumberjack. Instead, Nora runs into Charlie, an editor from back in the city. Turns out Sunshine Falls is his hometown. Sparks fly immediately, but not romantic sparks. It seems they have a not-so-pleasant work history. I also liked the dynamic between the two sisters, Nora and Libby. They lost their mother at an early age and have some issues to work out that gave some depth to the story. I also liked the role reversal where it was the female lead who was the career-driven workaholic, and the author stayed true to the character throughout. I also liked all the bookish talk and book love. Julia Whelan, my favorite narrator, is the voice of Nora, and does so flawlessly. Timing is everything. This was a buddy read with Marialyce but do check out her review to see what she thought. The author’s book, Beach Read, wasn’t for me (pandemic brain?), but I loved The People We Meet on Vacation, and with this one, I’m officially a fan. It’s a perfect feel-good summer read.

No one writes like Emily. She has such an unique flow and a complex way of keeping things simple. She once again has won me over from page one, impressed me with the rhythm, the style, the humor, and she also impressed me with the banter. She is getting bold with her sex scenes and that is such a refreshing upgrade from her previous books. It is no secret that People We Meet on Vacation is one of my favorite book of all times, but we can't deny that it is because of the emotional weight of it and not because of that single sex scene. As cute as it is, Emily has always ran on the mild side when it comes to the finallys. Imagine my surprise when she creates these two characters and explores not only their mental chemistry but also their sexual chemistry more than once. I have never seen Emily be this descriptive this often, she has actually steered away from her usual slow burn with this book. It is still no extremely spicy book, but it delivered in everything else that mattered. They had chemistry, the book is the right length; it's funny, sexy, exciting, and relatable, like everything else she touches. Their flirting, their banter, their dirty talk, everything was measured, calculated to the perfect amount. None of it was cringy and this was so freaking fun! I couldn't put it down. She got a little bit lost at the end, I realized I don't enjoy vague happy endings as much as I thought I would. Emily tries way too hard to stay away from marriage and kids at the end of her books, which is something I am totally fine with. However, this one ended with something lacking. I can't pinpoint exactly what it is, but it felt like taking a bite out of a cupcake you thought was going to be frosted filled and it wasn't. She built the most incredible connection between these two characters, and this FMC is possibly my favorite female she has ever written, and that is why I think they deserved more at the end. She threw us a "happy ending" I couldn't quite grasp and it left me somewhat unsatisfied. Other than that, it is a very solid Emily book that will keep me glued to her next releases for a long time still.

“You’re perfect,” he rasps. “You’re fucking perfect.” This was such a cute and fun rom-com about love, acceptance, self-confidence and happiness. Nora Stephen is a literary agent from New York who works hard for her clients, but she is seen as cold-hearted by clients and people she meets. Nora first met Charlie, an editor, for a book deal but the meeting did not go well and Nora didn't like Charlie. Nora's sister, Libby begs Nora to go with her to a small-town in North Carolina to help her relax and learn that she can be a hero in her own life. In Sunshine Falls, Nora keeps running into Charlie around town instead of meeting a small-town guy. Soon they learn that they are heroes to each other. This book was so good! The pacing was well done and the plot was interesting. This story is told from Nora's point of view. I loved Nora, she is smart, hardworking, organized and even though she has a hard exterior once you get to know her she is caring and kind. I really like Charlie, he is responsible, sweet, smart, and dependable. I liked Nora's sister Libby, she is sweet and helpful, but there were times where I didn't agree with the decisions that Libby made. I also liked the side characters especially Nora's nieces, Brendan, and Charlie's mom Sally. I loved the banter between Charlie and Nora and the chemistry between them was amazing! I loved that Charlie and Nora understand each other and they had a lot in common including their love of reading. The ending was so good and heartwarming! I'm so glad it ended on a happy note and I liked seeing what happened to the characters a few months later. I would recommend this book to anyone who loves romantic comedies and great characters.

Just what I needed after a dark heavy read! Hollis, a famous food blogger (think Ina Garten famous), living on Nantucket, is a new widow, having lost her husband in a car accident. She has a strained relationship with her daughter, and is at loose ends as to how to move forward. She decides to host a “Five-Star Weekend” with her guests being her best friend from different stages of her life. The weekend doesn’t quite go as planned, as each of the women have issues of their own. The setting and the descriptions of the food was enough to carry the story, and the backstories of the friends was enough to give the novel substance, while keeping it light and breezy. A fun beach summer read!

This is the perfect comfort read. A five-star weekend designed to overcome loss, grief and have a few laughs by inviting friends who have made a significant impact in Hollis's life, regardless of whether they are still in touch or not. The story unfolds seamlessly and concludes on a positive note, leaving you with a sense of contentment.

4.5 🌟👏🏼 I loved a lot about this book (the female friendship focus, the cooking/food content, the tasteful integration of social media, etc.)! This is a classic sort of beach read, which I can definitely appreciate ☺️ These kinds of books are never going to be my absolute favorites, but I did really, really like this one! Add to your tbr for the summer!!

I know its January ❄️ and we're in the middle of a massive snowstorm, but this was such a fun, soapy beach read! ☀️ Hollis and Matthew have had some rocky times in their marriage and she isn't sure if everything is okay. She is wondering what he meant when he told her they have both changed. I really enjoyed the drama/suspenseful moments, the friends with issues, the weekend trip and time in Nantucket. Fun, fun and the characters were great. Audio listen from Libby 🎧 Published on June 13,2023

I have read several of Elin Hilderbrand’s books over the years. A few things that I have come to rely upon when I read one of Elin’s books is that they will transport me to a place that entertains, provides me with some drama and intersperses me among characters that I can escape with. I love that her books are set in picturesque Nantucket. The Five-Star Weekend was no exception. As soon as I began reading The Five-Star Weekend, I was whisked into Hollis Shaw’s life. I found myself transported into her everyday life. That included her interactions with her devoted followers from her food blog, Hungry with Hollis, the drama in her life that included her turbulent marriage with husband, Matthew, a prominent and respected heart surgeon who had been at her side for so many years, her relationship with her impressionable young adult daughter, Caroline and just her life in general. Hollis’s and Matthew’s marriage had been in a rut for some time. They seemed to be more like roommates than husband and wife. Somehow the magic had disappeared from their marriage and their relationship. Matthew was traveling a great deal and even when he was home Hollis and Matthew seemed to avoid each other. It was winter around holiday time and Hollis was planning their annual holiday party. Matthew informed Hollis that he would not be back in time for the party. He was traveling again. Harsh words were exchanged by both Hollis and Matthew before he closed the front door and headed to his car. Matthew’s last words to Hollis were, “You’ve changed. We’ve changed.” Hollis was still repeating that sentiment when the bell at the front door rang. She was positive that Matthew had returned to say he was sorry and that he would make sure he was home for their party but standing in front of Hollis were two policemen. Hollis was about to receive the worst news of her life. The policemen informed Hollis that Matthew had been in a fatal car accident. His car had hit a mother deer and her baby. Matthew had died instantly. Hollis became a widow that fateful day. She was so distraught that their last words they spoke to one another were in anger. When Hollis informed her followers of Hungry with Hollis that she would be stepping back for an extended period of time so she could mourn her husband’s death, one of her followers told her about how she hosted something called a “five-star weekend” and how it had helped her come to terms with her grief and how to proceed with the rest of her life. Hollis decided that that was what she would do. She would host a “five-star weekend “ in Nantucket at her home. Hollis would include a friend from every stage of her life. Tatum would represent her childhood friend, Dru-Ann, her college roommate would represent her college years, Brooke would represent the friend during the years she raised her daughter and lived in Wellesley and Gigi would represent her newest friend from her blog who had been there for Hollis when she needed someone to talk to. Hollis also decided to invite her daughter, Caroline, to film the weekend. Her ultimate goal for the “five star weekend” was for it to help Hollis through her grief of loosing Matthew. What better way than to be surrounded by your oldest, most devoted, and cherished friends! Needless to say, Hollis’s carefully planned weekend did not go exactly as planned. What would transpire? Be prepared for surprises and unexpected secrets. The Five-Star Weekend by Elin Hilderbrand was delightful and entertaining from start to finish. I enjoyed the relationships Hollis and her friends had forged. All the characters made me feel like I was included in their special weekend with Hollis. I loved all the yummy food that was mentioned throughout the book. The Five-Star Weekend could be your next beach read or just a moving yet fun book for now. I highly recommend this book. Thank you to Little, Brown and Company for allowing me to read The Five-Star Weekend by Elin Hilderbrand through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. All opinions expressed in this review are completely my own.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ (4/5 Fiction) It's not officially summer until I am lost in the (inevitably waterlogged) pages of Elin's latest novel. Elin Hilderbrand is the undisputed queen of the beach read, and somehow, 29 books later, she can still write a fresh & captivating story. In picking up this book, you are once again transported to the gorgeous island of Nantucket. Like all Elin books, this is chock full of the best kind of indulgences. Mouth-watering food, luxurious linens, frosty bottles of Sancerre, grand sailboats cutting through clear water. No book transports me quite as much as an Elin book. Our story is about Hollis Shaw, wife, mother, and creator of the wildly popular food blog, Hungry With Hollis. When Hollis' husband dies suddenly in a car crash, life as she knows it comes to a screeching halt. As she prepares for her yearly pilgrimage to the island of Nantucket and grapples with how difficult this summer will be, she learns about another widow who hosted something called a Five Star Weekend: a weekend filled with a friend from each chapter of her life. Hollis is inspired to round up a friend from high school, college, and early motherhood. Her friend for this chapter of life is unique in that Hollis has never met her! She's a Hungry with Hollis fan who has helped Hollis through some of her darkest days following the death of her husband. Each woman comes with their own literal and metaphorical baggage as they navigates this unique girls' weekend that will leave them forever changed. Elin has a knack for writing life-affirming novels that are happy and hopeful. Elin's books always leave me filled with joie de vivre. I splurged on a bottle of Casa Dragones, which graces the pages of many Elin novels, and I'm using it to make the watermelon margarita recipe (swipe for the recipe!). I've decided to rank my top 3 Elin books for fun. Please let me know yours! 1. 28 Summers (check out the playlist inspired by this book in my stories!) 2. Hotel Nantucket 3. The Blue Bistro

Anything Elin writes is sure to be a gem. 💎 I loved the premise of the “Five-Star Weekend.” Hollis organizes a girls’ weekend at her Nantucket home to include her best friends from each phase of her life: best friend from her teens (Tatum), best friend from her twenties (Dru-Ann), best friend from her “prime of life” (Brooke), and best friend from “midlife” (Gigi). In true Elin fashion, a scandal was revealed just 70 pages in. Oh my! I loved watching the weekend unfold and each woman’s personal growth in just three days time. A solid summer read.

4💫 as always, elin’s books are the most perfect summer read. i really enjoyed listening to this one and being inside each of the women’s povs. they are all going through something personal to them while on this trip, and i liked how they all find some sort of comfort or healing through one another. it wouldn’t be an elin book without drama, and this one was full of scandals. so much fun to listen to!

my first Ellin Hildebrandt book & definitely, not my last!! The story, setting, plot line, and characters were so developed & were continuously growing throughout this entire book. I loved that we got a little bit of each characters backstory, and how they all came together in the end. Also, I really want to try Hollis’s food now LOL loved this book so so much!!

3.5⭐️ - I liked but didn’t love this one.

4.25 stars Oh my god I can't believe that I basically binged the last half of the book. Early in the book it was putting me into an slump but the audiobook as well as the plot getting interesting got me out of it. This book is a beautiful story of friendship, grief and love that I would recommend. It was so good. The five-star weekend is about Hollis Shaw and her four friends. Hollis seems to have the perfect life. She is the person behind the super popular food blog Hungry with Hollis, and has a doctor husband and a daughter in college who is on her way to becoming a filmmaker. But then her husband Matthew dies in a car accident shortly after having an argument with Hollis. Hollis's entire life changes in an instant. Her daughter Caroline comes back from college for Matthew's funeral but she constantly says cruel things to Hollis, and doesn't care that she's grieving too. For months Hollis has no idea what to do with her life. But then she hears about something called the five-star weekend, which is about a woman who went on a vacation to Nantucket with her four friends from each stage of her life after the death of her husband. Hollis decides to take inspiration from this and to do with four friends from the stages of her own life. These friends that she chooses are Tatum (her high school best friend), Dru-Ann (her best friend from college), Brooke (her mum friend from when Caroline was growing up) and Gigi (a fan from her blog who she's connected to but who's never actually met in real life). But all of these women have problems of their own. Tatum is terrified that she might have breast cancer after finding a lump on her breast, especially because she has a family history of this illness (her mother died from it when she was 18). Dru-Ann is facing a career crisis after a comment she made about her client's mental health goes viral, which even gets her cancelled from her very own successful sports show. Brooke has had enough after her husband and the father of her twins is being sued again for sexual misconduct at work, and is always struggling with her self-confidence. Gigi meanwhile is hiding a huge secret from Hollis-that she is the secret mistress that Matthew during the latter part of their marriage. Meanwhile Hollis manages to convince Caroline to film the five-star weekend for her blog in exchange for some money. Her daughter is happy to come back to Nantucket after ending her love affair with her filmmaker boss, who has a girlfriend. All of the women arrive there and it is not long before tension starts rising to the surface. Tatum and Dru-Ann still hate each other after meeting at Hollis's wedding 25 years ago. Brooke has finally dumped her husband but she still struggles low self-confidence and social awkwardness. Gigi still isn't telling Hollis that her dead husband was having an affair with her, but she's terrified that the truth will come out. Hollis is a little bit suprised by the drama that starts happening but she is hopeful that she can get the five-star weekend back on track. But this might be harder than she thinks it might be and during this time she is reunited with her high school boyfriend Jack Finnegan, who she still has feelings for and it seems that they are definitely reciprocated by him. Though Hollis still doesn't know how she feels about seeing Jack again. I really enjoyed this book. Some of the beginning was a bit slow for me but once I got past that I started getting really into the story, and I got through it a quicker. All of the characters were interesting, even though some of them were really annoying at times (which led me to sometimes kind of hate them lol), and I enjoyed reading their backstories and seeing how that shaped them into the women they are now. There wasn't that much romance but what it did have was sweet and beautiful. I would definitely recommend this book to literary fiction readers or if you just want to read a enjoyable and bingeable beach read.

I love traveling to Nantucket every summer through Hilderbrand’s books and all of her excellent descriptions! This story was filled with drama, friendships, romance, twists and so much more! The Hotel Nantucket remains my favorite book from this author but I still did enjoy this one! I will definitely be reading her last Nantucket book by the end of this summer!

The book is about a woman who goes through a tragic loss and decides to invite friends from all stages of her life for a healing girls weekend. To be honest, I didn’t love any of the characters. They all had pretty major flaws, but somehow it all worked. The flaws are what made it so interesting. Although I really don’t think any of these people went well together as friends. I guess that’s why they were friends at different points in their lives. There was so much going on in this book, it was packed with drama. I did love the ending and how everyone ended up exactly where they should be. I will say that one thing that annoyed me about this book was all the slang terms. It felt like this book was trying way too hard at times, but I was able to overlook it.

4.5 ⭐️- Elin Hilderbrand knocked it out of the park again with this one! It’s a clever concept with a focus on female friendships, getting older, forgiveness, self discovery, and relationships of every kind. These five friend’s storylines blended together seamlessly. There was just the right amount of touching moments mixed with OMG moments and it had me hooked. And as always, Elin did an incredible job setting the scene with all of her descriptions of the food, locations, sounds (music via playlists), and smells. You really feel like a fly on the wall on Squam Road for this five star weekend 🤩

Spending a summer in Nantucket is something Elin Hilderbrand is so great at! I couldn’t wait for this book to come out and I was happy I got it so fast when it did! I read it in a day and couldn’t put it down! Another winner!

Another worthwhile book by the famous Nantucket author dealing with complicated relationships, between friends, mothers, daughters, lovers.

What I love about these books is the same thing I hate about them…they are incredibly easy to read and follow along to on audio. Admittedly, I don’t have much in common with or interest in Nantucket traveling, but I understand why Elin has such a big following, all of her books are great beach reads. I do feel like these authors get labeled as somewhat cookie cutter-ish, and while I don’t have a stance one way or the other, they have made reading enjoyable and accessible to a wider audience and that’s so cool!

Hollis Shaw's life seems perfect on the surface--a thriving food blog, a handsome surgeon husband, and a daughter in film school. But when her husband, Matthew, dies after a fight with Hollis, her perfect life is shattered. Her daughter, Caroline, blames Hollis, and their relationship is in tatters. Adrift, Hollis decides to host a "Five-Star Weekend," where she invites four friends from various decades in her lives--best friend from high school (Tatum); college (DruAnn); thirties (Brooke); and currently (Gigi). But when all the women arrive at Hollis' home in Nantucket, it's clear each has their own struggles too. This is typical solid Hilderbrand fare. Not one of my absolute favorites but an interesting read. There are some good twists, and the characters are interesting if not particularly deep or diverse. The thing about Hilderbrand is that she has a way of weaving a story that just pulls you in. I really liked Tatum, Hollis' childhood best friend, and Tatum and Hollis' backstories were more well-done. Each women is suffering from varying types of angst, even Caroline, Hollis' daughter. The Nantucket setting was enticing, as always, making you wish you were at the beach, if perhaps not suffering from the same woes as these characters. All in all, a quick, compelling read. 3.5 stars, rounded to 4 here.

4.25 stars “I loved seeing her like this. Wild, uninhibited, and so damn beautiful that it made my heart ache.” Finally, a good book in the KOS series! Honestly, I kind of gave up on this series after KOG, but Ana really surprised me with this book and Xavier and Sloane’s story. This book is totally different from what she usually writes, and I love how she’s experimenting with different characters and stories—ones that aren’t solely focused on romance but also on character growth and development. The storyline revolves around two things—Xavier and his new business venture, and their trial dating period. And somewhere in between, their attraction blossomed into love and something more. “Just shut up and follow me,” I snapped, wishing I had a wittier reply. “Yes, ma’am.” His cheeks dimpled. “I love a woman in charge.” Sloane Kensington is independent, responsible, and intelligent. She’s the woman everyone fears—cool and composed, never overreacting in any situation. Except when it comes to Xavier. He made her go bonkers with his antics, lol. She hides behind the façade of an ice queen because it protects her from potential hurt, and her fears were justified—her ex was an absolute asshole, and both he and her family gave her serious trust issues. People said she didn’t feel emotions or care, but Sloane felt everything—she just didn’t express it like others. She needed someone who would love and accept her for who she was, and Xavier did exactly that. I loved how she didn’t hold herself back when he asked her to go on a trip, how he challenged her, pushed her out of her comfort zone, yet always made sure she felt safe. She was also giving me Jules vibes with her comebacks. “You think you know me so well,” I whispered, even though he was right. “Only parts of you.” The gentle brush of his thumb against my hand unlocked a colony of butterflies in my stomach. “But we’ll get there.” Xavier Castillo is the epitome of a shameless flirt and effortless charm. But beneath all that is a man with raw vulnerability, scarred by his father’s treatment. I get why he was so stubborn and inconsiderate all these years, and I’m proud of him for finding his passion and working hard to make it a reality. He’s thoughtful and caring, and I love how much he paid attention to Sloane, he noticed everything about her. He’s so observant and stubborn when it comes to her. I fell for him in the very first chapter despite him being a playboy, and I liked that he wasn’t sexualising her every other moment like men in books usually do. Not once did he obsess over other women—Sloane was the only one who made him crazy and delusional. He’s so unhinged sometimes, always bribing people just to get to Sloane faster, but he’s also the sweetest, craziest person ever. The dates and outings he planned for her had me swooning so hard! He’s one of the best MMCs Ana has written and my favourite KOS series man. Period. “You would rather watch a rom-com about a witch and a plumber falling in love than attend a costume party with celebrities?” “One hundred percent. As long as I’m watching it with you.” Xavier and Sloane are absolute perfection. The romance was executed so perfectly—it wasn’t insta-love or insta-lust. It was about getting to know each other, giving a chance to the attraction that had been simmering between them for three years, slowly warming up to each other, breaking down the barriers they had built around their hearts, and falling in love in the process. It was simple, cute, and beautiful. Xavier and Sloane have opposite personalities, yet in some ways, they share the same fears and insecurities. Both were deprived of love and affection by their parents, but they loved each other with their flaws, not despite them. The way Xavier encouraged Sloane to step outside her comfort zone, and how she supported him at every step of his new business venture, was so endearing. “I don’t want a kiss or a one-night stand,” he said. “I want you. I want to know you outside work. I want to take you on real dates. And I don’t know if it’ll work out in the end, but I want us to at least try.” The ice queen x sunshine trope was executed so well. I loved their trips, their witty banter, the sexual tension, the dates Xavier planned (which were everything a girl deserves from a man), the effort they put into understanding each other, how they truly listened to each other’s stories, and their love confessions. Xavier and Sloane are the softest couple Ana Huang has ever written. “I needed her the way the ocean tides needed the moon, and I would give anything for her to feel a fraction of the same way toward me.” I loved Ana’s writing in this one; she included so many cameos from previous books, and my heart was full of happiness and nostalgia. This book also has some of the best love declarations at the end, and as unrealistic and dreamy as they were, my romantic heart loved every second of it. I loved how raw and relatable the characters were, watching them grow and step outside their comfort zones. The ending was the cutest! I seriously cried because I was so happy for these two idiot dorks. The third-act breakup was unnecessary as always—it’s Ana, so she had to throw it in. I would’ve loved for the mystery behind The Vault’s fire to be explained, but maybe it was left open for a future book. I really can’t wait for Ayana and Vuk’s book! I have a thing for broken, tortured heroes, so I already know I’m going to love it. ————— Pre-read review: Ice queen x sunshine boy trope never fails 😩 One of my most anticipated release of this year so pls ana dont disappoint me again

spoiler alert : it was so freaking good 🥺❤️‍🩹 pre-review : please be good. please be good. please be good.

❝ whenever i was drowning, she was my anchor in the storm. ❞ just when i had officially given up on this series and was rotting in the ninth circle of romance hell, screaming "no more billionaire trauma dumps," ana guang yeeted king of sloth at my skull like a divine intervention and said "here, you ungrateful little raccoon, eat this." (she didn't actually say that but the vibes were there). after dragging my corpse through king of pride and king of greed (which felt like emotional waterboarding), i swore i was done. finished. retired from rich people feelings. but then the reverse sunshine trope whispered my name and my clown nose slid right back on like the weak, predictable gremlin i am. ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ i. plot and characters. ₊˚⊹ ꒱ sloane kensington is a publicist who could ruin your entire bloodline before her morning oat milk latte. to her elite clients she's a terrifying ice queen in a pencil skirt who weaponizes competence like it's a tactical nuke. but underneath that glacial resting bitch face is a very tired, very squishy woman who just wants to not be disappointed for once in her goddamn life. her armor is thick, her insecurities are loud, and when she goes feral? chef's kiss. i respect a girl who can be protective, petty, and ready to throw hands while still looking immaculate. xavier castillo is marketed as an international walking scandal and billionaire playboy, but on-page he's actually a dangerously observant, stupidly thoughtful golden retriever in human form. this man was in his emo "i don't care about anything" era, yet he was out here memorizing sloane's coffee order, tracking her micro-expressions like it was his full-time job, and cataloging her moods with the dedication of a man who has never heard of google calendar. i can't even get a situationship to remember my birthday without a formal evite and xavier is over here treating sloane's preferences like sacred scripture. be so fucking serious right now. and the cameos? delightful. all the previous rich traumatized idiots running around living their little happily-ever-afters like it's a billionaire reunion special. good for them. i'm happy for my silly little universe of walking red-flag collections. ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ ii. romance. ₊˚⊹ ꒱ this is reverse sunshine executed so perfectly i was straight-up feasting like a raccoon in a dumpster behind a five-star restaurant. grumpy ice-queen girl meets golden-retriever sunshine boy and i lost my entire mind. the romance is deliciously sloooow in the best way. they're learning each other's tells, picking up tiny details, and lowering their walls one molecule at a time like two emotionally constipated people who finally found someone worth the therapy bill. therre's no cheap trauma-dump bonding here. just two disasters actually getting to know each other while the plot gets gritty with heavier themes and messier backstories. it gave them texture, depth, and enough emotional baggage for a therapist to retire comfortably on. their connection actually felt earned instead of slapped on. ─〝 every version of my happily ever after will always include some version of you. 〞 ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ iii. conclusion. ₊˚⊹ ꒱ this book turned me into a giggling, feral mess more than once. i genuinely enjoyed it, against my will and better judgment. the longer length actually slapped for me; the extra page time gave space for the slow build, deeper character work, and maximum time to watch xavier be an absolute unhinged menace with a heart of gold. does it dethrone king of wrath for me? absolutely not. dante is still my number one husband, the love of my life, and i will ride or die on this hill with zero notes and a baseball bat. but xavier definitely joined the ana huang men™ lineup in my brain and set up permanent residence. i can have multiple billionaire obsessions, actually. it’s called range. polyamory for fictional men is valid. and yes, i will continue letting this series emotionally whiplash me into next year because apparently i enjoy pain, bad decisions, and learning absolutely nothing. — 3.5 stars. ⋆˚☆˖° .° ༘🎧ྀི⋆ favourite quotes 🖇₊˚ෆ ❛ luna is short for mi luna. my moon. because no matter how dark the nights got, you were always there, shining so brightly that i always found my way through. ❜ ❛ then i met you, and i finally understood what people meant when they said love is worth fighting for. ❜ ❛ i loved her, totally and completely, and i'd be damned if i let anyone hurt her. ❜ ❛ don't run away from what could be because you’re afraid of what might be. ❜ ── ⟡ ˙ 🪻༘ ₊ main tropes. ⟢ grumpy girl x sunshine boy ⟢ billionaire romance ⟢ forced proximity ⟢ he falls first ⟢ interracial ⌗ started: april 26th, 2024. ⌝ ⌞ finished: may 4th, 2024. ✦ ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ pre-review: ⤿ i would love to have my own xavier and keep him in my pocket all day long, please. ₊˚⊹ ᰔ pre-read: ⤿ oh xavier baby, please don't disappoint me like the billionaires that came before you did 🥹🥹

4.5 ⭐️ I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT!! SLONE was literally everything and more! 0.5 deduction for chapter 32 and the Empire State Building situation LOL BUT OTHER THAN THAT I devoured it in 2 days and it’s actually my fav of the series so far! 💗

– 4.25 stars ★ I didn’t want her. I needed her. Desperately. This book was everything and more. Xavier is the definition of the greenest flag ever and i love him. Sloane is a bad bitch and i’ll defend her with my life. I wish we got some more of Sloane standing up against her family, bc they did her dirty. — full review to come

4.5 stars! ⭐️ My favorite one in the series so far! Xavier Castillo, the man that you are!!! 😮‍💨 I was giggling my way through this!! I had a feeling that I was going to love this one the most because I loved Sloane throughout this series. I’m so happy her book did not disappoint! This was giving 5 stars but it dragged out a bit toward the end for me so giving it 4.5 stars instead! I also feel like every book in this series has a major conflict or drama at the same point in each one. It’s like I know it’s coming around 70% of the way through so it’s kinda annoying, predictable, and unnecessary. But still enjoyed it so much and can’t wait to start the next book! Vuk and Ayana made a few appearances in this one and I know their story is going to be good!! My current rankings and ratings of the series! 1. 𝒦𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝑜𝒻 𝒮𝓁𝑜𝓉𝒽 - 4.5 stars 2. 𝒦𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝑜𝒻 𝒫𝓇𝒾𝒹𝑒 - 4 stars 3. 𝒦𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝑜𝒻 𝒢𝓇𝑒𝑒𝒹 - 3.5 stars 4. 𝒦𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝑜𝒻 𝒲𝓇𝒶𝓉𝒽 - 3 stars

3.75 stars HE HAS FREAKING DIMPLES!!!! 1:30 ▶︎•၊၊||၊|။|||||။၊|။• 3:00 ᯓ♪ Now Playing: Midnight Rain by Taylor Swift The pacing is deliberate, almost languid... but beneath all that calm surface, there lies a storm of emotions. Xavier's slowness isn’t laziness- it’s fear, hesitation, the weight of unspoken feelings. Watching him peel back those layers one by one was both frustrating and achingly tender for me. His hesitation, his fear, his slow unraveling- it all made me cry more times than I care to admit. And Sloane? She is the emotional Swiss Army knife of the KoS universe. She can fix a scandal, a broken heart and probably your taxes, all while looking devastatingly good in a simple black gown!! He thought, "... her skin glowed like pearls kissed by moonlight." AHHH ♡♡♡ My gaze skimmed over her quickly enough to escape her notice, yet long enough to imprint the image in my mind. On anyone else, her simple black gown would’ve been boring, but Sloane could wear a grocery bag and still blow everyone else out of the water. Nothing brightened my day more than riling Sloane up. Odds were, she was picturing stabbing me with it, but I didn’t mind a little hypothetical violence. It kept things interesting. LOL Ahhh! Stop making me blush, Xavier! AND SLOANE IS THE ONLY WOMAN IN ANA HUANG'S UNIVERSE THAT IS SO ME-CODED! Overall, I loved this one. Xavier Castillo: rich, ridiculously good looking and allergic to responsibility. Sloane Kensington: a workaholic who treats incompetence like a personal insult. My ranking: 1. King of Envy 2. King of Greed 3. King of Sloth 4. King of Wrath 5. King of Pride

— Rating: 4 ★ .ᐟ ˚ 𝜗𝜚 ₊ 🐈‍⬛ . “My moon. Because no matter how dark the nights got, you were always there, shining so brightly that I always found my way through” ‧₊˚ 𝐖𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐭𝐨 𝐞𝐱𝐩𝐞𝐜𝐭 ᢉ𐭩 ౨ৎ forced proximity ౨ৎ opposites attract ౨ৎ dislike to lovers ౨ৎ black cat x golden retriever ‧˚꒰ 𝐓𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐬 ⋮ ୭ This may have been one of the most tedious book I have read, yet I absolutely loved it. I mean, the plot was undoubtedly the hardest writing I’ve had to get through, but the characters? They’re King of Sloth’s saviors. It was probably the substantial amount of business talk that really put me off for this book’s plot. It was entirely confusing, became extremely boring, and overall was just unentertaining. The only aspect of this business storyline I really remember was the arisen conflict nearing the end of the book which is where it finally became interesting. I feel this plot just wasn’t for me as I wasn’t familiar with a lot of the vocabulary, but it could have easily been an enjoyable storyline for others! Sloane and Xavier though? Oh my gosh were they beautifully written. Not only did their characters have emotional depth but their relationship did too. Also, the individuality? There have not been many characters of Ana Huang’s that had the same personality these two did and it was wondrous. Sloane and Xavier’s differing personalities/personas were delved into really well and it was delightful seeing how their trauma’s were reflected. The complexity in both characters was unreal. I wouldn’t say the book had that 5-star read spark but for the first time in an Ana Huang book I could actually connect with the characters despite not fully relating to them. And their dynamic? Ughh. It was filled with amusing banter, riveting tension, and spellbinding chemistry. The way they softened up with each other the more they hung out was so adorable. Their interactions felt meaningful and included small details that played an influential role in the main characters overall relationship. Ana Huang’s writing has definitely gotten better over time but as unique as the plots are a decent portion of them come out repetitive. Nonetheless, she described the characters feelings wonderfully, illustrated scenes with illuminating descriptions, and her books have certainly become less cringey over time! Yes, I’m not counting the cheesy dialogue some characters in the Anaverse have during confessions or banter. She is definitely incorporating more emotional complexity into her books as seen by not only this story but King of Envy as well. ‧˚꒰ 𝐂𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐚𝐜𝐭𝐞𝐫𝐬 ⋮ ୭ ౨ৎ Sloane Kensington. I severely disliked Sloane in the previous King of Sin books. She just seemed stand-offish and I wasn’t a big fan of her for some reason. But after reading her book, seeing her inner monologues? May have been the biggest switch up from me I’ve ever seen. By far one of the most complex King of Sin characters thus far. The depth gone into her development was extremely fascinating. Also, the power she holds over so many others? She is such an inspiration and I connected with her on so many levels. I loved seeing her vulnerability when it came to Xavier while also keeping her top-tier amusing banter. In all she was such a relatable character with an enticing personality that I loved to see ventured out throughout King of Sloth! Truthfully have no complaints. ౨ৎ Xavier Castillo. The way this man would have had me on my knees in an instance. UGH. Another character with a decent amount of complexity that went into his personality and development. Xavier definitely could have been more delved into, but for what the book did show he had tons of depth. He was so charming and arrogant but remained sweet and patient nonetheless. Yes, he was the reason the plot got so boring whenever he discussed his business, but other than that Xavier’s character was phenomenal. He actually had some personality other than Ana Huang’s stereotypical ‘grumpy, morally-grey’ MMC’s. And his character development? He gained so much maturity while still having that exciting, boyish personality. ‧˚꒰ 𝐎𝐯𝐞𝐫𝐚𝐥𝐥 ⋮ ୭ Extraordinary characters that made up for an otherwise boring plot. If you’re capable of pushing through the tedious aspects of King of Sloth, you’ll find it to be filled with tension and chemistry that have you biting your lip. The emotional depth/complexity gone into the characters and their relationship honestly saved the book for me. Sloane and Xavier balanced each other out so well and were absolutely adorable! The writing was very descriptive with few cringey lines which definitely kept me engaged as well despite the unexciting plot line. If you’re looking for a black cat x golden retriever romance book with remarkable intricacy I’d definitely recommend! ⋆˚࿔ read: june 15 - june 26 ; 2025 𝐒𝐞𝐫𝐢𝐞𝐬 𝐫𝐞𝐯𝐢𝐞𝐰 ⸝⸝ #1. King of Wrath : 3.5 ★ ⸝⸝ #2. King of Pride : 3 ★ ⸝⸝ #3. King of Greed : 3.25 ★ ⸝⸝ #4. King of Sloth : 4 ★ ⸝⸝ #5. King of Envy : 4.25 ★ ⸝⸝ #6. King of Gluttony : ? ★ ⸝⸝ #7. King of Lust : ? ★ ── ・ ── 𝜗𝜚 ── ・ ── ₊˚ ౿ 🕰️ pre-read !! Sloan seems to be the most relatable character despite being sometimes annoying based on previous books so I’m excited to see more about her! Xavier also seems to be entertaining and this book has decent ratings so I’m sure I’ll like it.

4.5!! Such an enjoyable read <3 I've loved this series since the first book so it wasn't a shock to me how much I loved this one. I'll even say that this one is definitely top 2 for me so far. It's just an all around fun story that you can't let yourself put down. The only problem I encountered was realizing that we have to wait almost a year until the next book... lol

4.25 stars theres literally nothing i love more than an ice queen x wild child/reverse grumpy sunshine book and this was soo good <3 sloan and xavier were literally everything, and they renewed my faith in ana huang !! not that i ever REALLY doubted her but i have kind of lost interest in her books recently.. but im BAACKKKK and i forgot how much i loved her writing. all of the cameos made me emotional 😭🫶 ─ ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ─ ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ─ ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ─ ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ─ ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ─ “oh yeah this book has reverse grumpy sunshi-“ SOLD.

3.5 ⭐️ generously rounded up! “And while I don’t know everything, I do know this: Every version of my happily ever after will always include some version of you.” Ooof 🥹❤️ Okay. Xavier’s character development and the last few chapters really saved this book for me. I was NOT feeling it before…Xavier was more of a man child than a cheeky billionaire playboy. And Sloane was more of a willing babysitter than his grumpy publicist. But the romance and development toward the last half of the book? No real complaints. It’s what made me round up and rate generously. I don’t think Ana Huang books will ever really get a massive emotional reaction from me, and that’s okay! I don’t expect a hard hitting gut punch when reading unrealistic Billionaire romance books 😂😭 so I give mood ratings with a lot of grace hahaha. Not in a disparaging way AT ALL! I just know what I’m getting and why I read them!! This is just me rambling. I think I’ll do a proper review when I’m less tired and feeling less blah after an insane weekend. —————————————————- I need a fun pallet cleanser after my last read was a DNF. Ana Huang books have always been okayyyyishhhh for me. I don’t really hate or love them. They’re just good stories that I don’t take too seriously to help me keep going. And for that, I am super grateful 💗 let’s hope this delivers and breaks me out of my mood! 🙏🏾🤞🏾

King of Sloth follows Sloane, a PR manager, and Xavier, her most difficult client. While Xavier is off partying and making headlines, Sloane is behind his every move making sure he doesn't taint his family's name. When Xavier tricks Sloane into taking a vacation, the two get closer than ever and are forced to acknowledge their obvious chemistry. However, when they both get called away by a tragedy in Xaviers' family, Sloane must decide if a potential shot at love is worth risking her career. While I did enjoy this romance, I don't think it had nearly as much banter and charm as the first two books. Despite that, I loved how Xavier and Sloane's relationship developed. The two were absolutely meant for each other, they were both so healthy and supportive of the other. I loved how desperate Xavier was to make Sloane happy and get her to let loose from her hectic life, the man was so obviously enamored with her from the beginning. I also loved how the family drama played out and perfectly balanced out the character development, both Sloane and Xavier's struggles were equally addressed and the way they worked them out together was so sweet.

King of Sloth 🦥 happy release day to Ana Huang and KOS on April 30!!! There is one thing Ana Huang does every time she releases a book, and that is making me fall in love with more fictional characters that she wrote. King of Sloth was everything. It was addictive. It was full of chemistry, banter, and tension. It had a fictional MMC and FMC (Xavier and Sloane) to swoon over. It was perfection. I loved every minute of reading this book, from watching the characters fall in love, to the quotes, to the spice, and the character growth, KOS is a must read. Especially if you love a romance where he falls first (I’m a sucker for them). —he falls first —dual POV —4th in series A MUST READ!!!

Sloane and Xavier’s romance is finally here and it was simply ADORABLE. I had such a wonderful time reading King of Sloth. If you’re a fan of Ana Huang and the Kings of Sin series, you won’t be disappointed. Xavier is a man who’s had everything handed to him and he’s never had to work for… anything. He’s a playboy and a party boy, and his father has hired Sloane as his PR manager, because he desperately needs one to clean up his messy image. Then comes an ultimatum - either grow up and become CEO of a company, or lose his inheritance. So Xavier decides to take charge of his life for once, with Sloane right by his side. Sloane and Xavier surprisingly made the cutest couple ever! The banter and chemistry are SO good. It’s a soft romance with not much crazy drama, but I’ve enjoyed my time with this book a ton. The way Xavier falls sooo hard for Sloane is perfection. She’s an ice queen, but she completely melted Xavier’s heart. If you love a “falling for your PR manager” type of romance, then definitely pick this one up! I already can’t wait for the next book in the series.

Tropes and Themes 🍸 Grumpy x sunshine (reversed) 🍸 Black cat FMC x Golden retriever MMC 🍸 Work romance (he's her client) 🍸 He falls first 🍸 Billionaire 🍸 Forbidden(ish) love 🍸 Forced proximity And we are BACKKKK! After being disappointed with King of Greed, I was hesitant to start this one. But this was sooo much better! I'm not usually very keen on the reverse grumpy x sunshine trope, but I really did enjoy reading Sloane's POV. The way her irritation and frustration towards Xavier slowly turned into love felt so authentic and enjoyable. I also really loved how she slowly began to let her guard down around Xavier and open up to him. Xavier was a MMC that broke the Ana Huang formula. Yes, her men are all pretty similar (I still love them though!) But Xavier was such a unique character, it was refreshing to read. I loved how he was so uninterested in everything going on around him (whether that was his family business or what people thought of him) but made it his mission to learn more about Sloane. Yessirrrr he is a man who knows his PRIORITIES! 👏🏻 Overall, I really enjoyed this book. Sloane and Xavier were just two broken people navigating love in a world that believes they shouldn't work as a couple, and it was a great read. I'm so glad that this series has now been redeemed and I'm looking forward to continuing it with King of Envy.

The book had a slow start, but then it started to get really good. I feel like the book could have been shorter. Xavier was so sweet, I loved that! 4.5

3.75 stars “You think you know me so well,” I whispered, even though he was right. “Only parts of you.” The gentle brush of his thumb against my hand unlocked a colony of butterflies in my stomach. “But we’ll get there.” Consider me surprised, because this was the one book I was the least excited for. Honestly, I wasn’t even gonna read it. After being so excited for king of greed and with it being so underwhelming I wasn’t gonna continue the series. So, I’m really surprised that this ended up being my favourite in the whole series. There’s something about a grumpy ice queen fmc and a sunshine mmc that gets me every time. I just love seeing the male character trying to break through her defences by using his charm, sweetness, and consideration. Xavier did exactly that! I wasn’t really into him, nor did I plan to take him seriously, but he did really grew on me. Yes, the book was so long and had some filler chapters, but the pacing was enjoyable enough without being boring. I mean, king of greed was 100+ pages shorter and it was so freakin boring (I’m so salty about that book) “Every version of my happily ever after will always include some version of you.” Sloane is my kind of girl. I loved her so much. I love her confidence and independence. Maybe I enjoyed this too much because she came to me in the time of my life where I found her work oriented personality and being scared to be in a relationship relatable. She’s my favourite in the series so far. I loved all their interactions and dates. The movie nights, the communication, them taking care of each other and being exactly what the other needs, and that Empire State Building scene!! #1 king of wrath ~ 3.5 stars #2 king of pride ~ 2.5 stars #3 king of greed ~ 3 stars #4 king of sloth ~ 3.75 stars

4 stars > Before meeting Sloane Kenginston, his cold, astute, and ambitious public relations manager who can't bear him, Xavier Castillo, the charming and affluent heir, had never been a lover of love or chasing his soulmate. Despite their initial clashes, a tragedy makes them closer than before and compels them to cooperate even more in order to secure Xavier's future. But it soon became clear that Sloane was the only one who wasn't susceptible to Xavier's charms when he understood his true feelings for her. And Sloane, who makes every effort to resist him and this attraction that tests her resolve and complicates their relationship. They will discover that there are other issues ahead of them besides their desires when their adventure gets underway. The reverse grumpy/sunshine trope is my favorite. It ought to be discussed more. And please, the way Ana presents the two main characters and the development of their relationship is so satisfying and devoid of any blanks or misconceptions. Her attitude has kept me waiting for her story since King of Wrath because, as we all know, an icy, independent woman often has hidden wounds that are just waiting to be revealed. And I am not disappointed at all. Her growth throughout the novel reveals the depth of her inner turmoil and the hurt she has experienced from her family and other people in general. At that point, we can see the similarities she has with Xavier. What you perceive as a flirtatious and reckless man is actually a scared and insecure child whose skills were hidden. And even though it hurts me, I can relate to him so deeply that it helps me realize who I am. This book helps us realize that sometimes there are unresolved problems hiding behind carefree and cheerful conduct. The plot, on the other hand, was actually rather good. Although there were no holes, I can't help but feel let down that Ana withheld some facts and that we weren't given the last say. However, the presence of Sloane and Xavier's families had been helpful since it made it easier for us to fully understand the plot's challenges and how their connection was hindering their route to success. Moreover, it is always a good idea to include side stories, and picking ones that are related to Sloane's job kept us interested in her since Xavier would be facing the real problem, not Sloane. Finally, THE CAMEOS. YES. It feels so good seeing Ana Huang’s universe in each book. And I was screaming when I saw the name Alex Volkov. Like, YES. I always love how she still gives us news of the other couple, and how she gives us a little taste of the next book, here, King Of Envy. Because, now, It feels like a lifetime to wait for Vuk’s and Ayana’s story. She has a talent for giving little peacocks and making us want more. I gave this book 4 stars because, despite my appreciation for the storytelling and character development, I found the story to be a little slow to get going and nearly put it down. But read it, please, especially if the reverse grumpy/sunshine trope is calling your name. 𝓠𝓾𝓸𝓽𝓮𝓼: “𝙏𝙤 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙮 𝙬𝙤𝙢𝙖𝙣 𝙬𝙝𝙤’𝙨 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙗𝙚𝙚𝙣 𝙩𝙤𝙡𝙙 𝙩𝙤 “𝙨𝙢𝙞𝙡𝙚 𝙢𝙤𝙧𝙚.” 𝙁𝙪𝙘𝙠 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩. 𝘿𝙤 𝙬𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙬𝙖𝙣𝙩.” “𝙒𝙝𝙚𝙣𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙄 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙙𝙧𝙤𝙬𝙣𝙞𝙣𝙜, 𝙨𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙢𝙮 𝙖𝙣𝙘𝙝𝙤𝙧 𝙞𝙣 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙩𝙤𝙧𝙢.” “𝙇𝙪𝙣𝙖 𝙞𝙨 𝙨𝙝𝙤𝙧𝙩 𝙛𝙤𝙧 𝙢𝙞 𝙡𝙪𝙣𝙖. 𝙈𝙮 𝙢𝙤𝙤𝙣. 𝘽𝙚𝙘𝙖𝙪𝙨𝙚 𝙣𝙤 𝙢𝙖𝙩𝙩𝙚𝙧 𝙝𝙤𝙬 𝙙𝙖𝙧𝙠 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙣𝙞𝙜𝙝𝙩𝙨 𝙜𝙤𝙩, 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙬𝙚𝙧𝙚 𝙖𝙡𝙬𝙖𝙮𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚, 𝙨𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙨𝙤 𝙗𝙧𝙞𝙜𝙝𝙩𝙡𝙮 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙄 𝙖𝙡𝙬𝙖𝙮𝙨 𝙛𝙤𝙪𝙣𝙙 𝙢𝙮 𝙬𝙖𝙮 𝙩𝙝𝙧𝙤𝙪𝙜𝙝.”

I would also sit on his shoe 🥵 (setting womens rights a million years back in sorry 😔)

౨ৎꨄ︎ 3.75 stars you know what.. yes!!! this book has its flaws that made me angry (the drama towards the end and how BOTH OF THEM acted like children) or roll my eyes (sloane’s family.. wtf was that?), but i still enjoyed this! both xavier and sloane are characters you want to follow. and they also create such a great duo. i love how it goes from banter to friendship to something more. and the memories they create together are sweet. i also need to give ana bonus points for how the book starts. i love that there’s not an unnecessary descriptive intro, but we simply jump into the story. it quickly pulls you in and the pace is immaculate, you just want to keep on reading. their holiday in spain happens so quickly, yet it’s perfect and i was invested in how it would go. i wish it was a bit longer. as i said, there are still things i think it could be worked on, but i still enjoyed it. and as i wasn’t the biggest fan of the first book, this definitely is worth reading!!

Action, suspense, and a race against time keep readers of Toxic Prey by John Sandford rapidly turning the pages. It’s the thirty-fourth book in the Lucas Davenport series and the third book in the Letty Davenport series. When the father and daughter join forces to track down a dangerous scientist whose latest project could endanger most of the world’s population, you know you’re in for an exciting tale. Dr. Lionel Scott, a British expert in tropical and infectious diseases has accepted the theory that suggests the Earth's living and non-living components function as a single, self-regulating system that is dying. He believes the planet can prosper if the humanity threat is removed. When he disappears, Letty is tasked with tracking him down. Scott’s connections to sensitive research into virus and pathogen spread has multiple national and international organizations involved. As the picture becomes clearer, Letty, along with members of the U.S. Marshall’s service (including Lucas) and other U.S. agencies, plus the United Kingdom’s domestic counter-intelligence and security agency create a task force of specialists to handle the situation. Letty is smart and determined, with a somewhat warped sense of humor and a tendency to be rash at times. She also takes after Lucas in several ways including her proficiency and knowledge of guns and her love of fashion. Lucas has plenty of good qualities and always tries to do the right thing, but I sometimes dislike his methods. Alec Hawkins (from England) is smart and funny, but unused to some of America’s procedures and processes. Scott is the known antagonist throughout the book. Readers get his point of view along with Lucas, Letty and a couple of others. However, there are a lot of characters in the novel and some of them are not as well developed. The story is part investigation and part action thriller. The opening prologue is strong, chilling, and impactful. This event hooked me and immediately drew me into the novel. The suspenseful narrative provides plenty of opportunities for things to go wrong. A strong sense of place caused me to feel transported to New Mexico where most of the action occurs. The final action scenes are riveting and high-powered. The author is a superb storyteller who kept me on the edge of my seat as the operation and action unfolded. The final action scenes are riveting and hauntingly memorable. Overall, this was suspenseful, thought-provoking, and action packed with compelling characters that kept me engaged throughout. If you enjoy thrillers, then look no further than this novel. I’m looking forward to reading the next book in both series. All thoughts and opinions expressed in this review are my own. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine. ------------------------------------------ My 4.45 rounded to 4 stars review is coming soon.

TOXIC PREY is #34 in the long-running Lucus Davenport series, and the first one I’ve read that includes his daughter, Letty Davenport, as a major character in the investigation. (It is #3 in the Letty Davenport series.) After a number of lacklustre entries in the Lucus Davenport series, this one shines, although I feel there was too much padding and 100 pages could have been cut from the book to enhance its readability. The villains of the story subscribe to the Gaia hypothesis—that the earth is dying because there are too many people. Exploding population levels have resulted in disastrous social unrest and rampant diseases. A group of like-minded individuals have come together to solve this crisis by distributing a virus that will kill a majority of the world’s human inhabitants, leaving only small clusters of those who are naturally immune to the virus. The person who is developing this virus, Dr. Lionel Scott, is actually a compassionate individual whose work as an expert in topical and infectious diseases has led him to believe that there is no alternative to the plan developed by his fellow cult members who have come together through internet discussions. Scott has disappeared from his high profile job at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, and Letty Davenport, who works for the Department of Homeland Security, is asked to locate him. She starts her search in the U.K. because Dr. Scott is British, and soon teams up with a hunky M-15 agent, Alex Hawkins. Together they decide that Scott may pose a major threat. Because Scott has disappeared, Letty calls in her father, Lucas Davenport, to help find him, as finding people is what her father does as a U.S Marshal. From then on the story switches between (1) Letty and Scott, (2) Lucus and fellow Marshal Rae Givens, and (3) a group of fellow cult members—Scott, Callon, and Callister. When the interactions between members of one set become boring, the story switches to another. I liked best the comic banter between Lucas and Givens, although even that, after a while, became repetitious. I didn’t find Letty’s portions very interesting and won’t be reading any more books featuring her as a main character. The villains Scott, Callon, and Callister were interesting, but again there was too much repetition. As mentioned at the beginning of this review, 100 pages could have been cut from this book to avoid the redundancy which slowed down the action. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ My reviews for others in this series: Masked Prey (Lucas Davenport, #30) Ocean Prey (﻿Lucas Davenport, #31) Righteous Prey (Lucas Davenport, #32) Judgment Prey (Lucas Davenport, #33) Eyes of Prey (Lucas Davenport, #3) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Thanks to the Greater Victoria Public Library for providing the ebook copy that I read.

Although there's an intimidating number of books in this series, this can be read by itself, as can most any book in this setting. Lionel Scott is an utterly deranged Malthusian who believes that the only way to save Gaia, Earth, is to rid it of the parasites killing it, humans. To that end he has developed a hybrid virus to eliminate almost all of humanity. Now he and his crew of misanthropes will sacrifice everything they are to cull the population to a sustainable level. Their plan is to infect several major airports in the US so that there's a worldwide pandemic before there can be any time for countermeasures, let alone containment. They know that what they do is righteous and for the greater good. The many must die so that the few may live, preferably including their selves if possible. When suspicions arise about Scott's disappearance The Department of Homeland Security tasks one of their agents, Letty Davenport to investigate. She assembles a team that includes her father, U.S. Marshal Lucas Davenport, and several other major characters from recent books. Somehow, the fate of the world may now be their responsibility. A cat and mouse game with the highest possible stakes has now begun. I was surprised by how much the stakes increased with this book. The series really has come far from its beginnings. From investigations of murderers with a victim or two to the possibility of human extinction is quite the change in scope and scale. It's not as surprising once you know that despite the name, this is more of a Letty than Lucas book, but even by the standard set by Letty's first book, this is quite the change. The main problem I have with that is that the Letty books are more serious and science oriented, which Sandford does admirably well with given that he's 80 years old, but there are times where the science is stuck in the 1970s and it made me groan. I really dislike the Malthusian argument, whether it's made by Thanos, Scott, or anyone else. Aside from the outdated science and questionable motivations of the antagonists I don't have any significant complaints. The chronology, it's all but stated that it's 2023, is a mess as usual, but that doesn't really matter. Most of my usual complaints about the series aren't present here. The characters are fun and pleasing to read about, the narrative is tense and engaging, and it was immersive enough to where I was able to believe that it could have any possible ending. That allowed for an emotional rollercoaster and I appreciated that. I'm impressed by how Sandford writes books that are often quite different each time while also remaining much the same. That hasn't always worked, though this time it has. I have to wonder what comes next and whether this is a sign that the series conclusion is nigh. Maybe it even ended in this book. If you haven't read it or the FAQ on his website, you don't know. That being said I'm eager for whatever comes next, even after having read 50 books in this setting, which I find to be rather remarkable.

Toxic Prey is the first pairing of Lucas & Letty Davenport as professional equals, and it worked well. The story revolves around a British scientist, who believes that Gaia aka Mother Earth, needs to be cleansed of most of the worldwide population to recover. He and other radicals develop an incredibly deadly virus and plan to unleash it through airports so it spreads quickly. Letty is first called in to find this missing scientist and is paired with a British MI5. They figure out the ramifications of the scientist's work and her father Lucas and other high-ranking government workers are set into action and narrow down his whereabouts to Taos, NM. They then work to find him and his supporters before it's too late. Normally, I wouldn't be a fan of a germ warfare storyline, but the narrative felt very plausible and I liked the realistic conclusion. In fact it felt so realistic, that I briefly was worried that a mad scientist would use it as a blueprint for their own evil plans, but I'm guessing it's unlikely that a scientist with the knowledge and money to put together a similar scenario, is not looking to copy a popular author's speculative plot ;)

My husband and I went to the library together last week, and he chose Toxic Prey from the newly-released shelf there. He liked it a lot, so I decided to read it, too. This was the first time either of us read anything by John Sandford (including books using other aliases). Although it's part of a series, it worked fine as a stand-alone novel. Lucas and Letty, a father-daughter team, work together locating a zealous climate activist/scientist. His plan to release a dangerous virus in populated areas seems to be imminent. Sandford's quick pacing and detailed descriptions contribute to the success of this story. After watching climate activists splash priceless artworks with red paint in real life, it seems plausible. It brought back memories of lockdown for Covid when it appears a church has been exposed to the virus.

This spinoff series with Letty Davenport is really good, although I somehow managed to read this third book out of order 😄. So next up is book two 🤪. John Sandford is so good at character development! Letty has emerged from Lucas Davenport’s adopted daughter in the “Prey” series to a force in her own right. This story revolves around the very real threat of germ warfare.

Locations/settings: [New Mexico: Sangre de Cristo Mountains, Albuquerque (Albuquerque International Airport and Sheraton Albuquerque Airport Hotel), Santa Fe (Camino del Monte Sol historic district), Los Alamos, Taos (Albertson's Market, Los Pandos Road), Taos Ski Valley village, Arroyo Seco, Lamy in a valley south of Eldorado at Santa Fe, Rio Grande Gorge Bridge, Santa Fe Regional Airport, Española is mentioned; District of Columbia: Pentagon; Virginia: Dulles International Airport; England: Oxford (Ashmolean Museum, Bodleian Library); Uganda: Kampala (Kisenyi Neighborhood/Village); India: Hyderabad close to the State of Maharashtra; Maryland: Frederick (Fort Detrick)] Book Mentioned: "Bright Orange for the Shroud" by John D. McDonald

I found the plot interesting, and Sanford took it to a place I wasn’t expecting, which I appreciate. I like the characters. I feel Sanford‘s weakest writing is flirtation and sexual chemistry between men and women; it’s awkward and unrealistic, and I’ve noticed it in earlier books. 4+ stars to Robert Petkoff. He handled American and British accents, and his voicing of women was just fine. Also, his acting was good.

It absolutely amazes me that the pacing of the Letty books is so different than the Lucas books. I read to relax and unwind. Thus book was anything but relaxing. I hope there’s a real life Lucas and Letty out there somewhere keeping us safe.

Well, I read the blurb about this book and didn’t think I would like it. I was wrong! This is another great one in the Lucas Davenport series! It’s fast paced and has lots of action! Definitely a thriller!

One missing scientist. One really big problem. Letty Davenport gets a call from her putative boss, a Senator with a lot of pull with DHS for which she technically works, with an urgent request. Lionel Scott, a British doctor with a background in infectious diseases and some really high security clearances, is missing. Given that he was most recently spending time at Camp Detrick in Maryland (home of USAMRIID) and at Los Alamos, NM, looking into infectious diseases with an eye towards gain-of-function enhancements…..well, his disappearance has people in high places more than a little concerned. Letty heads to England and Oxford University, where Scott has extensive ties, trying to get a bead on where he might have gone and why. She is escorted by MI5 agent Alec Hawkins, and what the two start piecing together indicates that there is trouble brewing. Scott is brilliant, has accrued a tremendous amount of knowledge, and has gone off the rails. He is convinced that Earth is in a death spiral, and the only way to save the planet is to eliminate a large chunk of the human population. COVID was bad, but what Scott wants to do is far worse. Letty heads back to the US, where a small group of people (including Letty’s father, US Marshall Lucas Davenport) are assembled to find out where Scott is, who he has working with him, and how far along they are in their plot to let a highly contagious and lethal bio weapon on the the world. This it the 34th outing for Lucas Davenport, and is another solid and enjoyable adventure. Letty, like her father, is lethal and a maverick, and sometimes a maverick (or in this case, a team of mavericks) is just what you need to solve a problem. Like me, readers have just seen the effects of an unknown pathogen on the world…and in Toxic Prey, the world is confronting something exponentially worse. What should a government do when it is faced with such potential devastation? Is martial law needed? Do those hunting the terrorists-to-be shoot to wound or kill? And what sacrifices need to be made for the greater good? Fast-paced and topical, Toxic Prey is a great read for both established fans of the series as well as those who enjoy authors like David Baldacci, Michael Connelly, and Michael Crichton. Many thanks to NetGalley and Penguin Group Putnam/G.P. Putnam’s & Sons for allowing me access to an early copy.

Letty and Lucas Davenport team up to defeat a villainous group out to reduce the world population, so that Gaia( a belief system that the earth is a living organism ) can once again flourish. Lionel Scott, a British doctor now in the USA has developed a sure fire deadly virus, far more dangerous to human life than Covid, By rounding up sympathizers to his cause, Scott is ready to contaminate the busiest world airports in an attempt to spread the virus rapidly. Letty, in her role as an agent of Homeland Security, together with an MI5 operative and love interest, Alec Hawkins, join forces with Letty’s adoptive dad, Lucas, a US Marshal. Mayhem and murder reign, as the good guys try to beat the clock to end this unthinkable atrocity. Underlying this fast paced plot is concern for our home on planet Earth. Overcrowding and continual reduction of the Earth’s resources is a topic that needs addressing and Sandford steps up to the job. Short of killing off a huge segment of humanity, what can we do to avoid the ultimate destruction of our home? So much to think about. I liked that Letty is brought down a notch or two and is less super hero and more humanized. Still, at age twenty five she is a force to be reckoned with and part of an A team effort to stop the treacherous plot. Lucas is Lucas; always engaging , charming and heroic. Virgil Flowers, my fave, alas is not in this tale, although we do get a brief update on his status. Although Toxic Prey is listed as book 34 in the Lucas Davenport series, it seemed to me that is was more Letty’s story than her dad’s. It is a stand alone and can be read by beginners to this series but is oh so much more enjoyable for reader who is familiar with all of their past exploits and can put them into context. Four stars for a wild ride into the world of viruses, villains , and various law enforcement agents. Many thanks to NetGalley and Penguin Group Putnam publishers for providing an advance reader’s copy in exchange for an honest review.

I haven’t read a John Sandford book in some time. The concept was interesting and also frightening. As usual his writing keeps the readers attention. Not to nitpick but their proof reader needs some help. While quarantined in the church the author details the heating of a frozen chicken pot pie in a micro wave. And states they had to use a towel to pick up the pot pie buy the edges of the tinfoil pie plate. Have you ever put tinfoil in a microwave?? Not recommended!! The story was action filled and a fun read.

This book touches quite a few nerves... Basically a plan to kill half the world's population to save the Earth. Using a known Gaia Theory to justify that plan. Plus as frequently mentioned..it makes Covid and it's deaths look like a walk in the park.. Lucas and daughter Letty team up in their various roles to try to track down the people involved in this and it's a real rollercoaster...especially towards the ending when I'm thinking.."No..they couldn't..wouldn't kill a main character!!" Trademark Black humour abounds here..great thriller..

I was pretty sure I was only going to give this book a 3 star rating because it took me half the book to really get into it. I struggled to read it up until then. However, it picked up and at about 80% it was hard to put down. Therefore, 4 stars. I have not had that kind of problem with Lucas Davenport books in the past.

4.25 Typical Sandford , this book teams Letty Davenport with her father , Lucas, and introduces a new character and love interest for Letty. Their challenge is to stop a group of biological terrorists who are armed with vials of the world’s most deadly disease - the Marburg virus. It kept my interest throughout .

Toxic Prey leaned more toward the thriller side than the mystery, suspense, or police procedural side. In typical Sandford fashion, the last 80 pages flew by in a crescendo of action. This book felt more ominous and worldly topical. Excellent thriller. 4.5 stars. Especially recommended if you like James Rollins books.

I've read just about all of John Sandford's books, and liked them a lot, and this is another excellent read. There's a killer plot (really, lots of shooting and mortal danger), and the heroes are kept busy with lots of risk and suspense. A minor quibble: Lucas and his daughter Letty are maybe starting to talk and act the same at one point. It made me worry that Lucas was going to retire. The plot is properly perilous, but I'm not giving any details: read the book.

I feel sad. I’m deeply sad. I am just sitting on the floor, giving blank looks to the walls for at least 40 minutes. I feel like somebody vacuumed the last pieces of my energy. I liked the book and I didn’t like how it made me feel. I always enjoy Hilderbrand books, taking you a marvelous tour around Nantucket: she can sell me house with her photographic, detailed descriptions, help me smell the salt coming from the sea, the hot sand covering my feet, soft breeze brushing my shoulders, make me hear the sunbathing mother calling their children who swim a little far to join her for picnic. When I read the blurb about forbidden love story, I knew this book would break my heart so bad. There is no need to be clairvoyant to realize it: and as I expected, it did, it hurt me a lot. Normally I don’t like to read about cheating or lying couples and of course I always feel bad for both of the women: who has been cheated and who has been labeled as other woman. But... at this book, I really loved the characters so much and the journey between 1993 and 2020, the pack between two lovers: Mallory and her brother’s best buddy Jack to spend only 3 days and repeat their special ritual every Labor Day, their inseparability, their routines about doing exact same things, their thick and special bond make you cry and you feel the knife stab deeper in your heart as they part their ways after three days later to return back to their lives, on families, careers, realities. Till one day Mallory gets sick and tells her son Link to call a number which belongs to Jack who is now the husband of Ursula DeGournsey running for presidency. I loved the characters. Interestingly you don’t choose a part at this book: everybody is right from their side of the story. The writing was also heartfelt, extremely poignant and beautiful but as I said before it was depressive and intense. And of course because of Ursula’s special occupation (!?) it was more political than the author’s other works. And from the beginning we know how the story will end. So that fact made me lose my interest but I was already hooked with the characters and 28 years long secret summer love premise. I was expecting to read a feel-good, summer read but right now, I don’t feel any good and during my read, I already consumed a dozen paper rolls so there is no tear left to shed for me. I feel just numb. I’m giving four hiccuping, sobbing, weeping , red rimmed stars! I think I should keep sitting on the floor without moving till someone carry me to the other room and give me a glass of Chardonnay to break my shitty mood. blog instagram facebook twitter

after 15+ years of reading, i finally read my first Elin book by the beach! i definitely get the hype!!! teetering between 4-4.5 stars on this. i think it's just shy of 5 stars for me (a few things bugged me, the main one being why didn't they ever even try to have a convo about making it real/ work?!?!) but overall i enjoyed it so much and shed a tear at the end. i also need to visit Nantucket immediately and inherit a beach bungalow 🤣🥹 i absolutely loved the setting and the plot. definitely got emo at the end and was so invested in what would become of Mal and Jake ❤️‍🩹❤️‍🩹❤️‍🩹 pretty sure this gave me a book hangover when i finished too, such an emotional rollercoaster!!! this was my first book of hers and i found her writing style very easy to follow and enjoyable. i read this while on a beach trip myself and felt very immersed in the story in more ways than one. infidelity tropes are usually hit or miss for me but this one was well executed (as much as it can be). to me it felt more right person / wrong time and forbidden romance vibes vs infidelity trope (like BROKEN COUNTRY for example). i'm excited to continue my Elin beach read journey!!!!! tell me which to prioritize next 👇🏼👇🏼👇🏼

A Brilliant Saga for All Ages! Emotional and tear-jerking “28 Summers” by Elin Hilderband is a story that is captivating, compelling and all consuming. The love affair between Mallory Blessing and Jake McCloud begins in 1993, when Mallory’s brother, Cooper and his two best friends Fray and Jake visit Mallory in Nantucket on Labor Day weekend. Left to their own devices, romance ensues between Mallory and Jake. It is then that a promise is made ala “Same Time Next Year” wherein the two make a pact to be together every year in Nantucket on Labor Day weekend, no matter what. This story follows Jake and Mallory’s lives for 28 years, through which the two have no contact except for the 3 days during Labor Day Weekend. When they are together, their hearts are one, each moment cherished. It is love: unabashed, romantic, deep and abiding, yet it only lasts for one weekend a year. Thereafter, we follow their lives and we discover how their affair impacts their family and friends for the next 28 years. Each summer together is spent adoring each other and every day in between is spent waiting for the other shoe to drop. It is at times, beautiful, desperate, devastating, heart-wrenching, intense, lovely and unbelievable. While I am not sure that this is fair, and I don’t think I’d agree to it, this, my friends, is fiction and I truly enjoyed listening to this extremely well written, beautifully plotted novel, even if I would never put myself in that position. What I loved about this novel (my first Elin Hilderbrand by the way!) was the characters! They are all so very well drawn and each and every one of them added so much to this story. I adored the characters of Mallory, Linc, her brother Cooper and Jake and I even appreciated the character of Ursula. “28 Summers” is an incredible “Saga” that reminded me of “The Thorn Birds” by Colleen McCullough. The complexities of Mal and Jake’s story, their sweeping love for each other, their inability to give each other up and the number of years their story lasted truly made for a stunning read that evoked the same feelings as Meggie and Father Ralph. I have never in my life read another novel that evoked similar feelings, thus it is to Ms. Hilderbrand’s credit that she was able to do so. This novel is sure to envelop your entire heart, make you smile and bring on the tears thus I highly suggest you have a hanky ready as you are most definitely going to need it. This was a buddy listen with Kaceey! Thank you to Libro.fm, Little Brown & Company and Elin Hilderbrand for the alc. Published on Goodreads on 7.11.20.

2020 What are we talking about in 2020? Australian fires, potential war with Iran, Harry and Megan, the impeachment trial, Kobe Bryant, Covid-19, Harvey Weinstein, Corona beer, China and Italy, Tom Hanks, Tiger King, hand washing, ventilators, TOILET PAPER, Kim Jong-Un, UFOs, locust swarms, murder hornets, monkeys stealing vials of Covid-19, asteroids, George Floyd, Black Lives Matter, MASKS, statues, Sahara dust clouds...and it's only July. If you can't get to the beach this summer, bring the beach to you with Elin Hilderbrand's 25th novel, 28 Summers. It's a lovely escape. Right off the top...one of the things I loved was how each chapter began by discussing a specific year's highlights, from 1993 to 2020. This approach was clever, fun, and brought back so many great memories of the past couple decades. Inspired, I provided my own What are we talking about...? for 2020 above. (You're welcome.) As usual, the setting made me want to permanently move to Nantucket...just for the food and ambiance. One description of picnic fare, in particular, had my mouth watering: “rare roast beef, Boursin, and arugula pinwheel sandwiches, chicken and potato sandwiches with celery and chives; a marinated cucumber salad from the Baltimore Junior League cookbook, and lemon bars with a coconut shortbread crust.” Freaking yum. I really enjoyed all the characters this time which, admittedly, is unusual for me when it comes to EH's books. I also found myself smiling at all the brief mentions of people and businesses from her previous novels. It's always nice to revisit characters from past stories. Unfortunately, something about this novel simply didn't grip me like the rest of the Hilderbrand library. Perhaps it's because we learn how the story ends within the first few paragraphs of the book? While I typically like that writing technique...in this instance, it was a bit depressing. I also felt there was some repetitive material, which is entirely expected when the plot involves two people meeting over Labor Day weekend each year...eating the same food, going to the same places, and participating in the same activities. Due to the political nature of one of the characters, Ursula, there are many instances of politics being discussed, from both sides of the aisle. Normally I'm not a fan of authors inserting their political beliefs on their reader, but I felt the discussions here were relatively balanced. Overall, I think most will enjoy this story and I'm happy to recommend it as a great summer read. I selected 28 Summers as the July Book of the Month for my book club.

I hated the ending so much. So I’ll start at the end. This is not a book where people get what they deserve, except that they do. It frustrated me. And there were parts of my life I could see in several characters. Cancer is always a trigger for me as well. Well written, but a terribly dissatisfying outcome. Hence, falls short of that fifth star. Also, I was going to say I have no desire to read the next in the series, but it turns out I already did. LOL And it turns out I liked it much better than this first one.

Elin Hilderbrand is another author I have been introduced to by my GR friends! What a great holiday read, totally engrossing from start to finish. Well plotted and cleverly done .... Hilderbrand skilfully manages to holds your attention across the time span. Mallory and Jake spend one blissful Labor Day weekend together. When they go back to their lives, they promise each other that every Labour Day weekend will be special and they will spend that time together on Nantucket. This lasts for 28 summers........ I loved the way each summer began with a brief run down of news events for that year - a lot I recognised, others were possibly more geared towards an American audience. This was the type of book you can sink into and lose yourself in for hours at a time.....an unusual love story that even an old cynic like me bought into ! It’s persuaded me to explore other books by this author...... also Nantucket has now been added to my list to places I want to visit !

** spoiler alert ** i just want to say technically, this is a 4.5 stars for me. the missing half is i just can’t get over this story if there would’ve just been a little communication from the very beginning. however, i know that’s not the point of the book. this story is really hard to love but i do. adultery? never a thing for me, i hate the ‘cheating’ trope. but jake and mallory were absolutely soul mates and that’s what makes it a little good for me. i was intimidated that maybe this story would be repetitive but i was absolutely thrilled to be wrong. it never felt like i was just re reading the same things over and over, this story felt so real and i feel like that’s another big reason i love it too. also, a side point is that i loved the year intros to take you back in time and really give a good perspective. overall i loved this book and will be reading again.

** spoiler alert ** First of all, I kind of loved this one. Second of all, this book had a lot of problems. I love Elin Hilderbrand so maybe I'm a bit biased and despite all my problems with it, I still really enjoyed the story and her writing as always! The good: It is such a fun premise! The two main characters, Mallory and Jake, are in love but can't be together (I still don't see why) so they agree to meet up in Nantucket (Hilderbrand has made me desperate to go visit this place) once a year with no contact in between. The not so good: It sounds super fun right?? It is, and I loved it at first but then once your throw in infidelity and kids? I just can't, it loses so much of the romance. These two are the villains - and Mallory?! How are we supposed to like her? She basically lives a lonely life just clinging to this one weekend a year. I mean she wanted to miss her BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING and ship her son off so she didn't miss her weekend? That's just sad. Also, no teacher would ever take a high school boy for a car ride to a secret spot! That part literally made me cringe. Ursula deserved way better, Jake and Mallory deserved each other. Also! Shouldn't each chapter have been a summer together? Was I missing something? I feel like not even half of the chapters were appropriate for the title. The Great: I loved the intro blurbs at the start to each chapter! A look into key events/people/songs of that year, it was so much fun and be forewarned, you'll end up down a google rabbit hole each time. I thin that's why it took me so long to read this one, haha. I love stories that develop over time. Watching the characters grow for almost 3 decades was so much fun and the character development -not the main characters but everyone else- was so good! Overall, there were some problems with this one that I couldn't get past but I still loved it! Such a great book, well written as always. I'm a forever fan of Hilderbrand.

4.25-4.5⭐️ ( still not sure) This is exactly why I love reading books out of my typical comfort zone. So beautiful , all the summer vibes and has me looking forward to reading more by Elin! This is an all consuming love between two people who decided to only meet each other every Labour Day weekend no matter what. This was messy, painful and so addicting! I couldn’t put this down from the minute I picked it up! I knew exactly how this would end from the start but it didn’t stop me from hoping for a different outcome and I was still left crying like a baby at the end. Mallory, a gorgeous hard headed woman, she deserved the world and I will never not think about her and all the hopes I dreamed for her. This book goes to show that not all the greatest loves have the smoothest path or a happy ending.

I know I am super late to the party, but this was my first Elin Hilderbrand. After finishing it, I can easily see why her beach reads are so beloved. Her descriptions of Nantucket made me want to pack up and move there. Although Mal and Jake's love affair was definitely morally questionable, I found myself cheering for them the whole time. Life isn't always black and white, so it is easy to see how people end up in certain situations. While a really enjoyed this book, a few things kept me from rating it higher. There was a lot of focus on what happened to Mal and Jake when they were apart, but not enough exploration of their actual time together. Additionally, I prefer novels to avoid excessive social commentary and political stances unless they move the narrative forward. That just being a personal preference. Finally, after 27 years of build-up, I expected more from the ending. I was prepared to sob, but the ending felt a little bland and definitely not as emotional as I expected it would be leaving me a bit disappointed. Honestly, I was actually surprised that the ending was so abrupt. 4 stars because I really liked the story overall and devoured it in a day. I'm hoping The Sixth Wedding will give me some closure.

When I picked this book up at first, I honestly wasn’t expecting to like it much. No, it wasn’t really because of the premise (which of course I can understand why would be a deal-breaker for some readers), but rather, in general, I’m just not a fan of contemporary romance novels (a genre which this book definitely falls into). But after reading the summary, I was curious about the Same Time, Next Year-inspired story and how the author, Elin Hilderbrand, would pull it off. So I decided to go into this one with an open mind and see where it would lead me (plus I had never read this author before despite hearing so much about her works, so when it came up as one of the recommended works on my book club’s summer reading list, I figured this would be as good a time as any to try reading this). As it turns out, I surprised myself with how much I ended up liking this one. For me, the beauty of this story was in the execution and the surprising amount of depth to the plot that I actually was not expecting. On the surface, this is a story about a love affair between Jake McCloud and Mallory Blessing — one Labor Day weekend in 1993, the two of them are brought together when Mallory hosts a bachelor party for her brother Cooper at the beachfront Nantucket cottage that she had inherited from her aunt. The party ends up being a bust, but Jake and Mallory develop a close bond and by the end of that weekend, they decide that they will get together on the same weekend each year, similar to what the characters in the movie Same Time Next Year (which they watched together that weekend) do. Their arrangement endures for 28 years — through marriage, children, career changes, family complications, etc. — until the summer that Mallory finds out she is dying. At first I was worried that the story would be repetitious, especially when I saw that the structure of the book was divided into 28 chapters — one for each year — which I assumed would mean that we would essentially be reading 28 different variations of the one long weekend that Jake and Mallory spend together. It turns out that I was completely wrong — while the love affair was indeed the central force that drove the plot, it didn’t overwhelm the story at all. Instead, we get an in-depth exploration into the different facets of both Mallory’s and Jake’s lives, but not only that, there are also the emotional implications of their relationship and how it impacts both themselves as well as those around them. In addition to also exploring the various nuances of love, the story also tackles the complexities of relationships mixed with the challenges of life — inevitably, it also raises the question of morality in terms of the affair, but instead of answering the question and risk veering into the “preachy” territory, Hilderbrand lets the reader decide for themselves what reaction they choose to have to the story and the characters. Given the premise, there will undoubtedly be sections that are uncomfortable to read for some — moreover, the basis of the story being about an illicit love affair may also be a turn off for others...if it bothers you, I would recommend not picking this one up at all. Personally, I appreciated the way Hilderbrand approached the story, as well as the way she wrote the characters — I really felt for Mallory in her struggle with her feelings for Jake, while at the same time, I loved her personality, especially her sense of humor. As for Jake — I know technically I should’ve hated him, but I honestly couldn’t bring myself to do so. Lastly, it’s impossible to talk about this book without touching on its narrative structure. Regarding the unique format of starting each chapter with various current events and pop culture moments from that year, I must say that this was my absolute favorite part of the book! It was like taking a trip down memory lane and for me, it definitely enhanced the reading experience. I also liked that we got to hear from the perspectives of not just Mallory and Jake, but also most of the other characters as well — this helped to make the characters more realistic and personable. Hilderbrand is known for her picturesque descriptions of Nantucket, where she sets most of her novels, and this book, her newest work, is certainly no exception. Her depictions of Mallory’s Nantucket cottage and its surrounding community were so atmospheric that I absolutely felt transported, so much so that I actually put Nantucket down as a place I would love to visit someday! While I’m definitely looking forward to Hilderbrand’s next book, I’m hoping to be able to explore her extensive backlist at some point in the future!

4🌟 Mentions of 🌶️ For my first Elim Hilderbrand book I was pleasantly surprised! I loved the plot and the story and the writing flowed so nicely. I can't believe I didn't pick up one of these in the summer but now I definitely will! ∆Plot Basically a girl named Mallory is on her death bed and wishes for Jake her young love to see her before she dies so she tells her son to him. You then get her life of how she fell in love with him and there situation and it was so interesting and fun to read about. ∆Characters Mallory- She was okay but she was pretty simple and didn't have strong will power. Jake- Is confused throughout most of the book because of his situation with Mallory and his other relationships. Cooper- Mallory's brother who just can't seem to find the right women for him and he kinda has poor judgement. ∆Writing The writing was nice and didn't over detail things but it felt a little stiff (I don't even know what that means but it's how I feel)

This one is a tough one to rate. I love Elin’s books. I easily fall in love with her characters, the depth of her storytelling, and the atmosphere of her books. However, the plot for this one is difficult for me. I hated everything about what was happening yet somehow simultaneously felt completely entranced and compelled to continue. The ending gutted me like no other especially having experienced something similiar first hand. This one surely takes you through the wringer. Rounding up to four stars simply because of the emotions the author is able to provoke despite my disliking for the “topic”. If you can get past the topic of the plot line, then I’m sure this would easily be a five star read.

Second read around & I still stand by absolute loathing of Jake freaking Mccloud. Spineless Twat! ** Wow! Where do I even begin with this gem. I'll just start by saying that our girl deserved better!!! Way waay better than she got. I was skeptical about this going in, usually because I cant stand books with cheating but there was so much about this book that I loved I'll even list them 1. Our girl 2. Cooper and his long list of women 3. The cottage 4. The chapter openings 5. Fortune cookies 6. Scott Things I didnt like 1. Jake Freaking McCloud! Yes I said it. I absolutely detested this BrotherSucker. Leaving our girl up in that island for 365 days all alone. He was a user. He was spineless. He was pathetic. He did not deserve Mallory He certainly was not our boy (Who even vetoed that btw) The ending was insanely sad. Didn't like that so I'll just imagine that didnt happen either and rewrite my own. Beth reunited with Scott. They got married. Had mad babies (yes at 50 it's my imagination). Lived happily ever after. The End.

4.5 stars Elin Hilderbrand knows how to write, that's for absolute certain. I never tire of reading about the gorgeous scenery of Nantucket, the delicious food her characters whip up and serve, or the vibrance and colors of the world around everything going on. She is also excellent at pacing. "28 Summers", for the most part, moves along so smoothly that it feels like gliding. Across 400 pages we see the lives of two people take shape. We journey with them on to their hobbies and jobs, and meet their friends, acquaintances, and family members in an in-depth way. The main characters, Mallory and Jake, feel like very real people in the throes of a very real love affair in a very real place. The story of a twenty-eight-year affair between Mallory and Jake calls up many questions. What do you want? What will you do to get it? What can you justify? It's a romance that feels simultaneously very easy-breezy and yet very multifaceted. It was complex and gray, not simple or clear cut. This played a lot into the legitimacy of the characters. *Small spoiler* I wish that we would have gotten more insight on the relationship between Jake and Ursula that made him decide for so long to stay. We get a glimpse at the power bonding over grief and nostalgia have over them, but it's not ever revisited. We don't see any tender moments; no sentimentality that comes flooding back to keep them bonded together. If that had been better developed, I would have felt like the complexity, that was already so well done, would have been more fully formed and satisfactory. I'm also not sure I loved the ending. It loses steam on the descend and feels a bit rushed while also filled with, well, filler. (Summer of 2018's chapter is essentially just a re-telling of the Brett Cavanaugh incident with names changed that goes on for too many pages.) I think Mallory and Jake deserved a better finale than we got. Overall though, I did love this book. I couldn't put it down. Elin Hilderbrand gives me major "want-to-crawl-inside-and-live-there"-itis when I read her novels. "28 Summers" was another brilliant display of this!

There were some frusterating moments throughout the book when the characters just acted weak, but otherwise I enjoyed the storyline. The ending (like, last minute of the book) was a bit of an eye-roll tho.

THIS IS NOT A FEEL GOOD SUMMER READ! This book was heavy, frustrating, political and emotional. This is my first Hilderbrand novel and honestly this won’t be my last. I was very impressed with her storytelling, how developed the characters were, and I felt like I was whisked away to Nantucket whilst reading this. But beware, this book does not have an HEA...it was sad but hey there’s not always going to be a happy ending. I definitely recommend this... just not on your happy, summer vacation!

Overall, this is a great read- especially for summer. It didn’t completely blow me away, but I genuinely enjoyed it. I found myself torn because of the “arrangement” at the heart of the story…it’s hard to root for something so morally complicated. But that’s also where Elin Hilderbrand really shines. She captures the messiness of love, life, and human nature so well. Nothing is black and white, and I appreciated the nuance she brought to the characters and their choices. This is one of those books I wish I had read with my book club…there’s so much to unpack and debate. All in all, I’d give it 4 stars… though if I could, I’d probably say 3.5. But hey, we’ll round up for summer’s sake.

3.5 rounded to 4 for GR. this book is getting low reviews that i’m surprised by—i had a GRAND ole time reading it! best part about it: so bingeworthy and grabs you immediately meh part about it: the ending? went in a way i wasn’t expecting at all and began to feel more like a fam drama vs thriller sooooo, if want need a book that grabs you immediately and is quick/fast paced and has lots of action, this is the one. i was in a slump when i read it and it pulled me right out and i finished it in maybe 2 sittings. it was so fun! where it fizzled for me was the ending. maybe it’ll have a sequel? if not it feels like there were some plot holes and also some like “what about this” moments so that’s why i rounded down the 3.5 vs 4. the first half was looking like a strong 4+ star. i woulda liked more on the surgeon aspect of it all, that was so fascinating to me and well written. the AI plot of it all was very fascinating too. makes you wonder if that’s in play right now? how…spooky?! i’ll say i was waiting for a big WOW twist and this one doesn’t have that, but it has a bunch of little twists sprinkled throughout. which is fine! i like both in my thrillers. felt like a suspenseful action movie with how much was going on and i think if casted well, it could be a fun 🎬 adaptation… just saying 👀 TLDR; this is fun, i enjoyed it and recommend it, it’s good for book clubs and easy to read / moves quick. but, not the best thriller i’ve read all year.

Intermingling a globe-trotting game of cat-and-mouse with a poignant look at love and loss, Gone Before Goodbye was everything you would expect from this new writing duo. From the genuine dialogue laced with cute banter to the action-packed scenes that had my adrenaline pumping, the plot was the perfect combo of psychological/action thriller and women’s fiction. You see, despite the overriding sense of foreboding and constantly escalating tension, the underlying emotions were what popped off the page. Making you feel all of the feels while also giving you the ride of your life, this quick, easy read was exactly what I thought I’d find from this brand-new collaboration. What do I mean by that, you might ask? Well, thanks to the compelling characters and onion-like plot, I was fully invested from beginning to end. Throughout the book, I found myself rooting for Maggie while I also desperately wanted to know all the whos, whats, and whys behind the layers of dark, long-buried secrets. But it was Reese’s voice that added depth to the plot. Bringing in a flawed female main character that was also smart, strong, and brave, she’s the kind of persona women want to read. Add in Porkchop and his crew, and it just couldn’t have been better. Well, I take that back. Coben’s standard unguessable twists and turns made the book sing. All said and done, while the conclusion didn’t quite work for me in the end, I still had a blast riding shotgun with Maggie through this tour de force of a read. Suspenseful and well-plotted, there were even a few times that I could sense Hitchcock’s hand in a scene. After all, I didn’t foresee the big, giant reveal coming at all. A script-flipping moment that hit me just right, it still fit with how I saw each of the characters. Emotionally charged yet also palpably tense, it was the perfect mix of everything I love. So if you adore a full-service story that is both a tear-jerker and a heart-pounder in one, grab a copy today. It had me verklempt and thrilled all in one go. Rating of 4.5 stars. SYNOPSIS: Maggie McCabe is teetering on the brink. A highly skilled and renowned Army combat surgeon, she has always lived life at the edge, where she could make the most impact. And it was all going to plan...until it wasn’t. Upside down after a devastating series of tragedies leads to her medical license being revoked, Maggie has lost her purpose, but not her nerve or her passion. At her lowest point, she is thrown a lifeline by a former colleague, an elite plastic surgeon whose anonymous clientele demand the best care money can buy, as well as absolute discretion. Halfway across the globe, sequestered in the lap of luxury and cutting-edge technology, one of the world’s most mysterious men requires unconventional medical assistance. Desperate, and one of the few surgeons in the world skilled enough to take this job, Maggie enters his realm of unspeakable opulence and fulfills her end of the agreement. But when the patient suddenly disappears while still under her care, Maggie must become a fugitive herself—or she will be the next one who is…Gone Before Goodbye. Thank you to Harlan Coben, Reese Witherspoon, and Grand Central Publishing for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own. PUB DATE: October 14, 2025 Content warning: death of a loved one, grief, gun and knife violence, car accident, violence, mention of: drug use

I thought this was a very clever thriller. It as a cat and mouse game filled with bikers, surgeons and Russian oligarchs.

the setup… Maggie McCabe, a former combat and humanitarian surgeon, is highly skilled and was equally regarded until she lost her license because of a tragic accident. Now she and her genius sister Sharon are drowning in debt and a financially crippling lawsuit…until she’s offered a lifeline from an old mentor. It’s shrouded in secrecy and she can’t tell anyone about the details, which aren’t even shared with her. Maggie's off to a secret location to operate on an anonymous client that will result in a financial windfall. But things get dicey and suddenly she’s on the run for her life and doesn’t know why, traversing the globe from Russia, to Dubai and the French Bordeaux region. Maggie’s past rises up and has her questioning everything she believed about the humanitarian work she did with her husband, Marc. the heart of the story… Maggie’s odyssey had trouble written all over it from the onset and even though she thought she was ready, nothing could have prepared her for everything that came next. Russian oligarchs, opulent lifestyles, duplicitous new “friends,” lots of misdirection and a handy seasoned biker father-in-law called Porkchop kept the story moving in whiplash fashion. I didn’t know who to trust and neither did she. the narration… The full cast was ideal, including the duet narration style. Reese Witherspoon is the voice of Maggie and carries the point of view. Her acting skills made such a difference and the other performers were on par. I loved the storytelling. the bottom line… Both Witherspoon and Coben are excellent storytellers and I experienced their separate influences. I’ve read most of Coben’s work and this has his tightly scripted plotting and fast pace signature. Witherspoon’s touch was definitely at play in the well developed Maggie. The ending was only underwhelming because there were some highly important unanswered issues so I feel a second book coming…as well as a screen adaptation. Bring it! Posted on Blue Mood Café

When two of my favorite people join together to collaborate on a thriller novel??? I MUST READ IT! I may have screamed a bit when I received a finished copy! I did a combo read with the physical and audiobook, but the audio was just so fantastic, I ended up being unable to stop listening! This starts off INTENSE with Chris Pine (who is fabulous) narrating as Maggie's husband Marc. That opening chapter...WOW. The story slowly develops from there focusing on Maggie as she tries to navigate the world after suffering multiple losses including her medical license. Reese Witherspoon narrates Maggie and do I even need to say she's phenomenal? It felt like listening to a movie. (Surprise, surprise.) Her modulation, cadence and evocative performance was outstanding! Saskia Maarleveld is a favorite of mine and she stood out as Sharon, Maggie's sister. Truly the entire cast was fantastic and the way each character was voiced by different narrators within each chapter was a unique experience for me. I loved every minute of it! While nothing surprised me this was such an enjoyable and exciting story. After a slower start things really begin to pick up! The dialogue was singular and I sensed the collaborative effort of Witherspoon and Coben . They both have distinctive talents they bring to the table with plot and character development. I particularly enjoyed Maggie's wit (I chuckled many times) and her relationship with her father-in-law Porkchop. Yes, that's his name! GONE BEFORE GOODBYE is a tale of loss and love amongst the backdrop of cutting edge medical and AI advancements. It's best to go in as blind as possible, but trust me when I say you'll have a great time with this one. With memorable characters, a layered plot across the globe, criminal elements and tense action scenes, you'll fly through this in no time! ____ Narrators: Reese Witherspoon Chris Pine Kiff VandenHeuvel Suehyla El-Attar Young Peter Ganim Saskia Maarleveld James Fouhey ____ Thank you Grand Central Publishing and Hachette Audio for my gifted copies. All opinions are my own.

Reese Witherspoon & Harlan Coben told Stephen Colbert that she approached Coben with the idea of this book, quickly adding that she had already copyrighted it. Witherspoon is smart and savvy. While I usually dislike the books she offers for her bookclub, what I do like are the movies she makes out of them. She can truly visualize and conceptualize ideas. This book will be even better on the Big Screen. As for her writing? It’s good… but I can tell you which Harlan Coben switched on & off throughout the novel. Those, of course, were my favorite parts! You can totally feel Win & Myron in the writing. As for the Lockwood- I’d love to know where he fits in the family tree. I’m getting off topic. This is an action packed book with a strong female read. I knocked off a star because I had totally figured out the 1st twist, though I didn’t know how it came about. There’s a lot of questions that didn’t unfold into answers and we get sort of a Scooby Doo ending where it gets explained. I would have loved to have been SHOWN instead of TOLD. Regardless, this was a fun thriller, that travels the word, incorporates Reese Witherspoon’s military and medical upbringing with a novel approach. I can say I’ve never come across a storyline like this before. She will most likely develop into a really good writer through the years. I’m sure she’s planted seeds for another storyline already! ****PS**** I ditched the audiobook on this one. The narration got on my nerves and reading it was a better choice for me.

Don’t go into this book if you like your reads to be believable… but if you can hold on and enjoy a wild ride, this may be for you. Maggie McCabe was a talented surgeon, but when her husband was killed her life falls apart. An unfortunate event leads to her losing her medical license, and she is lost and without purpose. Then, a former colleague recommends her for a clandestine job that will take away all of her financial worries. The details are sketchy, but she learns that a secretive man is willing to pay big for her expertise. Maggie is off to Russia on a private plane. There will be two surgeries, the man and his girlfriend. But as soon as the surgeries are complete, things change and Maggie appears to be in danger. This sets off a series of meetings with government operatives and trips to track down the girlfriend, who had a connection to Maggies’s husband’s friend. You can’t trust anything that is said by anyone… they all have secrets. Maggie’s father-in-law Porkchop joins to protect Maggie. For the most part I enjoyed Reese Witherspoon’s narration. The story was fun and fast paced, as long as you don’t question too much.

Review to follow shortly

Story 4.25 stars. Narration 5 stars Written by Harlan Coben and Reese Witherspoon, this book was both a thriller and a story of one woman’s grief after the death of her husband. Maggie is a highly skilled surgeon who lost her license to practice after depending on pills due to her husband’s death. The bills are piling up when she is offered a ridiculous amount of money to do surgery on a very rich man. She ends up a world away from home with no phone and no one that knows where she is. After the surgeries she realizes that all isn’t what it seems to be and she needs to leave. But that’s not happening. The suspense is slowly going off the charts by then. I’m going to leave it at that. The last 60% I could barely stop listening. I enjoyed the listen and thought the plot was very intricately plotted and the characters well realized. I kept wondering who wrote which part, but you really can’t tell any difference. Reese Witherspoon narrates most of the book and it’s every bit as good as you can imagine with an actress of her caliber. There are several others that voice smaller parts and they were really well done too. Recommended!

** spoiler alert ** I listened to the audiobook and it was very entertaining. I’d recommend it to anyone looking for a light, easy read that will provide the appropriate amount of twists to keep you guessing throughout.

Brilliant plastic surgeon Maggie McCabe once had it all: a loving, equally brilliant husband and a stellar career filled with purpose and meaning. But that was then and this is now -- a singularly depressing now, lacking in family (except for her off-the-charts genius of a sister) and swamped by litigation and debt. And then a “white knight,” the professor who was her mentor in medical school, comes to her with a unique, albeit mysterious, proposal that will make most of her problems disappear. Soon, she finds herself aboard the most luxurious of private jets, winging her way to an undisclosed location, which turns out to be … well … to say more might spoil it for you. Actress/book lover Reese Witherspoon and author Harlan Coben have teamed up to produce a very entertaining novel filled with mystery, suspense, and plenty of twists and turns. The characters may not be as deeply drawn as in a literary novel, but they are likable and compelling enough for readers to care what happens to them. The plotting is designed to keep readers turning the pages, seeking answers to the questions skillfully planted by Ms. Witherspoon and Mr. Coban. They’ve even managed to incorporate some interesting tech ideas, not to mention some humor, into their tale. At times, I was reminded of the works of Alfred Hitchcock, Michael Crichton, and Robin Cook. All in all, a very enjoyable reading experience.

Gone Before Goodbye is a fast-paced, action-packed medical thriller that pulls the reader into the world of the uber rich and their thirst for longevity through using their wealth and power to access experimental, unregulated AI medical technologies. The plot is filled with corruption, greed, conspiracy, betrayal, and murder. The main character, a former combat army surgeon, who gets pulled into this world is very likeable and sympathetic and her relationship with her father-in-law is a great addition to the story. The opulence and excess of the uber wealthy is well described as is their sense of entitlement. I also liked reading about the issues raised around AI, its uses, and the associated moral/ethical issues. The plot moved from the US to Russia to Dubai and France and had some intense action scenes but also a few over-the-top moments. A satisfying epilogue had some unexpected final reveals. Harlan said in an interview that readers wouldn’t guess the ending and he was right! I can definitely see this as a movie. This was an entertaining, fast-paced read. I haven’t read Harlan before but I have heard that this collaboration reads like his solo novels. This isn’t surprising as in an interview I watched, Reese said that she came up with the big-picture idea for the novel but it seems that it was Harlan who actually wrote the book.

3 short stories from the master of the legal thriller John Grisham - you don't have to ask me twice! Sparring Partners is a fantastic collection of stories from one of my favourite writers. First we have Homecoming which brings back a fan favourite character in Jake Brigance. An old friend asks for help to return home to see his family without being caught by the law. 3 years ago he left them behind and stole money from clients. We see Jake at his best, doing everything that he can for his mate. The second story, Strawberry Moon made me cry. This is the shortest of the 3 and the most powerful one in my opinion. This is the story of a 29 year old man on death row. We meet him 3 hours before is impending death. The clock is ticking - can his lawyer produce a last minute miracle? The final tale is The Sparring Partners. Brothers Kirk and Rusty Malloy who run their fathers law firm while he is is behind bars. The brothers do not get along and use Dianatha Bradshaw as their go-between. The firm is losing money and they come up with a plan to save it - but can they work together? Legal thriller fans will really enjoy these 3 very different stories. As always with Grisham, we have strong characters and stories that you will get attached to even though they are short. Thanks to Hachette Australia for sending me an advanced copy to read, Always a delight to read this author.

This is a collection of three novellas. Needless to say, considering the author, they are all well-written. I enjoyed all three of the novellas; but I think that the second one “Strawberry Moon” was the most interesting particularly the scene between Cody and the retired Nebraska school teacher. Cody was fourteen when he was arrested and sentence to death. He spent fifteen years on death row. The teacher sent him paperback books (the only ones allowed by the prison) every month then Cody would write her about the book. I found the conversation between them on the day of his execution fascinating. He could barely read when arrested and on day of death he was a well-read articulate young man with a great vocabulary. I was intrigued at the choice of books she sent him and which ones he liked best and read many times. He only wanted fiction. This was an enjoyable fast reading book. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book was eight hours and fifty-seven minutes. There were three narrators: Jeff Daniels, Ethan Hawke, and January LaVoy with a brief overview of each book by John Grisham.

Really good!

I've been a Grisham fan for a long time and have read quite a number of his books ( but not all of them!). So I was very pleased to get a bound galley of Grisham's latest book ( to be published in May 2022). The book consists of three novellas, each one different but, of course, all dealing with legal cases. The first one is "Homecoming," which places us back in Clanton, Mississippi, with Jake Brigance, the lawyer in "A Time to Kill." The story is about an old friend of Jake's, Mack Stafford, who had disappeared, abandoning his family and his law practice. Now, he wants to come back and he needs Jake and Harry Rex ( his actual lawyer) to help him... 3 stars for this one and no more than that mainly because I wanted more Jake! But good to see Jake again. "Strawberry Moon," the second story, features Cody Wallace, a young man on death row only hours away from execution. A powerful story--as I expected it to be--and I give it 4 or 4.5 stars. The third story, "Sparring Partners," is the longest novella and could easily have been developed into a novel. The story concerns the Malloy brothers, Kirk and Rusty, who inherit the law firm (in St. Louis) when the founder, their father, is sent to prison. The two brothers are the "sparring partners" of the title as they hate each other and refuse to even speak with each other. Meanwhile, the father tries to manipulate things from inside the prison...The story engaged me completely and kept me guessing where it was going-- and is my favorite of the three novellas of the book. Easily a 4.5. Definitely a book for Grisham fans and possibly a good way to be introduced to Grisham if you haven't yet read anything by the author! Thanks to Goodreads for the bound galley that I received.

4 stars You can read all of my reviews at Nerd Girl Loves Books. This is a collection of three short stories by Grisham that don't have anything in common other than the law. I enjoyed the first story, "Homecoming", the best because we once again visit Ford County and Jake Brigance. It's not the courtroom thriller we are typically treated to in this setting, but it was great to read about the familiar characters that I've come to love. This time Jake is helping an attorney from Clanton, Mack Stafford, that notoriously, and allegedly, stole client money, left his unhappy marriage and children, and fled to parts unknown, never to be heard from again. Hearing that his ex-wife is dying, Mack returns to apologize and try to form a relationship with his daughters. The story is heartbreaking and uplifting and will make you yearn for more stories from Ford County. In Strawberry Moon we meet Cody Wallace, a young man that was sentenced to death as a juvenile for participating in a robbery in which his brother killed a man. As I spent Cody's last three hours with him, my emotions ranged from anger at the system, sympathy for the circumstances that landed Cody on death row, and hope and joy for the compassion one person showed to Cody during his short life. The last story, Sparring Partners, was probably my least favorite in that it depicted greedy lawyers (which I take great umbrage with, being an attorney myself) behaving badly and trying to game the system. Not my cup of tea. I don't typically read short stories - I've never liked them - and didn't realize this was a collection of short stories when I requested the book. That being said, I really enjoy John Grisham's writing so I'm not mad at it. If you want to get the benefit of reading a Grisham story, but don't have the time to devote to an entire book, this collection will serve your purposes perfectly. Even if you have time to read an entire book, this collection is a good read that you will enjoy. I received a complimentary copy of this book from NetGalley and Doubleday Books. All opinions are my own.

John Grisham returns with his first collection of novellas SPARRING PARTNERS regarding the ins and outs of the law and some moral crossing lines between good and evil. "Homecoming" is a favorite and most intriguing since it takes us back to Ford County and Jake Brigance. When called to help out an old friend, Mack Stafford (former lawyer), who stole money from his clients and disappeared, never to be heard from again (hiding out in Costa Rica on the beach). When Jake gets a surprise visit with word from Mack, he gets stuck in the middle and leans on his old friends for help. But can he go back and pick up life with his daughters like nothing happened? The story does not wrap up with a bow and leaves us hanging with our thoughts. I would love for this story to be continued with Jake Brigance/Mack! "Strawberry Moon" is an emotional sad story of a death row inmate, which is always a popular topic in the South. An engaging story about a 29-year-old death row inmate Cody Wallace, who is hours away from being executed. Incarcerated for a home invasion that resulted in the deaths of his brother/partner in crime and the two residents of the house they were in the process of burgling, his appeals and requests for clemency have been denied, and now he waits for THE END. You feel for the guy. No one seems to be able to save Cody Wallace, but a guard helps him with his last wish. "The Sparring Partners" was my least favorite of the novellas and more ruthless. Not a lot of likable characters. The Mallory family is not a very nice one. Kirk and Rusty—brothers, inherited the firm when their father was sent to prison. They would like to keep their dad there. From collusion, deceit, bribery, corruption, and financial fraud. Their sister, Diantha, winds up with an idea to save the day and outsmarts them. It is an entertaining collection, and thanks for the teaser short stories; however, missing the Grisham punch from his usual full-length stand-alone and legal thriller series. Hope he gets back to the innocence project, and wrongful convictions soon as thoroughly enjoy them. Still a fan and will read anything he writes! Thank you to #Doubleday and #NetGalley for an ARC to read, review, and enjoy. Blog Review Posted @ www.JudithDCollins.com @JudithDCollins | #JDCMustReadBooks My Rating: 4 Stars Pub Date: May 31, 2022 May 2022 Must-Read Books

Genre: Legal Thriller/Novellas Publisher: Doubleday Books Pub Date: May 32, 2022 Since his 1989 smash hit, "A Time to Kill," John Grisham has become one of the most well-read, bestselling authors of legal thrillers. If you have heard him in interviews, you will know that his favorite sport is baseball, which shows up in some of his books. In his 2001 novel, "A Painted House," which is my favorite out of all of his works—without a single lawyer in the plot—readers can gain insight into real-life Harry Caray's 1952 sports announcements for St. Louis Cardinals baseball games. "Like the best pitchers in Grisham's beloved sport, sometimes you just want to throw a change-up," says the Associate Press says of the novellas. He did this with "Sparring Partners, his first collection of novellas. I am glad he made the change. I had been growing bored of his novels, which all seemed to say the same thing in different courtrooms. Here, the author's themes have not altered, but the prose is more concise, with fewer characters to distract the reader. "Homecoming," the first of three shorts that comprise the book, is the least compelling. It features Jake Brigance, who has appeared in previous Grisham novels. This time Jake is asked to help Mack Stafford, a longtime friend and fellow lawyer whose life falls apart after swindling a client. To escape his predicament, he decides to flee and go into hiding, leaving his two daughters behind. He enlists Jake to help him reconnect with them. I enjoyed the insights of Mississippi small-time lawyers with their inside jokes. I had a hard time sympathizing with Mack, but this is not why the story is my least favorite. The novella has an interesting concept, yet it never takes off. While returning to Mississippi and revisiting with Jake is fun, Mack comes off as a lackluster character. Second in the collection is the emotionally gripping "Strawberry Moon." Cody Wallace is a 29-year-old man on death row who is only three hours away from being executed. Grisham makes sure the reader will empathize with the likable Cody. We learn his back story when his lawyer, the jail's chaplain, and a school teacher, who befriended him, come to visit during these hours. Through these conversations, we learn that 14-year-old Cody and his 15-year-old brother were orphans living on their own when Cody was tried as an adult for murder, although his brother pulled the trigger. It is a heartbreaking tale and my favorite in the collection. The author makes a strong case for the abolition of the death penalty. Grisham has always shared his real-life position and applauds those who fight to abolish capital punishment. The third and title story, "Sparring Partners," is the closest to a traditional Grisham legal thriller. There is a lot of courtroom drama centered on vile characters in a family-run law company. Even so, it appears that Grisham is going for tongue-in-cheek comedy. Bolton Malloy is the disbarred head of Malloy & Malloy. He is in jail for murdering his wife, and it seems he killed her because she was a disagreeable woman. His sons, who despise each other, have different staff members and won't go into the office when the other is there. Their narcissism creates some fun dialogue. They took over the once-thriving law company, which is now being destroyed by their rivalry. The three are scheming against one another to control the largest shares of the business and oust the other two. This results in some outrageous scenarios that make you both grimace and chuckle. The tale does have a predictable twist, but it is still worth reading. Shorter may be better for the author. "Sparring Partners" reminded me that Grisham is an excellent storyteller. I recommend the book as long as you go in, knowing this is not his usual 400-page novel. If anyone out there hasn't read the author, this book is a great introduction to him. On the other hand, if you know his works, this is a quick reminder of his talent. Find all my book reviews at: https://www.goodreads.com/review/list… https://books6259.wordpress.com/ https://www.barnesandnoble.com/review… https://www.amazon.com/ https://www.facebook.com/martie.neesr... https://twitter.com/NeesRecord

I think this is the lowest rating that I’ve ever given a Grisham book. It is a collection of three short stories that stand well on their own feet. I just wished he would have spent more time on one and made it a story.

I received a copy of Sparring Partners from Hachette Australia to review. In the mood for more legal thriller awesomeness from the mind of legendary author John Grisham? Then make sure to grab a copy of his new short story collection, Sparring Partners. Sparring Partners is an intriguing book that contains three of Grisham’s compelling short stories. Made up of Homecoming, Strawberry Moon and the story Sparring Partners, this collection was an awesome and fun read that will really appeal to established Grisham fans. I personally had a great time with it, and I ended up getting through it in three short intervals, knocking off one story at a time. All three stories are quite entertaining in their own right, and together they prove to be an excellent and awesome exploration of Grisham’s style and love of the legal thriller. To see the full review, click on the link below: https://unseenlibrary.com/2022/07/25/... For other exciting reviews and content, check out my blog at: https://unseenlibrary.com/

Having been told that John Grisham’s writing wasn’t particularly insightful, I approached “Sparring Partners” purely as a holiday read. I was completely unprepared to discover it was a collection of novellas rather than a single, cohesive plot. I was pleasantly surprised to discover that the writing is both compelling and effective at holding the reader’s attention. The novellas, despite their brevity, proved to be just as effective as a longer narrative. Of the three, “Homecoming” was interesting but felt like the weakest story, primarily due to its abrupt conclusion. Nevertheless, it held my interest until the very last sentence. “Strawberry Moon” was a very powerful and thought-provoking read. “Sparring Partners” was, without a doubt, the standout of the collection, and I felt a strong desire to re-read it immediately upon finishing. I truly enjoyed this book and am glad I gave this author a chance. It earns a rating of 4 to 4.5 stars in my opinion.

This collection of three novellas begin with “Homecoming.” I am a long-time Grisham fan and was delighted to once again read about Jake Brigance and Canton, Mississippi. He is not doing his lawyering stuff, but he, Lucien Wilbanks and Harry Rex certainly have their hands full playing cat and mouse with the FBI. ***** “Strawberry Moon” focuses on a prisoner scheduled for execution. Cody has a few hours before his eventual punishment when he gets an unusual and amazing visitor. This book highlights many of the reasons the death penalty should be abolished.***** “Sparring Partners” was a bit of a disappointment for me. None of the characters were the least bit sympathetic. No wonder people hate lawyers.***

This is a book of three novellas each very different from the others. They are all legal based. I thought the first one was an interesting story but was just a good story. The second story was better and more interesting and different with a good perspective on the subject of death row. The third one was the best. It grabbed you more and had some good twists and turns. A good read.

An entertaining read. I liked the way all three stories just "end". There are no fireworks.

Classic Grisham writing. Three short stories in one book so they’re all wrapped up pretty quickly. I’ve always been a fan of John Grisham.

This book is actually made of three novellas by John Grisham. They are continuing stories he had previously released at some point or wanted too. I feel if he would have put more work into the third story it would have made a great book!

Well, you probably already know that any Grisham book will be a good read - interesting story (or stories, in this collection of 3 novellas), smooth flow and engaging situations. Holds true for these as well. Think I enjoyed the Homecoming the most, tale of an attorney who ran out on his family with client funds and wants to return. Second would be the death row inmate with 3 hours to live in Strawberry Moon and Sparring Partners gets a bit clunky in places but it may be trying to blend a bit too much - office and external politics, crime and punishment, money laundering and tax issues, and of course the usual legalities. Certainly an interesting read!

Is there any writer to rival Grisham? His novels (or in this case three unrelated novellas)are like good buttered popcorn. They go down fast and easy. No, he'll never receive the Booker Prize, but who cares? Once you start a Grisham novel you can't put it down until you've finished. The stories here are interesting, well-plotted and not padded with fluff. The characters are relatable and believable. It's not "serious" writing, but damn he's entertaining. I've said it before, and I'll say it again, whoever decided to stop making Grisham's books into movies made a big mistake. Recommend.

Everyone on earth spent the entirety of 2020 telling everyone else that this book is excellent and brilliant and a must read, and then I showed up deeply and profoundly late to the party only to say the same thing. And in case you needed one more person telling you the same thing to push you over the edge - this is truly good stuff. I took a while to warm up to it, but basically reading this book is suddenly being adopted into a family and at first you're like "??? what is this what is happening and why should I care," but once you settle in and allow everyone and everything to grow on you...boom. Then this cast of characters is a set of loved ones to you, and you feel their pain and are invested in their stories, and it's wonderful. And very sad. Obviously. Like life or whatever...I don't know. Insert some powerful truism or trite cliché or other fitting expression here. Bottom line: All I have to say is what everyone else did: good things! ------------------- pre-review finishing this felt like saying goodbye to my family. review to come / 4.5 stars ------------------- currently-reading updates my favorite way to feel stupid is by highly anticipating a book forever but not picking it up and then not being able to put it down when i finally do

Technically I would rate this 3.5 stars. This story is primarily centered on a set of twins born in Mallard, Louisiana. The twins run away from home to make it big in the city when one of the twins runs off and begins her life as a white person while the other twin goes through life as a black person. This story follows this set of twins through life as well as their daughters. This book touched on some very deep issues: race, generations, transsexuality which was refreshing because I have not read a tremendous amount of books on theses issues. In many ways it is a high-quality retelling of Passing by Nella Larsen. That being said the pacing of this book was OFF. In the first 100 pages, it seemed slow. I saw Read With Cindy's Review where she said the first 1/3 of the book was slow but it picked up. Because she is really honest (trust me on this or go watch her videos), I had confidence in her. It did get better, but I still would not classify this as a page turner. The ending was entirely predictable. 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

This is a thought provoking story and a few scenes were not easy to read. There’s racism here, a violent incident against a man, witnessed by his young twin daughters, and more trauma for one of the girls than we want to imagine. This and their upbringing in a small black community in Louisiana where people believe the lighter they are the better life will be. So it wasn’t a surprise that when twin sisters Desiree and Stella Vignes run away at sixteen, that their futures would take them on journeys seeking their identities. Although inseparable as young girls, they part ways and their chosen lives take very different paths. While it’s easy to connect with Desiree and the choices she makes, it’s not very easy to accept how Stella has chosen to live a lie and was most of the time unlikable. Yet, I was still drawn to her and felt for her, trying to understand her more. While racial identity is the core of the story, there are so many other layers here with characters that the author portrays in such a way that I got a sense of who they were, even if at times they questioned their own identities. The story is told from multiple points of view - the sisters Desiree and Stella and later their daughters, Jude and Kennedy, each of them searching it seemed, to find their true selves. It’s about different kinds of relationships between sisters, mothers and daughters, husbands and wives, women and the men in their lives, cousins who find each other. There are other elements to the story such as spousal abuse and sexual identity. Almost all of the characters found a way to my heart. I found this to be such a well written story that captivated me from the first page and made me want to get to Britt Bennett’s debut novel The Mothers, which has been on my list. As always I’m grateful to read along with Diane and Esil. I love our discussions and sharing our perspectives . I received an advanced copy of this book from Riverhead/Penguin through EdelweissZ

2020 F.A.B. Bookclub pick # I.❤️. F.A.B. I was excited that this was our bookclub pick for this month. 🤗 I’ve read so many fabulous reviews about the important messages this book has to offer. It tells a story of a set of twins, who runaway at 16. They take two different paths in life. Not giving much away- it was a great read. 👍I’d say I enjoyed the first half of the book more than the second half. The messages are definitely good: Family is family, acceptance of who you are is important, even more so- acceptance of others is imperative. ❤️

"She was black. Blueblack. No, so black she looked purple. Black as coffee, asphalt, outer space, black as the beginning and the end of the world." Another good story about sisters. This one is so worth the hype. Different, unique and important. *Warnings for domestic violence, sexual assault, racist remarks, Alzheimer's In this story, we are able to see racism and discrimination does exist within a community of the same race and colour. I find the story quite good, the writing convincing and the characters inside your head beating in your heart like you know them from the very beginning till the end. I find the ending a bit underwhelming with all the anticipation that was there for the ending (we all know what I am talking about. The great moment of reunion. But it didn't leave me the effect that would make it memorable and emotional for me.) My favourite character would be Jude, closely followed by Reese and Early though the story is told more about Stella and her twin sister, Desiree. A book worth the hype after all.

"You could never quite get used to loneliness..." Identical twin sisters, Desiree, and Stella Vignes were born in Mallard, Louisiana, a town so small it cannot be found on the map. They have witnessed atrocities inflicted upon their father at a young age. They decide to run away from their southern black community at the age of 16 and start over in New Orleans. Years later, Desiree returns to her hometown with her young daughter while her twin sister Stella, is living as a white woman and her white husband knows nothing of her past. Desiree longs for her sister who left without saying goodbye. Both twins’ lives go in separate directions. Once Stella leaves, neither knows what became of the other. Their lives; however, are intertwined (their daughter's lives intertwine) as this book moves from the deep south to the east coast, and to California from the 1950s to the 1990s. This is a story about love, family, mothers, daughters, acceptance, racism, how race shapes individuals' lives. This book also touches on domestic violence, gender identity, racial identity, and acceptance. This book gives us various characters with distinct personalities and POVs. We not only read but feel their pain, their heartache, their loneliness, their happiness, and their strength. I found this to be a beautifully written and thought-provoking book. This was my first book by Brit Bennett, and it will not be my last. I received a copy of this book from the Editor and Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own.

4.5 stars One of my favorite fiction reads of 2020 by far, The Vanishing Half follows two light-skinned Black twin sisters, Desiree and Stella, who run away from their childhood home at the age of 16. About ten years later, Desiree returns to their small, southern Black community whereas Stella has created a life for herself passing as a white woman, a life in which no one knows her true racial identity. Though the sisters have not talked for ages since Stella ran away from Desiree after they both moved to New Orleans together, their paths and choices to either own their racial identity or run away from it affect their lives and the lives of their daughters for years to come. I so loved the characters and the writing of The Vanishing Half. Brit Bennett has a talent for writing three-dimensional characters who you grow attached to, flaws and mistakes and all, as well as tight and effective scenes that add depth to her characters and their life dilemmas. She shows the effects of intergenerational trauma and anti-Black racism, colorism, grief, separation, and more so well. I ached for these characters and especially loved Desiree’s relationship with her dark-skinned daughter Jude, as well as Jude’s relationship with her boyfriend Reese – a scene toward the end of the novel between Desiree and Jude brought literal tears to my eyes, the first time a novel has done that for a while. I also appreciated Bennett’s smart rendering of Desiree and Stella’s daughters and how their daughters take after the other’s twin sister, while both bear the weight of their mother’s decisions, Kennedy (Stella’s daughter) perhaps more so than Jude. While there are so fascinating and terrifying ways whiteness and white supremacy manifest in this novel, Stella’s characterization in particular felt so rich with nuance in relation to race. Bennett did an amazing job of showing how a horrifying anti-Black event, (view spoiler) affected Stella and drove her to pass as white and even perpetuate anti-Black racism as a white-passing woman. While Stella’s perpetuation of anti-Black racism is of course inexcusable, Bennett masterfully highlights the tole of racial trauma and internalized racism on the human psyche and the many ways Black people may hide or minimize their true selves to survive in white supremacy. Stella’s character reminded me a lot of Asian Americans in the United States try to align themselves with whiteness to get ahead, such as by prioritizing accumulating wealth over racial solidarity and justice, identifying primarily with white culture and lifestyle, and preferring the company and companionship, romantic or otherwise, of white people over Asian Americans and BIPOC in general. I recognize it is important not to conflate the light-skinned Black experience and the Asian American experience in the United States, and I want to make the overall point that Bennett really made me think about these issues through Stella’s character, which I’m grateful for. I’d recommend this novel to anyone interested in fiction about family, love, regrets and mistakes and how they shape our present and future, race and more. I went back and forth between rounding down to four stars or rounding up to five stars, and to be honest I’m still going back and forth but I want to post this review so it’s four for now. I’d be curious to hear more about what readers think of Stella, especially dark-skinned Black readers. While I found her character compelling I do wonder about being asked to sympathize or empathize with a light-skinned character, like if she’s held accountable for her colorism beyond her individual suffering or if that’s even necessary, even though she did witness a horrible anti-Black event in her childhood. I went ahead and bought Bennett’s debut The Mothers and I’m excited to read it soon!

“She hadn't realized how long it takes to become somebody else, or how lonely it can be living in a world not meant for you.” What I liked the most about this book is how realistic it sounded. Flawed characters. Ugly truths. Heartbreaking stories. But it's also beautifully told. You can't help but like the characters and share their pain and hope. This book is about two sisters and their daughters. The twins run away from a lame life at home to New Orleans. But soon, Stella, the silent twin, left her previous life and even her twin to become "white". While Desiree got a job and married but her husband was violent. So she left eventually to her hometown. It's also the story of Jude and Kennedy. I won't say much about those two but leave to discover more about them and how different life circumstances affected them. I get why The Vanishing Half popular. It's a solid story and I'll definitely keep an eye on Benett's future books. It dealt with race and racism in a compelling manner and it was integrated into the plot without the author's voice being too obvious about it. I also appreciated the ending since it was, again just like what I liked the most about this novel, real. I also enjoyed listening to the audio. I must say, the new-ish books' audios are really good compared to older ones. The narrators are feeling the story more and more. I felt though that Kennedy's voice tone was exaggerated sometimes. Nonetheless, I do recommend the audiobook here.

This novel is a whirlwind of stories - it’s got everything from Black characters, trans folks, drag queens, to detectives, runaway single moms, and rich girls who drop out to chase acting dreams. The first half feels like a Western starring Black leads, then shifts into something like Big Little Lies exposing the hypocrisy of high society, and finally lands in a coming-of-age drama full of dreams, family tension, and buried secrets. The timeline stretches across half a lifetime - following a woman from childhood to watching her own children grow up, from youthful rebellion to witnessing her mother’s death. It also mirrors the slow unraveling of racial segregation in American history. That’s youth, isn’t it? Believing you can be anyone. Then adulthood hits, choices solidify, and you realize everything you have now was seeded years ago - what’s left is just watching it bloom. The story centers on twin sisters born in a Black town where people are obsessed with “lightening” their kids, like cultivating flowers. Folks believe strange things - like drinking coffee or eating chocolate during pregnancy will darken the baby’s skin. Their father was murdered by white intruders when they were young. Despite being bright students, poverty forced them to drop out and work as cleaners for white families. To a child, “forever” is a heavy word. Life hasn’t even begun, and already it feels locked into something small and suffocating. For these smart girls, it was unbearable. They ran away, hoping never to return to that toxic town. 1 of them, Stella, actually managed to escape completely. By chance, she was mistaken for white. and leaned into it. That opened doors to jobs only white people could get, a wealthy husband, and a life in a posh neighborhood. Floating in her private pool, she often thought: this life feels unreal. The fancy things she wasn’t allowed to touch as a child - now she could have as many as she wanted. But the dream was fragile - built entirely on lies. She had to hide her Black identity, her childhood, her living relatives, even her twin sister. She kept secrets from her husband, her neighbors, everyone. including her daughter. To her, whiteness was like a multi-faced Hindu god: kind when she passed as white, but terrifying if the truth ever came out. She looked at her husband and saw the same potential for violence as the men who killed her father. He’d never hurt her - but he could. The other twin, Desiree, married a dark-skinned Black man, had a daughter, and suffered domestic abuse. She fled again - this time back to her hometown. Her daughter faced discrimination because of her skin tone, but her athletic talent helped her escape and go to college. Desiree stayed behind, like a classic mother figure. Her life seemed to stall there, but it wasn’t joyless. She was principled, respected, and loved by a good man. So who lived the happier life - Stella or Desiree? That’s the Hamlet question. But one thing’s clear: Desiree’s daughter, Jude, probably ended up happiest. She got into college thanks to her athletic skills, met a gorgeous trans boyfriend who truly loved her, and became a brilliant med student. The discrimination she faced slowly faded, and her strengths carried her toward a brighter future. Stella is actually talented and independence - she deserved a life like Jude’s. But to escape her town, she had no choice but to live a lifelong lie. I feel for her. But what made that lie necessary? The book says: “Important people become martyrs. Unimportant ones become victims.” These Black girls should’ve been victims of history - but literature made them narrators. Through them, we see the scars of segregation: Black-only schools, neighborhoods, jobs. Stella’s father lived through it. Stella herself had to pass as white just to survive. But as the story unfolds, you can almost smell the slow collapse of that system - and how it shaped these girls. They represent 2 paths: 1 rejects her Black identity and passes as white; the other embraces it and still finds success. 1 says, “If only I were white.” The other says, “If only Black people had the same chances.” The novel shows how painful the first path is - because you can’t truly become white. Pretending doesn’t fix anything. Maybe the second path is the only way forward. This isn’t a preachy political book - it’s just a novel with Black protagonists. But it made me think: even in Westerns and elite neighborhoods, there were Black people. A Black detective and his sharp girlfriend in lawless towns. Black families trying to move into white suburbs, only to be pushed out. These lives rarely show up in history or literature. What were they thinking? What were their lives like? This perspective adds so much richness to fiction. The storytelling is top-notch. There’s tension in the search for the twin, in Stella’s fear of being exposed. 2 threads, pulled together by the next generation’s search for truth. The characters feel real, the plot is complete, and the writing is full of sharp, witty lines. The ending is especially satisfying - like a perfect final sentence. The Vanishing Half returns home, but the cracks are too deep to mend. We fear the judgment Stella might face - but what hurts more than blame is being forgotten. Britt Bennett writes love beautifully. Each relationship reflects a different kind of love, all deeply relatable. Desiree, scarred by abuse, no longer seeks protection in marriage. Her detective boyfriend visits a few times a week - or a few times a month. Their love is scattered but intense. When he returns, it’s like meeting for the first time. When he leaves, he has to relearn how to sleep alone. That’s the kind of love a cool girl with a past deserves. Stella’s romance is clouded by lies, with a touch of white-romance-novel flair. Jude’s love story is more layered: she’s a Black woman facing discrimination, her boyfriend is a stunning white trans man who used to be a sex worker. Their power dynamics shift constantly, but their love is steady and strong. Though the book centers on Black characters, it’s not one-dimensional. The complexity you’d expect from white-led novels is all here. It doesn’t shy away from tough topics: colorism, abusive Black husbands, even Stella’s internalized racism. Skin color isn’t a simple issue - it’s woven into every part of society. And while racism isn’t the only theme, its impact is etched into every character. The twin setup is brilliant for showing contrasting fates for me. And the shift to their daughters’ stories in the second half adds even more depth. Maybe only through generational change can we see history move. The twins show us that passing as white might offer a better life. Their daughters show us that being Black doesn’t mean you can’t have one. “You don’t go looking for politics - politics finds you.” Under the wheels of history, people are tiny. Some choices are forced, some fates inevitable. But if those wheels keep turning, space opens up. Smart, hardworking people go from having no choices to shaping their own futures. In this book, those who fight for change find hope - and light. 4.2 / 5 stars

Twin girls run away at the age of 16. Coloured girls but so light they could pass for white. One takes the path back to her home town, while the other denies the blackness in her and lives a white life. Many themes are threaded throughout this generational story. Race, identity, discrimination. The disappearance of self to fit into society where acceptance is shallow. 4⭐️

4.5 Stars Is living in America really this . . . complicated and confusing? Why do people care so much about the color of someone’s skin? Life is funny sometimes. Also, does me questioning this and being genuinely confounded make me ignorant and insensitive? If so, I’ll shut up now. Anyway, this book is beyond words! Partly because it’s the truth, but mostly because I feel like The Vanishing Half deserves fancy words and long thought provoking discussions that my small brain and limited vocabulary just can’t quite encapsulate. I don’t read literary fiction often, and this is the first time that I truly enjoyed LOVED the experience. It was fascinating and sad seeing how different the lives of the twins, their daughters, and their significant others were. Not only because of the choices they made, but in a way their race played a part too. I will say that the first 1/3 was a bit slow. The writing or I guess just the way the author went about inserting flashbacks and altering the POVs sometimes confused me. I also think the ending could’ve been more powerful—not that it needed to be. It’s just not quite an ending but more like . . . a stop? In any case, I think those grievances are commonly found when you’re dealing with this type of fiction. It goes without saying that this book is recommendable. It’s equally educational and entertaining. Just don’t let the hype get to your head cause it’s always safe to keep your expectations in check. (Read as an Audiobook)

An interesting read that explores the theme of dual identity - whether that be through race, gender, etc. This book was not what I expected… I was thinking this would be an emotional interweaving story following these twins & their families. But was very surprised to see how separate everyone’s journeys were. We also did not follow a traditional beginning/middle/end, but ended up being more of a slice of life, open-ended story. I oddly did not feel too emotionally impacted by the story, which surprised me. But I do think the themes are important, and loved the exploration into that!

I really enjoyed this! it´s well written, has some good characters, love, lies betrayal. That kind of just classic book which is good to enjoy. In spanish I would say, está dominguera. I´m a twin so that part really got to me too.

Passing: The act of passing is rooted in the complex history of race and racism. It is historically where blacks with light complexions might choose to pass as white to escape the reality of racism and oppression in the US. ** Desiree and Stella are identical twins who grew in Mallard, Louisiana, a small black community that cannot be found on any map. Mallard is distinct from other black communities in that its residents have much lighter skin that most others. At sixteen years old, after experiencing a harrowing ordeal, Desiree and Stella run away to New Orleans to start over. Years later, Desiree returns to Mallord with her daughter Jude, whose skin is as black as night, which is a sharp contrast to her mother’s and everyone else in town. Stella, however, is another story. Shortly after running away to New Orleans, Stella took off and now, she lives her life passing as a white woman, married to a wealthy man. She too, has a daughter whose name is Kennedy. Desiree hasn’t heard from her sister since she left, yet everyday she awaits her return. Everyday Stella lives in fear of being discovered by the people she loves the most. “The Vanishing Half” is a thought-provoking novel about exploration, the situations people find ourselves in and the choices they make. So many topics are explored: racism, racial identity, sexual identity, domestic violence, motherhood, relationships, friendship, love and most of all, acceptance. “The Vanishing Half” by Britt Bennett is extremely well written and is literary fiction at its finest. I have yet to read “The Mothers” however it has now been added to my mount tbr. Thank you to Edelweiss, Riverhead Books and Britt Bennett for the arc. Published on Goodreads on 7.28.20.

This book captivated my mind. I was fascinated with every paragraph in this book. A somber story of two twin girls who were the Yin and yang to each other. The sisters are close until one day their lives take opposite directions.They become estranged until one day their children accidentally find each other. This book covers many challenging subjects and is sure to keep the readers attention. Your heart will break and then be filled with love for the characters. Add this book to your TBR if you enjoy historical fiction/coming of age tales.

I spent a few weeks with this book in my car and had a lot of time to marinate on it. As a reader, I am SO torn on what to say in the review. Suffice to say that Brit Bennett did her best to stay true to reality. There are a LOT of topics covered in this book. It took a while to stop feeling like it was TOO much. In the beginning, so much of the telling was done by Desiree that I began to wonder if she was the only character that would do the telling. However, her daughter Jude took the torch from her. My biggest complaint is that the story was skewed from Desiree and Jude's perspective, while less narration is given to Stella and Kennedy. To play devil's advocate, I wonder if it was because Stella chose to go to the "white side. There is much to discuss and contemplate, which is the book's central focal point. Both Stella and Kennedy were portrayed as characters that were not easy to connect to or like beyond surface appreciation, while Desiree and Jude were given more depth. I liked Jude the most as a character, but so much of her character was defined by Reese in the beginning that it was hard to separate the two. The issue of Mallard's entire town could spark many light-skin vs. dark-skin arguments that were all the rage a few years ago. Adding Reese as a trans character seemed to almost detract from the book's main point for a good portion. I thought Reese and Early were the most stable-minded characters in the entire book. I enjoyed the journey, and Brit definitely put her heart into the telling, but there were still a few disconnect areas that felt forced for marketing for me as a reader. It's still worth a read and deserved the 4 stars I gave it.

“𝐈𝐧 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐝𝐚𝐫𝐤, 𝐲𝐨𝐮 𝐜𝐨𝐮𝐥𝐝 𝐧𝐞𝐯𝐞𝐫 𝐛𝐞 𝐭𝐨𝐨 𝐛𝐥𝐚𝐜𝐤. 𝐈𝐧 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐝𝐚𝐫𝐤, 𝐞𝐯𝐞𝐫𝐲𝐨𝐧𝐞 𝐰𝐚𝐬 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐬𝐚𝐦𝐞 𝐜𝐨𝐥𝐨𝐫.” 𝐁𝐥𝐮𝐫𝐛 The Vanishing Half follows the Vignes sisters as they choose the kind of life they want to live. Growing up together in a close-knit black community, both decided to go on a different path that was set for them. Now, as time passes, their lives are intertwined when their daughter’s storylines intersect.. 𝐌𝐲 𝐓𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐬 This book is slow-paced, very slow.. but equally captivating and thought-provoking. It switches the narration very often, jumping to different timelines to different character's POVs.. which sounds chaotic but in reality, it was wonderful! The way, the plot gave us insights into the same situation from different angles, really kept me hooked. I was so intrigued to read the historical, cultural and social themes portrayed in the book. I like the way the sensitive topics of race and racism, sex and gender, identity and belonging were portrayed. The writing flowed beautifully.. From Desiree to Stella to Jude to Kennedy, I felt connected to each of the characters.. even Early and Reese.. every character was written with clarity giving their personalities a unique role and incredible depth.. this depth is the best part of the book, for me! The way they chose their path, struggling with their inner demons as well the societal pressures, was so realistic and relatable yet so far away from one’s comprehension.. and I love how the individual stories were woven together. Plus, I like how the twins’ lives and their daughters’ lives are totally criss-crossed.. giving the plot another interesting aspect of how life works sometimes. And the ending just gives this satisfactory closure to the book and leaves you with so much to ponder upon. 𝐂𝐨𝐧𝐜𝐥𝐮𝐬𝐢𝐨𝐧 Overall, a poignantly beautiful book handling the issues of social status and personal dilemmas, exploring each aspect intricately. This book will leave you mesmerized with the exquisite writing and captivating plot, making you reflect on societal norms and one's privileges.. Follow For More: Blog • Bookstagram • Goodreads

I feel so out of the loop because I hadn't even realized this was a popular or highly recommended read. Maybe that's for the best though because it might have influenced how I felt about the book. I really enjoyed it for sure, I found the storyline to be engrossing and I read it in one sitting. I do think that (view spoiler)

It's no secret how much I adore this series! The world is a fantastical dream come true for any fantasy lover. From the very first book, we are treated to a well-crafted story that takes us on a magical journey filled with discovery, fear, and powerful love. In this latest installment, things slow down a bit as Diana embarks on a new journey to explore her dark magic. There's a lot of backstory that comes to light, which can take some getting used to. But let me tell you, the scenes with the twins are absolutely delightful! Their innocence shines through, and it's clear their characters are being set up for important roles in the future. I did miss Matthew a bit; he felt more like a background character this time around. We did get a steamy scene but I needed him to be more prominent. While I understand that the focus was meant to be on Diana, I wish we could have seen more of the beloved characters we've come to know. The hype around the twins' magical testing was big throughout the book, but when it finally happened, it felt a bit short and flat. Despite that, it's clear this book is setting the stage for something huge, and I can't wait to be part of it! In summary, while this book had its slow moments, it's a must-read for fans of the series. The world-building continues to be enchanting, and the setup for what's to come has me eagerly anticipating the next installment!

So magical. When I heard there was going to be another book in the series, I squealed. It was everything I wanted it to be and was so magic and witch heavy. There was a lot less Matthew and this story focused more on Diana which I’m definitely not mad about it but more romance fans will probably be unhappy about. The most exciting part? The ending and knowing that it ensures more books and this wasn’t just a one off. EEP.

I had a really really good time in this book. But I would note that this feels like a slow start to something much bigger and if family focused slice of life shit isn’t your bag you might not have a good time here.

This is an entertaining book. Harkness keeps many of the characters from the original trilogy, but also adds a number of new ones, including new villains. The Proctor family ghosts are far and away the best additions; Granny Dorcas is a stitch.

Much better than the last book, and a better continuation of the story! I love the themes of matriarchy in these books, and this one was really about the girls.

Another explosive story from James Patterson - can you believe this is book 12 from Michael Bennett! I love this character and his family and hope for many many more books!

I've been in love with the Bennett family since "Step on a Crack" way back in 2007...Love the values and the soft Catholicism that infuses each story...In this one, Michael Bennett and the NYPD confront cyber criminals operating out of Estonia as Bennett endures the political static resulting from his justified shooting of a young Black man...To avoid the furor, Bennett is tasked to find the missing daughter of the Mayor...I much prefer the use of NYC as a setting, but I still love the series

Well as things are hotting up to the big Bennett wedding, Michael is sidelined off a case after a fatal shooting and finds himself in the middle of a political and cyber scandal that takes him abroad and well out of both his comfort zone and his jurisdiction. This is fast paced and really highlights many of the issues of cyber crime and the extent to which criminals will go to abuse cyber technology. The techy aspects were balanced by nuanced human interactions and responses which are, in my opinion, the lifeblood of the Bennett novels. Patterson is ace at showing that a detective can be both dedicated to his job and a family man who will do anything to protect his family. Loved the change of scenery away from America and the fast pace of the novel. Never a dull moment!

succinct, mystery and enough thriller to get me by. James is a good author, and as this is my first proper entry in this books, i’m in for a treat! excited to read more of this literature!

Ended before I was ready Do unlike the books in the series so far, this did not go on longer than it should have. In my opinion, if left a lot if loose ends. Really arrested carted if to jail, no jail break? The tech savvy kid doesn't get caught up in computer crime scheme? The locked up child ...really? Okay so maybe in the next book, it pucks up where it should not have left so many questions....now its a series that I hope you need one in order to start the next. But...my library does not have it... Okay finding a way to get the Russian

This was a fast, fun, entertaining read. I've never read anything by this author. I've read things by James Patterson yes, but he doesn't write them, even though his name is on the book. The other guy does all the work and he takes all the credit, and probably most of the money as well. But it was well written. Someday the real author will step out on his own. I think you might enjoy this book.

Decent book. I like following Michael story and he is a bad ass cop. Even the FBI said so lol.

Haven’t read Patterson in a couple years. I though it was one of his better books 📖

Quick read. Very suspenseful. Nice surprise at the end.

The saying goes, “Loyalty above all else except honor.” NYPD Detective Michael Bennett may take it a step further by saying, “Honor above all else except family.” Authors James Patterson and James O. Born show the lengths one man will go for the sake of family in the 12th Michael Bennett thriller, “Blindside”. Detective Michael Bennett must make a split-second choice between life and death. His decision lands him on suspension from the NYPD pending an investigation into his choice and the resulting death. Momentarily untethered from his duties, Bennett finds himself weighing his options when the mayor of New York gives him an opportunity he can’t pass up. The mayor’s estranged daughter is missing, and he convinces Bennett to launch a private investigation into her disappearance. As the father of 10 adopted children, Bennett sympathizes with the mayor’s plight and agrees to find and return his daughter to safety. Bennett’s investigation leads him to a string of bodies and an international team of computer hackers that will stop at nothing to eliminate all threats to their cyber-empire. Bennett immediately finds himself in over his head as he must defend himself against hit men, the FBI, and a sadistic cyber genius all dedicated to stopping his pursuit in “Blindside.” The characterization of the protagonist, Detective Michael Bennett, was my favorite element of “Blindside”. Authors Patterson and Born do a fantastic job a rendering a multi-dimensional character that resonates perfectly with the reader. As a first-time reader of the Michael Bennett series, I quickly gained a terrific sense of the type of man embodied by the lead character. As a widower with a new fiancé and 10 adopted children, Bennett is a character deeply grounded by his family life. He’s a dedicated NYPD detective as demonstrated by his investigation techniques, but his large family anchors him and creates a character that is much more than a typical hard-boiled police detective. It demonstrates a level of vulnerability typically not seen with this type of character and creates an endearing and likeable figure that the reader can easily empathize with. Secondary characters are not as fully developed and are largely two-dimensional “good guy” and “bad guy” figures, however, the fast-paced plot doesn’t ask for much more than different challenges for the lead to overcome in several thrilling action scenes. The point-of-view choice for the novel was also interesting. The scenes involving Michael Bennett were written from the 1st person through his own eyes. However, the scenes not involving Bennett were written from the 3rd person through the eyes of whichever character was leading the scene. Switching back and forth between 1st and 3rd person allowed for a terrific sense of intimacy with the lead while maintaining a greater distance from the remaining cast of characters. The switching was not jarring in the least as it was always obvious when we were inside the mind of Bennett as opposed to when we were on the outside witnessing the action from a more removed vantage point. The dialogue was crisp and natural sounding regardless of whether it was among family members or within elaborate action sequences. The characters’ speech patterns were distinct and authentic sounding across a variety of different scenarios. Descriptions were extremely vivid and readily conjured imagery vital to the various settings, especially a particularly well-crafted action sequence within a New York coffeehouse and scenes taking place around the city of Tallinn, Estonia. The descriptions were rich and detailed and were just enough to create the desired imagery without bogging down the narrative. There was an excellent balance between descriptions and action. While I enjoyed a great deal about this novel, I had a problem with the initial pacing. The story opens with a tension filled exchange between the protagonist and a random mugger, but fails to capitalize on the tension by allowing it to dissipate immediately after. Following the scene, the actions slows down to a crawl as the missing daughter storyline is setup for the next 80 pages. Most of the 1st act meanders along through a number of different storylines until the main action of the investigation begins. Once the story gets properly underway it ramps up to a relentless pace, but it takes a bit of a commitment to the setup by the reader to reach that point. “Blindside” is a terrific, if unconventional, thriller that strips the lead of his status as a New York City detective and places him in a foreign country with few resources. By removing the protagonist from the support of the NYPD, it forces him to rely on his wits and his nerve to accomplish his goals. Characterization is first rate, the narrative is crisp and flowing, and fans of James Patterson and the detective-thriller genre will have a great time with “Blindside”.

Michael Bennett is like a modern day super hero. He faces quite a few obstacles that he always gets out of! He has to, he has 10 kids........ I did enjoy this book, fast read, suspenseful to a point, but I enjoyed. I would have liked a little more of the personal life though. Anyway, we'll see what happens to Bennett next......................I'll be there.

NYPD Detective Michael Bennett is one of James Patterson’s more unlikely yet most realistic creations. He is a widower with 10 (adopted) children, who he is raising with the assistance of Mary Catherine, an Irish nanny (with whom he has fallen in love and become engaged over the course of the series), and his grandfather, who is a Catholic priest. The newly published BLINDSIDE is the 12th book in the series and the third that Patterson has written with bestselling author and Emmy Award-winning screenwriter James O. Born. It is a wild ride from start to finish. BLINDSIDE is full of surprises. It begins with an intense vignette in which Bennett is called to the scene of a particularly violent double homicide in the Bronx. He takes it upon himself to notify the victims’ survivors, who live just a couple of blocks away. On the way back to the crime scene, he stops at a bodega to buy a Gatorade and suddenly finds himself on the wrong end of an armed robbery. When the smoke clears, Bennett is standing and the would-be robber is rapidly assuming room temperature. The usual suspects, including the media, community activists and an Al Sharpton doppelgänger, immediately accuse Bennett of murdering the robber in cold blood. As per policy in an officer-involved shooting, he is relieved of his duties. It is immediately clear from security footage that the shooting was justified, but the timing is bad. In order to keep the rabble from accusing the NYPD of a rush to judgment in exonerating Bennett, he officially stays off the job while being given an off-the-books assignment by Alfred Hanna, the mayor of New York. Natalie Lunden, the mayor’s estranged daughter, has gone missing. A computer code prodigy, Natalie was once a promising student at MIT, but went off the rails to the extent that she has not even been in touch with her mother. Hanna is convinced that Bennett can find Natalie and dangles an intriguing quid pro quo in front of him that is impossible to refuse. Bennett begins by questioning Natalie’s friends and associates. He learns that while no one seems to know where Natalie is, she apparently had been working as a cyber hacker for a brilliant but unstable criminal known as “Henry,” who has been extorting millions of dollars from online companies. This information puts Bennett on a trajectory that intersects with two teams of Henry’s assassins, who have come to New York at cross-purposes and involve Bennett in the first of several violent confrontations that occur throughout the book. Bennett concludes that Natalie is no longer in New York, and is instead in Henry’s native Estonia. He is highly motivated to find her and travels there on his own, winging it without official backup --- though he is not without allies, grudging and otherwise. However, it isn’t long before the surprising twists and turns begin, making it doubtful that he will bring Natalie home to her parents. Will even he be able to make it back alive? BLINDSIDE has a fairly straightforward plot, which is good news for those among us of a certain age. The story does not lack for multiple scenes involving explosions and fisticuffs, which are particularly vivid thanks to Born’s well-honed screenwriting chops. The focus of the novel, cybertheft --- a contemporary crime that is not going away any time soon (if at all) --- provides an immediacy to the story. A secondary plot that has been running through these books for a few years is also resolved, making this latest installment a good place for newcomers to jump onto the series and giving loyal readers a terrific reason to stay with it. Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub

4 and a 1/2 stars ⭐️

Another James Patterson thriller this time featuring NYPD Detective Michael Bennett. This one reminded me of an action movie complete with a cyber criminal, foreign thugs, assassins, and action in a European country. Although heavy on the action sequences, this book didn’t have as much emphasis on interpersonal relationships and emotional appeal.

This Michael Bennett book started off slowly, but at about 40% of the way in it really picked up and I didn't want to put it down. You can always count on Michael Bennett.

I have a soft spot for Michael Bennett and his whole crazy big family.

An enjoyable "read" while stuck at home during the virus shutdown.

A bit of a yawn I’ve always loved the Michael Bennett books but this one was a tad boring. I’m used to action-packed, out-of-plausibility, surprise ending adventure and this wasn’t one of those. It was enjoyable but too mundane for our favorite NYPD detective.

A quick review because I don't have a lot of time, plus I'm not too crazy for books about hitmen or crime syndicates. I only read this because it's King. I haven't missed any of his books before and I don't plan to start now 🤩 As always, I enjoyed marveling at his wonderful storytelling and the way he intertwines past books. There's a great reference to The Shining here!

Billy Summers, a Iraq veteran turned professional assassin, a double crossing mobster and a whole lot in between. This story just flows so well, the characters are loveable and it's just a really good book in my opinion. It will be interesting seeing an adaptation put forward for this. What I really liked also is there's a lot of references/connections to his other books like Alice Maxwell, The Overlook Hotel and Hemingford Home; I really like it when he does this. Definitely worth a read for fans of crime/thrillers.

Iraq War sniper veteran Billy Summers is an assassin for hire on this likely (because of the fee) last job. He has to spend months in a community so to create cover for the day of job, including 'pretending' to be writer which results in him writing a biography of sorts, including covering his Iraq War experience. A slow burn book that makes the reader also take the journey with Billy as he creates a cover character for himself, as well as developing his exit plan. But this book, as ever for a King jam is about a lot more - it's the story of a good man doing a bad job, who doesn't realise it yet, but is looking for some kind of redemption. When I review King books, I try and forget that it is Stephen King and just ask myself what did I think of this work. In this case the second half of this book is another interesting and generally life-fulfilling drama that will touch your heart and soul in many places, but the first half is such a drag; it's difficult to judge it so harshly as it is meant for the reader to get a idea of who Billy is, and also all the preparatory work needed for an assassination. Saying all that the second half of this book might not worked so well without the first half. There's also huge plus points for King yet again having (view spoiler). Overall, a book that I will learn more about how much I like on rereading but for now it's an 8 out of 12, Four Stars for me. 2023 read

I wanted to share this exerpt to best illustrate what reading this book felt like: "At two minutes past twelve the door opens and two men come into the lobby. Fuck Trump, Billy thinks but doesn’t say. One is tall with black hair combed in a 50s pompadour. He must be a shitty Trump supporter. The other is short and bespectacled. He's definitely a dirty Republican. Both are wearing suits, but you can tell they usually fashion a MAGA hat by the crease of their hair." Are you confused? Yeah, so was I. They're sprinkled all throughout like some sort of tourette outbursts. I know Uncle Stevie is getting up in age, but what was his editor thinking by not removing these? Toward the end of the book he refers to an aggressive driver as "a Yankees fan." We get it, you love the Sox and Hillary Clinton and hate people who don't agree with you. This story was amazing from start to finish. It was one of the best I've read from him in a very long time. Easily a 5 star book. But man were his hateful sentiments detrimental in jarring me from the world of Billy Summers time and time again. For that reason I have to knock down the rating. This is more ridiculous than Crichton lecturing about global warming in State of Fear, except that State of Fear was actually about global warming, so it gave Crichton some leeway to preach. This book is about a hitman. Everyone involved are career criminals. There were zero politicians.

I was looking forward to reading this. I started this book and before I got far, went and did a 9 book series which is why it took me so long. I read most of it in 3 days. I have to say, this subject matter is not something I would pick up and I don't really enjoy movies about hitmen and their last job. I would not have picked this up if it didn't have Stephen King's name attached. He made it worth reading. His characters were so alive and amazing. I like Billy. He seems like a good enough guy, with huge baggage. The world is rich and alive like most of King's novels. The one thing that annoys me is that there was no supernatural element. I prefer to have a supernatural element in his stories and in this one, not so much. And yet, I was still into this story. I read 250 pages one day and could not put this down. It's almost like there are 2 parts to this story. It does take an unexpected turn at one point and I found myself even more engaged. Everything feels researched, feels plausable, feels like real life. There are plenty of surprises. I loved the relationships built in this story, especially between Billy and the neighborhood kids. Stephen is still so readable. The story feels like it pulls you along and it's effortless. This won't be in my top 10 books of his because there is no supernatural, but it's worthy of the King name. It will sit nicely with the many other good novels King wrote. Stephen is getting older and I do hope we get many more stories from him. We know there will be at least one more next February, but it's also a sequel with a co-author, so it's not entirely his. I hope there is another full novel next year as well. I feel like this year was an excellent year to be a King fan. 'Later' and now 'Billy Summers'. Both were great books.

The better the book is, the longer it takes me to write a review. Partly because I want to write a review that matches my feelings for the book and maybe a little because of procrastination. So— on to my thoughts on Billy Summers. If you’re expecting a return to form (horror/thriller) for Mr King… this book isn’t for you. I’ll describe this as an organized crime caper, complete with a hefty dose of double crossing. Summers takes one last job as he contemplates getting out of the “professional hit man” racket. But Summers, our unlikely hero (I’m thinking anti-hero) is so much more than his job. As we begin to learn about Billy’s childhood and his time in Iraq/Afghanistan as a sniper for the US military, we begin to see a more layered, richer character. The Billy we meet was heavily influenced by the time he spent with his unit— in unfriendly streets playing cat and mouse with insurgents and finding camaraderie during hopeless and dishonorable missions. King did a great job bringing that endless war to life. Sure, there was some political undercurrents in King’s prose— but I challenge anyone who reads this book to not be moved. Billy’s back story, the current gig and the people he runs into, helps or gets in the way of his missions are terrifically plotted by King. The characters surrounding Billy uplift the plot line— I know that sounds sentimental and there’s not much sentiment here. Maybe the better word here is honorable. I genuinely loved the book. And I whole heartedly recommend it to anyone— not just King fans. For me, it once again proves that Stephen King can tackle any genre easily!! Why not the fifth star? Because ultimately, I realized as Billy realized, there are some things that can never be undone. Billy Summers can never be a hero. King served his readers a slightly romanticized, too good to be true character— in doing so he took an easier way out. But I freely admit, I can’t wait to see what genre he picks next. He rarely lets me down (Gerald’s Game aside) and nearly always delivers 4-5 star reads!! (Reviewed 1/15/22)

Billy could be your friendly neighbour as well as the one who’d put a bullet directly inside someone’s head, he used to be a sniper in Iraq and now a hired assassin. Billy has one rule, he only kills people if they’re bad. Once again, he gets hired for a job, one that’ll take time and commitment, as he decide to accept and kill his target, a lot of things are going to go side ways. With Stephen King, I am never sure what i’m going to feel after reading one of his novels, some works and others just doesn’t. This one, I liked very much, I thought it was beautifully written, uncomplicated with great characters development. The part I liked the most was about halfway thru the story when Billy finds himself intertwined with an unexpected new companion that’ll change both their life. To me, the ending was very satisfying. Be aware of some triggers that might not suits everyone. (Rape, violence and more.. dont want to spoil anything even though it is SK.)

Killer for hire? Check. Mafia/Mob Ties? Check. Something Horrific done to a female character? Check. Former Marine? Check. PTSD. Check. Anxiety Coping Mechanisms? Check. A Story within a Story? Check. Revenge? Check. And so much more. Stephen King is back at it with another consistently good novel. There were moments of drag, but overall it was easy to become immersed in the story. There was a bit too much of a political anti-Trump thing going on that it would have been fine to have an opinion here and there, but I wish more of that could have been content. It was useless fluff for the story. And while I REALLY liked it a lot, I wasn't able to get emotionally involved in this one as I have with some in the past. I Loved the story within a story of Billy writing a story by being an author as a cover. This was one of the biggest strengths of the book. I loved the contemplations about being an author and trying to write and the tidbits of insight that meshed with things King has said before about himself as an author and his writing methods. I also loved the view of the black, white, and grey people in life. Many people don't want to hurt you but also won't help you. This is much of society for sure. I ABSOLUTELY LOVE King Easter Eggs of his book, his son Joe Hill's novels, and characters, or other artistic works that have touched him. And Hell yes to this Overlook Hotel nod! It was beautifully done. Of course, I always want more Overlook, so maybe we can get more of that in the future? Some great quotes: “...writing is also a kind of war, one you fight with yourself. The story is what you carry, and every time you add to it, it gets heavier.” “Of course it’s Edison, because every character in a story must be used at least twice: Dickens’s rule. And Zola’s.” “When I was writing, I forgot to be sad. I forgot to worry about the future. I forgot where I was. I didn’t know that could happen." Overall 4-4.5 Stars for me. Trigger Warnings: Gang Rape of a Girl using a Date Rape Drug. A really uncomfortable passage about a girl pretending to be underage to lure in a pedophile. Other revenge scenes that are in true King graphic nature, if that sort of thing bothers you.

Stephen King's latest book is an interesting crime novel about the eponymous Billy Summers, an Iraq veteran Marine turned professional assassin, whose last job becomes incredibly complicated. First off, he isn't sure he can trust his mob boss or his flunkie collaborators. And then there's Alice...It is not a literary masterpiece, but it is peppered with excellent descriptions of the Iraq war apparently inspired by a true veteran's account of Fallujah. I liked the principal characters of Billy, Bucky, and Alice and found the story relatively cohesive even it if was a bit of a slow boil. My list of potential Pulitzer winners here - come and vote today!

Quite unlike anything Mr. King's previously written, yet still one hundred percent his singular voice and incomparable vision. Bravo, good sir. Bravo.... 4 Super Strong Stars

Finally. It had been at least twenty years that I hadn't read a King book and that in the end I could say "beautiful!". I believe that in the past twenty years King has written books only to make money and not to have fun and entertain his readers, as he did at the beginning of his career, when he wrote Christine, Cujo, Misery, It or the Green Mile. But this Billy Summers really hit me pleasantly, because I found the writer I loved so much in the 80s and hated so much in the 2000s. The story of Billy Summers is a beautiful concentration of atmospheres, both those of the story that Billy is living and those of when Billy was in Iraq in the Marines. Billy is an exceptional sniper and after returning from Iraq he became a paid killer; being so good at hitting targets at very long distances, he is highly “popular” and very well paid. Even though he is a killer, Billy has his own code of honor and therefore only accepts the assignments if the person to be killed is "really bad". In addition to Billy, the protagonists of this book are Alice and Bucky, friends of him, as well as a series of shady characters like Nick, Georgie and others, who are, however, only the supporting actors who serve the story to be credible. Billy is a killer who must juggle false identities, memories of his life as a child and when he was in the Marines and murderous actions. As the pages go by, we discover that Billy is a villain who is not that bad and becomes a character you love (at times he reminded me Jack Reacher). The main storyline tells of Billy's recent accepted job, where he has to kill a killer the moment he gets out of the police van to be taken to court. It sounds easy, but some things will go wrong and Billy will have to do a lot of things to arrange everything. The book is also a wonderful opportunity for King to explain once again what it means writing for a writer; and this time I must say that he seems more credible than the other times in offering us his "teachings", since to do so, this time he uses Billy's ploy who writes his memoirs when he was in Iraq. Billy is a lover of reading and often uses literary quotations in the book that are always well centered with the character, that is a man who has studied little, but has read a lot and knows how to remember all the authors who allowed him to "feel the feelings" . The book is quite long but you can really read it in a few long sessions, because the tension never drops and the desire to see how things unfold is very much. Four stars well deserved.

While King’s newest doesn’t land amongst my favourites by him, it is still an excellent read. It took me a while to really, TRULY get into it, I’d say until Alice came into the picture actually. Not that I was hating it before her appearance, she just brought that extra spark that really caught my attention and my heart. The story was still good before her just not GREAT. Alice was just the catalyst that made me go from kind of liking Billy to falling in love with him. She brought out the best in him, well the best that can be brought out in an assassin for hire. Because no matter how nicely you try to paint it, he’s still a killer and even knowing his background and his story I still don’t understand what brought him to do what he does. I think that’s why I was struggling until Alice came into the picture, she let me see the human side of Billy and redeemed him in my eyes in the end. I thought the ending was quite perfect, not what I had envisioned for the story but it just fit. Everyone got what they deserved in the end, poetic justice if you will.

3.5 stars "Life asked death, 'Why do people love me but hate you? ‘Death responded 'Because you are a beautiful lie and I am a painful truth." -Unknown Prepare for a Crash Landing. Everything changes for Dawn Edelstein when she is on a plane preparing to crash. As the plane goes down her thoughts are on Wyatt Armstrong, a man she loved and last saw 15 years ago, she does not think of her husband Brian or the life they had in Boston with their daughter, Merit. Dawn is an interesting woman. She gave up her dream of being an Egyptologist, when she received word that her mother was dying, and she needed to leave Egypt and return home. There she had to prepare for her Mother's death and raise her much younger brother. She had to leave Egypt and Wyatt behind. She meets Brian soon thereafter and the rest as they say, is history. Now a death Douala with a teenage daughter, her universe is about to change. "My heart is no longer in my body." It is obvious from reading this book that a tremendous amount of research went into the writing of this book. There is A LOT of Egyptian history, which I enjoyed at times and other times muddled through it, but all the while I reminded myself that this was her two characters passion. It is what they did. This is what they talked about, it was for one, his life's work. There is also talk of Quantum physics - parallel universes, etc. Then I was introduced to the career of the Death Douala which blew me away and I found to be very compelling and interesting. Overall, this was an interesting and entirely different book. Very original with some beautiful passages. Dawn's story is told through the past and present. We are introduced to those in her life and her relationships with them. This book touches on many themes such as: life, death, choices, the what-ifs, the afterlife, loss and happiness. This was a hard one to rate because; although interesting, sometimes getting through all the Egyptian history felt like work. She did her research and it showed. When you walk two paths in life, which one do you ultimately choose? Which will Dawn? "Look, if you had One shot... Or one opportunity... To seize everything, you ever wanted ...In one moment... Would you capture it... Or just let it slip?" -Eminem The Book of Two Ways is both a rewarding and frustrating book. In the end, I am glad I read it and enjoyed it. It did take some work, but I found it to be well worth it. I learned a lot and appreciated the messages about life and death. Some of her passages were quite beautiful. I think this would make an interesting book club book as there is a lot to discuss. Thank you to Random House Ballantine and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own.

When she was in her mid-twenties, Dawn McDowell was a Ph.D. candidate in the Yale Egyptology program.... .....headed by Professor Dumphries, who led the department's dig at Deir el-Bersha. Dawn and fellow graduate student, Wyatt Armstrong - a handsome, golden-haired Brit.... .....rubbed each other the wrong way from day one, each vying to be the best and the brightest, and competing to be Dumphries' favorite. Dawn and Wyatt sniped at each other constantly until the day they discovered a depinto - an inscription in hieroglyphics - beneath a rock ledge. The depinto revealed the existence of a previously unknown tomb, and in their excitement - when Wyatt wrapped his arms around Dawn and spun her around - the two became friends....and then fell madly in love. Dawn and Wyatt's area of study was 'The Book of Two Ways', an inscription in Egyptian tombs that depicts two paths to the afterlife, an upper water path and a lower land path. The deceased travels down one of the pathways, meeting guardians and watchers who prevent unworthy sinners from passing. Illustration of The Book of Two Ways The Book of Two Ways inscribed on the bottom of a coffin Dawn and Wyatt, who seemed to be made for each other, made an excellent romantic AND research team. They pictured themselves together, leading digs; unearthing tombs; interpreting hieroglyphics; publishing articles; etc. Then the unthinkable happened. Dawn learned her mother was in a hospice, dying of ovarian cancer. Dawn rushed home to Boston to care for her mother, who died a few weeks later. This made Dawn guardian of her 13-year-old brother Kieran, a responsibility Dawn took very seriously. Thus, Dawn withdrew from the Egyptology program; met physicist Brian Edelstein; got pregnant; got married; became a death doula (a person who helps the dying at the end of their lives); and didn't say a word about any of it to Wyatt. ***** We first meet Dawn fifteen years later, when her life is much different than what she pictured in Egypt. Dawn is married to physicist Brian Edelstein, a caring solicitous spouse who teaches at Harvard; Dawn and Brian are raising their 14-year-old daughter Meret, a science whiz who attends summer STEM camp; and Dawn is helping her client Win, a dying artist, peacefully approach her last moments. Dawn's life takes a dramatic turn when Brian gets too cozy with an attractive graduate student and Win tells Dawn about her lost first love, whom she never forgot. Dawn feels compelled to go back to Egypt, find Wyatt, and continue studying the Book of Two Ways. As Dawn navigates her life she's torn between Wyatt and her Egyptology studies on the one hand (the land path), and Brian and Meret on the other hand (the water path). That's the basic theme of the book. The story moves back and forth in time, alternating between events fifteen years ago and events in the present. Some of the time jumps are purposely tricky. leading to twists I didn't see coming. A Jodi Picoult novel is never simple, and the book includes a good bit of chitchat about ancient Egypt, physics, the responsibilities of a death doula, and Irish superstitions. The ancient Egypt sections include discussions of Egyptian gods; beliefs; tombs; inscriptions; hieroglyphics; pharaohs; kings; queens; brothers; sisters; incest (which was common); marriages; burial rites; the afterlife; etc. It's like a mini-textbook about ancient Egypt. Display of an ancient Egyptian tomb The physics sections are about quantum mechanics and multiverses - the idea that there are infinite universes with parallel timelines. Thus I might be a physics professor giving a lecture in one timeline; a cab driver in a car crash in a second timeline; a ballerina rehearsing with the Bolshoi in a third timeline, married to my first boyfriend in a fourth timeline....you get the idea. The duties of a death doula are exemplified by Dawn's recollections of former clients and her day-to-day care of Win. Death doula responsibilities can include helping the client declutter the house; make a will; plan a funeral; visit favorite places; write letters; comfort relatives; and so on. Whatever the client wants that's not medical-related. The Irish superstitions are among the more light-hearted parts of the book. Dawn's mother was a VERY superstitious Irishwoman with a strong belief in the supernatural. She put safety pins in Dawn's clothing to ward off the evil eye; taught Dawn never to whistle indoors; instructed Dawn to look in a mirror if she left the house and had to come back in; made Dawn pay a penny after she gave her a Swiss Army Knife for Christmas; told Dawn she'd never get married if she sat in the corner at the table; and so on. These rituals are meant to insure good luck and prevent harm, and Dawn brings them up - usually in fun - as the occasion arises. I found the 'extra bits' of the novel interesting, but some reviewers think the Egyptology and physics chatter is excessive and boring. I enjoyed the book and was engrossed in Dawn's dilemma.....whether to choose Wyatt or Brian. You might be tempted to get judgy, but read the book first. 😊 Thanks to Netgalley, the author (Jodi Picoult), and the publisher (Ballantine Books) for a copy of the book. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot....

This was a pretty good read. 🤗 It had a lot packed into it. I had never heard of a death doula and was surprised to learn it is a real thing. Whenever you hear of a doula, your thought goes right to births. So, it was an interesting rabbit hole to dive down for me. 😉

This is the 28th book by Jodi Picoult that I’ve read, so I think it’s fair to say that she is one of my favorite authors. Even though my average rating for her books are 3.2 stars I love that I mostly get exactly what I signed up for. What makes JP unique is that she is so good at showing both sides of the story and making you understand and feel equally and deeply for both POV’s. But in The Book of Two Ways what had most impact for me, was how much she was able to pack into this story. I loved that I learned about being a death doula, about Egypt (history, religions), quantum mechanics, art, oppositional defiant disorder and even the science of tears. But being Jodi there is always emotional sharing as well – how to deal with an overweight, insecure teenager when both parents are skinny; small things to consider if you are dealing with a loved one dying or are dealing with a caregiver of someone that is dying or has just passed away etc. Imagine my surprise when the reason for most of the lower ratings on GR is because people felt that JP tried to cover too many issues and subjects. Different strokes for different folks I say. The only reason this did not get a full 5 stars is because the ending felt just too perfect. I was interested to read in the Author’s note that the Jodi wanted a different ending. I would love to know what that ending was, and if it would have worked better for me. With the 4 stars it falls just short of my absolute 5 star favorites: My Sister's Keeper, Small Great Things, Keeping Faith, Nineteen Minutes and House Rules.

Plane Crashes and Beautiful Sentences Have you ever seen: — A group of flight attendants knotted together like a frown? — Two fists, squeezed so tight a secret couldn’t slip between the palms? — A bone-bleached ribbon of landscape? — The sky yawning over the desert? — A star wink just before it’s swallowed by the sun? Etc, etc... If your answer is no, you can always borrow Jodi Picoult’s eyes to feel the beauty of what you’ve never seen... If your answer is yes, you can also borrow Jodi Picoult’s eyes to feel the beauty of what you’re missing... Plane Crashes, Beautiful Sentences, Quantum Physics and lots of Egypt in a plot about Love, Life and Death is my best definition of Two Ways 😜 🌟🌟🌟🌟💖 Nota: existe uma edição em português intitulada O Livro dos Dois Caminhos

A riveting, thought-provoking novel about life, death and the path not taken SUMMARY Have you ever wondered where you would be if you had made different decisions in your life? Fifteen years ago Dawn Edelstein, was following her dream to be an archeologist studying ancient Egyptian hellographic, When she gets a call from her dying mother everything changes. She rushes home and becomes the caregiver for her mother and her thirteen year old brother. Today she is living in Boston with her physicist husband and their beautiful teenage daughter with self-image issues. Instead of her career in Egyptology She is a death doula and spends her life helping people make the final transition to death. But now she is thinking, what if.... Several factors have caused Dawn to begin questioning her past . After miraculously surviving a plane crash, Dawn is now contemplating which path to take. Should she return to Boston, and her beloved family. Or should she journey back to the Egyptian archaeological site she left over a decade earlier, and attempt to reconnect with her long lost love. REVIEW THE BOOK OF TWO WAYS is a riveting, thought-provoking novel of a woman questioning life-changing decisions she made years earlier. Picoult’s writing covers an intriguingly wide array of heavy topics for one novel. In addition to her typical emotionally evocative writing, in this case a long lost love story, she throws in a little education for us on quantum mechanics, end-of-life coaching, and Egyptology. Love it! Picoult also draws symbolic parallels of the ancient Egyptian, text of The Book of Two Ways and Dawn’s current mid-life crisis. The ancient text depicts the paths a soul can take through the afterlife. The two paths, one land and one water, zigzag across a dangerous landscape and are separated by the Lake of Fire which can destroy, but also revive. I particularly enjoyed Dawn’s character and the exploration of how the choices we made in the past changed our lives and make us who we are today. I listened to the audio version of the book and loved the narration. Thanks to Netgalley for an advance reading copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Publisher Random House Publishing Group Ballantine Published September 22, 2020 Narrated Patti Murrin Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

Jodi Picoult's The Book of Two Ways is one of those books that not gives us the story that the author wants to tell but a story that makes us look inward at our own life story. In one life-altering moment, Dawn Edelstein, finds herself in a plane that is about to crash. While her immediate thoughts as she is bracing for impact and near-certain death should be of her husband Brian, daughter Merit and life in Boston, it isn't. Her mind races back to her first love, Wyatt Armstrong and her life before Brian. Her life in Egypt when she was studying to be an Egyptologist. Dawn and thirty-five other passengers miraculously survive the plane crash. Dawn, whose career as a death doula in Boston, finds herself daydreaming and actually going back to Egypt to revisit Wyatt and her past. She finds herself questioning her life choices and whether she made the right ones. Dawn's life story is really the vessel that Picoult uses to get the reader to look inward at their own life choices and where we have been but also where are our choices taking us, The Book of Two Ways is a beautiful story of love, life, death and dying, There is nothing morbid or morose but a book that focuses on what is the meaning of life. If there is one problem with the book, it is that Picoult thrusts an inordinate amount of information on Egyptology and archaeology. All of the factual information distracts from the story of Dawn and was cumbersome at times. Jodi Picoult once again gives us a spectacular, thought-provoking, character-driven story in The Book of Two Ways. I received an advance copy of this book from NetGalley. #NetGalley #TheBookofTwoWays

I usually start my review with a quote. I found, however, that nearly ALL of this narrative was worthy to highlight, so I'll just come out with this: you must read this book. It's profound. It's heartbreaking. It poses questions that will make you examine every decision you've ever made. and, strangely enough, this is a story that I loved despite feeling that the main character was superfluous in so many ways. The synopsis provided by the publisher gives the overall premise (which actually isn't very accurate but NO SPOILERS) and introduces the concept of a woman who has a second chance to evaluate a choice she'd made 15 years ago. A do-over in a way. The story is told in an unusual narrative that mimics Dawn's obsession with her research on THE BOOK OF TWO WAYS, a coffin text found on the floor of the coffin holding a mummified body in the Middle Egyptian necropolis of Deir el Bersha. (Dawn gave up her doctoral candidacy in archaeology at Yale due to a family emergency and retrained to become a death doula.) In short, the "two ways" refers to the two paths that lead to the netherworld and eternal afterlife. One path is water and the other is land, and the chapters in the book are labeled that way. This concept is a metaphor for Dawn's life and choices she made. But, I digress. What captivated me was the information. I was fascinated by all of the archeology details and the history. The descriptions also included line drawings that fully engaged my attention and, though the learning curve was steep, I love when I find a novel that makes me think. In addition, the topic of assisting someone in the dying process was extremely riveting. There was so much in this book to absorb and contemplate, the least of it being Dawn and her search for herself. Sorry, but I did not care for her selfishness and her behavior. This was a very complex novel that dealt with the real life questions about "what might have been" and paralleled the hurdles and tests in that guidebook for the Egyptians navigating the afterlife. Once I had a couple of hours to sit down and read, I could not put this book down until I reached the end. Bravo to the author for the intense research she did in order to be able to expound on everything from quantum physics to ancient Egypt. If you're looking for mindless entertainment, this is not the book for you. Jodi Picoult was able to translate her passion for all the subjects within to the page with her incredible writing talents. I'm giving this one 4.5 stars. Thank you to NetGalley and Ballantine Books for the e-book ARC to read, review, and recommend. I'm well aware that this review doesn't do this book justice but I can only say that I hope it moves you as it did me. What a great selection for a book club and I am hopeful that a film adaptation is forthcoming as well.

Jodi Picoult has delivered another good read. In a nutshell, this is the story of a woman torn between two loves, two lives. The one she left behind and the one she is currently living. The storyline bounces between the two in alternating chapters. While in Boston we learn of her life as a death doula, a wife, and a mother. While in Egypt we learn of her life unearthing coffins and transcribing their hieroglyphics along side the man stole her heart years ago. Personally, I prefer the Boston storyline – to me it is more personal, emotional, and reflective whereas the Egypt storyline has more facts and history mixed in that at times I felt was just too much. Overall, I think the two storylines come together nicely but the ending does leave you wanting a little more. But truly, it was probably the best way to end it. Thank you to NetGalley for the advanced copy.

4.5! Although not my immediate favourite, this book definitely grew on me! The first 40 or so pages are filled with so much information overload about Egypt and pharaohs that I did find it a little too mechanical - but once the story gets going, we’re left with a beautiful story about answering the “what if’s” of our lives, and doing what’s right for us. Jodi Picoult never fails to deliver. Her books are always so meticulously put-together and well-researched. You can’t go wrong with this one!

"People can't see the shape of the life they've lived until they get to the very end of it" Dawn Edelstein is a death doula, someone who provides not only comfort, but support through the dying process, for both the sick as well as their family. She's passionate about her job and would do anything for her clients, but when faced with her own mortality she begins to question the path of life she has chosen, leading her to confront her past and rethink her future. So although this book took me longer to read than normal I was completely fascinated by it. I felt the need to read this at a slower pace just to take it all in, absorb every detail, and get the very best experience out of it. And I feel like I did. I have read some initial reviews depicting this read as having way too much information, but I think that is what I loved most about this. Besides struggling with the pronunciation at times, the story itself is compelling, the knowledge gained and the researched expressed made this book so much more for me. Learning about this completely different world of Egyptology intertwined with the passion of these characters made for a very significant read. I liked the idea of Dawn questioning the decisions she has made in her life, I think we all do that at some point whether happy or not, and Dawn had the courage to battle those choices. In life we don't always choose ourselves. Everything about this book was thought-provoking for me, from the message of how short life is itself, to the cautionary tale of missed opportunities. It's about forgotten first loves, second chances to follow ones ambitions, and ultimately acceptance. It was all so beautifully written and besides being a bit confused by the timeline occurring and the length of chapters, I was utterly captivated by it. Thanks to NetGalley and the publishers at Random House Group-Ballantine for the reading opportunity, as with most of books by Jodi Picoult I predict it will find great success amongst readers.

I always love books that make me smarter and Jodi Picoult's books always teach me something new! I'm always incredibly impressed with the amount of immersive research she puts into each of her novels. The Book of Two Ways is no exception! The Book of Two Ways is a story about the path in life not taken - and how things would have turned out if we had the chance to take that path. The main character, Dawn, is a former student of archeology as well as a current Death Doula. She has spent her adulthood studying death, whether it was through ancient Egyptian digs or guiding clients in hospice through the end of life. When her world is turned upside down, Dawn has the opportunity to discover what life would look like if she chooses her current life with her husband and teenage daughter or chose to return to Egypt and the man and life she left behind. This book made me think a lot about life and death, and whether given the opportunity to choose the path not taken, would I want to return to see how it all would have turned out. I highly recommend picking this book up. Jodi Picoult does it again! Thank you to NetGalley and Ballantine books for the ARC of this book.

https://wendyreadit.wordpress.com/202... I have to say I think the telling of this story is different from her other books, this one is more of a family drama, more introspective and more of a deep dive into the life of the main character, Dawn. I just needed to move on past the confusing parts at the beginning and just try and listen to Dawn's story about her two loves, Wyatt and Brian, and how their stories play out. You hear probably more than you ever cared to learn about Egyptian archeology and about death doulas, people who are hired to stay with a person who is dying for support. The book of Two Ways refers to books found in coffins in ancient Egypt and it's a fitting title for Dawn's story because she loves two men. Dawn is a complicated person and I really got involved in her life. I kept waiting for a pathetically awful twist at the end like so many of Picoult's books have and was so pleasantly surprised that there wasn't one, phew!

This IMO was a very different book for Jodi Picoult. It's about a woman who is a Egyptologist and her crossroads in life and the decision she has to make. In the beginning the book was a struggle for me, so much detail on Egypt and the pyramids and burial places of the rulers. Found out from reading author's notes that JOdi's son is an Egyptologist and I'm sure that's where her interest comes from. She knows a lot about this topic. I felt that when I got to the real story of the woman that I would enjoy the book more and I did. I got very hooked on the story about half way through the book and enjoyed it until the end where she never tells us what decision this woman made, leaves it up in the air. But I do recommend since she is an excellent author.

LOL!!!! Ya'll BIG MAD! LOL! I have to laugh. I am not one to read reviews but with all the one sided opinions present I had to jump out and give my too sense. Winter is shot by someone she betrayed because she just not that sharp when it comes to fine details. But she IS A SURVIVOR! She is the same Winter she was in Coldest Winter Ever, self-absorbed, self-centered, and Vain as HELL. She learned that from her Brooklyn Momma. I love the fact that the Author took us into another realm! So MANY OF YOU are at the Last Stop Before You Drop, City of the Ungrateful, County of Ignorance, State of Arrogance! How dare we assume because we read one book that the second one should go how we think it should go. Read the story. It is fiction you know, or is it? I am caught all the way up in how this child is so New York she is ignorantly un-phased by her circumstance and hell bent on being the Queen of what is essentially Purgatory. All systems and situations have an angle you can work. But I be SOOO mad that this child consistently throws away every book given to her. She threw away the books Midnight tried to give her and she threw away the book from Siddiqah who was also trying to help her live eternally. How many people have tried to help your soul and you blatantly disregarded any and all of their assistance because it didn't line up with your thinking? LOTS! Hell, you doing that shit right now!!! Meanwhile, each and everyday we experience mercy that allows us to make choices that impact our eternity. Whatchu gone do with your life? Will you find your purpose or are you distracted by your Forever Nigga?? Swept up in the chaos of celebrity fashion and news and being seen. You know, a dead bitch ain't got no reflection. That's a Winter Santiaga quote and a double entendre for those who believe that Sister Souljah is insulting your intelligence. Take the blinders off...... or perhaps you are already existing in darkness. Lemme go finish these last pages so I can jump back into Midnight!!! I LOVE READING!!! Especially when I can't stand the lead but I still wanna know where she going in this sordid tale! ......HE HAD A TAIL!! Why she ain't pick up on that?? Maybe she just didn't care.

4.5 ⭐ I've got to hand it to Liane Moriarty. Apples Never Fall has got to be one of the most scintillating family dramas I've ever read. Joy Delaney, beloved wife and mother of four, has disappeared. Her adult children are rightfully aghast, but they're reluctant to report her missing. They know the prime suspect will be their father, and to be honest, they're not quite sure of his innocence. When the police starts asking questions, it quickly becomes clear everyone in the family has stories to tell and secrets to hide. But how long can they hold out before all is laid bare? First and foremost, this is a story about dysfunctional families, and I just love me a good one of those. Every member of the Delaney family is distinct and compelling, and when you throw in the game of tennis, sibling rivalries, the mother's disappearance, and that decidedly strange interloper to their family home, the tale gets interesting real quick. I can't get over the premise. It's such a fascinating dilemma, and I couldn't stop myself from chewing it over. What would I do in this situation—would I side with my father or against him if I suspected he murdered my mother? I love a good moral quandary, and this story perfectly captured the nuances that such a predicament would bring to a family. What I've always adored about Moriarty's writing is her sharp and astute observations about people and their flaws. She has this ability to peel back the layers of family relationships and what it means to be human, and to expose everything beautiful and ugly within, all the while injecting just the right amount of humor. This book hit upon tender subjects familiar to everyone, yet instead of making me cry, it made me laugh. Needless to say, I found the whole thing to be utterly riveting. The characters were memorable, the dialogue snappy, and the strife felt all too real. I devoured it in just a few days. And while the mystery wasn't the core of this book, there were still plenty of revelations along the way to keep me on my toes. If I had one quibble, it would have to be the ending. I'm not a fan of when a story is clearly wrapped up, and then the author goes on to continue some more, often to its detriment. And that's kind of what happened here. The last few chapters really weren't necessary, and including them caused the story to veer off course and end on a slight odd note. But that's a minor complaint, and I could very well ignore that last bit in my head (which I've already done) in favor of the rest of the story. If you're considering this, do keep one thing in mind—to properly enjoy it, you have to have the right mindset. This isn't a mystery/thriller and you would be sorely disappointed if you went in expecting that. In fact, this isn't even its milder domestic suspense cousin. This is straight up a dysfunctional family drama, and Joy's disappearance is simply a plot device used to drive the narrative forward. I feel like when Liane Moriarty writes what she knows best, there's almost nothing better. And this tale of the dysfunctional Delaney family certainly turned out to be quite the startling and dazzling gem. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: Big Little Lies The Husband's Secret What Alice Forgot Nine Perfect Strangers ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

The Delaney family saga’s entire story truly matches with proverbial saying: apple never falls from the tree! This is well written, interesting reading written by one of my all time favorite author’s dry and dark sense of witty humor ! There’s big mystery about a mother’s abrupt, sudden disappearance but as the story moves back and forth between past and present with multi POVs of Delaney members: we realize how their decisions, choices, misdemeanors, regrets, secrets in the past shaped their future : the author perfectly reflected the connection between last fall when a young named Savannah suddenly appeared at their parents’ house door and the progression of Joy Delaney’s sudden disappearance. What’s the main connection with two incidents? How children cope with the their mother’s disappearance? As two of them think their father must be involved with this incident ( including police officers because there are scratch marks on Stan’s face and everything he tells about how his wife got missing seems like a big lie) and two of them still thinks he’s innocent! I wanted to give you more information about the family’s background story so you can visualize a clear picture on your mind ( or maybe you start match actors with characters because I’m so sure we’re gonna see this book’s adaptation into the series just like the other scandalously delicious work of the author and interestingly ! By the way I couldn’t help myself so as a part of occupation, I already made a cast for the book ( or its possible future adaptation and of course I only thought brilliant Aussie actors) I thought Rose Bryne as Brooke and Rebel Wilson as Amy, Jai Courtney as Troy and Ryan Kwanten as Logan and here’s my Aussie couple suggestion : Joy must be played by Jacki Weaver and my ideal Stan candidate is John Noble! Oh, Savannah could be played by Margot Robbie ( even though I got sick of seeing her face at 10 different movies lately. ) Okay, let’s get back to the story; Delaneys always attract the attention of the community with their enormous heights and their obsession with tennis! Joy and Stan married for fifty years, ran a tennis school for a long time to coach adult children and raise future tennis stars! They also pushed their four children to become future tennis stars but unfortunately none of them pursued a career by following their parents’ footsteps even though they were talented enough and the obvious rivalry between them pushed their limits but at the end : their life didn’t turn into something they’ve dreamt of. And now they still hide so many secrets, dealing with their own insecurities. Joy and Stan finally sells their tennis house but without reflecting their all energy to the business, they feel lost. Then a perfect stranger named Savannah who seems shaken, beaten knocks their door, needing help to spend the night away from abusing boyfriend. So the couple ( at least Joy) welcomes her with open arms. As the time passes, Savannah becomes a member of the house and four children of Delaneys five different reactions to the forced addition to their family. The four children already deal with different problems. Eldest one Amy shows signs of suffering from bipolar: in her early forties she doesn’t have regular job, living with roommates ( mostly returns back to her parents’ house) , no boyfriend, no particular dream for life, trying too hard to look tough. Brooke with e is also about to lose her physiotherapy place she’s invested, taking break from longtime boyfriend, trying too hard to look as the most mature one but she struggles because of her insecurities. Logan also has regrets about not accepting the tennis scholarships in Chicago which could have changed his entire life but now his girlfriend left him and he’s not so full filled with his teaching job at community college and Troy also acts like superior as he feels more inferior, struggling with his job! None of them happy and none of them has any intention to share those secrets with each other! Overall: I loved the interception of past and present time events and I loved the contribution of random people’s POVs to the story ( waitress who try to get orders from siblings, gossiping customers at hair dresser, noisy taxi driver etc.) and that WTH ending was truly unexpected! This is not my most favorite book of the author but it is still so enjoyable. Her dry humor and fantastic storytelling skills gave us enough reason to get hooked up by Delaney family saga from the beginning! Looking forward to read next works of the author! ( probably we will see this book’s adaptation on streaming services) instagram facebook twitter

Moriarty is back with “Apples Never Fall”. I think this is one of her better works. What makes her special is her witty everyday observations: “He had bushy old-man eyebrows and good, honest, taxpaying eyes.” “Stan Delaney was not the sort of man to sit in a gutter. He was far too tall.” “The words were not startling, but it felt somehow as if they were witnessing a startlingly intimate conversation.” Open any page and you will find Moriarty at her height of her career. She is a master of wordcraft. As the story opens four adult siblings are at a café puzzling over their missing mother. They all received a curious text from her stating that she’s going off the grid for a while. Yet, no further explanation is provided. Plus, the text itself is questionable. It seems as though auto-correct might have blurred the information. Similar to previous works, Moriarty tells the tale in two timelines. She begins with the missing mother and then jumps to where it all began. And that would be the last September when a mysterious woman just knocks on their parent’s door, stating that she’s a victim of domestic abuse. The Delaneys (the parents) are winding down for the night when this woman, Savannah (or is that her real name?) infiltrates their lives. From the start, it seemed that there was something fishy about Savannah and her story, yet the Delaney parents are fully charmed by their new boarder. Of course, Savannah works diligently in the Delaney household, creating beautiful dinners, thoughtful cinnamon toast, and minestrone soup. The parents are awed and in love. Of course they create room in their empty-nest home. From the start, the children found Savannah suspect. There is unease with this woman staying with their elderly parents…just out of the blue! The difficulty though is that Savannah brings them such happiness. The Delaney’s have just sold their tennis academy, so both are struggling to find purpose. Joy, the wife, wants to be a grandmother. Stan, the father, is obsessed with a former student who is making a comeback in tennis and writing a memoir. This student quit the Delaney academy right before he rose to Grand Slam fame. Stan never got over Harry’s betrayal of leaving Stan for another coach. Because of their retirement from tennis, there is a bit of idle time finding the elder Delaneys. They are in a rut and primed for an astute interloper. Once Joy goes missing, Stan looks mighty guilty. Through the tossing back and forth between timelines, the reader learns of Stan and Joy’s marriage, and their partnership in the academy. We learn about the four Delaney children, both past and present failures and successes. We learn of Joy’s concern for her children, Stan’s total consumption with the game of tennis. Moriarty superbly brings each character to vivid life. And she creates such a story with some red herrings and deflections that forces the reader to be on their toes. With Moriarty, subtle clues are peppered throughout the story. Moriarty also adds a few extraneous characters who may or may not be a part of the mystery. Each character does provide something to the story, whether that character holds a tiny piece of the mystery answer, or, the character adds dimension and humor. There are layers of family drama. All characters are more than they initially seem. My only criticism is that it is a bit too long. The last 30-40 pages could have been whittled down. Yet, I still fully endorse this story. Her insights into family dynamics and the complexities of the years of relationships makes her stories relatable. I found Joy’s inner thoughts and feelings a treat to read because it is all so real. As a wife and mother, Joy resonated with me.

I was thrilled to be approved for an advance listening copy of this book, and also excited to see that the narrator was Caroline Lee, who narrated the other Liane Moriarty books I've listened to previously. She gives the perfect voices to the entire Australian Delaney family and kept me completely invested in the story. This is a sweeping family saga featuring Joy and Stan, who have been married for fifty years and have four adult children--Amy, Brooke, Troy, and Logan. The family's "claim to fame" is that they have all been competitive tennis players in the past and Stan and Joy ran a tennis school and coached. One day, Joy turns up missing and suspicion turns to Stan. Even the children wonder if he might be guilty. The tale is told from two main directions--in the past leading up to Joy going missing and the present-day going forward with the investigation into her whereabouts. A mysterious visitor named Savannah factors in heavily. Sprinkled throughout are moments from the distant past and the shaping of the Delaney family's lives. I adore family sagas and this one absolutely did not disappoint. I don't have any knowledge or interest in tennis, but that doesn't matter at all. It's more the story of what has happened within their family and each of the siblings' lives. The characters are so well-drawn and full of life that I will honestly miss them--faults (ha tennis joke) and all--now that I'm finished with the book. Readers get a real sense of each of the Delaneys and Savannah and can both sympathize and empathize with them as various things are revealed. There is humor throughout the story and Joy often reminded me of my mother-in-law with her stream of consciousness talking, and yet she also reminded me of myself and the things women take on as wives and mothers that we would never expect men to take on. The mystery of what happened to Joy compelled me to keep going to discover the answer, but overall the answer isn't as important as the journey to get there. I also loved the portrayal of a 50 year marriage with its ups and downs and even the mundane middle ground. The ending of this book was a bit of a jaw-dropper because I was absolutely not expecting it, and yet it seemed so perfect to give closure to everything that happened. Moriarty's books are unique and this one is no exception. It's a much more straightforward story than her last book (Nine Perfect Strangers) and I'm so glad for that. The combination of family drama with mystery, sprinkled with humor and touching moments is a winner. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

Joy Delaney, one-time very successful tennis school and trainer with her husband, with four grown up kids and now in her seventies, has gone missing, leaving zero trace or trail of where she has gone , or indeed of any foul play. This story shares the tales of the family members as memories and incidences are brought up in the police investigation of her disappearance. From the wrote that gave me the gem that is comes another beautiful layered and graduated read set in Urban middle-class Australia, with multiple interesting characters and character journeys tied to numerous mysteries that all feed into the core 'mum is missing' story. Some of the sub-arcs feature characters pondering whether a damaging negative trait of a forebear will pass on to them, hence the the book title. I am fast becoming a fan of Lianne Moriarty's modern mystery-dramas with her near perfect take on interpersonal and intrafamily relationships, as well as between the sexes. This book has a pretty cool take on sibling rivalry as well. She also give great dialogue; that expertly uses speech and human interactions to tell the reader as much as descriptive chapters do in other books. On top of this all, she has a great sense of humour that is deftly used throughout this compelling with a hint of farce or satire. A recommend writer and book, I gave this one a firm 8 out of 12, Four Stars. 2024 read

Apples Never Fall by Liane Moriarty was a very enjoyable read. The story revolves around Stan and Joy Delaney, a couple of tennis tragics – having run a Tennis Academy in Sydney for many years. They have now sold their business and have four adult children, Logan, Amy, Troy and Brooke. Parents and kids alike were all terrific tennis players, just on the cusp of ‘making it’. As with any large family, there’s some interesting interplay between family members, such as sibling rivalries, jealousies – resentments and the parents have the usual smattering of issues you’d expect from any long-term married couple. This alone is interesting enough for a story. Enter Savannah, a mysterious girl who comes into the lives of the Delaney family. This turns the family on its head – the reader is left guessing what this young woman is all about, why is she there? You know, I’m not sure if it was the familiarity of Australian life (in Sydney), the sport of Tennis – which, along with cricket is a staple of the Aussie sporting diet over the summer months, or the writing. It’s probably all of these factors that made this a very enjoyable read for me. I found it fresh and lively and I was looking forward to picking it up after a day at work. The ending was a little unexpected, which was good. If you enjoy a mystery with a good dash of family drama – you’ll probably enjoy this one. 4 Stars Many thanks to Netgalley for providing me with a copy in exchange for my review.

Apples Never Fall is the fourth or fifth book I've read by Liane Moriarty. I enjoy her character development, family drama, and immersive settings. In this release, a family of former tennis stars takes center stage, and when one of them disappears, all the cracks in their façade begin to show. Two parents, four adult children, some with significant others, and a stranger who shows up on the doorstep. How is she connected with them all? This is not a suspense or thriller book. It's really not even a mystery. Although the prologue clearly suggests a hit-and-run, perhaps a death, the story isn't about a desire to turn the pages to find out what happened. It's more of an in-depth analysis on the relationships between parents and children, brothers and sisters, and husbands and wives. When Savannah, a younger woman with seemingly no connection to the family, wanders into their lives, readers quickly question... did one of the parents have an affair? Is she a jilted lover of the adult children who each have something to lose? The truth is a bit murky, but it does have a connection, and it throws a dollop of chaos into the book. Joy disappears. She's the matriarch. Often, I liked her. At times, she was too domineering or too removed. The father, Stan, seemed like a nice guy but there was underlying tension that could've broken free at any moment. All the kids were fairly normal, each with their own set of idiosyncrasies (we all have them). The way they related to each other as family was bizarre. Perhaps because I'm an only child I don't know much about it, yet each was so passive-aggressive, I wanted to slap them all back into proper behavior. Amy can't commit and is on medicine to keep her from getting out of control. Troy is out to sleep with anything he can. Logan can't figure out how to love his wife. Brooke is too committed to her non-tennis career. So why did Savannah show up? Why did Joy up and disappear? Did someone kill her? The book was a slow boil and kept my interest... but that last chapter was unnecessary. The timeline brings us to the beginning of COVID's arrival. We've just made all the connections and learned what happened. It could've ended there. I can't give away any spoilers, so I'll stop... just know that it will be a painful ending.

3.5 rounded to a 4. This is my second Liane Moriarty book. The first one was The Husband's Secret. The plot line, a missing 70 year old mother, that doesn't get reported to the police immediately is intriguing. There is an unusual, unexpected stranger as a houseguest prior to the disappearance. Her four children, neighbors, and hairdresser all have theories on what happened to her, including whether or not her husband murdered her. The story could have been told more concisely. There were many, many flashbacks and a ton of detail which can add or detract to character development. It just made the story painfully slow.

I didn't understand the last chapter. I kind of understood who was who, but there's a suspicion that the author was trolling in a way different from the rest of the book. It seems like Moriarty had overextended her resources. She might have worked the ending during a late night in buzzing critter infested Australia. At least that's what I imagined. The book is better than what I read of her other books. This book is special. It is the same with me with jokes. Recently I've been cracking more good jokes than usual. If the sense of humour is like a muscle, then so is the knack to write book after book. Stephen King practically said that if one can subsist on one's writing, he considered that person a good writer. So why does he keep degrading James Patterson? What's my business in this entire reading experience is the fact that just like with the best of writers, the words kept reaching my eyes with no lull in quality, bar a couple of early chapters where I imagined giving the book 2 stars. Apples Never Fall is such a surprising title that I thought there must be a tennis reference buried in it. Fat chance of that. Among the four siblings in the story, I mentally reached out to poor Brooke, who cannot catch a happy ending to match those of her brothers and one sister. But she does get a smashing (yep) apple crumble in the end. That counts, right? The most satisfying tennis trivia I have independently known is about why zero is called love in tennis. You should google it. I was thoroughly entertained by this book, which I bought from Amazon. I feel the necessity to support the best authors who repay you with words worth more than the book's price. Begging, borrowing, or stealing won't do here. I was reminded of how powerful a reading experience can be. The latter can be classified in merely the mystery/thriller register. But that would be unfair. There are traces of literariness, and chick lit in the mix. In the end, don't we readers crave for something similar? I look to the next book of Moriarty with great anticipation.

a damn near flawless book ruined by a boring ending. Yall know I love family mess. Its my favorite thing in books. And this book serves it up by the spoonful. The relationship all the siblings have with each other, themselves. their parents and lovers is so good. I enjoyed everyones backstory. The strongest relationship in the book is the relationship between Joy and Stan our two senior citizen parents. It has so much mystery and layers. The book really felt like a deep dive into a random dysfunctional family and felt real. But the problem is the Savannah of it all. Savannah's backstory and victimhood just never felt real. I was willing to suspend my disbelief that no one remembered her and they let a stranger in their home etc but I was not willing to believe her motive and the lack luster ending. And also did the publisher make Liana include a pandemic reference for fun? Once again a mystery ruined by its own mystery. Still great meat. I enjoyed the ride. I forgot to add this book did not know when to end I felt like I was reading a first draft was the last 75 pages needed????

Eventually Joy ran out of words. This book suited me on the audio format, and I really enjoyed Caroline Lee’s narration. She is prolific on the BorrowBox platform through my public library. She narrates many of Liane Moriarty’s books and receives a special mention in the author’s acknowledgements. This book is full of Aussieness, familial barbs and very comedic. The word farcical comes to mind, balanced by the dark humour. The author is astute with sibling relationships and the reality of marriage’s ups and downs weather it is a short-term union, or a long one. She captures the essence of what it is like to be a part of a large family and the love they share, and the moments of complete hatred and the many misunderstandings and nuances belonging to the individuals of a greater sized group. The Delaney’s are a tennis family. Competitive, neurotic, and larger than life. Four siblings and busy parents who ran a lucrative tennis club. Each child has many failings, strengths, and weaknesses, and as always, the author is skill full in drawing each character and making each known to the reader as if they were our neighbour, school friend or sibling. I loved the relationships between the siblings, their love for each other despite the many grudges, slights and just under the surface grievances. The observations from neighbours and lifelong family friends were funny, too, particularly the neighbours watching from windows and their perceptions and observations. A young woman named Savannah turns up at the Delaney’s house one evening, seeming to be a victim of some sort of domestic violence. Joy sweeps in here, relishing in the role of being needed by this cagey young woman. Joy’s daughters watch Joy almost replace them while allowing her to stay in their family home, almost becoming part of the furniture. She cooks amazing meals and continues to drip feed herself into their lives. This builds tension and I was left being so frustrated with Joy, her being gullible at times was so evident, and husband Stan almost as much. Joy has gone missing, she stalwart of the family, the woman that doesn’t stop. The children become sleuths while their father becomes the number one target. This was a funny book, my tension rose, and I was driven mad by many of the characters, even the detective was bumbling. This was a polarising book which I enjoyed, more so in the audio format, made comical by the seamless narration.

Liane Moriarty returns to her domestic drama heartland in her latest release, Apples Never Fall. The dual timeline narrative follows the members of the Delaney family in suburban Sydney. Recently retired parents Joy and Stan remain highly competitive tennis players after selling their successful coaching academy. Their four adult children - Amy, Logan, Troy and Brooke - were also each successful junior players, none of whom managed to break into the professional circuit, and each face challenges in their personal and/or professional lives. The Delaneys comfortable, if imperfect, lives are impacted by the sudden arrival of Savannah, a young woman who knocks on Joy and Stan's front door one night, seeking assistance after experiencing domestic violence. The Delaney parents take her into their lives, offering her a temporary home, despite the misgivings of their four children. Some months later, Joy Delaney goes missing during a bike ride to the nearby shops. When she makes no contact, police begin to suspect foul play, and their investigation focusses on patriarch Stan. The situation places inevitable pressures on the remaining members of the family and their interrelationships. I found Apples Never Fall an engrossing domestic drama, with a healthy dose of intrigue and second-guessing of each of the characters' motivations and secrets. While not always particularly likeable, I found each of the central characters well-developed and identified with the concept that different members of the same family often have different recollections of the same events and that the scars borne in childhood often run deep. The conclusion was well-crafted and satisfying, but like other readers I felt that the novel could perhaps have concluded more successfully at the end of chapter 70. While intriguing, the rather macabre final twist felt superfluous and jarring. I'd encourage readers who enjoyed Liane Moriarty's early work - such as The Husband's Secret and Big Little Lies - to give this one a try. To my mind it's a return to form after her more experimental 2018 release Nine Perfect Strangers. Highly recommended. Thanks to the author, Liane Moriarty, publisher Pan Macmillan Australia and NetGalley for the opportunity to read and review this title.

Very good but wayyyyyyy too long. I felt like it just kept going on and on.

I enjoyed this one a lot more than I expected mainly because of the characters. When Joy Delaney goes missing the rumours start and it is not long before a possible murder is suspected but do her family notify the police? The Delaney family are a well known family in the local community with father Stan and mother Joy the envy of all their friends After fifty years of marriage they have sold their famed tennis academy and settled down for an enjoyable retirement. The four Delaney children, Amy, Logan, Troy and Brooke had varying success in their own tennis careers but never received any praise off their father, insisting they didn’t have what it takes to get to the top. Late one evening their is knock at Stan and Joy’s door, a stranger named Savannah is bleeding after a fight with her boyfriend and is looking for help. The Delaney’s are quick to offer Savannah help but it appears she is looking for more than they thought. Later, when Joy goes missing, and Savannah is nowhere to be found, the police question the one person who remains, Stan. Although Stan pleads his innocence there are a lot of unanswered questions which leads to suspicion. The family have split opinions regarding Stan’s innocence which leads to further arguing and digging in the families past. The book is more about the characters and their standings within the family rather than an whodunnit, lots of humour, twists and drama along the way make this an enjoyable read. Some really good character but my favourite was Joy who seem to offer every emotion to the story.

This book is about a dysfunctional family and the mother disappears. This family is a well respected tennis family as tennis serves as a back drop throughout the novel. I would classify this as part thriller but more a character study of each family member. I know this book took me a long time to finish but it is not a reflection of the book at all. Work has been super crazy lately. This was my introduction to this author and I enjoyed it a lot. It isn't the most exciting book but the characters and the situations sucked me in. We go back and forth thru present time and in the past. Does the past have anything to do with the mother missing in the present? What sucked me in was the characters and each one having flaws. I use to play tennis as a teenager and I enjoyed how the author incorporated the tennis world into the character study of each family member. I thought this was so clever. Each family member stood out and the group of family is easily identifiable with any reader. Is anyone's family perfect nowadays? We all bring something to the table. Sometimes you don't need action in a book if the characters are strong enough to carry the book. This one was one of those times. It was a terrific look into a family which acts as one character but also looking into each individual member of that family. I was invested throughout and at times I forgot about the thriller aspect. I wanted to know more about the family dynamics. The author does a terrific job with this and having characters develop through the novel. I definitely will read something else from this author.

⭐️4 Stars⭐️ I love Aussie writer Liane Moriarty, it was her books that got me back into reading again so I was absolutely thrilled when I received an early copy of Apples Never Fall! Apples Never Fall is going to be another hit, it’s a family saga where the mother goes missing without a trace and another family member becomes a murder suspect. ‘There were tiny seeds of bitter resentment at the centre of her heart, like the tiny bitter seeds at the centre of even the sweetest apple’. Meet the Delaney’s - Stan & Joy who have been married for nearly fifty years and their four adult children, Amy, Logan, Brooke and Troy. The Delaney’s have run a very successful tennis school and local tennis club. Their children grew up coached by their father but unfortunately none of them had the passion to become champion tennis players. The story is heavily character driven and has dysfunctional family dynamics, dramas and the unravelling of many secrets. There is a touch of humour throughout and the story goes back and forth between the present and the past. Apples Never Fall is more of a family saga than a thriller and there’s a heavy focus on competitive tennis and sibling rivalry. Recommended read, the mystery element will have you turning the pages! Publication date 14 September 2021 Thank you to NetGalley and Pan McMillan Australia for an early copy to read.

Yay!! One of Moriarty's best I think. If you enjoyed Big Little Lies, you need to read this. I thoroughly enjoyed this fun, suspenseful book and couldn't put it down. As always the author shines when writing stories set in the suburbs, and mixing up a mystery with a family saga worked exceptionally well. I loved getting to know Joy, Stan and all four their unique children. I think one of the things that I liked most was recognizing my own behavior in some of the behavioral patterns between the siblings, and between Joy and her children. Funny and insightful - I will be recommending this to everyone I know. The Story: Apples Never Fall is the story of Stan and Joy Delaney’s marriage, but it’s also the story of their four adult children, all of them a little lost and broken in their own ways.

An entertaining family drama/mystery centred on a tennis obsessed family, parents Joy and Stan married for ages, and their four adult children. The main plot is about the disappearance of Joy but there’s also flashbacks to events that happened months earlier. It’s quite a big cast of characters but I did find them easy to distinguish and the complicated plot is written in such an enjoyable way that it wasn’t a problem (I really liked how sometimes the chapter was written from the point of view of an unimportant character observing the main ones eg a waitress at a cafe. This was more common earlier in the novel) . That gets to main issue I had with it - it was way too long! The ending should’ve been much sharper and snappier. All the chapters after where we find out what happened to Joy seemed like too much, I kept thinking not another one.

I had not read Catherine Coulter in years, and this book helped remind me why she is such a successful mystery writer. This book is the 24th (!!) in a series I had not read in quite some time, but it functions very well as a stand-alone, even though it includes a subplot set in motion by previous books. I really enjoyed the initial setup and mystery of the book, in which a psychic medium seeks out Rebekah to tell her she has a message from her recently deceased grandfather about a hidden fortune. The question becomes: is the medium psychic, or is she working with someone else who wants to find the treasure for themselves? The FBI gets involved — on the FBI end of the story there are quite a lot of characters, no doubt featured in other books and a little hard to keep straight for a newbie, but all interesting and compelling. I wasn’t as interested in the subplot about the psychopath from previous books but I was able to follow it just fine. My favorite part of the book was the main plot with Rebekah, the medium and the treasure. Rebekah was my favorite character - I also loved her grandfather and Agent Savitch. The mystery unfolds very well with a great twist. The plot fits together as perfectly at the end as the puzzle pieces featured in the story. This is a very good law enforcement procedural with a fun and interesting mystical twist, and the treasure hunt is a pretty cool centerpiece for the mystery. This is a great book for fans of traditional whodunits and FBI procedurals. Thanks to Catherine Coulter, NetGalley and Gallery books for the ARC of this twisty mystery!

3.5 stars, actually. This series featuring really cool (and now married with a young son) FBI agents Dillon Savich and Lacey Sherlock is in second place when it comes to books from this author - I absolutely love her "Brit in the FBI" series co-written with J.T. Ellison. That said, I was excited to start this book - the 24th in the series. But sadly, it just doesn't measure up to the others I've read. The writing doesn't rise to the usual standard, the plot just didn't grab me and one of the characters I hope to never "see" again. There's more than one story going on here, the first of which centers around Marsia Gay, who is in a correctional treatment facility in Washington, D.C. - and Savich is responsible for putting her there, so she's out to get him. She's also out to get another prisoner - a woman who has agreed to testify against her in an upcoming trial. Meanwhile, Rebekah, the young wife of a powerful U.S. Senator, visits a female medium named Zoltan, who claims Rebekah's late grandfather wants her to reveal a "secret" he passed on to her before he died. And, Savich is puzzled when he gets a red box containing part of a jigsaw that shows an unidentified pier cluttered with dead birds. As fate (and the plot) would have it, FBI agent Pippa Cinelli, a financial expert who has been sent on a temporary basis to help Savich and Sherlock and their team, spots the puzzle. And wonder of wonders, she recognizes the scene as a pier in her home town (wow, what are the chances?) So, she's sent back, at first to work as an undercover agent, to see if she can find out who sent the puzzle and why. Ultimately, she connects with the local police chief, and the two begin a more in-depth investigation that's rife with potential danger. Almost from the moment Pippa appeared, I suspected she was being groomed for a spin-off series; that feeling intensified when she was given the lion's share of page time. Actually, I hoped that would be the case; she struck me as childish and borderline silly - so if she got her own series, I could simply ignore it. Now that I've finished this book, I doubt that she'll be setting off on her own, so I'm hoping she'll be taking a background spot (the farther back the better) in the future. That police chief, on the other hand, is a totally engaging character, and I'm looking forward to seeing more of him. Most of the main characters take turns at being the targets of the bad guys and gals, and there's a fair amount of action to hold readers' attention right up to the end as the pieces of all the puzzles come together. This certainly isn't my favorite of the series, but it's definitely worth reading.

This latest book by this prolific Author is a welcome return of FBI agents Savich and Sherlock . A newly married young woman is contacted by a Medium , Zoltan - her recently deceased Grandfather wants to contact her ! Just what is The Big Take ? Against her better judgement she attends the séance - and despite the theatrics decides against furthering the contact . However on her way home she is almost kidnapped , her saviour FBI Agent Dillon Savich . Determined to keep her safe Savich arranges protection whilst he investigates - but he has problems nearer to home . Some one is determined that all those he holds dear must suffer - his home is set on fire with his wife and child inside , other attacks follow . Just who is out to get him ? are there clues in the boxes he has received daily at headquarters ? Jealousy, money, ransom lead to a dead standstill - Deadlock ! Another entertaining thriller with many twists and turns along the way . A thoroughly enjoyable read .

Wonderful book as always, It kept me up late reading , had a couple different story lines going at one time, and I enjoyed that very much, I wish they would have told where the bonds where, that would have been nice to have found out.I look forward to the next Catherine Coulter Book.

I said it the last time I finished a Savich and Sherlock novel, and I'll say it again. I never realize how much I've missed them, until I read about them again! I love their chemistry, I can easily picture them in real life. I don't know that I particularly loved the storyline, it didn't feel believable, but I love Catherine Coulter's writing style and I loved visiting with these characters again. Worth picking up! Thank you Netgalley for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All opinions expressed are mine and mine alone.

The book is a thriller, with twist and turns as to hidden treasures, however finally they get to the bottom. As far as author- very well written and story telling is gripping.

Slow start but twisted and great ending

4.5 stars This is the twenty-fourth book in the FBI Thriller series by Catherine Coulter. Originally, I thought this was more of a Sherlock series. But as I have read more and more books in this series, I realize it is really focused more on Savich. And I really like that idea. Coulter’s stories always seem to focus in first on the characters that come in for this specific plot and whodunit. That seems to throw me a bit but I am getting used to it. A young wife whose grandfather was a politician and who is married to a politician is lured to a medium who tries to extract information from her. When she doesn’t fall for the ploy, they try to deal with her in a different way. This is where Savich steps in and saves the day when she is about to be kidnapped from her home. I thought this plot was great and I was really invested in knowing what was going on. Loved the addition of Pippa. She really kept the plot moving. This story really used the FBI guys and we got to see a lot more of what they were all about. So happy to see that aspect. Just a great all around awesome piecer of detective fiction. I totally recommend this. If you want to read a good mystery, police procedural, or detective fiction, definitely check this one out. You won’t be disappointed. I received this as an ARC (Advanced Reader Copy) in return for an honest review. I thank NetGalley, the publisher and the author for allowing me to read this title.

’A young wife is forced to confront a decades-old deadly secret when a medium connects her to her dead grandfather.’ ’A vicious psychopath wants ultimate revenge against Savich, but first, she wants to destroy what he loves most—his family.’ One of the many aspects of reading the FBI thriller series by Catherine Coulter that I love most is not only getting to revisit Savich and Sherlock—two of my favorite characters—but also watching two mysteries unfold interchangeably throughout the book. I don't want to delve too deep into what I didn't care for in the book because that would mean revealing spoilers. I will say that I expected more to take place at the end of Rebekah’s storyline, which felt too quickly tied up in a bow at the end, though the lead-in was suspenseful, the end fell a bit flat for me; almost the equivalent of a disgruntled handshake. Marsia’s storyline, however, is creepy good. Though DEADLOCK didn't tick off all the boxes for me, I'm looking forward to reading, if I am able, all of her books that I can't wait to purchase or pick up from the Library. Thank you, NetGalley and Simon & Schuster, for loaning me an advance eGalley of DEADLOCK in exchange for an honest review.

If you haven't read a Catherine Coulter FBI book you are missing some of the best stories of mystery and suspense. Consistently well-written with an ongoing group of characters that take you on a roller coaster ride of action and adventure. Always a pleasure, Ms. Coulter again hits all the sweet spots. I received an e-book from NetGalley in return for an unbiased review.

All is right in the world with a new Catherine Coulter story ;) This one is full of action, twists, turns, new and old characters and it looks like more to come. I loved the small town mix within the story and how the puzzle came together.

Good read. I have read lots of her books, the FBI books are my favorites. This one involves two separate cases, so it is a good mental excercise to keep them separated.

Catherine Coulter has been one of my favorite authors for years. I love her FBI detective series. They always have an odd twist to them. I was always waiting for the next book to come out and reading them in order. Then I got tired of them and stepped away for a few years. I found this on a used book sale and I am so glad I did. Dillion Savich and his wife Sherlock are caught up in another strange case. Rebekah Manvers is told by a medium that her deceased grandfather has a message for her. The next day Savich saves her from an attempted abduction. Are the two events related? Savich and Sherlock are trying to solve this mystery when he receives part of a puzzle showing a sidewalk with human remains. Fellow FBI agents try to solve this mystery and figure out how Savich is involved. This is Catherine Coulter's style-two mysteries, sometimes interrelated - sometimes not. Her books are pure escapism. They are not deep thinkers like some of my book club's choices. Sometimes I need to read a well put-together mystery. I will have to find another one of her books I haven't read yet the next time I need a break from Book club.

Book #24 in the series... I just finished the book prior so I understood some of the past references and knew more about the characters. I think there are always 2 cases to be solved in each book for each spouse to solve.... CASE 1 starts with a mystery box arriving at the FBI office for Savich... some puzzle pieces .. which cool an agent from that town happens to be in the office and recognizes one third of the puzzle. Who is sending the puzzles and what do they mean? Said new agent gets sent to the town in undercover role and gets hit on the head and knocked out and when Savich comes to help figure out why his agent was injured someone sets fire to his house with his wife and son inside. Case 2 involes a medium and a senator's wife who also was a senator's granddaughter and a failed kidnapping attempt..... So who is behind the kidnapping.. the medium, the grandmother, the step sons, the political opposition, the husband.

I am not someone who typically flocks to thriller novels, just never been much of my thing in terms of reading. The cover caught my eye as it’s the name of a sports podcast I like and kinda shared the colours. I am so sincerely thankful that I read this book and I had an insane amount of fun reading this thing. One of the first things you hear about this book is how hard it is to put it down once you get into it, and that’s true it’s a page turner for certain. But what I loved the most is how easy it felt to cheer for the protagonists. Such a fun cast outside of the established main characters, Rebekah, Cheif Wild, and agent Pippa Cinelli are tremendous. Each character felt earnest, focused, and honest about their goals and intentions, and the author does a great job of making you love their stories. A really fun thriller novel, I’ve already bought some other entires I can’t wait to dive deeper and deeper into this world. Highly recommend.

Marsie is in prison awaiting trial, which she is sure will never happen. She has plans and operators outside to help her exact revenge on Dillon Savich - but, first, on his wife and child. Back in D.C, Savich has just received a red box containing one-third of a jigsaw puzzle leading him to a small town where FBI agent Pippa Cinelli grew up. And Rebekkah, the daughter of a wealthy family, is sought out by a fortune teller who purports to have a message from her recently deceased grandfather concerning a secret treasure. Murder, a kidnapping, and conspiracy of longstanding duration make this an exciting FBI Thriller!

I think I’d actually rate this 3.5. The “ flash of anger” on the psycho’s face appearing about a dozen times during an interview was annoying. Savich and Sherlock are just TOO perfect, so the entire they don’t expect the arson attack seems somewhat illogical. I did request some of the earlier novels from my library. Savich and Sherlock are both Special Agents. Savich managed to get a psychopath arrested and tossed in jail, and she has numerous plans for revenge. The agents are also involved with a case involving a rather young politician’s wife, who Savich happens to save from a kidnapping attempt. Lots of characters and twisted plots.

I always like Savich and Sherlock. There is someone after Savich and they know the way to hurt him is to hurt his family. Someone is sending him puzzle pieces and one of the agents recognizes the place where the puzzle picture was taken. As they agent is sent to check it out, Savich visits an old nemesis in prison. He is sure that she is behind it all, but proving it will be tough. Can they find the proof before Sherlock and Sean are killed? Savich also saves a young woman from kidnapping and a big can of worms is opened in the process. Will they find justice for an old murder?

Savich and Sherlock are involved with 2 cases. Savich is trying to convice Maria Gray of crimes - she is in prison awaiting trial. Savich stops a kidnapping of a Senator's wif , Rebekah. He assigns an agent to protect her. Savich receives part of a jigsaw puzzle of a town, he sends an agent to investigate who used to live in the town. Shegets hit on the head and is captured. Dillon goes to her rescue but he gets a call that his house is on fire with Sherlock and his son inside! Lots going on in this book! Exciting!

Although I have not read this entire series, each book is a good one with each case being a good stand-alone type police procedural. I am only missing the back story of Savich and Sherlock. In this book, a criminal (in jail) is seeking revenge against Savich for putting her in jail. She is certain that she all charges will be dropped when the star witness is attacked and left for dead. Good read. I may go back and read the entire series in order as this book piqued my interest.

4.0 Stars This series has quickly become one of the best mystery series I have read. I haven't read every book, but I have loved many of the entries. The mystery is always the right balance between being dark and cozy. The story is comforting yet still does not shy away from the darkness of humanity. Also, I love the Quebec French settings. This audiobook had a different narrator. I liked the last one but I appreciate that this narrator is local to the area. The best element continues to be the characters. I adore Garmache and Bouvier, who have grown and developed so much over the course of the series. I loved the specific plot of this one and found it to be one of the best storylines I have read in this series. I highly recommend this series to anyone who loves well written character driven mysteries. Disclaimer I received a copy of this book from the publisher.

3.5* I'm not entirely sure what to write about this one. I've previously read and enjoyed a couple of the earlier books from Louise Penny's Chief Inspector Armand Gamache Series and thoroughly enjoyed them. But this one had a much darker tone and I felt that I must have missed a lot of series-level plot and character development over the intervening books. Or perhaps the series has just gone in a different direction and no longer interests me as much as the earlier instalments - I gave up on reading Patricia Cornwell's Kay Scarpetta series about 10 books ago for much the same reason, despite having devoured the earlier books in that series. In The Grey Wolf, Chief Inspector Gamache follow a trail of high-level political corruption that causes Gamache to doubt the bona fides of several colleagues he's worked with for years. A break-in at his Three Pines home and a subsequent meeting with the purported burglar quickly turn deadly when the man is run down in a targeted vehicular homicide, which Gamache himself is fortunate to escape. Investigations reveal a dark and twisted plot to contaminate Montreal's water supply with a deadly toxin. This event is intended provide the basis for a political coup and the declaration of a state of emergency across Canada, which would in turn provide certain individuals with virtually unfettered power (sound familiar?). Following a trail of clues left for him, Gamache and his team visit an isolated monastery in Quebec (that I gleaned had been the setting for a previous Gamache mystery), travel to the Vatican in Rome and ultimately to the Monastère de la Grande Chartreuse in eastern France, the source of the famous green liqueur, which is certainly an acquired taste! While I admit that this is partly due to my own failure to read the series in order, I found that there were too many characters for me to easily keep track of. And while some sections of the plot had me thoroughly immersed and on the edge of my seat, at other times I felt the plot languished into periods of self-reflection and distracting flash-backs. Perhaps the overall product might have been more successful to an audience of non-series readers had it been 100 pages shorter (standard crime novel length). But there were so many plot threads that related back to investigations and family situations in Gamache's past that I can understand why Louise Penny required the mid-400 page format to include all the material. I'm honestly not sure if I can strongly recommend The Grey Wolf to readers like myself, who haven't read all of the preceding 18 books in the series. Based on the reviews of others, it seems that even devoted series readers are split on how to regard these later books. That said, I do intend to return to the earlier part of the series, which I expect to enjoy more than I did this title.

In this 19th outing, Gamache and his trusted team follow a trail of breadcrumbs that seems to point to a deadly domestic terrorism plot that could overturn the Canadian government. Very exciting ending which seems to hint at more to come.

2025: I reread The Grey Wolf right before the release of The Black Wolf because as a reader, I feel that I have an obligation to the author to have details fresh in my mind since I know the new book is going to pick up right where this one ended. Well, at least I assume it will! I was reminded that this wasn't my favorite because there were too many coincidences and details that didn't feel fully satisfying when fit together. But I was also reminded why, nearly 20 books into this series, that I don't really care. Because these are books about people—real, messy, life with people—that just happen to have mysteries involved. This book in particular (minor spoilers here) had me feeling so many deep emotions and I came to the realization that this series is actually not about Gamache. Near the end of the story, a character points out that Gamache is unchanging, that he is trustworthy and good and honest and admirable. And that is in contrast to how other characters have needed to grow over the course of the series. In particular this book made my heart ache with joy and hope and love for the arc of Jean-Guy. He is a new man, A Better Man, a good, honest, admirable, and trustworthy man. His transformation has touched so many characters in these books, and he may actually be the hidden hero, the true main character of these stories. Honestly my secret hope is that this is the final Gamache book, that Penny ends it on her terms and with an absolute bang, and that we then get a series truly centered on Jean-Guy, 20 years later, maybe even starting at Gamache's funeral. She could write that and I would hate it but I would love it. 2024: No this wasn’t the best but I enjoyed it more than the previous installment and it was absolutely perfect timing for me. I needed the stability of Gamache and to see beloved characters fighting for justice and truth even at great personal cost. There were a few moments that were to simple and a few others that were a little familiar, but so what? I loved putting the pieces together, seeing where things went, and the characters, the characters, the characters. A few little spoiler-y details I really loved - Ruth and Jean-Guy, the underlined b on the cover, the reveal for the next books’s title, and as always, the acknowledgments.

Louise Penny is an all-time favorite author, and I am forever obsessed with the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. Every book lover has their favorite comfort reads, and this series is one of mine. I actually haven’t read all the books yet, but I’ve been slowly buying them up over the years. The Grey Wolf was the 19th instalment, and was my most anticipated read of the entire year. I really enjoyed this book. I wouldn’t say it was my favorite story in the series, but I still devoured it nonetheless. I wouldn’t say this was a standalone, but you don’t need to start at the beginning of the series to enjoy it. There were some characters that were brought back into play from The Beautiful Mystery (book 8), but I don’t think it’s essential to have read it beforehand. However, I think it would be ideal to read the last 2-3 books to get a better feel for the reoccurring characters before diving into this one. This story was action-packed, original and kept me guessing all the way through. It was a cross between a mystery and a spy thriller, and there were a ton of unexpected twists and turns along the way. There was a political spin to this story, which wasn’t really my jam. I wouldn’t say that I hated it, but it felt a bit dry at times. I also wish that we had spent more time in Three Pines in this story. This little slice of heaven is my favorite part of the series, and I would’ve liked to have seen it more. Read if you like: ✨Police procedurals ✨Canadian settings ✨Action-packed mysteries ✨Found family

“i was circling two hundred miles above the earth, and all i wanted was to get home and see you. do you understand that i dont care how big or small this world is, that you are the center of mine? do you understand that, to someone, you are everything that matters on this entire planet?” this is undeniably a love story. its a love story between a woman and the stars she admires. its a love story regarding a friend that becomes something more. and its a love story about the special care an aunt has for her niece. its a love story about passions, hidden touches, family bonds, and ultimately life. its expertly written, emotionally impactful, and captivatingly courageous. its everything that makes TJRs books so remarkable. ↠ 4.5 stars

I loved it! Full RTC. The other books on my current reads shelf need to step aside and make room… 🥁 here 👏🏻 I 👏🏻go! 😍 I was just thinking to myself the other day... damn it seems like it's been forever since TJR has dropped a new book. And here we have it peeps! I can't even wait bc this gorgeous author ALWAYS SERVES! 💘 Anticipated Release- 06/03/2025

To gaze up at the great canvas of cosmic light, to ‘let your soul stand cool and composed before a million universes,’ as Walt Whitman wrote, is a poignant moment that can wash over you with the night breeze and leave you feeling miniscule in the face of such immensity. It can be calming to bathe in its brilliance and marvel at how in all this vastness there is the vastness of love. Though love can mean the whole world, its absence can echo with the enormity of the universe. When the aches of the heart cry out, the works of Taylor Jenkins Reid tend to be a soothing savoir and in Atmosphere we find love writ large across the vast distance of space. An adventurous slow-burn of a novel that sets the heart ablaze like a spacecraft reentering the atmosphere, this is an epic tale of queer love carving its initials into the immortality of history as we follow Joan Goodwin reach for her dreams amongst the stars as one of NASA’s first women scientists aboard the space shuttle program. Deftly maneuvering between timelines and through both the trials and troubles of Joan’s life and the life or death decisions of space flight, Reid engagingly illuminates each emotional moment to tell a story as hopeful as it is heartbreaking. It’s a book you’ll never want to put down. Fighting to flourish in a space unwelcoming to women, and forging an identity and connections in a society where one must hide their “true self”, Atmosphere is about bravely daring to go to places unexplored and champions the resilience of those who boldly leave the Earth behind for something far greater and it is journey to the stars and heart you won’t regret. ‘If we leave the planet, we carry that with us into every room we enter for the rest of our lives.’ ‘To look up at the nighttime sky,’ writes Reid, ‘is to become a part of a long line of people throughout human history who looked above at that same set of stars.’ This yearning and wonderment for the stars often feels like something that makes us human, something we share stretching back through all the generations. ‘It is to witness time unfolding.’ Growing up with the spectacle of space travel as a favorite subject, I was thrilled to dive into Reid tackle a historical fiction about NASA in her signature heartrenching tales of love and struggle. As I personally struggle with notions of love and heartache, Atmosphere was like a soothing balm for my soul and it was a pleasure to get lost in Reid’s fine fiction. This book really has a lot to offer and Reid succeeds at balancing all the elements for the most part. Granted there were moments when the romance tends to eat the scenery of the historical aspects however, to her credit, Reid makes them so interesting and engaging you simply don’t want to drift from them. Still, aspects on identity from professional to romantic and familial roles, are well explored and strum all the heartstrings like Bowie on the bridge notes in Space Oddity (which features in the novel and Reid’s accompanying PLAYLIST ). With a rather dynamic cast of characters and a slew of life’s ups and downs for them to trip upon, Atmosphere may certainly be regarded as Reid’s most impressive work to date. ‘Bravery is being unafraid of something other people are afraid of. Courage is being afraid, but strong enough to do it anyway.’ Space is cool and all but, let’s be real, space is also kind of scarry. Like hell yea, strap me in and shoot me off into the stars and all but also like, you know you’re going to be nervous too. How can you not be. Bravery comes swinging on every page of this book and Jane and engineer Vanessa Ford are wonderfully written and empowering portraits of bravery. Reid, who excels at delving into avenues of history with an eye for all the oppressions presented by patriarchy for the women present, does well by exploring the theme of women in an up-hill battle against the barriers of fields dominated by men by situating it in the awe-inspiring atmosphere of the ultimate STEM field: NASA and astronaut training. Which you know you’ve always wanted to try, come on. LETS GO (so scarry). It’s a treacherous landscape of life to traverse, where ‘happiness is so hard to come by’ and we truly feel how ‘being human was such a lonely endeavor,’ but Reid offers the hope of the light of love brightening our horizons and the glorious dawns afforded by bravery in the face of oppression, fears, loss, and even death. This book kicks ass. ‘Just the act of falling in love was to agree to a broken heart.’ Just prior to publication, Taylor Jenkins Reid went on record about her identity during an interview with Time saying ‘it has been hard at times to see people dismiss me as a straight woman, but I also didn’t tell them the whole story.’ Opening up about her sexuality (shoutout to my bisexuals!) became an aspect up the novel, she explained, with being able to present queer love (in spaaaaaaaace) on the page being a laboratory for analyzing herself. The result is nothing short of heartwarming and utterly adorable because I quite love the love story here and I love me some love even if I’ve been really struggling with love and this book was exactly what I needed. Seriously, this is such a feel good book. It’s like injecting the sun into your ass or something without the addictive qualities that come with the usual methods. And the ending. I loved this. ‘You make my life worth something.’ Atmosphere is one hell of an emotional and educational adventure and it is more than worth the price of admission. Plus, you get a cool PLAYLIST that, of course, has some Fleetwood Mac on it because the ache and joy of Daisy Jones & the Sixes plays on. While I may still prefer Daisy to the present novel, this stands strong and proud beside it and will likely garner Reid more attention and new readers. They are the lucky ones getting to experience her books for the first time and I know that was a surprise for me how much I’ve really enjoyed all I’ve read. I will be eagerly awaiting another. 4/5 ‘Do you understand that I don’t care how big or small this world is, that you are the center of mine? Do you understand that, to someone, you are everything that matters on this entire planet?’

"You are the first woman I've ever met who I feel like understands things about me before I even say them." my heart?? gone. shattered. scattered across the stars. this is my third TJR book — after Malibu Rising and Daisy Jones left me confused about whether she was for me... but this? this cracked my chest open. I listened to the audiobook, and it made the emotional gut-punch land 10x harder. the narration? absolutely stunning. kristen dimercurio & julia whelan killed it. even TJR herself added special to the mix. joan goodwin is the type of character who doesn’t scream for attention — she pulls it. quiet. smart. aching with ambition. she loves the stars with her whole heart, but she never expected that dream to feel so close. so real. and when NASA opens its doors to women scientists… she walks in, carrying her doubts and dreams side by side. and vanessa ford?? that woman is a fever dream. aloof. sharp. magnetic in a way that feels dangerous and safe at once. her dynamic with joan was slow-burn excellence. the kind that sneaks up on you and suddenly, you’re in it. there was no grand confession. no labels. just glances and longing and space between them that felt full. "I would give you anything if it wouldn't cost us everything." ^ this line will live in my brain rent free until the day I die. there’s something so soft but cutting about how TJR tells stories. this wasn’t a flashy book. not trying to go viral. it’s slow. thoughtful. and by the end? you realize your chest has been tight for 300 pages straight. it’s about love, yes. but it’s also about sacrifice. ambition. family. grief. NASA wasn’t just the setting — it was a metaphor for distance, for gravity, for how we launch ourselves toward the things we want even when it terrifies us. this is a book that lingers. somewhere around the 70% mark, it clicks. everything you didn’t realize was building starts to bloom. the tension. the weight of joan’s choices. by the final chapters, I was holding my breath. crying like it was personal. like I was the one in the capsule, waiting for contact. the vibes?? immaculate. 🪐 quiet ambition 💗 sharp, simmering sapphic tension 🪐 the '80s in the background like a heartbeat 💗 found family at the edge of space 🪐 female characters written with such care and respect 💗 grief that doesn’t scream, just settles into your bones 🪐 one tiny moment that changes everything 💗 emotional devastation delivered with literary precision not every book changes your atmosphere. this one did. finished it and I just sat there like. okay. guess I’ll never recover from that. would I recommend it? yes. if you’re patient. if you love character-driven stories. if you don’t mind a little heartbreak with your ambition. if you believe women can be everything — brilliant, broken, bold. this book burned slow, but — when it lit up? it blazed.

3.5 ⭐️ rounded up because I did enjoy it overall and it made me cry twice. Having lived most of my life so close to KSC and watching launches from my yard, I’ve always been fascinated by astronauts and NASA. After seeing the title and cover last year, this quickly became one of my most anticipated reads. But once I started seeing reviews mention that the story focused more on the romance than on the first female astronauts, I decided to hold off for a while. Honestly, I think if I had picked it up right when it came out, my rating would have been much lower. Adjusting my expectations and going in fully aware of where the emphasis lay made a big difference, and I ended up enjoying it more because of that. The opening scene with the 1984 Shuttle mission STS-LR9 grabbed my attention immediately and had me on the edge of my seat. From there, the timeline shifts back to 1980 when Joan begins her training. After that, the structure becomes a bit of a roller coaster, moving back and forth in time as it builds toward December 1984. While I really enjoyed the main romance and was completely rooting for them as a couple, call me a space geek, but I wanted more about their training and missions. I especially loved the camaraderie within their astronaut class and the bonds that formed from spending so much time together in such a competitive field where so few are chosen. Anyone who knows me knows I have a soft spot for side characters, so it’s no surprise that Griff ended up being one of my favorites in this story. The ending felt so abrupt and incomplete, almost as if the author grew tired of the story and simply decided to stop, which ultimately made me drop half a star. As much as I despised Joan’s sister, I still wanted to see how that situation fully played out in the end. If any book ever needed an epilogue, it was this one. Had the focus been more evenly balanced between the romance, Joan’s family drama, and the space program, and had the ending been tied up more thoughtfully, this easily could have been a five-star read for me. As always, I had so much fun buddy reading this one with my girl Brooke and sharing all the interesting facts I came across, like how out of more than 8,000 applicants, only 10 were selected for the 2025 Astronaut Candidate Class which also happens to be the first class with more women than men. Be sure to check out her review to see her thoughts on this one too.

RATING BREAKDOWN Characters: 4⭐️ Setting: 4⭐️ Plot: 3⭐️ Themes: 3⭐️ Emotional Impact: 4⭐️ Personal Enjoyment: 4⭐️ Total Rounded Average: 3.75⭐️ There was so much about this story that I adored. The setting was almost perfect for me! A main character training to be an astronaut at NASA in the 80s? It's literally my favorite idea ever. Add in a found family and a forbidden love story, and it really has the makings of greatness. Joan was a phenomenal main character. I also found the love interest to be well-developed. Their interactions, dynamics, compatibility, and communication were flawless to read. I take points off for characters only because the supporting characters, in contrast, felt caricatured to me. The setting could have been improved even more with more exposition on the space shuttle itself, and some of the time the characters actually spent at work. The plot was near perfect in terms of the space program, the tension, the conflict, and self-discovery. The entire Frances sub-plot ended up extremely bloated for me, at times unbelievable, and ultimately overdramatic. I understand why the author wanted to explore the proxy-parent angle and felt it would add more emotional impact in the climax, but to me, it detracted, pulled me out of the story, and muddied the thematic waters of the narrative. Identity, autonomy, and honesty are huge themes of the story. Ultimately, Frances is robbed of most of this by the end, and it is unclear how Joan will navigate these themes with her moving forward. In my opinion, the story would have hit harder and been cleaner if Frances had remained a character development device for Joan and not a competing sub-plot. Overall, I had a great time and was emotionally invested in most of the aspects of the story. It will be easy to recommend, since at the very least, most people will like it, and many will love it. My personal enjoyment was reduced slightly by what felt like modern philosophy and sensibilities on gender being retro-applied to a narrative in the 80s. This is personal preference, and I'll likely be in the minority on that one. Ultimately, I don't think anyone will NOT like this book. It may not be a favorite for everyone, but it is undeniably solid, accessible, with truly great aspects, sure to touch and move many readers, with the technical chops to make it super readable.

The night I finished this book; I was practically holding my breath the whole way through. It was 1 of those strange, electric reading experiences - like being strapped into a shuttle about to launch, heart pounding with every countdown beat. And then, in the final 30 pages, I completely lost it. Not because it was sad, but because there was so much emotion swirling inside me, I couldn’t name it, just... Set during the golden era of the 1980s U.S. space shuttle program, the book follows Joan, a former astrophysics professor who answers the call of destiny and becomes 1 of the first female astronauts. Her story unfolds in a rhythm of memory and present-day, like a trajectory slicing through the atmosphere - sharp with science, but burning with feeling. Reid’s writing is as smooth and propulsive as ever, each chapter like a perfectly calibrated thruster, pushing the story forward with warmth and precision. Joan is a deeply layered character. She’s a scientist, an astronaut, a woman, a lover, and an aunt. Her identity constantly collides and reshapes itself at the edges of society. As a queer woman, her love isn’t allowed to bloom in the open sunlight. But Reid doesn’t turn her story into a tale of suffering - instead, she writes with restraint and respect, showing how Joan finds dignity in silence, and strength in staying true to herself. What moved me most was her relationship with her niece, Frances. When Joan’s sister couldn’t take on the responsibility of raising her daughter, Joan stepped in without hesitation. She gave up certain dreams, but in the quiet routines of caring for Frances, she discovered another kind of flight - 1 that stays close to the ground. A love that doesn’t need applause or glory. She wasn’t a mother, but she embodied the fierce tenderness of 1. And when Joan finally achieves her dream of going to space, she realizes that the things that matter most have always been here, on Earth. She learns that love isn’t possession - it’s respect. It’s choosing to stand beside someone, even when their choices scare you. Reid captures love in all its phases: the spark of first connection, the quiet rhythm of companionship, the ache of parting. It reminded me of my own relationship, of the star we once found together. This novel actually isn’t some grand space epic - it’s more like a love letter to Earth. It reminds us that we come from the universe, and we’ll return to it someday. But in the meantime, to be loved and to love deeply - that’s the most romantic thing of all. I found myself smiling in the middle of the night after finishing it. That kind of smile that comes from being seen, from feeling something real. That “I’ve loved like this too” kind of smile. Taylor Jenkins Reid once again proves her gift for writing women with depth and grace. Atmosphere carries her signature style - emotionally rich but never heavy, lyrical but never fluffy. It’s a story about growth, sacrifice, love, and choice. And above all, it’s a story about finding your place in the vastness of the universe. If you’ve ever looked up at the stars and wondered about another life… If you’ve ever wrestled with love and responsibility… If you believe that love is the 1 trace, we leave behind in the cosmos... Then you’ll fall in love with this book, too. 4.2 / 5 stars

4/5 - This book was a slower start for me, but ended with a bang! The characters and their emotions felt SO real. I was rooting for the love story in this from beginning to end. - Wish there had been a bit less NASA and a tad more of everything else. I really loved reading about the family dynamic and TJR really nailed on how complicated families can be. - I’ve read six books by this author and they never disappoint! I’m always left feeling as if I just watched a good movie I never want to end!

I couldn’t wait for this one, but I will say the first 100 pages of this book I was bored & I actually almost DNF’d and I feel like that needs to be said, because the other reviews I read did not mention how unbelievably boring the first 100 pages were so I felt like it was just me and almost quit. I didn’t realize that the beauty of the book was still to come. I think the most beautiful part of this book was them fighting against everything to be together. They had to shape their whole lives around hiding their relationship since it could have ruined their careers. I hated Joan’s sister so much and I am so glad Joan was there for her niece. The last 50 pages make this book worthwhile. I was so emotional. I can’t say too much without giving it away, but it was beautiful and heart breaking. I personally feel this needed an epilogue. How was that the ending?! Overall, I found this book hard to rate as I had many issues with it including the boring beginning. However, there were some beautiful moments that made me feel still happy to have read it and it still made an impact on me.

4.5⭐️ One of my favorite things about TJR’s writing is that all of her books are so vastly different but yet feel the same at the same time? You can always guarantee you’ll go on some sort of emotional journey, and Atmosphere is no exception. This book is so emotionally moving in every aspect. The love story, the camaraderie, the relationship between Frances and Joan, women empowerment - seriously this book has it all. The last chapter had my heart racing, palms sweating, and *surprise to no one* sobbing. WOMEN ARE SO COOL & so is space I need this as a movie asap

THAT ENDING WAS NOT FUNNY. NOT FUNNY AT ALL.

╰┈➤ 𝟺.𝟽𝟻 ✰ ꜱᴛᴀʀꜱ 🌌 ❝ “𝚆𝚎𝚕𝚕, 𝚠𝚎 𝚊𝚛𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚜𝚝𝚊𝚛𝚜,” 𝙹𝚘𝚊𝚗 𝚜𝚊𝚒𝚍. "𝙰𝚗𝚍 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚜𝚝𝚊𝚛𝚜 𝚊𝚛𝚎 𝚞𝚜. 𝙴𝚟𝚎𝚛𝚢 𝚊𝚝𝚘𝚖 𝚒𝚗 𝚘𝚞𝚛 𝚋𝚘𝚍𝚒𝚎𝚜 𝚠𝚊𝚜 𝚘𝚗𝚌𝚎 𝚘𝚞𝚝 𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚛𝚎. 𝚆𝚊𝚜 𝚘𝚗𝚌𝚎 𝚊 𝚙𝚊𝚛𝚝 𝚘𝚏 𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚖. 𝚃𝚘 𝚕𝚘𝚘𝚔 𝚊𝚝 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚗𝚒𝚐𝚑𝚝 𝚜𝚔𝚢 𝚒𝚜 𝚝𝚘 𝚕𝚘𝚘𝚔 𝚊𝚝 𝚙𝚊𝚛𝚜 𝚘𝚏 𝚠𝚑𝚘 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚘𝚗𝚌𝚎 𝚠𝚎𝚛𝚎, 𝚠𝚑𝚘 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚖𝚊𝚢 𝚘𝚗𝚎 𝚍𝚊𝚢 𝚋𝚎.” ❞ 📚⋮ 𝐀𝐭𝐦𝐨𝐬𝐩𝐡𝐞𝐫𝐞 𝐛𝐲 𝐓𝐚𝐲𝐥𝐨𝐫 𝐉𝐞𝐧𝐤𝐢𝐧𝐬 𝐑𝐞𝐢𝐝 ⤷ buddy read with Nancy ♡ check out her review! 📜⋮ 𝐏𝐚𝐠𝐞𝐬: 𝟹𝟻𝟸 🏷️⋮ 𝐆𝐞𝐧𝐫𝐞: 𝚁𝚘𝚖𝚊𝚗𝚌𝚎, 𝙷𝚒𝚜𝚝𝚘𝚛𝚒𝚌𝚊𝚕 𝙵𝚒𝚌𝚝𝚒𝚘𝚗 📖/📱⋮ 𝐅𝐨𝐫𝐦𝐚𝐭: 𝙺𝚒𝚗𝚍𝚕𝚎 & 𝙿𝚑𝚢𝚜𝚒𝚌𝚊𝚕 𝙱𝚘𝚘𝚔 📆⋮ 𝐃𝐚𝐭𝐞𝐬 𝐑𝐞𝐚𝐝: 𝟸/𝟷𝟺/𝟸𝟼-𝟸/𝟸𝟷/𝟸𝟼 💬⋮ 𝐒𝐲𝐧𝐨𝐩𝐬𝐢𝐬 「 ”Joan Goodwin has been obsessed with the stars for as long as she can remember. She burns to be one of the few people to go to space. Selected from a pool of thousands of applicants in the summer of 1980, Joan begins training at Houston's Johnson Space Center, alongside an exceptional group of fellow candidates. As the new astronauts become unlikely friends and prepare for their first flights, Joan finds a passion and a love she never imagined. In this new light, Joan begins to question everything she thinks she knows about her place in the observable universe.”」 ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ❝𝙱𝚛𝚊𝚟𝚎𝚛𝚢 𝚒𝚜 𝚋𝚎𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚞𝚗𝚊𝚏𝚛𝚊𝚒𝚍 𝚘𝚏 𝚜𝚘𝚖𝚎𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚘𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚛 𝚙𝚎𝚘𝚙𝚕𝚎 𝚊𝚛𝚎 𝚊𝚏𝚛𝚊𝚒𝚍 𝚘𝚏. 𝙲𝚘𝚞𝚛𝚊𝚐𝚎 𝚒𝚜 𝚋𝚎𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚊𝚏𝚛𝚊𝚒𝚍, 𝚋𝚞𝚝 𝚜𝚝𝚛𝚘𝚗𝚐 𝚎𝚗𝚘𝚞𝚐𝚑 𝚝𝚘 𝚍𝚘 𝚒𝚝 𝚊𝚗𝚢𝚠𝚊𝚢.❞ ᴍʏ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: ★★★★.75/5 ɢᴏᴏᴅʀᴇᴀᴅꜱ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: 𝟺.𝟹𝟹 ☆ ꜱᴛᴀʀꜱ ꜱᴘɪᴄᴇ: ᴄʟᴏꜱᴇᴅ ᴅᴏᴏʀ 🚪 ᴘᴀɪʀ ᴡɪᴛʜ: ᴘʙ&ᴊ ꜱᴀɴᴅᴡɪᴄʜ ᴡɪᴛʜ ᴀ ꜱᴛʀᴀᴡʙᴇʀʀʏ ᴍɪʟᴋꜱʜᴀᴋᴇ 🥤 ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ɪ ʀᴇᴄᴏᴍᴍᴇɴᴅ?: 👍🏼 ɴᴏᴡ ᴘʟᴀʏɪɴɢ: ᴅʀᴏᴘꜱ ᴏꜰ ᴊᴜᴘɪᴛᴇʀ — ᴛʀᴀɪɴ 0:48 ———♡——— 4:19 ⇄ ◃◃ ⅠⅠ ▹▹ ↻ ╭─── ┆ ╰⪼ 🎶 𝘣𝘶𝘵 𝘵𝘦𝘭𝘭 𝘮𝘦, 𝘥𝘪𝘥 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘴𝘢𝘪𝘭 𝘢𝘤𝘳𝘰𝘴𝘴 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘴𝘶𝘯? 𝘥𝘪𝘥 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘮𝘢𝘬𝘦 𝘪𝘵 𝘵𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘮𝘪𝘭𝘬𝘺 𝘸𝘢𝘺 𝘵𝘰 𝘴𝘦𝘦 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘭𝘪𝘨𝘩𝘵𝘴 𝘢𝘭𝘭 𝘧𝘢𝘥𝘦𝘥 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘩𝘦𝘢𝘷𝘦𝘯 𝘪𝘴 𝘰𝘷𝘦𝘳𝘳𝘢𝘵𝘦𝘥? 𝘵𝘦𝘭𝘭 𝘮𝘦, 𝘥𝘪𝘥 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘧𝘢𝘭𝘭 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘢 𝘴𝘩𝘰𝘰𝘵𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘴𝘵𝘢𝘳; 𝘰𝘯𝘦 𝘸𝘪𝘵𝘩𝘰𝘶𝘵 𝘢 𝘱𝘦𝘳𝘮𝘢𝘯𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘴𝘤𝘢𝘳? 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘥𝘪𝘥 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘮𝘪𝘴𝘴 𝘮𝘦 𝘸𝘩𝘪𝘭𝘦 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘸𝘦𝘳𝘦 𝘭𝘰𝘰𝘬𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘺𝘰𝘶𝘳𝘴𝘦𝘭𝘧 𝘰𝘶𝘵 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘳𝘦? ⊱ ────── {⋆ ‧₊˚♪𝄞 ⋆} ────── ⊰ ʀᴇᴀᴅ ɪꜰ ʏᴏᴜ ʟɪᴋᴇ: 🚀 ɴᴀꜱᴀ 🌌 ꜰᴏᴜɴᴅ ꜰᴀᴍɪʟʏ 🚀 ᴡᴏᴍᴇɴ ɪɴ ꜱᴛᴇᴍ 🌌 ꜱᴀᴘᴘʜɪᴄ ʀᴏᴍᴀɴᴄᴇ 🚀 ꜱᴘᴀᴄᴇ ᴇxᴘʟᴏʀᴀᴛɪᴏɴ 🌌 ᴅɪꜱᴄᴏᴠᴇʀɪɴɢ ʏᴏᴜʀꜱᴇʟꜰ ❝𝙸𝚗 𝚊𝚕𝚕 𝚘𝚏 𝚑𝚎𝚛 𝚝𝚒𝚖𝚎 𝚜𝚙𝚎𝚗𝚝 𝚠𝚊𝚝𝚌𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚘𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚛𝚜, 𝚜𝚑𝚎 𝚑𝚊𝚍𝚗'𝚝 𝚙𝚒𝚌𝚔𝚎𝚍 𝚞𝚙 𝚘𝚗 𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚜 𝚙𝚊𝚛𝚝 𝚘𝚏 𝚏𝚊𝚕𝚕𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚒𝚗 𝚕𝚘𝚟𝚎, 𝚝𝚑𝚊𝚝 𝚜𝚘𝚖𝚎𝚘𝚗𝚎 𝚌𝚘𝚞𝚕𝚍 𝚕𝚘𝚘𝚔 𝚊𝚝 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚊𝚜 𝚒𝚏 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚠𝚎𝚛𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚟𝚎𝚛𝚢 𝚌𝚎𝚗𝚝𝚎𝚛 𝚘𝚏 𝚎𝚟𝚎𝚛𝚢𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐. 𝙰𝚗𝚍 𝚎𝚟𝚎𝚗 𝚝𝚑𝚘𝚞𝚐𝚑 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚔𝚗𝚎𝚠 𝚋𝚎𝚝𝚝𝚎𝚛, 𝚢𝚘𝚞'𝚍 𝚊𝚕𝚕𝚘𝚠 𝚢𝚘𝚞𝚛𝚜𝚎𝚕𝚏 𝚊 𝚖𝚘𝚖𝚎𝚗𝚝 𝚝𝚘 𝚋𝚎𝚕𝚒𝚎𝚟𝚎 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚠𝚎𝚛𝚎 𝚠𝚘𝚛𝚝𝚑𝚢 𝚘𝚏 𝚋𝚎𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚛𝚎𝚟𝚘𝚕𝚟𝚎𝚍 𝚊𝚛𝚘𝚞𝚗𝚍, 𝚝𝚘𝚘. ❞ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ 💭⋮ 𝐓𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐬 • I don’t know why I put off reading Atmosphere for so long. Maybe because I somehow knew the emotional damages it would cause me? I’m glad I waited because I had such a good time buddy reading this with Nancy. • Not a lot of people know this about me, but I’m a little bit of. space nerd 🤓 & this book let my inner nerd flag fly freely. • TJR really nailed showing the way women in male dominated fields have to work twice as hard & be twice as good just to be taken seriously by their fellow coworkers. But my girls in this book were not to be misjudged or downplayed at what they were capable of. I love when women 🤌🏼 ✘ What I Didn’t Love: ↬ how abruptly the book ended! I wanted more. Like Nancy said, it was like the author just decided she had enough & stopped writing in the middle of a chapter. I’m the type of person who needs resolution & closure, which I don’t feel like we get at the end. • If you want a book that’s going to shatter your heart across the stars, have you cheering (and crying) out loud, & make you ponder if you want to work for NASA too, then read Atmosphere. ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊⟡ ⋆ ⋆˙⟡ ⋆.˚ ⊹₊ ❝𝚃𝚘 𝚕𝚘𝚘𝚔 𝚞𝚙 𝚊𝚝 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚗𝚒𝚐𝚑𝚝𝚝𝚒𝚖𝚎 𝚜𝚔𝚢 𝚒𝚜 𝚝𝚘 𝚋𝚎𝚌𝚘𝚖𝚎 𝚊 𝚙𝚊𝚛𝚝 𝚘𝚏 𝚊 𝚕𝚘𝚗𝚐 𝚕𝚒𝚗𝚎 𝚘𝚏 𝚙𝚎𝚘𝚙𝚕𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚛𝚘𝚞𝚐𝚑𝚘𝚞𝚝 𝚑𝚞𝚖𝚊𝚗 𝚑𝚒𝚜𝚝𝚘𝚛𝚢 𝚠𝚑𝚘 𝚕𝚘𝚘𝚔𝚎𝚍 𝚊𝚋𝚘𝚟𝚎 𝚊𝚝 𝚝𝚑𝚊𝚝 𝚜𝚊𝚖𝚎 𝚜𝚎𝚝 𝚘𝚏 𝚜𝚝𝚊𝚛𝚜. 𝙸𝚝 𝚒𝚜 𝚝𝚘 𝚠𝚒𝚝𝚗𝚎𝚜𝚜 𝚝𝚒𝚖𝚎 𝚞𝚗𝚏𝚘𝚕𝚍𝚒𝚗𝚐.❞

4 - 4.5 Stars This isn't going to be that stellar of a review, but I wanted to get something down here before it completely got away from me. I enjoyed this a lot. TJR's writing is always chef's kiss. She writes great settings and characters in a way that seems simple, but if course is just indicative of her talent as a writer. I was excited to read this the minute I saw the blurb. I love all things NASA. Apollo 13 was one of my favorite movies growing up. "Houston, we have a problem" is still a used catchphrase for a reason, folks. And having this set in the 1980's? Superb. I don't want to spoil anything here, so I will just say that I loved all of the relationships in this book. The romances, the friendships, the familial...all of them. Why not 5 stars? I thought the ending was a little too gift bow, if I'm being honest. But regardless, I really enjoyed this and know most TJR fans will too.

Check out all my reviews at: https://www.avonnalovesgenres.com NIGHTWORK by Nora Roberts is a unique romantic suspense with a young hero who grows up to becomes a gentleman thief with his own set of rules and moral code. This is a standalone that that is mainly told from the viewpoint of the hero. Harry Booth never knew his father, but he always had the love of his mother and aunt, Mags. When Harry is 9 years old, his mother has her first fight with cancer. The sister’s cleaning company cannot keep up with the bills and Harry begins to pick pockets to help with money. By the age of 12, he was breaking into homes, only taking a few things of value and never with a weapon. When Harry graduated from high school, his mother died after two remissions, he set out on his own. He went south and his aunt went west. This is the start of a tale that follows Harry, Silas, Booth, Sebastian (different identities) all over the U.S., Europe, South America and then back to the U.S. I loved the flamboyant family of thieves and cons he kept as a pseudo family in New Orleans even though that is where his trouble with the antagonist, LaPorte in this story meet. I also loved how he always stayed in touch with Mags no matter what. When he first meets Miranda Emerson, you just knew it wouldn’t last, especially if you remember his taro reading, but when they come back together as adults it works. This is a very enjoyable book. Booth’s travels and escapades are interesting, Miranda is his perfect match, and all the other secondary characters are colorful and entertaining. The sex scenes are explicit, but not gratuitous and quick. There are ups and downs in the plot that keep you turning the pages. I enjoyed Harry and his story very much.

4+ stars! Thank you to St. Martin’s Press for the gift of this book I won in a Goodreads giveaway! I really enjoyed a full storyline that spanned many years. I found the main character of Harry/Booth/Sebastien to be so likable in all of his different personas. I loved reading about the food and culture in New Orleans. I’ve read a lot of Nora Roberts’ books, and this is one of my favorites!

This is my first Nora Roberts read. It was an absolute ride! The plot follows Harry through his youth to adulthood, as he begins pickpocketing and stealing from homes to pay for his mothers chemo. This turns into a fully-fledged professional career as this kid is quite the boy genius, upskilling on languages, mathematics and code cracking. Now I’m guessing Nora is well travelled, or perhaps an amazing researcher with a knack for getting to know people and communities, cause her characters are incredible. Likeable, interesting and memorable all in one. I was also googling cultural foods and translations as I went, which was fun. She lost a star for the sex scenes, they’re very cringe and soapy. This book might be totally far-fetched and unrealistic… but it’s fiction. Don’t take yourself too seriously, and do read this book. Thanks to Hachette for the ARC! 💖

I've never read Nora Roberts before this. I picked up this book for a buddy read, it was certainly a quick and easy read. The story took its time to tell, a detailed background story of why and how Harry started his journey. The love story between him and Miranda was as sweet as a sundae. It was fun reading how the heists took place. I have a soft spot for New Orleans, it seems to be so colorful and lively.The main highlight for me in this book was the food. The cooking and baking made me hungry and all the mouth-watering food were amazing. This was the "old-school" kind of storytelling for me. It was predictable and cheesy but it felt like home.

I don't know if I'm built for this ARC life. The slow reader in me was stressed trying to get this book finished! Whew! Nightwork was a great palate cleansing read. It was intriguing just enough to keep the mystery and suspense going. Harry, AKA Booth, AKA Silas, AKA Sebastian was an interesting and multilayered character. I loved his backstory and his transformative journey on becoming a thief. Not just a thief but, a thief with morals who lives by a strict set of rules. Harry’s ability to get in and get out with expensive and rare jewels without getting caught puts him on Carter LaPorte’s radar. LaPorte wants to own Harry but, Harry’s not down with the subterfuge. Therein begins a 13-year cat and mouse game between the two. Nightwork was a great read. Harry was such a complex character but, I really enjoyed getting to know him and watching him navigate his life through multiple personas. I loved reading about the different types of food and the culture of New Orleans. This book was classic Nora Roberts so, you can’t go wrong. A huge thank you to the author and St. Martin’s Press for the opportunity to read Nightwork ahead of its release date.

Nora never disappoints. I love how her books take us through a good chunk of a characters life. We follow Harry all the way from the age of nine to his 30's. What a ride! Ive only rooted for a few thieves in my life and he happened to be one of them🤣 ...... Out of necessity and survival to a full blown career. We meet a lot of characters that help shape him on this journey and i loved every single of them, we take trips from Chicago, to New orleans to Europe! Whew im already winded thinking about all that travel........ Solid 4 stars!!!!!!!

A delightful addition to Robert’s catalogue - and a deep and thoughtful read. Rating: 4/5 Last week, I was going through some stuff - which, when is a living person not - but all that was waylayed a little when I opened my mailbox and saw my ARC copy of Nightwork waiting for me. There may have been squeals of delight, a freezing cold picture of me and said ARC, and then two full days of driving where I was reading. But it was all well worth it. Following Booth (I really can’t think of him as anything but) navigate his bizarre world was such a treat. As someone who lost their mother young, I was immediately drawn in to Booth’s actions, his reasons, and even the persona he adopted. I cried. I laughed. I swooned. All for Booth and his sexy, complex life. Miranda was a delightful surprise. I figured she would end up very much taking the back seat, and even falling flat, but I was very much proven wrong. A huge thank you to both Roberts and St. Martin’s Press for the chance to read this ahead of publication. All views expressed in this review are my own.

4/5 stars…not quite what I anticipated, but as always with Ms Roberts, we get a well told, fascinating, fast-moving story that keeps one glued to the pages!

Round up to 4.5 stars.

I didn't expect to enjoy this as much as I did! Like Miranda, I have these "little pockets of like" for Harry Booth, the thief with squishy morals!

my main takeaway from this is that I want Nora Roberts to write a Gambit comic miniseries for Marvel. She has the range!! She has the prime crimes!! https://www.frowl.org/worstbestseller...

As per usual, Nora Roberts delivers just what I needed. Her romantic suspense novels are usually my favourite of hers, and Nightwork was highly entertaining. I liked that while I would classify this as a romance, there is such a depth of side story as well; the importance of family, the art of being a thief, food (oh boy so much delicious food), and community. A fun, fast paced read. ARC Provided by Edelweiss

4.25! “It’s yours,” he offers. I laugh. “Oh? I can have the world?” “Mine,” he says, “yeah. You can have mine.” I love reading Emily Henry's books and I love reviewing her books even more. I loveeee how much I love them and I absolutely love ranting and yapping about them. This book was very different from her usual romcoms and I loved the new direction she took because honestly, I do love authors trying new things and this, not so surprisingly, worked out for Emily. I did not feel like this was misgenred because I went in knowing this was leaning more towards women's fiction than a rom-com, so I did not face that problem either and uff the comfort that Emily's writing brings me is the best feeling ever because I don’t feel like this with many authors. This was also the first Emily book for which I had to wait a whole year and I hated that because previously I had other books of hers to read and they really filled the gap of a year, but the wait was agonizing and the wait was so worth it because it fulfilled the craving that I had for this book. It's scary how well Emily Henry knows me because??? Why was everything so relatable again?!? This is voodoo shit and needs to be checked. It was certainly very new and very different, but it was also proof that trying something new can be worth it. “Love isn’t something you can cup in your hands, and I have to believe that means it’s something that can’t ever be lost.” Her prose is just spectacular, so addicting, and honestly I make myself slow down when I read her books because I need to digest everything and like I can only read it once for the first time, so I always savor them but the way they're so delicious—I can’t stop. It makes me feel seen, I just feel better after reading her books. If I'm having a bad day, I'll just pick up her book and it would turn my world around and this book was no different, it was a euphoric form of escapism because I would come back from uni and I would just lie down to read this and would be so lost in it. The way she wrote it was also very impressive, like how she managed Alice and Hayden's story with Margaret's book?! Truly impressive. It definitely had aspects of mystery which felt so refreshing and honestly at first, I was just reading it for Alice and Hayden's story but as the book progressed, I got more invested in Margaret's. I would say that this is not my favorite book by her because it didn't grip me from the start like her other books, I had to work my way through chapters to be invested and it is understandable to see disappointed reactions but hah, glad I'm not among them. “When I let myself dream,” he murmurs against my ear, “or it all comes crashing down—it’s Alice, Alice on my mind. Alice all the time.” The characters took me by surprise: Alice, was such a refreshing character, like as usual she was very relatable but I loved her determination, how much good she saw in other things, I absolutely loved her optimism and one thing I love is when characters have flawed or complex family dynamics which shape their character arc and the same happened here with Alice, with her mom neglecting her work and putting her down (which I hated so muchhhh) and her trying to prove herself—it was soo sad. The way she just wanted her profession to be valued. I loved reading her perspective and the way she viewed the world. I also really enjoyed her interactions with Margaret and how she dealt with that process was also very intriguing to see. Hayden on the other hand was a bit harder to understand and I think this was the inability of this book to obtain a second perspective—his perspective. I have only one complaint when it comes to some of Emily's books: that they don’t have the male character's perspective and I feel like having that would've elevated this book more. But as for Hayden, he was charming, the perfect amount of broody, and I loved his subtle gestures. I liked his development as the book progressed—it was truly such a wonderful experience to see him open up and deal with everything, his character also felt very realistic. That's the thing that I love in her books, she manages to capture every character of hers in this unique sense which differentiates them from her other characters but still makes them so relatable that you have to fall in love with them. I love that about her books! “I think you live in a world that’s more interesting than the one most people live in,” he says, and just as my heart starts to sink with disappointment, with a kind of loneliness, he adds, “and I wish I could live in it too.” I feel myself beaming. “I’ll take you sometime.” “I’d like that,” he says.” Margaret, her story was not doing it for me at the beginning but as we moved forward I got so invested in it!! Like it was so interesting and the plot twists were very well written!! I liked how it started with 'their story' and then it would say 'her story' but I loved how dysfunctional these family dynamics were and at times the family tree got a little bit too confusing but it was still very interesting to say the least. Emily knows how to write a sibling relationship like we saw it in Book Lovers and while Margaret's relationship with her sister was so well written, it was also very complex and it was written in such depth that it's very hard not to love. It was so deep, raw, and emotional. Then we got introduced to Cosmo and omg how much I loved her with Cosmo, they were everything and I fear I will never get over them!! I won’t say anything more because I want everyone to experience it themselves, it was truly brilliant writing. “There’s an old saying about stories, and how there are always three versions of them: yours, mine, and the truth.” The romance—besides Margaret and Cosmo—there were our main characters in this book Alice and Hayden and I loveeeed the chemistry between them, it was so intense and raw, like it was so well developed and all of it felt so natural, like the romance was not the main focus but still everything just fit right in. I was scared when I saw the early reviews talking about the romance but for me, it totally hit!! The tension between them was sizzling, how they went from rivals to lovers was so good and I liked how their interactions changed each time and how they opened up to each other. The spice was also well written and lmao I loved how horny it was and can we talk about how intense that hug was like GOD DAMN! That hug was the horniest, most intense, sexiest hug I have ever seen. I loved the romance a lot and although I wish it focused on it more, I still think it was appropriate and sufficient. “I feel like you’re mine. Like you’re mine in a way no one else ever has been.” The plot was very interesting, specifically because of the way it was told. Two writers fighting for one position and it was also focusing on the story that they were meant to tell and how it was overlapping with Hayden and Alice's characters. I loved how it progressed and how it concluded, I feel like it was the strength of this book and what I really liked were the plot twists—like the first one I kind of predicted but the second one shocked the fuck out of me, like I was kinda mad I didn’t figure it out before because it was right under my nose but yeah, I really loved it! Overall, I would recommend! My ratings for her books; Beach read: 5 stars! Happy place: 5 stars! Funny story: 4.75! People we meet on vacation: 4.50! Great big beautiful life: 4.25! Book lovers: 4.00! I find myself thinking that maybe every bit of heartbreak in life can be rearranged and used for something beautiful, that it doesn't really matter whether I chose this path or I was born onto it, so long as I stop and appreciate the path itself.” ______ SERVED, ATE AND DEVOURED _____ Finally free from my exams so it's time to start this banger of a book 🤭 ____ Secured the arc 🙂‍↕️ I still can't believe it 😭 ___ That time of the year where I check my house to see where Emily Henry has installed cameras because SHE CANT KEEP GETTING AWAY WITH WRITING RELATABLE CHARACTERS- GREAT BIG BEAUTIFUL LIFE 🙂‍↕️ I think im getting used to the title It's gonna be linked to the last great American dynasty 😔 (Buket I won't forgive you for this one)

life is just the great big beautiful wait between emily henry releases. and this one is like if emily henry wrote the seven husbands of evelyn hugo! it's half grumpy/sunshine romance, half fictional celebrity-riddled made-up story of a famous american family. both halves, i'm pleased to tell you, are very fun. it's rare that a book can have two such different stories and both are good. i never dreaded moving from one to the other. and i have struggled with both emily henry's and taylor jenkins reid's recent releases, so this was a complete treat. it wasn't a perfect book: it's VERY grumpy/sunshine, first of all, to the point that sometimes our two love interests feel like emojis in their depth. i don't love the romance, maybe because while i love our cheery protagonist i got irritated on occasion by her grimacing hero. i am not convinced emily henry has a very deep understanding of NDAs. but i loved the way the non-romance story went, and i thought the ending was unbearably sweet, and i'm pleased to tell everyone... bottom line: this book was worth the always-interminable-feeling wait. (3.5 / thank you to libro.fm for the alc!!!)

i thought this was so sweet 💜 i would love to have a glass of wine with margaret

** spoiler alert ** I personally think…the haters are tripping! This was a beautiful mix of a sweeping, unexpected romance and a tale of generational trauma; how we rely too much on time to do the hard work for us. It was brief and it was beautiful indeed! 4.25 stars!!⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

4.5 stars ⭐️ I knew she wouldn’t fail me 😍 I’m so glad I mostly avoided gr and got to enjoy this in peace 🙌🏼 the mystery, the romance — the yearning, the tension, the small moments & the writing!! AHH I’m convinced Emily knows me better than I know myself at this point… RTC I’ve got so many thoughts & need to update my EH rankings🫡 —— 6 is my lucky number so I guess this will change my life? It’s folklore coded too (my fave album) 🤝😭

‘There’s an old saying,’ Emily Henry writes, ‘about stories, and how there are always three versions of them: yours, mine, and the truth.’ Now while I still found enough of the Henry magic to charm my way quite quickly and satisfyingly through Great Big Beautiful Life, I found myself wondering where the other version was. The True one. And by that I mean the one that was better and felt like Emily Henry. A departure from her standard fare introspective romcom vibes that have made her a long-standing bestseller—which I found to be a rather welcomed fresh direction as her previous work, Funny Story, felt like it would have benefitted from jettisoning all the moments where it felt like Henry remembered it was going to be marketed as a romcom and shoehorned in more romantic entanglements than felt right for the actual story—Great Big Beautiful Life treads a journalistic mystery territory that felt in the vein of Taylor Jenkins Reid. Which, to be clear, is a pathway to reading pleasure I certainly celebrate but we already have Taylor Jenkins Reid and what I wanted was more Emily Henry. Not Emily Henry the romcom box-checker but Emily Henry the author that I know is in there and has frequently worked magic through her breezy yet heartfelt stories. And while that Emily Henry showed up, it was so steeped in The TJR vibes that it felt like we got neither author’s best qualities. Hear me out here because I don’t really feel like pointing critical fingers into the plot or prose is all that productive unless we look at the larger context of the publishing world that this book exists in more as capitalist content than an actual novel. Buckle up, rant incoming…. ‘I find myself thinking that maybe every bit of heartbreak in life can be rearranged and used for something beautiful, that it doesn't really matter whether I chose this path or I was born onto it, so long as I stop and appreciate the path itself.’ While I look forward to my annual summer dose of E.Henry goodness, six full-length novels in six years is a LOT. Like, Emily, I’m proud of you, I’m in awe of you, I stan you girl but do you rest? This felt like there was not enough time to spend at the drawing board and this novel felt like a good idea to workshop or experiment around in but it also didn’t feel like she ever made it quite her own. Because when you have a strict deadline to capture the summer bestseller list there likely isn’t much room to decide “okay this isn’t quite working I’ll shelve it and try something else.” No, you gotta blast that shit out. Which is a shame because, as many have pointed out over the years, ‘creativity thrives in moments of quiet,’ and having the space to let a work come together for the sake of the work is not always compatible with strict deadlines and constant demand for attention and writing in order to satisfy the tiktok-accepted rubrics for “what makes a real romcom” whatnot, what-have-you. I recall an argument with someone who was utterly horrified I enjoyed Emily Henry and ranted about how “she’s not a romance writer she’s just women fiction” as if putting a label on something has any benefits beyond capitalist marketing tactics. In fact, I’m always a bit baffled when I see low ratings for a book for not meeting the expectations the marketing set the reader up for. Review and rate however you want, that’s cool, but I suppose that personally I’m not interested much in giving any oxygen to whatever some ad team has to say about a book for the sake of sales because thats approaching a book as a commodity or “content” instead of art. R.F. Kuang has a lot to say about this in Yellowface and how the publishing industry tends to even dilute concepts like identity into a marketing tactic that makes people’s lived experience more of a profit metric than something living and breathingly human. But I’m getting carried away because really what I wanted to say is this book felt like a draft that could have stayed as a draft but the need to publish a full manuscript was a contractual obligation. And I wonder how that demand to produce leads to burnout (even reader burnout when the market gets flooded with read-alikes any time a book has a big fresh success) and sending books to print that aren’t ready. Do we want a product or do we want art? ‘Love isn’t something you can cup in your hands, and I have to believe that means it’s something that can’t ever be lost.’ I’m not blaming Emily at all. She does amazing under these conditions. But we also didn’t get Emily here in the way I know she can write. It felt not enough her own voice, although I did really love Alice and she felt like such a quintessential Emily Henry protagonist. I love how lively and giggly she was, she’s the coolest. The grumpy/sunshine vibes of the central duo were rather amusing and endearing (although sometimes to the point of caricature) but I also found Hayden to be a bit lackluster. She’s done better before and Hayden felt more a character drug across the stage by the text than existing in the fictional world on his own terms. Which, again, as much as I really did love the Margaret mystery portion of the book, this probably only needed to be a novella. The US seems to have a need to make every book over 200pgs and that is so often unnecessary but it is also fairly obvious books are looked at more as content than art in our current economic reality where neither the endless one-off books a year or the economic dependence on endless growth are sustainable endeavours. Emily, take 5 years to write that book you have in you if you need to. I want that book, I want Emily’s art, not Emily’s content. Not that this was bad, I actually really loved reading this and it filled my weary heart with joy. Sure the romance was a bit sudden and felt a bit forced (and…hear me out, sort of unnecessary in the grand scheme of things?) but it was also just a lovely little read. Thank you for all you do, Emily Henry. 3.5/5 'I think you live in a world that’s more interesting than the one most people live in.'

This took me a while to be fully invested, I’m not sure why, but once I hit the halfway mark I was so here for it. Very reminiscent of Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo, but I enjoyed it!

4.5 stars This. Was. Amazing. RTC

6 am and i hadn’t slept a wink bcs i was binge reading it the entire night, giggling and swooning over alice & hayden, crying for margaret, for the life she was born into, but, yes, emily henry did it AGAIN! also that epilogue 🥺❤️‍🩹 it healed all the broken parts. mother is back, so i’m locking myself in to finish another summer masterpiece 🧡 RIVALS TO LOVERS??? MOTHER IS MOTHERING AGAIN 🧎🏽‍♀️ FOLKLORE CODED?? this book will either ruin me or heal me irrevocably and i am so ready for it.

3.75 stars <3 Not my favorite, but I loved it, which, of course, how could I not? It's Emily, and I love almost all of her work. The story was pretty straight forward, I enjoyed Alices fresh character and her optimism, I liked Haydens initial brooding personality but especially that his character was quick to open up and develop instead of wasting time going back and forth on him being an asshole, his character felt completely natural and a perfect fit for a rom com lead. I enjoyed the little plot twist at the end as well, wasn't expecting that tbh. Overall, it felt somewhat like a short story, not that I'm complaining. Alright till next time <3 The covers are so beautifulll im conflicted on which one to order! __ A 5 stars confirmed ( hopefully don’t jinx it ) Emily....I’m gonna hold your hand when I say this. why that name ._. ILLICIT AFFAIRS WAS RIGHT THERE I’m holding on to the last threads of my patience because I need another Emily Henry book in my hands. ( I just got to know about this ) Emily’s gifting me my big 20 bday gift by releasing this book near it hehehe CANT WAITTT and I heard the ti tiles based on folklore??? Illicit affairs? Orrrr invisible string theory?? doesn’t matter ik I’ll love every bit of it <33

I must have run out of haterade because y’all I thought this was fun. I’m snoopy af so I’ll happily listen to someone recounting their secrets as they garden or do mosaics or grumpily order lemonade from their long-suffering housekeeper, I don’t care. It’s definitely Evelyn Hugo-flavored but, like, whatever, I was 99% sure I knew what the twist at the end would be and my ass was dead wrong so what do I know? Was the romance necessary? I don’t think so. Was the last chapter an eye roller? Sure. Am I bothered? No. I asked to be entertained and god dammit I was, so well done, EmHen, and never let anyone tell you that you maybe possibly overused the word “croissant” slightly.

This is one of those stories that pulls you into a narrative maze without you even realising it. On the surface, it’s about love and rivalry, but underneath, it dives deep into themes like the unreliability of memory, the many sides of truth, and the age - old question: who gets to decide what a story really means? At the heart of the novel are 2 biographers with totally different personalities - Alice Scott, who’s warm and optimistic, and Hayden Anderson, a Pulitzer - winning writer who’s cool and introspective. They’re invited to a remote island to write the life story of Margaret Ives, a legendary woman who’s been living in seclusion for years. But Margaret isn’t just a passive subject - she’s more like a master strategist. She gives each writer different pieces of her life story and binds them with strict confidentiality agreements so they can’t share notes. So instead of 1 complete biography, her life gets split in 2, scattered between 2 competing pens. That’s where the tension kicks in. Alice and Hayden have to piece together Margaret’s "real" past from limited clues, all while navigating their own growing connection and professional rivalry. It’s messy, emotional, and quietly intense. Emily Henry’s storytelling is razor-sharp. She keeps us close to the truth, then pulls us away again. Every "reveal" feels solid - until it’s flipped on its head or reinterpreted through a different lens. This isn’t just a battle over who can write the better biography. It’s a deeper dive into how we understand a complex soul. Was Margaret’s life a tragedy, a comedy, or an epic love story? That depends entirely on the writer’s eye - and their capacity for empathy. And of course, both writers bring their own baggage and emotions into the mix. Their interpretations of Margaret's story are inevitably shaped by their own lives, making the struggle for narrative control feel even more human and unpredictable. This book really makes me think: how much of any story is curated, reshaped, or even invented? And what about our own life stories - are they objective records of what really happened, or carefully crafted versions we tell ourselves to meet some inner need? This is the kind of book that leaves you sitting quietly after the last page, reflecting not just on the story, but on storytelling itself - with a sense of awe and curiosity. It was an OK read. 4.2 / 5 stars

“He was the love of her life and he let the world make him too small for her.” 4.25⭐️ AH, MOTHER has given us something I’ll be thinking about for a while. Absolutely stunning writing 😭. Honestly, if there’s one thing I don’t think Henry will ever get wrong, it’s her prose. It always reads like beautiful song lyrics, and I just get completely swept up in everything she writes. This one felt like such a slow burn. And no, I’m not talking about Alice and Hayden’s romance😔 (we’ll get there). You could just feel there was more and more waiting around the corner. Margaret’s story definitely takes the spotlight here. Even though the beginning felt a little slow or even kind of dull, I still ended up really enjoying it. I found myself immersed in her story, just soaking it all in while navigating themes of love, loss, and the complexities of a famous family. With a book like this—where you know there will be unlikable characters—I really appreciated how Henry balanced that out with people I genuinely loved and understood. That kind of nuance means a lot to me, especially because stories with all unlikeable characters can sometimes feel overwhelming. I was disgusted at parts, furious at others, astonished sometimes and completely heartbroken by the end. My chest ached. I’ll definitely be thinking about Margaret, probably for the rest of the week. Maybe even the year. Now, Alice and Hayden 🥹. Their romance felt a bit underdeveloped, I won’t lie 😩. But I also think that might be because I went in expecting a romance-heavy story. There is still definitely passion. They’re adorable and definitely gave me a couple butterflies. And, I also loved them as individuals, with their own struggles and personalities. That ending was clever. The twists and reveals? Totally didn’t see them coming. Henry really just slipped that in there like, “oh by the way…” and I loved it. It added such a nice punch to the story. Alright, Henry—same time next year? 🫶🏾

ੈ♡˳ rating: four of five stars ੈ♡˳ summary: great big beautiful world by emily henry follows alice scott, a struggling writer with something to prove, and hayden anderson, a pulitzer-winning journalist with a chip on his shoulder, as they compete for the chance to write the life story of margaret ives—a famously reclusive heiress with a past full of secrets. both writers are invited to crescent island, where they’ll live alongside margaret for a month, digging into her history, uncovering the truth, and battling not just for the book deal, but for their own sense of purpose, redemption, and maybe something even more unexpected. ੈ♡˳ thoughts: i really liked this book. it felt different for emily henry—more layered, more ambitious, and more introspective than some of her previous work. the characters are all messy in the best way, and the setting on crescent island was lush and atmospheric. alice and hayden’s dynamic kept me hooked: the rivalry, the unresolved history, the tension. it was giving ✨enemies to reluctant co-conspirators to lovers✨ in all the right ways. margaret ives as a character? fascinating. guarded, grand, and heartbreakingly human. i loved watching her story unfold—slowly, piece by piece—and seeing how her choices shaped the people trying to tell her story. there were real emotional stakes here, and that made it feel rich and rewarding. but… i can’t give it five stars. and the reason is: it felt just a little too familiar. if you’ve read the seven husbands of evelyn hugo by taylor jenkins reid, you’ll immediately clock the similarities. the premise—writer uncovers the reclusive life story of a mysterious, glamorous woman—follows almost the exact same arc. and even though henry puts her own spin on it, it was hard to fully shake that feeling of déjà vu. still, this was an incredibly strong book. thoughtful, heartfelt, and gorgeously written. it just didn’t feel as groundbreaking as it could’ve been. ੈ♡˳ tropes: ꕥ rivals to lovers ꕥ writer x subject ꕥ reclusive celebrity ꕥ forced proximity ꕥ dual timelines ੈ♡˳ fave quotes: ➼ “love isn't something you can cup in your hands, and i have to believe that means it's something that can't ever be lost.” ➼ “it's yours,” he offers. i laugh. “oh? i can have the world?” “mine,” he says, “yeah. you can have mine.” ➼ “there's an old saying about stories, and how there are always three versions of them: yours, mine, and the truth.” ➼ “for the one you love? anything. you unmake the world and build a new one.” ➼ “i welcome her to this great big beautiful life.”

₊⊹⁀➴ 4.75 stars i am shocked that this emily henry book is deemed the weakest. i adored this book. i will say, i am already into books that follow an almost documentary style, as seen here with margaret's life, but i adored how margaret's story enhanced the romance between alice and hayden, giving more depth and complexity. i truly did not see the twists and turns or the ending, but the result was magnificent. dare i say this is my second favorite emily henry book. only reason i deducted a quarter of a star was because the final chapter felt slightly rushed to me, but it was still heartwarming nonetheless. also i will declare, i relate to alice most out of all her fmcs, in terms of alice's mindset, outlook on other people, and passions. now i will rank the emily henry books. 1. beach read 2. great bbl 3. funny story 4. happy place 5. book lovers 6. people we meet on vacation

“Love isn’t something you can cup in your hands, and I have to believe that means it’s something that can’t ever be lost.” i really really really enjoyed this one - i flew through 395 pages of it today. emily henry has a way of writing characters that feel real and developing a story that sucks you in immediately. for me, GBBL was no exception. “For the one you love? Anything. You unmake the world and build a new one. You do anything to give them what they need.” i really liked both alice and hayden’s characters (though i wish we got to know hayden a bit more & develop their relationship further). margaret & her story kept me enraptured the entire time and i truly did enjoy reading her chapters. i think emily henry did a really good job weaving these two stories together. “Then again, maybe love was always a gift. The only thing that couldn’t be bought or sold or bartered for.” my favorite parts of this book would absolutely have to be the complicated familial relationships & portrayal/discussion of grief. i found myself crying multiple times throughout the book, relating these characters & their stories to my own life. the way that love and regret and grief and generational trauma intertwine around each other…… too good!!!!! realizing that we cannot lean on time passing to solve things for us… and that we really truly do not have time….. yeah this one is going to sit heavy on my chest for a while & i loved it so much. “Everything’s complicated. Everything. Once you start paying attention.” i will say: even though i genuinely liked this book, i can definitely see and respect the critiques regarding certain aspects of this book. the romance was absolutely a bit insta-lovey (though i still really enjoyed it), some of the middle could have been slightly shortened, and one thing that happened in the epilogue is a trope that i’m not a fan of. that behind said, i still loved this book and found the other relationships/themes to be my favorite part. “‘It’s yours,’ he offers. I laugh. ‘Oh? I can have the world?’ ‘Mine,’ he says, ‘yeah. You can have mine.’” the point is this really is a great big beautiful life and there needs to be more love in this world !!!!

4 stars ₊ ° ⊹ ♡ ╰┈➤ review w NO spoilers ⋆ when i let myself dream, or it all comes crashing down — it’s alice, alice on my mind. alice all the time tropes: .ᐟ slow burn .ᐟ forced proximity buddy read this with my love madi! 💌 so grateful i got to read this with you, giggle over hayden and just yap about it! also the ending was genuinely shocking that i was still staring at my wall for almost 2 hours 😭 i love you cutie!! 💐 so excited for our next br 😽🤸 ⤿ madi’s gorgeous review𐙚 ₊ ° ⊹ ♡ ‧₊˚ ┊summary/thoughts 💌 great big beautiful life rotates around two writers, alice and hayden, who get an opportunity to write a story of a woman with more than a couple of plot twists then anyone expected. they're both on a one month trial to earn her trust to write the story. however, the stories she tells don’t add up, and both of them agreed to sign a nda making it difficult to discuss it. in the process of the trial, both hayden and alice realize how much more they have in common and spark up some romance. emily henry did it again! 🤸 i loved her book so much and felt so engaged, but that was after a while. definitely have to say that the first 50% of the book was boring and annoying me, mainly because the stories margaret were telling made no sense or neither did i feel connected to her. BUT hear me out, towards the end, everything just clicked. why she started to tell her life story from her great grandfather. why she told every detail from the beginning. the twist at the last 3 chapters were something i didn’t expect. the love story between hayden and alice was so adorable and how much the complimented each other. they just made sense to me?! they’re both intelligent and understand each others personality really well. and both of them kept pushing each other for more, especially hayden. i loved the slow burn honestly, it was worth the wait. but when alice had to keep a big secret from hayden, it broke me ☹️ they both deserved love from each other and just seeing them not be with each other towards the end, i was ready to throw some hands! ‧₊˚ ┊alice scott 📝 the great war - taylor swift i loved her so much. i loved her personality and how much she wanted to see the best in everyone. but oh did i relate to her. her people pleasing behaviour felt too real. the way she just accepted that her mom didn’t respect her really hurt 😣 but i’m so glad hayden pushed her to talk things out, even if it stung to hear it. but i loved how much she wanted to know more about margaret and actually tried to gain her trust. but… the ending did not do her justice with margaret 😾 and the way she moved back home?! yea i cried 🥹 she got close with her mom and just, felt like home!! ‧₊˚ ┊hayden anderson 💻 writer in the dark - lorde aaa i loved him too! other than his height being mentioned, he actually was one my favourite mmcs. at first he seemed like this tall, grumpy guy, but later on, he actually was a softie for alice and respected her. the amount i was giggling whenever he spoke to alice 😭🤸 made my stomach flip HAHA. but! the plot twist was crazy. but him not caring about that and caring about the fact that alice loves him?! yea i was crying 😭 he was literally the funniest & calmest mmc i’ve read. and the amount he yearned for her was crazy! ‧₊˚ ┊hayden and alice 🧡 falling in love - cig after sex their slow burn was so worth it. the tension they had, the way the understood each other was perfect, and the amount of time they were spending together?! perfection. hayden in alice’s childhood house was so cute. and the way he tried to tell her to communicate with her mom made so much sense. just to get the closure she deserves. but other than that, the way he was so down bad for alice from day one was AAA i was giggling so much! ‧₊˚ ┊ margaret ☁️ last great american dynasty - taylor swift she’s so last great american dynasty coded. she annoyed me a lot even though she was the main plot. the way she kept lying about her stories, as if they won’t find out the truth, was crazy. the plot twist was even crazier. everything just made sense. the nda. the month long trial. the stories from the beginning. she did deserve the biggest hug for losing her sister and husband in a short amount of time ‧₊˚ ┊quotes “You can come over, if you want,” I say thickly. “Stop inviting me,” he says. “Why?” I ask. “Because eventually I’m going to say yes,” he replies. He couldn’t keep being her husband, but he couldn’t stop being her fan. He pulls me into a hug abruptly, like he couldn’t resist, his face nestling into my shoulder. My stomach swoops up into my throat, trilling like a hummingbird. I loop my arms around his neck and lean back to peek into his face when he lifts it. “Were you trying to shut me up again?” He looks like an angel. I mumble something along those lines and then close my eyes and let sleep pull me down into itself. “It’s just that somehow, almost everything you say makes me want to kiss you.” “Do you think we have free will?” I ask. He lets out a verifiable bark of laughter that lights me up from the inside. “You,” he says, “surprise me more than anyone I’ve ever met.” “It’s yours,” he offers. I laugh. “Oh? I can have the world?” “Mine,” he says, “yeah. You can have mine.” “You taste like coffee,” I whisper. “So do you,” he says. “Yes, but I always taste like coffee,” I point out. “Maybe I wanted to taste like you.” “I can’t get enough of you,” he whispers, his lips moving in a light, teasing pattern along my neck. “I thought I’d been in love before, but this is different.” His chin moves to the left one inch. “That you love me?” The tears break. “Of course it’s true. How could it not be? I loved you almost instantly, before I really even knew you. Before I understood it. I trusted you, and I loved you, and I still do.” “Good,” he says, taking another small step toward the open door. “Because I love you too. I love you so much, and I don’t want to be without you ever again. I’ll move to Los Angeles, I’ll find a new job, whatever.” ➤ started: july 18 ➤ finished: july 25

Royal by Danielle Steel is a historical romance novel that starts readers off in the summer of 1943 right in the middle of World War II. With the cities being a dangerous place during the war it was common practice for families to send their children off to the country to live with those willing to take them in to hopefully keep them safe and that is how our story starts with a royal princess. Princess Charlotte was the youngest of the King and Queen’s children and they only wanted to protect her so arrangments were made for Charlotte to travel to the country to stay with with a trusted noble family away from war torn London. At seventeen Charlotte’s interests when heading to the country were only with her horse but that quickly changes after arriving. The thing that keeps bringing me back to Danielle Steel’s novels is that I’m never really sure what I’ll find when opening up the pages and beginning to read. Yes, we know she has her own specific romantic formula but her books fall under various genres within the romance spectrum. This time out I was pleasantly surprised at this look into history and her fictional royal family. The story was one that brought a lot of ups and downs and surprises along the way so it flew by rather quickly for me as I kept engaged all along the way. I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley. For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/

A really easy read with some very heartbreaking bits. This is probably one of my favorites out of DS's newest books.

I’m definitely a Danielle Steel fan and she doesn’t disappoint. I have always enjoyed historical fiction and the retelling of the British monarchy with a slight twist was quite fascinating. The story spans from World War II into the 1970s and the storytelling is magnificent. Of course, there’s tragedy and romance and also great horse racing to boot. The characters are familiar yet also unique and the ending made my corny romantic heart very happy. I must read for the end of summer.

Nice moving plot with a great story and honestly the characters were all likeable in this book. I loved heading all the British town names that I can point to places named the same in New England (such as Newmarket and Kent in this book). Just a weird thing I like to do when reading books that take place in the U.K….interesting to see how many names came from the U.K. but I digress, this was a quick read but like most Danielle Steel books you get a great story and interesting characters. Love when she writes royal themed books!

I’m a sobbing mess of emotions after this one! This is a beautiful love story that spans generations! The beginning of this story starts off a little somber! A war, a short lived love and loss so great it could consume you! Through all the darkness though love creates a ray of hope! This story shows us how love and family can help heal us from heavy losses! It also shows us that our dreams are worth fighting for! I don’t want to dive into The Who’s and how’s because nothing should be given away! Just know that there are some very emotional events that take place but just as life is you have events that restore hope and solidify love!

Royal by Danielle Steel is a book that drew me in right away. Princess Charlotte is seventeen when she is sent to Yorkshire for her health and safety. The owner’s have a handsome son who is the same age (you see where this is heading). The pair soon find themselves in a compromising situation. A baby ends up being raised by a housekeeper and a stable manager. The secret come to light forever altering people’s lives. Royal has Danielle Steel’s trademark writing style which makes her stories so easy to read. I liked the characters and the storyline. We get to see how family can help loved ones deal with grief and the intensity of love during war which will make people do things they would normally never think of doing. We also learn that it is important to fight for our dreams. There were some emotional moments in Royal that will have you searching for a hanky. Royal is a delightful escapist novel that I enjoyed from beginning to end.

I really loved this book! One of my favorites!

The book begins in the summer of 1943 when the Royal family sends their youngest daughter, Charlotte, to live in the country with a noble family for the remainder of her seventeenth year. Her true identity was concealed from all but the Earl and Countess she was staying with, including their son Henry and another young female boarder Lucy. She begins a love affair with Henry who is waiting for his eighteenth birthday to enlist and fight in the war. Sadly, this love is short-lived as numerous tragedies occur and baby Annie is left orphaned. Lucy, who lost both her parents, has fallen in love with the baby and decides she will raise her as her own. Lucy marries, has twin sons, and life goes on. She does not disclose to anyone for twenty years who Annie actually is. Finally, on her deathbed, Lucy tells her husband the secret of Annie’s identity. He is told of a series of letters which confirms this and where they have been hidden. How will Annie and the Royal family react to this news? Will Annie be accepted as one of their own? I enjoyed this fast-paced book which encompasses the story of three unique women. The character development was good and the women were all likeable. I appreciated the similarities between Charlotte and Annie, including a love of horses. I disagreed with Lucy raising Annie as her own, and wonder if she would have ever told Annie had she not gotten sick. I also feel that there were parts of the story that were unbelievable, including a physician not noticing that a woman who claims she’s already had one baby was indeed having her first (there are physical changes which are tell tale signs). Having said that, it was an entertaining read and I would recommend it to fans of this genre. My rating: ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️/5.

I loved this story! Listened on Audible. I have always been a bit obsessed with British royalty, and the narrator did a great job. Through a series of twists and turns, a young girl finds out that she is of royal blood.

** spoiler alert ** Quite a few plot holes... The biggest is that no one was to know where Charlotte was going... Well no one except for the Earl, the wife, and secret service equivalent.... Yet the groom and stable hands took the horse to Yorkshire for her. . Hmm... Otherwise a good read... I mean it's DS....

I enjoyed this book! I liked the characters and the storyline. It moved quickly with characters that were worth reading! Here’s to never giving up on you dreams !

I received a free advance copy from NetGalley for review. And so begin the adventures of Lucas Davenport Jr. Wait, I guess it’s technically the adventures of Letty, the adopted daughter of super-cop Lucas Davenport, but calling her Davenport Jr. is still accurate because she is definitely a chip off the old block. In fact, she may be even more dangerous than her father. Letty has come a long way since we first met her when she was a desperately poor kid who had to depend on herself rather than her alcoholic mother. Her life got much better once Lucas Davenport and his wife took her in, but she’s remained an independent pragmatist capable of making tough choices and taking action when its needed. Now in her early ‘20s and just out of college, Letty is working in the office of a US senator, but she’s bored with it and thinking of moving on. After she pulls a couple of bold moves to help catch an embezzler, the senator wants Letty to check into an odd problem and offers her a spot with Homeland Security as an investigator. Some petroleum companies in west Texas think that someone has been stealing oil from them, and there’s a suspicion that a right-wing militia group might be responsible. The amount of money involved is small for an oil company, but it’d fund a lot of domestic terrorism so Letty gets teamed up with an ex-soldier named John Kaiser to try and sort it out. Letty and Kaiser start by investigating the disappearance of an oil company employee who had been looking into the thefts. Soon enough Letty and Kaiser figure out that something big is in the works, and they may be the only people who might be able to stop a catastrophic attack. Letty was introduced as a character in the Prey novels almost 20 years ago, and I’ve often suspected that Sandford would someday do a book or series with her in the lead. (In reality, Letty would be in her 30s by now, but Sandford characters exist in a slowed down version of reality.) She’s been a big part of several of the books, often driving her adopted father crazy by her stubborn insistence on doing things her way, but also saving the day a couple of times. Despite the Prey books having one successful spin-off series with the Virgil Flower novels, I was always a little uneasy about how Letty seemed destined to be the hero of a Sandford thriller someday. I’m not sure why, it just seemed like nepotism even if these are all fictional characters. However, at one point in one of the recent books Lucas and Letty had a conversation which indicated that she wasn’t interested in a career in law enforcement so it seemed like maybe Sandford was letting us know that the long teased Letty-book would never happen. Yet here we are so I don’t know if this was always the plan, or if something changed, but it did seem a little odd to me. I got nervous right at the start of this one when Letty is pulling a break-in to investigate the embezzling going on at one of the senator’s campaign offices. She has several tricks to get into an office building that Sandford has used before in both the Davenport and Kidd novels, so I was instantly worried that this was just going to be a rehash of things done before with just a new character in the lead. As usual, I was wrong to doubt Sandford. While that opening was familiar, Letty quickly establishes herself as a different person than Lucas, Virgil Flowers, Kidd, or any other Sandford hero. Like all of them, Letty is smart, resourceful, and capable of pulling a sneaky and/or illegal move when necessary, but what sets her apart is that Letty has what might best be described as a mean streak. Yeah, Lucas could be a real bastard when necessary, and capable of outright murder when the situation calls for it. But Letty takes that a step further and seems even more ruthless than her father at times. The plot of this one also seems like Sandford kicked things up a notch. There’s the usual cat-and-mouse thing where he follows the bad guys for part of the book and lets us know some of what they’re planning, but just enough is held back to give us some twists and turns. The last act is one of the biggest and most ambitious things to happen in any of the books. A few years back, I might have said that it seemed unlikely, but these days, it sounds horrifyingly plausible. Through it all, we’ve got Letty doing a lot of good detective work as she’s hot on the trail of the militia, and while she’s already a force to be reckoned with, there are still things for her to learn as well so she doesn’t seem too perfect as an action hero. The partner Kaiser provides a nice counterpoint to her as a veteran soldier who knows a lot about some aspects of the job, but he isn’t really an investigator so lets Letty take point. It's just once again Sandford doing what he does so well, creating a high-octane mystery-thriller that keeps you turning pages. If the next book also stars Letty, I won’t be disappointed.

If you’re already a follower of Sandford’s Prey series then in all likelihood you’ll have come across Letty Davenport. She was adopted, aged fourteen, by cop Lucas Davenport - the star of that series - and his surgeon wife Weather, after a tough start to her life. She’s confident, feisty and a crack shot with a handgun. Here, in the first book in which she’s in the lead role, we find her working in the office of a US Senator, Christopher Colles. But she’s bored; the job hems her in and it’s all just way too dull. On the point of quitting, Colles offers her a more free ranging role – complete with a gun carry permit! Oh yes, this looks like it’s going offer significantly more job satisfaction. At this point I have to confess my mixed feelings regarding Letty: on one hand I really like her, uber-confident and glowing with positivity and also an in-your-face attitude to anyone who isn’t immediately on her side. But - and it’s a pretty big but – is it really conceivable that any twenty-four-year old could display quite the level of worldliness and nouse and be so absolutely cold blooded as Letty shows herself to be throughout this tale? I’m not sure I quite buy it. However, leaving that aside for the moment, having accepted her first assignment she and an ex-Delta Force master sergeant, with whom she’s forged an uneasy partnership, set off on the trail of some stolen oil. Actually, it isn’t so much the missing oil, but rather the suspicion that the proceeds of the theft might be used to stir up trouble that’s prompted their mission. I’m a big fan of Sandford’s writing and in his hands this story gradually morphs from an interesting and often amusing account of Letty landing on her feet and directing traffic pretty much from the start, to something darker and more sinister. And because we can see what’s happening from the point of view of both the investigators and the criminals, we have a pretty good idea – although not in a detailed way – of what’s potentially coming down the line. The set-piece action scene, when when it arrives, is significant in size and scale, with Letty having a front row seat. By this point I was right with her and though it might be argued that the whole concoction is somewhat unlikely (actually, highly unlikely in my view) it was certainly dramatic and well told, and I was willingly dragged along with it. Letty is a mini Lucas Davenport and is referred to as such regularly here, so to some degree I wonder why the author chose to insert her into this story rather than Lucas, and perhaps his sometime sidekick Virgil Flowers? I suppose Letty’s youth and, to some extent, her inexperience add a slightly different texture to events. Like many other writers of long running series, there’s also the temptation or sometimes even the necessity to freshen things up without casting the formula aside completely. This adventure ended in a way that suggests a loose end might still need to be tied off, and with another Letty Davenport book due to be released shortly, I think there was enough here to draw me back for a second outing from the junior Davenport. 3.5 stars, rounded up to 4. My thanks to publishers Canelo for supplying a copy of this book via NetGalley in return for an honest review.

3.5 Stars As I read The Investigator two things happened repeatedly. 1) My eyes would roll and I would think "This is ridiculous!!". Other times I found myself thinking 2) This is really good!🤔 On the positive side, the good guy's scenes were interspersed with those from the viewpoints of the bad guys. I liked how this gave me insight into the motivations of each side. I was in suspense about how the situations in the book would be resolved! On the negative side, when Letty is partnered with DHS investigator, John Kaiser, she suddenly becomes Wonder Woman. Letty is 24 years old, while John is a 47-year-old ex-Army master sergeant ... yet she is the one who figures everything out, time after time. It was too unbelievable. Had she been portrayed as a savant, that would have explained her ability to look at situations and know exactly what should be done - but she wasn't. (Maybe she was in the Prey books?) I truly feel as though I would have enjoyed the book more if Letty and John had been more equal partners. I tired of the young whippersnapper knowing more than her more life-experienced partner time after time. Having written all of that, there were many times when I was enthralled and didn't want to put the book down! I definitely plan on reading the next book in the series.

Another exciting thriller from author John Sandford. This time around he's launching a spinoff series featuring Lucas Davenport's adopted daughter, Letty. She's been working for Senator Christopher Colles (R-Florida) but is getting bored and resigns. As the chairman of the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Office, Colles decides to enlist her as an investigator for the Homeland Inspector Inspector General and sends her to Texas, along with DHS agent John Kaiser, to look into the suspicion that someone is siphoning off oil. An oil company executive and his wife have gone missing so their first job is to figure out what's happened to them. Have they run off or are they dead? They follow the money, which seems to point to a militia group working the Texas border. Smart investigative work that occasionally crosses the line of legality drives this thriller. Lots of guns and exciting action, if you are into that sort of thing. Letty is young and a little bit of a loose canon--after all, she's a product of her crazy life experiences. I liked how she seems willing to learn from Kaiser, the seasoned ex-Army soldier, as well. There's a satisfying ending that leaves the door open just a little for future stories. Fans of Sandford's Prey series will certainly enjoy this new spinoff. I received an arc of this new thriller from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Many thanks for the opportunity.

"Easily pissed off and heavily armed." An apt description of Letty Davenport, daughter of Lucas, and the newest badass in John Sanford's literary arsenal. Just 24 years old, Letty has been working for a U. S. Senator, but due to boredom, tenders her resignation. The Senator, who has been duly impressed by her skill set and no-nonsense attitude, offers her a special position within the Department of Homeland Security, complete with a carry permit so she can be legally armed just about anywhere, anytime. Fans of the Prey series will recognize Letty (Lucas's adopted daughter) as having displayed preternatural ability with firearms in an earlier Prey novel, and so we now get to see her display that skill to great effect. The plot revolves around a militia group led by a woman who had served in the military and her plan to do something epic that will call attention to the problem she perceives at our southern border. Initially, the book centers on how the militia is raising money for their complex plan. This leads Letty, along with her assigned partner, John Kaiser, an ex-Delta Force soldier whose trust and respect she gradually earns, down to Oklahoma and Texas, where oil is being diverted and sold illegally. Along the way, Sanford takes great pains to focus on Letty's choice of sidearms (model, sights, caliber, holster) and her ability to compartmentalize emotions such that she will not hesitate to, nor be disturbed by, taking another's life. Both, of course, will come in handy as Sandford picks up the pace as Letty and John begin to close in on the cadre of militia members that are spearheading the project they are calling the next "Alamo." There is a considerable amount of time spent in cat and mouse mode, with limited action, but rather a lot of stage setting. The astute reader will probably suss out the plan well before the reveal, but that's really besides the point. What we have here is a young, female version of Lucas Davenport or, at least. the essence of that character. Cool, deadly, and fearless. My rating of 3.5 stars is rounded up because I'm a fan of the author and there are some very good scenes in the novel. But frankly, it really isn't a 4 star book, as there are several sections of the book that bog down and stretch credulity more than usual. Nevertheless, it's clear that Letty is going to be around a while, as there's already a second in this series. So, does this mean we'll see fewer Prey novels now or, heaven forbid, even fewer novels featuring "That f***ing Flowers?" I've no idea, but will certainly read on and hope for the best.

A good one. Letty may be cold and abrasive on the surface, but she's a strong and likable protagonist. The pacing is great, the action more than solid, and twists nicely done. All I expect from a mystery / thriller novel.

I enjoyed The Investigator by John Sandford. It was a well-crafted story that easily held my interest and made me want to know what was going to happen next. I very much enjoyed the two primary characters (Letty and Kaiser). Not only were they well written and included just enough backstory to invest the reader in them (even with no foreknowledge from previous books), but they made a great pair. A good part of the success of the story was their partnership and interactions. Sandford has a long history of writing excellent books...this one is no exception and will not let you down. This is a great start to a new series--one that I will follow.

In this latest John Sandford thriller, The Investigator (G.P. Putnam's Sons 2021), the star this time isn't Minneapolis' renowned crime fighter, Lucas Davenport but his brilliant and tenacious adopted daughter, Lettie. An old 24, graduated from Stanford and now working for a U.S. Senator, she is already bored of the government job she landed partly because of her famous father but just as much because of her own storied background. When the Senator offers her a change of venue, still investigating but in the field instead of an office, she wastes no time saying yes. With a mid-career former Marine as a partner, they are tasked with finding out why crude oil is being stolen from producers and what the huge amounts of money being generated by its sale is funding. Lettie proves she possesses her adoptive father's 6th sense for connecting the dots and quickly links the money to a female-run anti-illegal-immigration militia. The question is, what are they planning that costs so much? With instinct honed of years at the side of one of the best crime fighters in the Midwest, Lettie proves herself capable, clever, and smart enough to figure out what is going on. Why did I give it a 4/5 instead of the 5/5 it seemed headed for 80% of the story? A less than satisfying ending that didn't seem to quite fit with the facts. But I will read the sequel that is hinted at, and with relish.

Please tell me we are going to get more Letty Davenport books I loved this one. The book starts pretty much the same way all of Sandford's books start but make no mistake Letty is her own character. It is really hard to believe at times that Letty is in fact not the biological child of Lucas - they are so alike it is eerie. This is a classis Sandford book so you are in for a faced paced mystery with some really great characters. No spoilers here but if you love Lucas, Virgil and Kidd you are going to love Letty.

"The Investigator" has all the hallmarks of John Sandford's best work: lots of action, fast pacing, decent writing, realistic dialogue, and good "good guys". I think it's a fine start to what might become yet another great series by one of my favorites. The Investigator opens with Lucas Davenport's adopted daughter, Letty, pulling the plug on a job her dad had pulled strings for her to get with a powerful US Senator. The senator doesn't want to lose her, so he rejects her resignation and assigns her to the DHS as a researcher. Her first gig in that role pairs her with an experienced DHS investigator, Kaiser, to try to determine who's 'stealing' oil from Texas fields, selling it, and doing lord knows what with the proceeds. Letty's background as a young, pretty, Stanford-educated non-law-enforcer tends to lead people who come into contact with her to underestimate her abilities. That's because in addition to the preceding, she's also Lucas Davenport's daughter and spent countless hours watching the legendary lawman work his magic, she actually grew up poor before being adopted and has a major chip on her shoulder due to that, she's a dead-eye shot who knows more about guns than most, and she'd already killed a couple (bad) people and didn't really have any remorse about doing so. She's also very handy with lock picks and knows many tricks of the trade. Letty and Kaiser travel to Texas, begin poking around, and develop an approach that helps them discover how the oil is being stolen and how it's transported. In some alternating chapters, the people who are the recipients of the funds from the stolen oil, a collection of militia types operating in the El Paso area, are planning some sort of big bang and are calling in like-minded folks from across the country to travel down to help make it happen. Letty and Kaiser eventually find themselves on the tail of the militia, but the militia leaders are cleaning up loose ends and their big bang in imminent. The Investigator is a solid beginning for the Letty Davenport character. I don't think she's fully fleshed out yet, though. I've always felt Sandford did a masterful job in bringing the Virgil Flowers character into the series as Lucas Davenport was transitioning to higher level positions, but Letty is sort of sprung out there as this almost fully-formed machine who, although new, acts like a 20 year veteran. It's a minor quibble, though, since I really enjoyed the book and look forward to more.

To begin with, I think it is only appropriate that I admit to being a fairly avid reader of John Sandford over the years, a fan of both of his Lucas Davenport “Prey” and Virgil Flowers series, which easily captured my imagination. Davenport and Flowers are perfect opposites, providing a great compare and contrast personalities, as well as approaches to investigative work. Now it’s time for Davenport’s adopted daughter, Letty, to step into the limelight and take a lead role. In “the investigator” Letty does just that… When we are reintroduced to Letty, she is twenty-four years old, graduated from Stanford university, and working in Washington D.C. for U.S. Senator Colles. When she gets the opportunity to look into a problem for him, she ends up an uncovering an issue for him and discovers she likes investigative work. Enough to quit her job with him and move on. However, the Senator is impressed with her skills and moxie, and offers her an opportunity to do investigation work fulltime with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). She’ll even get to carry a sidearm. Her first investigation involves something Senator Colles and his committee have been looking into. In Texas, several companies are reporting thefts of their crude oil. That’s the lesser problem. The bigger concern is what the thieves are doing with all of the money they are getting from selling the stolen oil. The worry is that a dangerous anti-government militia group appears to be involved with the criminal activities and who knows that chaos can come from that. Letty gets paired with an experienced DHS investigator and war veteran, John Kaiser, and they head on down to Texas to see what they can find. Following a trail of stolen oil isn’t easy, but it doesn’t take long before the two of them are discovering dead bodies and a link to a dangerous group of vigilantes who are preparing to do some serious life-threatening, explosive damage… There were some really good things to like about Letty’s first time in the lead role category. What worked best was how Sanford treated her as a complex, intelligent, and physically capable character, with depth and unique background that molded her into a strong female protagonist. Although she is still young and learning, Sanford gives her the perfect sidekick and mentor, in the older war veteran, John Kaiser. Someone that balances her aggressive approach by letting her go and supporting her actions, and yet gently pull her back and teach her things that she still needs to learn. I really enjoyed the development of their relationship in this book. In addition, Sanford provides Letty with opportunity for adventure and development. This was a good introductory story where she could get her feet wet, face dangerous enough opposition, and still learn the necessary lessons she needs along the way. The bad guys were bad, but not bad enough for her to outthink and strategically maneuver in her first investigation. And I really liked the flashback scenes that Sanford used to connect her past upbringing and survival to her current adult situation. I appreciated being reminded of things that happened throughout Letty’s life that I have forgotten over time. That was an excellent tough and well done. About halfway through, I realized that Letty is many ways Lucas Davenport version 2.0. She is her adopted father’s daughter in so many ways. His influences on her are so much stronger than I previously thought. They both have a strong hunger for justice, for hunting down criminals, and a willingness to bend the law if needed for a righteous cause. I must admit that I like watching another Davenport take center stage as a young pup and make her own future in law enforcement. It will be fun watching her blaze her own trail. On the other hand, there were some things that I didn’t like as much – there were a couple of things and at the top of that lit was the excessive political comments. Some were used as motivations for the bad guys, some were sarcastic jokes, and some were just plain unnecessary. I don’t know why, but it seems like over the last four or five Lucas Davenport novels, and now with Letty, the use of political references have just become way too much for me. Maybe other readers may feel differently, but they have become used way too much in my opinion. Along with those political comments, it seems that the bad guys have all become anti-government, political revolutionary-minded. Over the last several books, they have ranged from racist supremacists to downright hicks with hatred and guns. One of the problems that has arisen, is that these kinds of bad guys don’t come across as organized, financially backed, or powerful. Some of them comes across as just mean and stupid, which lowers the bar of opposition for the good guys, in this case, Letty. The best thing they have going for them is that they are willing to kill pretty much everything. Even if they are not that smart about it. Sanford’s writing style also involves is a lot of running around in the middle section of the book. Although I like how Letty was thinking and analyzing what was going on during the investigation, a lot of time was spent running from one location to another and jumping all around. I can’t say that I have an answer for it, but there sure was a lot of chasing around. Having said all that, I was going to give this 3.5 stars minus .5 stars for the excessive political dogma references. That is until the last 60 – 70 pages. That buildup to a hair-raising climax and ending was so good that I had to bump this up to 4 stars, and rightfully so. That last quarter of the book was strong, emotional, and set-up well for more Letty to come. A worthy 4-stars it is. I hope you enjoy it as much as I ended up doing. I can’t wait for more…

While I'm still enjoying the Prey novels with character Lucas Davenport as well as the Virgil Flowers series, both are starting to get a bit too familiar. OCEAN PREY was the recent exception. That team-up book with both Davenport and Flowers was excellent. With THE INVESTIGATOR, writer John Sandford has a fresh new subject to chronicle the adventures of, and he makes the most of it. This was a true page-turner, hard to put down (even though I did when other obligations called). This was new and exciting, especially not knowing the character's full inclinations just yet and where they might go and/or do. THE INVESTIGATOR has humor, suspense, plenty of action and shines a spotlight on current affairs. And, without editorializing too much. I thought the militia's point of view was presented fairly, even though I don't agree with the rationale and proposed solutions. I won't spoil the story any further. If you've been thinking about picking up a Sandford novel but unsure where to start, this would be a great place. There is enough back-story of Letty Davenport's history and upbringing to keep new readers informed. She's a true bad-ass. I can't agree with all her methods, but I certainly admire the spunk.

Synopsis: Several oil companies in Texas have reported thefts of crude. U.S. Senator Colles isn’t so much concerned with the oil as he is with the money: who is selling the oil, and what are they doing with the profits? Rumor has it that a fairly ugly militia group—led by a woman—might be involved. What they’re planning? I feel like I am late to the John Sandford game only just discovering him last year in book #32 of his Lucas Davenport series, Righteous Prey. I loved it so much and was thriled that he had a new series featuring Davenport's daughter. Bonus! I get to start on book 1 and not book #32. In the Investigator, I really enjoyed the relationship of Lettie and her partner, John Kaiser. Sandford creates ruthless, and realistic antagonists that we’re eager to root against. He uses multiple points of view so that we not only understand who the bad guys are but what they intend to do and why. I found Letty very likeable. She refuses to waste time and energy on being a people pleaser. Her efforts are far better spent on getting to the bottom of mysteries and foiling the bad guys. If that includes shooting murderers and not feeling any guilt about it, then so be it. I am looking forward to following along as she learns to kick more bad guy butt in future adventures!

Letty Davenport at 24 years old has killed three people, one when she was just 14. The adopted daughter of Lucas Davenport is following in his footsteps. After graduating from Stanford, she accepted a job for Senator Colles. She finds the job boring and hands in her notice when the Senator presents her with a new opportunity as a hands on investigator in Texas. Oil companies in the Midland/Odessa have been experiencing thefts of crude oil, leading to the loss of a few million. The companies are not as concerned about the money, a pittance to them, they do want to know who is doing it, how and what do they intend to do with their profits. Letty is partnered with John Kaiser from DHS. The DHS investigator is skeptical over Leftys’ youth but a trip to the shooting range puts some of his doubts to rest. The two quickly rule out the missing oil/money as being an accounting error and rumors lead them to a secretive militia group led by a woman known only as Jael. Jane “Jael” Hawks and the three men in her inner circle have had enough of a country they believe is led by weaklings and cowards. Using the profits from the oil, the group is ready to take a stand and have amassed a large arsenal to use if anyone stands in their way. I have read the authors “Prey” series for years and this is another in which you watch the characters grow into adults. It took a bit longer than usual to get drawn into the story but it was not due to the writing or story and after a slow beginning I couldn’t wait to finish. I think some readers might find the slight political slant irritating but for me this was a human problem before politics. By the way the book ends we will definitely be seeing more of Jael and I look forward to the clash between the two women.

I have read a few of John Sandford's books in the Prey series featuring Lucas Davenport. This book is a literal offspring of that series. It's the first in a series featuring Davenport's adopted daughter Letty Davenport. Letty is in her mid-20s and a graduate of Stanford. She works for a U.S. senator named Christopher Colles in a desk job but she's bored with her assignments. Then the senator offers her a chance to go into the field as a liaison between his office and the Department of Homeland Security. In her first assignment in that position, she is sent to Texas along with DHS investigator John Kaiser to try to find out what is happening in regard to thefts of crude oil. The senator is not so concerned about the lost oil but wants to know where the money from its sale is going. Who is selling the oil and what they are doing with the profits? The suspicion is that a particularly nasty militia group led by a woman is involved. Letty and Kaiser head out to Texas, developing their working relationship along the way. From an unpromising beginning to their association they soon learn to trust and depend on each other. The two have different areas of expertise and their talents balance one another, making for a stronger partnership. In Texas, the two investigators find your basic nest of vipers and have to figure out how to deal with them. Sandford is a master storyteller and his descriptions of the Texas border towns and the people who live there rang true. He excelled at his world-building and at creating compelling characters. He told the story from different points of view which gave the reader a better insight into Letty's and Kaiser's stories as well as that of their antagonists. The story flowed well and the action came quickly and built to an exciting conclusion that made the book hard to put down. It seemed quite realistic as if it might have been plucked out of yesterday's headlines. It was a good beginning for a series that has possibilities for growth. Parenthetically, it reminded me quite a bit of Michael Connelly's series featuring female detective Renee Ballard as a spinoff from his Harry Bosch series. In this case, Sandford spins off of his Lucas Davenport series. Do I sense a trend among mystery writers developing here?

Lucas Davenport's adopted daughter has grown up and has joined the John Sanford book universe. I have been expecting a book with her as the main character for some time. Davenport is getting a bit old for the action stories he once stared. Letty's character needs a bit more polishing but I expect that will come with time if Sanford chooses to continue writing about her. I hope he doesn't give up writing about Virgil Flowers though. He is my favorite of the Sanford characters.

. The Investigator by John Sandford. A Letty Davenport novel, published in 2022 & about 400 pages. Overview: By age 24, Letty Davenport has seen more action and uncovered more secrets than many law enforcement professionals. Now a recent Stanford grad with a master’s in economics, she’s restless and bored at her D.C. desk job working for U.S. Senator Chris Colles (R-Floroda). Letty has decided to quit and gives two weeks notice, but her skills have impressed Colles, and he offers her a carrot: feet-on-the-ground investigative work, in conjunction with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Several oil companies in Texas have reported thefts of crude, Colles tells her. He and the DHS are not so much concerned with the loss of oil since it's a relatively small amount for major oil companies. However, the money made from selling stolen oil could be in the millions, a huge profit for a small group of thieves. Rumor has it that a border militia group might be involved. Colles wants to know if the money is going to them, and if so, what they’re planning. Letty is partnered with DHS agent John Kaiser, a 47 year old Army veteran who doesn't at first appreciate her abilities. They head to Texas and the case quicky turns deadly, they know they’re on the track of something bigger. The militia group (Land Division) has set in motion an explosive plan . . . and the clock is ticking down. - edited. . [Letty West first shows up in the book Naked Prey, number 14 in the long-running Lucas Davenport crime series. In that book young Letty's ne'er-do-well mom was murdered and two naked bodies were found hanging in the woods of northern Minnesota. Not a lynching of the interracial couple. Lucas, an agent with the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) was called in to investigate. Letty has mostly raised herself, setting a trapline to catch critters, hunting for dinner, scavenging, she can drive mom's Jeep and even shot a crooked cop with her .22 rifle. All this before Lucas and his surgeon wife Weather adopted the orphan girl who is now Letty Davenport The Investigator]. . Starts out with a young women, a blue-eyed burglar dressed in black, breaking and entering at an office building in Tallahassee, Florida where she accesses a computer and purloines a number of spreadsheets, looking for proof of stolen campaign funds. Later she followed the suspects, 2 lovers who drive to an out-of-state casino where she observes them gambling away the ill-gotten gain. There was no breaking involved. As the last person left the building for the night, the women kept the door ajar with a lenght of fish line and used a lock rake on the office door. An informant had already given her the location of the computer password. The talented young intruder is none other than Letty Davenport doing the first and only interesting job she's had working for her boss Senator Colles. Her dad, Lucas Davenport a US Marshal, didn't get her the job with the Senator, but he did put in a good word for her. Now she gives her two weeks notice and the Senator shreds her letter of resignation since he has something more to Letty's liking in mind. Throughout the story we get flashbacks of Letty's youth, her survival and hunting skills as she provided for herself and her mother, being adopted by the wealthy Davenports, killing two intruders that broke in to revenge-kill Lucas's family, her High School intern job at a TV station, developing a taste for fashion and the expensive just like daddy, a talent with handguns and apparently she's as bright and dangerous as her adopted father Lucas and just like dad, she bends the rules in pursuit of evidence. Agent Kaiser soon realizes, "You got a lot of cop shit from your old man." The Senator convinces Letty to stay on as a researcher working in conjunction with the DHS. She's given her own small office and a carry permit, allowing her to bring her gun almost anywhere and "she was pleased." Early on we get the details of the bad guys. Who they are and what they're up to is what Letty and agent Kaiser spend much of the book piecing together, interviewing known associates, stakeouts in the desert, clandestine searches of houses, tracing license tabs and cell phone numbers, GPS tracking, following suspects from a distance and much more. All this fact gathering can get a bit tedious at times, but for the most part the story remains interesting. Some details: Boxie and wife are missing and some speculate he might have been responsible for the oil thefts. Their cars are gone and so they may be on the run. When Lettie searches the house (the cops only looked in the windows) she finds both Blackburn's under the bed, plastic bags taped over their heads. Letty and some others enter the yard of Max the gun guy, but before they can ring the bell his pitbull attacks. Agent Kaiser grabs the dog and throws it over the fence and the wounded cop shoots it dead. Max is temporarily arrested and Letty pretends to lock up his house and give him back the keys. After everyone leaves, she searches the house, gets numbers out of his cell phone and destination locations from his truck's GPS - more leads to follow up on. Of course it's Letty who figures out they should look for a small oil outfit, a wildcatter, who has recently had a huge bump in production. That of course turns out to be the old crook Roscoe Winks and Letty overnights in the desert, watching his business from her small tent and sure enough a tanker truck of stolen oil arrives in the night. They follow the truck and soon learn where they keep it stored - more places to lock pick, B & E and illegally search for evidence. When Jane and her militia crew are done with old man Winks, Max the gun guy goes to his place and shoots him dead. Max doesn't know Letty is again staking out the little oil company and after a brief exchange of gunfire she kills Jane's pal with a bullet through the head. Jane Jael Hawkes is an honorably discharged, darknet propagandist with a big following. She's assembled a group of militia border guards who try to prevent illegal crossings at the southern border - assisting the Border Patrol whether they like it or not. They are mostly ex-military or criminals, gun nuts or vehemently anti illegal immigrant. Jane's inner circle consists of Rand Low a talented public speaker who also suffers from bouts of volcanic rage and is perpetually angry. Max Sawyer is the group's gun expert and owns a vicious pitbull named Rooter who gets shot for biting a cop. Terry Duran is ex Air Force and a bank robber. Victor Crain is a handsome veteran and all-around bad guy. We first meet Jane and some of her henchmen as they're driving to Midland, Texas to kill Boxie Blackburn and his wife. Boxie is an oil company accountant and apparently he figured out how the oil was being stolen and called the likely suspect Roscoe Winks. In fact Winks is the wildcatter oil guy who thought up the the oil theft scheme. Now Roscoe is panicked and Jane's gang kills Boxie before he can reveal his findings. Since, Roscoe is an untrustworthy loose end, they plan on killing him soon, but for now he's still needed as the seller of the filched oil. Jane and company have worked out a new plan, a symbol of resistance which involves like-minded militia folk from all over the country. Over a year ago a caravan of illegal aliens from Central America crossed the border bridge from Mexico to Pershing, Texas and were welcomed by the mayor and city council. Now another caravan is on the way and Jane and her militia are determined to stop them, no matter what. She isn't a racist. All nationalities are welcome in the militia. They are, however, against illegal aliens flooding into the country and displacing poor Americans. It's about wages. They also compare their plan to the Alamo. Fair warning - here's what's going on. As the caravan approaches the bridge on the Mexican side, the militia will blow it up. Jane plans to destroy only the bridge and not kill any of the illegals. However, perpetually angry Rand Low wants not only destruction but death and so changed the timer settings on the C-4 to explode after the caravan was on the very long bridge. It takes Letty and company nearly the whole book to figure out the bridge is going to blow, something the reader easily figures out. When an anti-immigrant militia has a hundred pounds of C-4, detonators and timers, and tested the explosive on a hunk of I-beam and have plans to stop a caravan from crossing a bridge into the USA, it's pretty clear they're going to blow up the bridge. Even though Letty warned the task force, somehow the warning didn't reach the caravan. Once the militia left the bridge and started driving out of the border town, the caravan started across the bridge. With John counting down the minutes remaining, Letty runs across the bridge to stop the immigrants, shouting in Spanish for them to go back. A bus full of kids starts backing up, but it's too slow. As it comes down to seconds, big John Kaiser picks up Letty, running her to safety on the Mexican side. The bridge blows, the bus of moms and children falls and Letty helps with the rescue. Since the group of some 1,500 illegals had just started crossing the 300 yard bridge, most were not harmed. Why this is such a monumental event for Jane and her militia, I don't know. She gathered 110 militia members from all over the country to take over the border town and blow up the bridge. Okay, but it won't stop them from crossing, since the Rio Grande River is just a trickle at that point - easily walked across. Perhaps a bigger spectacle would have been the militia members guarding the border against a huge mob of illegals and then they wouldn't be guilty of so many felonies and Jane wouldn't have to go into hiding. Letty and agent Kaiser got to the border town of Pershing before the militia arrived. After a get-together in the hills and a pep talk, the militia convoyed all in pickup trucks into town, fell a grove of trees to block the only road into town and guarded the roadblock with gunman. In town they forced the border patrol agents to give up at gunpoint; disarmed the tiny part-time police force; arrested and jailed the mayor and city council, locking them in the jail with plans for a show trial for treason. Remember the council invited the last caravan to invade the US a year-and-a-half ago. The militia blew up the cell phone tower and tried to assure the townsfolk - all who are heavily armed themselves - that they're not planning to hurt anyone and only plan to peacefully stop the upcoming illegal border crossing. People in town are invited to join them and are assured, as soon as the caravan has turned around - a day or two at the most - then they'll leave and hope for mercy from law enforcement. Worried that Jane and her militia may execute the city council for treason, agent Kaiser breaks them out of the town's jail and hides them in a cave, a tourist attraction not far from town. Once all hell breaks loose with the bridge blowing up, the militia start heading out of town, driving a rough back way across an Arroyo, then back roads to the highway. Jane has disappeared but the other leaders (Rand Low, Terry & Victor) are headed out last and Letty ambushes their truck, shooting as they drive by. Jane got a way, hitching a ride with another militia truck, assumes her new identity and is gone. She's alarmed to hear how quickly members of her militia are being rounded up since they had covered all the license plates to avoid being identified. She didn't know Letty had walked around town taking cell phone photos of license tabs and lots of the militia folks had been taking selfies with their masks off. In the end Letty and Kaiser meet up with the cops on the other side of the roadblock and are taken to the FBI task force in El Paso for debriefing. After some notoriety and interviews on various news shows, Letty is eventually back in her new little office and receives a surprise phone call from Jane. The women is PO'd that Letty wrecked her Land Division militia, killed her friend Max and the others and so promises, "We're coming for you." Of course Letty responds with, “Bring it on. Bring everything you fucking got.” THE END .. Mostly liked it. The story is similar to any of the Lucas Davenport Prey novels. It's kind of like the author just plugged in Letty as the new lead. Not necessarily a bad thing since I like the Lucas series. Sanford is a liberal leftist, anti-gun author and doesn't believe civilians should own guns. Something he has stated in the Prey series and continues in this book as well. Here he has his new protagonist Letty condemn gun owners and basically anyone using a rifle that shoots more than one bullet. So, why is Letty herself an armed to the teeth, gun nut? Because of all the gun-toting crazies out there. "Yet another reason, Letty thought, that all women should be issued guns at birth." The audio version is expertly narrated by Richard Ferrone. Why all the fame and hoopla over Letty and agent Kaiser? They didn't stop the bombing, close to twenty illegals died and many more were injured and the militia's leader, the kook who thought up this harebrained scheme, got away. Letty series: The Investigator (2022) Dark Angel (2023) . .

I’ve been a John Sandford fan since the Prey series started in the late 1980s. Since then Lucas has aged almost gracefully into a seasoned manhunter with rather less graphic gore. The Prey books went seriously wobbly for a while but have recently improved – if that’s because Sandford now works with a writing partner (so the rumour goes) then I’m all for it. But I never liked Sandford’s ventures into other territories – the hacker Kidd and the news team in The Night Crew fell flat. Likewise, his adopted daughter’s earlier appearance as an adolescent in Gathering Prey felt forced and fake. She wasn’t a real character, just an awkward plot device. So I wouldn’t have bothered with The Investigator – the first book in a new series featuring that very daughter, Letty Davenport – unless it was on a seriously special offer. Which it was. So I grabbed it… …and was entirely gratified by how great it is. Sandford has created a credible niche for Letty as a politician’s agent, and given her the credentials of Homeland Security and a broad-ranging brief. The story takes her directly into the present political turmoil, referencing online conspiracy networks, citizens’ militias and the dark undercurrent of insurrection which appears to be tugging at America’s soul. It couldn’t be more timely. Letty feels eminently believable to me – and I like the notion of an independent young woman who is a capable and competent as her male counterparts, and who does not need to fall back on feminine wiles to achieve her aims. It helps that the plot barrels along at a rapid pace, without pausing for tedious domestic am-dram, and that Letty’s opponent is an equally interesting woman of strong will. Sandford also strategically fills in her back story for people who haven't read the earlier books (and to remind me, because I had forgotten large lumps of it!) So I’m converted. Roll on the next one! 8/10

I give this 4.75 out of 5. I have read all the Prey books, all the Kidd books, all the Virgil books and now the first Letty book and I have not read a book by John Sandford that I did not thoroughly enjoy. A lot of times I lose interest when the original characters are replaced by children or others. The story just doesn't appeal to me in the same way (maybe trying to get a new, younger audience. The Investigator was outstanding and Letty is fascinating in her own way to overcome the absence of her father. A great story with lots of action and interesting others. I really liked the sidekick Kaiser. I look forward to more books in this series.

Nice 1st entry in Sandford's new Letty series. It does a nice job laying the framework for Lucas's daughter working for a senator post college. He sets her up with a Homeland Security guy to investigate lost oil in the economy. Great interaction with the main characters and good action scenes.

One of my favorites in the series! A federal judge and his two sons have been murdered in their home. Plenty of people might have had a motive to kill the judge, but why were the kids targeted? This is the mystery Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers must unravel. This dynamic duo is fantastic! I love each of them in their own series, but together, they’re the best A-team. Their humor, contrasting personalities, and relentless focus on catching the culprit(s) make them standout characters I want to revisit every time John Sandford releases a new book featuring them. As a devoted fan of Lucas and Virgil, I find this installment remarkable. Cliffhanger: No 4/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Enjoyed this better than the last few in the series. First the book was set in Minnesota. Second a few of the old characters were brought back. Sandy from the BCA and Elly Krueger, the childhood friend of Lucas got a brief mention. Would like to see the future books in the series continue to be set in Minnesota and more of the old characters brought back. Four Stars.

This is another exciting, easy-to-read Prey book. Here Lucas and Virgil solve two crimes which initially appear to be related. In an unusual twist Lucas does not murder the suspect. Although as Virgil tells one of the victims: “You know, Lucas might have killed Hess if it had been him by himself. He knows that I wouldn’t go along with it. He’s a hard case. He’s like you.” (Page 385) I have been reading Prey books for over 30 years. In most of the Prey books the story occurs in the Twin Cities of Minnesota where I am a lifelong resident. His local flavor adds interest to these books. Similar to product placement in movies, Sanford frequently mentions local restaurants and shops in his books. I am familiar with many of these locations. In addition, these stories are well-written with complicated plots. I enjoy reading about how Lucas proceeds to solve these crimes. He is not afraid of bending the legality of his investigation. The addition of Virgil Flowers to these stories has added wit to the dialogue. I am up-to-date on the books by Sanford and am eagerly awaiting the next story.

Disclosure: Received an uncorrected ebook file of this book from NetGalley and GP Putnam's Sons/Penguin Random House LLC (Thank you!) in exchange for an honest review. Hooray!! Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers team up once again after their last caper left them both recovering from gunshot wounds. No spoilers here but what I can share is Lucas and Virgil (both protagonists from their own awesome serial novels) join forces to solve the murder of a judge and his sons. As always, I loved the camaraderie between Lucas and Virgil and the ways in which they work together to solve a murder. What I didn't love as much with this novel was the abrupt ending and how much time the book spent on the Cooper, the wife of the murdered judge. She is broken after losing her family but the path her storyline took made her increasingly unlikable and unrelatable as the story progressed. If the evolution of her character was intended to elicit any feelings of compassion, then this was an epic fail. Cooper's plot line also weakened the overall believability of the story, in my opinion. Despite the Cooper issues, this was still a book I greatly enjoyed reading. You needn't have read the prior books to enjoy this one, the author provides any backstory necessary to move this plot forward (and if you like this book, you will have a plethora of Davenport/Flowers novels to dive into). So if you are a fan of well written murder mysteries, this is one worth your time (once it's available).

According to my calculations this is my twenty fifth Prey series. I have also read nine Virgil Flowers stories. This is one of the few stories where Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers share the podium.As yet I have not tired of them nevertheless this won’t be up there with the best of them. A father, a federal court judge, and his two sons are cruelly shot dead after an afternoon of shooting hoops. The family’s baby is left unharmed and the absent mother, Margaret Cooper is devastated at the loss of her husband and sons. Initially little progress is made in the investigation and no motive is apparent. Our hero duopoly are called into apply their superior investigative skills. As expected some of the best parts of the book are when Davenport and Flowers deal with suspects and witnesses. Widow Cooper is out for revenge and intends taking things into her own hands. The investigation is centred around the families financial investments and our investigators have a keen interest in two financial advisors. I had my suspicions that our exemplary constabulary were on the wrong course and I found the reveal to be somewhat opaque. The ending is a version of the shootout at OK corral. It is typical Sandford and fortunately our protagonist escape injury free. The ending did twist and turn. Still, the read was a typical Sandford experience. I must now go and fill it those small number of holes in my list of Sandford police stories.

** spoiler alert ** I'll round up on this one. I always love reading the Prey series, but this one was missing something that I couldn't put my finger on. Maybe that final justice moment for Cooper with the killer? It all seemed to come to a culmination very quickly and then nothing more. It may have also just been her seemingly disconnected attitude towards her murdered husband and sons altogether. That, however, didn't stop me from finishing it.

Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers are a great team. I like their style.

I've said this before: Sandford's novels are the smart, funny, dessert after the main course. I believe I've read all of them, and I cannot say that about many writers. But I find his work and characters - especially Davenport and Flowers - funny. LOL funny. Also, of course, sometimes incredibly graphic and coarse. That said, I look forward to a new Sandford novel, and usually acquire it within the first week it's issued. They know I'm an addict. I admit not everyone shares my enthusiasm. Maybe it's a guy thing. I do think his novels are rife with guy humor, and graphic details, so ... The preceding notwithstanding, I'm looking forward to the next one.

Lucas Davenport is recovering from multiple injuries in a shootout. He's gimpy and bored. So it's great when he's pulled back into service, this time with Virgil Flowers, his loyal sidekick. A wealthy federal judge and his two young teen sons have been brutally murdered. The list of possible suspects is long and interesting, starting with the judge's wife and her very, very best friend. I was interested from start to finish, but this wasn't my favorite. For one thing, Mrs. judge didn't have much emotion, either about her dead family or her remaining infant daughter. It seemed unrealistic, although Sandford might have been trying to make a point--that her emotional weirdness didn't mean she was a criminal, and we also should reserve judgment a bit. The ending was good but it fell off a cliff. Lastly, the banter between Virgil and Lucas has lost something...it's less clever, more adolescent and mean. I did like the fact that Lucas is aging, and his physical challenges are realistic. I just felt that Sandford's heart wasn't in this one. His last two, though, featuring Letty Davenport, were killer, so I know he's still got it.

You can usually count on John Sandford for a quick, fun read. This one takes a few turns as Davenport and Flowers work together and pursue a couple of unconnected leads in the murder investigation they were asked to assist with. It helps uncover some white collar crime that is just as despicable as the first murder. There are more twists before this wraps up in rapid-fire fashion. I especially enjoyed the pairing of Davenport and Flowers again, this time working side by side as well as riding in the same car. It allows for more chit-chat between the two which is very comedic as they take jabs at each other.

I love having my two boys in the same book. This story is complicated so you really need to concentrate. The character development we have seen in both Lucas and Virgil is really astounding. I am thinking I might need to start at the beginning of this amazing series.

This book is a quick read. While you do not need to read the other Prey novels to enjoy this book, I would recommend you do so. The condition of Lucas Davenport, especially at the beginning of this novel, will be appreciated most by individuals who have read other recent prey novels. The friendship between Lucas and Virgil Flowers consistently features enjoyable dialogue. The settings of the Prey books are well researched. Anyone who has spent time in Eastern Minnesota will recognize the weather, streets and locations mentioned in the story. Reoccurring characters add to the storyline as does the question of how Margaret Cooper will cope with the violent loss of her husband and sons.

John Sanford is one of my go to authors. This books revolves around two mysteries. Judge Sands and his two sons killed in their home, and a con man setting up charities, and skimming the proceeds from worthy causes. Plus two of his employees goes missing. This book had decent mysteries to solve, but got slow in the middle for me. It picked back up though, when Mrs Sands figured out who killed her husband, and the two missing people were discovered dead in the other case. Plus the ending was not really a surprise, but kept the book from feeling finished. I gave it a four.

All of John Sandford's thrillers are very good reads. He creates a sense of tension and urgency that keeps people interested and turning pages. Often we know whodunnit, but will they be discovered, caught, and (fairly often) killed? This plot complicates nicely as we learn more, with a nice twist at the end. I would give this book 4.7 out of 5. Fans may enjoy Lucas and Virgil sharing the lead as they work together.

It's wonderful to see Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers pairing up again... and both men have come a long way since their creation. Lucas is not yet officially back on duty with the US Marshalls (after being shot) when he's asked to take a look at a case. On that note I have to say it was jarring but probably important that Sandford introduces us very briefly to the judge and his two sons before the opening murders. The utter waste of life really hit home for me. There's a lot happening but Sandford doesn't overly complicate things so the main plot (and justice for our victims) doesn't get lost. Read the full review on my website: https://www.debbish.com/books-literat...

Who can resist Lucas and Virgil on a case? One of the best series today.

Another home run with Lucas and Virgil on the case of a murderer taking out a judge and his children and it turns out they aren’t the only ones.

The boys are back!

I was in a conundrum. There were several books I would start and then stop because I couldn’t connect to the story. Was I in a reading slump? I had abandoned Jack Reacher books years ago because it felt too formulaic. But my husband continued to read the Reacher stories, including those that are now being written by Lee’s brother Andrew. My husband is even a fan of ‘Reacher,’ the Amazon Prime series. So, what was I willing to do? Try one. This one. “…this is America. The law applies to him the same as everyone else.” Regarding this above quote…if only. The year is 1992. The descriptive prologue grabbed me in an instant. I could feel the tension and drama immediately as I quickly turned pages. It also provided a mystery, in that readers were not certain who the character was that was being ‘interrogated’ by 2 women, nor why. And then, the women do something that leaves readers stunned. What possessed them to do so? And now, there is Reacher. Back in his early life as a Military Police Investigator. What was this case in which former scientists were dying and why would the Secretary of Defense be interested in it? Were these deaths natural, unfortunate accidents or murder? In typical fashion, Reacher is Reacher. And, for those who have not read this series, it may be best to start from the beginning, with “Killing Floor.” I have read quite a few of the Reacher stories, long before I joined Goodreads, so there are very few of my reviews posted here. But I do recommend considering reading other Goodreads fans reviews, and/or Child’s earlier Reacher books to get a sense of Reacher and his history. As a long-ago fan of Reacher, I always appreciated how he could use his brawn and brain to diffuse an argument. But as his character aged, it was harder to suspend disbelief for all the times he continued to physically exert himself, and not feel the problems associated from such exertion as an older character. So, it was nice to be back in a story with a younger version of Reacher. Through methodical breaks in the story, A. Child takes readers between the 2 women perpetrators, the Secretary of Defense, and Reacher’s case before being asked to head up this particular investigation. The story moves adeptly and seamlessly through these different scenarios. Readers can’t help but wonder, what is going on and how will all of this come together? Once Reacher is in charge of this new investigation, the biggest question for him and his team to answer is what happened in India in 1969, and why are those involved on the scientific team being systematically targeted? Is this ‘the secret’ that the title of this book alludes to being? And, why are the perpetrators telling their targets their names? Are they avenging someone? And, if so, why? Also, will Reacher get to the scientists in time before someone else is harmed? Including his own team? And, will the lead person responsible for the incident in 1969 be held accountable? “And that puts him above the law?” Most importantly, who really are the good guys here, besides Reacher, of course? This fast-moving, page-turning, engaging, suspense-filled, story will no doubt appeal to Reacher fans. But will it be a surprise ending, or will readers figure it out? Still, for those of us who have been away for a while, it was nice to experience Reacher at this stage of his life. It made his large presence and fighting capabilities more credible. One last thing…Reacher definitely broke my reading slump. ☺️

Another great story from Lee child and his brother Andrew child.. jack reacher.. This book is now about jack reacher when he was a captain in the military police. He’s still the beast of a man that likes to see this put right. Two strangers are trying to get to the truth and a list of names of a people involved in a tragedy caused in the 60s India.. A man is in his hospital bed after having a heart attack, in walks too strangers, let’s say these strangers don’t believe what this man is saying, this means the man has found himself on the floor after falling 12 stories now he’s dead! After a few more people are found dead as supposed suicide a new inter-agency task force has been set up to try and find out what happened in the 60s and why a group of people are being found around the country. It’s up to reacher and his new colleagues to see what happened then. At the moment the secretary of defence knows more than he’s telling. Can reacher etc find out why some people are dying who’s doing it and why?? I have the collection of Lee child books and this was a very enjoyable one

Not a bad outing for this long-running series, now dually written by Lee and Andrew Child. This book takes us back to 1992, where someone is killing members of a team of scientists who worked on an ill-fated military project at a chemical company in India in 1969. Captain Reacher is assigned to an inter-agency task force to try to figure out who is behind these killings. An enjoyable action-packed thriller.

Jack Reacher is just as exciting as ever in this 28th installment of the Jack Reacher series. Description: 1992. Eight respectable, upstanding people have been found dead across the US. These deaths look like accidents and don’t appear to be connected. Until one body – the victim of a fatal fall from a hospital window – generates some unexpected attention. That attention comes from the Secretary of Defense, who promptly calls for an inter-agency task force to investigate. Jack Reacher is assigned as the Army's representative. Reacher may be an exceptional soldier, but sweeping other people's secrets under the carpet isn't part of his skill set. As he races to discover the link between these victims, and who killed them, he must navigate around the ulterior motives of his new 'partners'. And all while moving into the sight line of some of the most dangerous people he has ever encountered. His mission is to uncover the truth. The question will Reacher bring the bad guys to justice the official way . . . or his way? My Thoughts: I can always count on Lee Child to create a thrilling adventure that is fast-moving and heroic. Yes, Jack Reacher is always a hero and I like that he sticks by his morals to do the right thing - no matter who is involved. In this one he unravels a mess that occurred at a lab in India in 1969. It is set in the 1990s and Jack Reacher is still a captain in the military police, so it's taking him back quite a bit in time. He is thrown together with several others under a lot of pressure to find a killer who is methodically killing scientists related to a project at the lab in India. The murders are happening quickly and they all are made to look like possble suicides or accidents. What is really happening? An absorbing investigation, a relentless pace, and a complex plot make this a great adventure. Thanks to Random House Publishing – Ballentine through Netgalley for an advance copy.

It used to be that time of year when Lee Child would publish his annual outing with one of my favorite fictional heroes, Jack Reacher. Those days are gone and the transition from big brother to younger brother is in full process. Andrew Child, Lee’s brother, is the writer while Lee provides editorial feedback and support. It is also my understanding based on an article I read right before reading this book last weekend, this is Lee’s last book in an editor role. Moving forward, Andrew will be flying solo starting with next year’s Reacher book… That will be interesting… The transition of Andrew taking the lead, some things have remained the same while other things have changed. Andrew was definitely not Lee and his changes were weren’t always subtle to the millions of Reacher fans. In my personal opinion, it’s taken Andrew several books to develop his own rhythm with the character and his behaviors. The result is that Andrew’s version Reacher is not necessarily Lee’s Reacher. As a reader, you can choose to like that or not. It’s just the reality of the situation. This year, Andrew has delivered his fourth Reacher novel, “The Secret”, which continues much of the same approach, style, and plotting as his last novel, “No Plan B”. For me personally, there seems to be some more incremental improvement. Reacher is not talking near as much as he did in Andrew’s first book. In addition, the plotting is continuing to improve, strengthening the overall story. “The Secret” as another one of the flashback stories from when Reacher was serving in the military back in 1992. It starts off with Reacher investigating an inventory problem but gets pulled off to represent the Army on an interagency task force pulled together by the U.S. Secretary of Defense. The purpose of the task force is to find out who is killing a group of ex-military scientists who are retired from service for years and appear to have nothing in common. However, they are showing up dead in what appears to be strange and unique accidents that raise questions. The bad news for Reacher, recently demoted from Major to Captain due to insubordination, is that he and the rest of the task force members have been chosen for a reason. They are on the outs with their government organizations, and if they fail, they will become convenient fall guys who will be forced to take the blame… Once he understands the rules of this forced assignment, Reacher decides its time to find a connection between the victims and who’s hunting them down, as well as rallying his fellow task force members to figure out why this is all happening. And to make matters worse, Reacher is getting the sense that someone in the government above their level is somehow involved and hiding key information… Information that could get them killed… Like the last book, this was an easy and fast read. In some ways too fast. Most of that is because this book is only 296 pages in length, which I think is one of the shortest, if not the shortest, Reacher novel in the series. I am not for adding fluff to get to a higher word count, but it would be nice to have a longer read in the 300-to-400-page range. The plotting and pacing were good most of the time. Andrew captures much of the same plot development style and flow as his brother, Lee. Although it felt a bit too clinical at moments, the storyline revealed itself scene by scene as Reacher played the role of investigator. One thing that I noticed and appreciated was that the fight sequences flowed more organically and were not so over-choreographed. Another area of strengthening was the overall plotting. The mystery was multi-layered and the various pieces were revealed throughout the book at different point along the way, providing more tension and surprise along the way. Although I have to say that I figured out the last big reveal at the end, which means a lot of other readers will most likely have done the same. The villains were also more worthier opponents for Reacher than Andrew’s first two books. The good news is that Andrew’s adding more perspectives from the villain’s points of view added more tension and depth to the mystery and adversarial elements. It also helped Reacher come across as multi-dimensional and intelligent rather than just a strong brute. At the same time, I have noticed that there are some readers that felt this diminished the amount of screen time that Reacher had in the book, and I must admit that there is definitely some truth to that. Especially with the lower page count, this choice to focus more on other characters in the story did take away from Reacher’s screen time. For me, that’s a tough call as a writer, and I can see both sides of that argument. Now, for the elephant in the room. Andrew writes Reacher differently than Lee. That is reality and it isn’t going to change anytime soon (per his interviews). Andrew’s Reacher is focused more on his physical skills and instinctual strengths. I especially appreciated in this book how Reacher used his analytical skills more, which reminded me more of Lee Child’s writing, and I really enjoyed getting the “smart” Reacher back. I also felt like the ending did not fully deliver on the buildup as well as it could have. It wasn’t a bad ending, and improved over the previous two, but it seems like Andrew struggles some with putting it all together at the end. Mechanically he got all of the pieces connected, but emotionally, it still felt a little bit lacking when it came to experiencing closure. By the time you got to the climax, the villains have all been turned into weak hackneyed versions of their former stronger selves in the first half of the book and pretty much laid down for Reacher without a proper fight. Overall, it felt like to me that “The Secret” showed that Andrew Child is continuing to get better in his writing of Reacher. His understanding of what works with the character is getting better. His plotlines and mystery elements are improving. That being said, we, as readers, must come to terms with understanding that Andrew is not Lee and cannot be Lee. He is his own writer. For example, nobody will ever be James Bond in my mind, but Sean Connery. He was the first, the best, and the model every other Bond is compared to. Most cannot come close to his greatness. However, everything considered, Daniel Craig did pretty dang good in his own version and I am enjoying his take on the character. He’s not Connery, but he’s much better than the others. I fully understand that some Reacher fans will learn to enjoy Andrew’s version of Reacher and others will never be satisfied with Andrew, choosing rather to pick it apart. Although it probably doesn’t feel that way after reading my review, I am probably somewhere in the middle. Lee was certainly burning out on writing Reacher. That was clear in his later interviews, so it was time to move on. In the same way, it isn’t fair to judge Andrew Child with the expectation of being a Lee Child clone or copycat. We owe him the right to deliver Reacher using his own style, which means that we may have to accept his version of Reacher with different nuances than that which his creator instilled. At that point, we can choose to stick with him or leave, and that’s a personal choice readers can make on their own. For me, Andrew is getting better. We’ll see how his solo outing goes in 2024, but until then, “The Secret” is a gracious and optimistic 4-stars for me.

The Jack Reacher series continues to roll on at pace and, yes, there has been a notable change in the style of the books since the commencement of the collaboration, but there’s still enough there to warrant my attention. Not quite as analytically correct as the past, The Secret is an attention grabber from the first page. This episode of Jack Reacher steps back in time to the days when he was still Military Police, although at this moment in time, he had been busted from Major down to Captain. Another sign that he’s on the outs with the powers that be is his assignment to a joint agency task force to try to determine who’s killing the members of an old scientific research team who had been working in India. The Secret is a person’s name and a pair of killers are hellbent on finding out the identity of that person. Time and again they prove just how desperate they are to winkle it out and their process provides a macabre ticking clock as the list of possibles is gradually whittled down. The methods of murder used by the killers are imaginative, to say the least, and their relentless progress remains an insidious presence while Reacher and his cohorts from the FBI, CIA and Treasury make little or no progress. But in his usual style, Reacher starts to pull ideas from way out of leftfield and the drama of an inevitable confrontation is set in motion. You feel the misdirection coming from a mile off as Reacher arrows in on the killers and prepares for one almighty showdown. It was clear that the scenario we were being led to believe was false. But figuring out the true nature of the crimes that were covered up years before and the person responsible was nicely hidden and part of a big twist in the final wash up. Reacher is as relentless and ruthless as ever, the case is brought to a conclusion in large part because of him, but history shows that his days in the Military Police are numbered and he’s soon to become the nomadic loner we all know and love. There’s a lot to like about The Secret and, funnily enough, the parts I enjoyed the most were found to be while in the presence of the killers who maintained a strong, focused determination. They were no-nonsense and relentless, making them the most dangerous of adversaries for Reacher to have come up against. Any hints of the over the top lethal force that had started to creep into recent Reacher books was absent here. Perhaps that’s due to the fact that we returned to his MP days, but it allowed some impressive deductive reasoning to take over and felt more like a police procedural than an out and out action thriller. I think it played better for the change of pace.

It's 1992. Reacher has been assigned to an interagency task force by the secretary of defense after a series of mysterious deaths around the country. The murders don't seem to be connected and all appeared to be the result of either an accident or suicide but a nefarious actor couldn't be ruled out completely. The murders seem to be under the secretary's paygrade and raises Reacher's hackles. As he and his partners begin investigating, the danger and complexity begin to balloon. In order to solve the case Reacher is going to have to deal with office politics, trust issues and a pair of creepy, deadly killers. All while finding a woman to bed. Andrew Child has hit his stride taking over Reacher. Going back in time was a smart move. Young Reacher and Old Reacher are essentially the same man with some minor differences. Young Reacher isn't as cynical and violent as Old Reacher. He's just as menacing and deadly simply more judicious in his application of it. I really enjoyed The Secret and hope we see more of Young Reacher in the future. Thank you to Delacorte Press and NetGalley for the opportunity to read an advanced copy of The Secret.

I've been a fan of Child's Reacher series for several years and have read all of the books written solely by Lee Child. I also read the first couple of books that he is now writing with his brother, Andrew Child. I was disappointed in one of the later solo books, BLUE MOON, and I also didn't care for BETTER OFF DEAD which was written by Lee and Andrew. So I decided to pretty much give up on the series and thought it had run its course. However, I happened to see their latest available at a visit to the library and decided to give Reacher another chance. THE SECRET seemed to be written more in line with the Reacher of the earlier novels that I came to consider one of the best thriller series out there. This is one of the throw back novels where Reacher is still in the military. It takes place in 1992 while Reacher is working on a case of stolen M-16 rifles. Then he is called in to Washington as part of a group put together by the Secretary of Defense to look into the deaths of some scientists who were involved in a secret project related to chemical warfare at a lab in India back in 1969. The deaths are made to look like suicide but too much coincidence there. So it looks like the scientists are being murdered but why? And who is responsible for the deaths? Okay, I gave Reacher another chance and was not disappointed. I thought this one was on par with some of the earlier novels. It takes place in the past when Reacher was a Captain in the Army which Child used in a few of the earlier novels. I admit I prefer the stories where Reacher is on his own traveling the country with his toothbrush, but overall I would recommend this one. Lots of action and some well-written characters. I'll probably read the next book when it comes out.

This book, the 28th in the Jack Reacher series, is set in the late 1990s and takes readers back to his days in the military. As might be expected, he's a little less the maverick and loner we've come to know and love; even his physical prowess is toned down a bit. What we do see, though, is some of what shaped what he became in more recent books as told in an enjoyable, engrossing story. Actually, there are two threads; as part of his regular assignment as Military Police Officer at the Rock Island Arsenal in Illinois, Reacher is dealing with stolen gun parts and trying to track down not only who's behind the theft but where they're ending up. Just as he's making progress, though, he gets pulled off to serve as the Army's representative on a task force looking into the presumed murder of a man who was involved in a top-secret government research project in India 20-plus years ago. Prior to that, eight other people related to that project have bitten the dust, although in ways that didn't attract suspicion till now. Since the task force was formed at the behest of the U.S. Secretary of Defense, time is of the essence and failure isn't an option. The trick, if there is one, is to explore the connections among all the victims, determine whether there could be more victims to come (and if so, find ways to protect them), and, ultimately, find out who's doing the killing. Given all the secrecy surrounding the project and all the years that have intervened, that's no small job. It gets even more complicated as the task force's worst fears come to fruition. Readers meanwhile get treated to a behind-the-scenes look at everyone involved, so they know more than Reacher does almost every step of the way except near the end, when Reacher beats us all to it (well, almost - I correctly guessed it fairly early on). Needless to say, there's no shortage of Reacher tough-guy action, though as I mentioned earlier, it's not as full-on as in later books. All told, it's another attention-holding adventure that's easy to read (good thing, since I really wanted to get through it in one sitting; didn't quite make it). Many thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review a pre-release copy.

This is just the third Jack Reacher novel I've read, so take my opinions with a grain of salt compared to other reviewers who have read most or all of the 28 books in this series. The last Reacher novel I read was NO PLAN B by Lee Child and brother Andrew Child (who everyone assumes is now doing the bulk of the writing). When comparing it to THE ENEMY (my first Reacher read, and not a collaboration) I found NO PLAN B to fit nicely into the Reacher formula but lacking excitement. BY comparison, THE SECRET is a nice step forward. This one held my attention from the opening chapters and seems to capture that enthusiasm for the character that I felt when reading my first Reacher novel. There's a compelling mystery to the proceedings here, and plenty of suspense as the victims continue to fall while Reacher and team struggle to unravel the clues, and some interesting side characters. Plenty of action. The story is helped along by being set in 1992, early in Reacher's career when he was brash, decisive, and brutal. A good, fun read that won't take long to finish.

A secret has been kept since 1969 that he thought would never be revealed. The team of scientists involved begin to die under suspicious circumstances, most look like suicide. It becomes evident that the secret is out and whoever knows is killing every one of the scientists involved. The Department of Defense organizes a task force of misfit officers from various agencies to ascertain who the killer is and stop him. Reacher is the Army representative to the task force and he vows to find the killer; which might necessitate getting to the bottom of the secret. The task force is given very little information to work with which makes it hard for them to come up with any names for the killer. The killer always seems one step ahead of any information the task force has. If they fail the task force becomes the scapegoat. This is a slow paced thriller — the information is difficult to obtain and the bodies keep coming. Can Reacher solve the mystery and keep his rank and his job? I found this slow and methodical.

If someone asked me to use one word to describe the latest Lee Child book – The Secret - then I would have no hesitation in using “Staccato”, it was the word that came into my head early on in the book and it remained until I closed the cover at the end. Now I do have to admit I do love the Jack Reacher novels and with this, the 28th instalment, you’d have to be a fan to keep reading but to be honest I’ve felt the Reacher series had until this book his a sort of plateau. I didn’t think the last two or three books had been up to the usual incredible standards for whatever reason. But this? I loved every minute of it. The fast paced dialogue, the whit and the fluid writing style was there in abundance. I’m not sure if the fact that the series has for this novel at least, gone back in time to when Reacher was still an MP even if he had just been demoted to captain. Can’t wait to see where Reacher #29 goes – I just hope there’s more of the fast paced dialogue that I loved so much in this book.

Although it is a book set before Reacher became a loner, it was a fast read, full of action and great mistery (as the other books).

I do enjoy the Reacher series, I find them pretty easy reading. This one takes us back to 1992 and I have to admit I probably do prefer the present day Reacher, however it’s always nice to read more about Reacher back when he was in the army. Is it the best Reacher book yet? No, but it’s still a worthy part of a great series.

Book #28 in the Reacher series takes us back in time. It’s 1992 and Reacher is still with the US Army Military Police - albeit demoted - when he is put on a task force under the Secretary of Defense’s orders to find out who is killing a group of scientists who worked together in 1969 in India.

Yep, the latest Reacher installment is first rate. The only reason it's not a 5 to me is that I'm just not a fan of setting a current character back to 1992. It is good for an author to occasionally do this to fill in background but not my cup of tea. With that being said, this is pure Reacher adrenaline. The mystery is complex and surprising. Great minor characters along with tremendous Reacher action. Highly recommmend.

Back to West Point I prefer Jack Reacher prequels more than those set in the modern era. Our favourite vigilante is a product of a specific time. He shines in the pre-digital age. If he were a real person, I hypothesize he would have picked up a smartphone and abused the infinite knowledge of the internet, though the damage to his brand would be irreversible. Setting The Secret in the early 90s is a great trade-off, though we need to be reintroduced to Major Reacher. The author solves this by providing an appetizer before the main course. We see his unique detective mind combined with the authority and power of the US Army as he unravels a low-stakes conspiracy. There are even hints of his future as a vigilante. It’s a spectacular introduction. Improving on No Plan B, the author has limited his alternate viewpoints to two factions. To further simplify the premise, they’re in direct opposition. Both assassins sound like Reacher, but it’s a bit more forgivable given their military backgrounds. Their victims aren't without resources either, and while the two sides attempt to entrap one another, our hero plays the spoiling force. It’s great to see Reacher amongst a diverse set of spooks and investigators, the best the American SecDef can call together at short notice. Not only does each task force member have different skill sets, but all their contributions to the solution are brilliant. Yet still, Reacher deduces critical facts with his outside-the-box deduction skills. I adore competence. If anything, the novel is too straightforward. The titular secret is unremarkable. There are only two belligerents, and neither side knows or cares about Reacher’s existence. Even accounting for behind-the-scenes machinations, the outline is simple. I applaud the author’s refusal to pad The Secret with extraneous subplots or additional characters. It’s a thrilling, tightly plotted mystery. Reacher doesn’t leave a trail of broken minions in his wake but showcases his tenacity, perception, and courage. Now that’s a real hero. Recommended.

A chemical gas leak many years ago that killed a thousand people. Now, someone is out for revenge for those who are responsible. This is a mystery when there are some other people involved in the cover up. Reacher is being ordered to join a task force to investigate when some of the members of the same unit got killed. Lot of killing and running around. The plot twists are there. 4 stars read. 2nd reading in 2024 The story goes back to the past when Reacher has to investigate some stolen goods from the Army warehouse. He is more professional and work in a team. He also need to dress better as he is representing the State. A pair of killer is killing scientists related to a case in the 60s. A gas leak incident that killed many people in India. They have a list of scientists involved in the project, but a few names are missing. The killers want to everyone involved to take revenge on behalf of their father. So when Reacher getting involved in the investigation, they were not in the know and were a few steps behind. This is the second read as it fit into the Psych square. The two killers are playing mind games with the kills. I like it better the second time around. The story is in the past and the Reacher hard headedness is not that obvious as a character yet. He also takes more risks which is a good thing. Reacher at a mature age is too cynical at time. Here, Reacher is more hopeful. 4.5 stars read.

I wasn’t 100% sure what was happening in the beginning but it ended up being a solid book in Reacher’s past. Some awful antagonists and as always some good people that Reacher surrounds himself with. Lots of action and investigating. Always love reading a Reacher book. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for the DRC.

** spoiler alert ** *4.5 Whether you’ve been a Reacher fan or this is your first time picking up a book in this series, you will find this to be the quintessential Reacher experience. Bad actors, governmental conspiracy, and plenty of hard punches are packed within The Secret. As a fan of the series, it was nice to take a trip back to Reacher’s time within the Army. I felt the ending was also a fresh take on the finishing sequence. In a lot of Reacher novels, he delivers most of the punishing (and life-ending) blows to win the day. In this case, while he was certainly involved in some of the final moments of the conflict, it didn’t feel like he was the main participant. It was as if he was watching from afar and helping with cleanup (with a little bit of life-ending). His main action came in the final pages as the twist was revealed and he saved the day - not with raw violence, but cunning investigation and attention to detail. It was a nice look at Reacher the investigator. So whether you’re a regular Reacher reader or a new one, I think you’ll enjoy The Secret.

HAPPY PUBLICATION DAY! This book is now available. I am such a fan of Elin Hilderbrand. Though she often gets written off as a "beach read" or "chick lit," there is always depth, thoughtfulness, and emotion to her books. She also lightly (VERY lightly!) touches timely issues like politics and #MeToo just enough to let you know these characters are living in our current world, feeling what we feel. This is the third book in the "Paradise" series, and while it's probably better to read the other books first, it's not at all necessary. (I had read the first one and am on to the second one after this, the third and final installment.) This series is pretty perfect for our current pandemic/political/crazy atmosphere - Hilderbrand always provides a glamorous escape to a beautiful locale (here, St. John in the Virgin Islands) with problems that are at once a world away from your own, yet also totally relatable. While 28 Summers remains my favorite recent Hilderband novel (a MUST read!) this series will also provide you with a tropical escape from your quarantine couch complete with yachts, money, secrets, sex, baby daddies, and intrigue. There were a lot of characters (even more than the first book) but Hilderbrand somehow gets you invested in all of them. She also does such a great job of describing the lifestyle and beauty of St. John that it's impossible to finish this book without wanting to go there. But really all of HIlderbrand's books are primarily about relationships and family (both biological family, and the family you choose). She is also pretty great at the fan service and you may see a character from another book pop into this story. Basically just a feel-good (and sometimes sad and cathartic), emotionally rewarding, island getaway in book form, which for me is just what the doctor ordered right about now. Thanks to NetGalley and Little, Brown for the ARC. I can always count on Hilderbrand to pull my heartstrings.

I’m just not ready to say goodbye to these characters!

I have really enjoyed this series. Troubles in Paradise was the prefect ending to this series. I don't think that I have read a book by Hilderbrand that I did not really enjoy. This was a great 4 star read. Thanks to Book of the Month for adding this book to thier list this month.

4 stars I’m not usually a fan of trilogies but this one got my attention from the first book and I became friends with these wonderful characters. I was so happy to be with them for 3 books!

3.5 STARS I love Elin Hilderbrand, even when I don’t love one of her books as much as some of the others. TROUBLES IN PARADISE, the conclusion of the Steele family trilogy, was the least satisfying of the books for me. I liked each member of the Steele family, Huck and Ayers and their stories and would have preferred the book focus only on their points of view and that of the island instead of throwing in chapters with very minor characters whose POVs which didn’t advance the plot of character arcs. Questions about what really happened with Russell Steele and his double life where answered in with a telling, not showing, explanation that didn’t interest me much. I did love Irene, Huck, Maia, Baker and the other characters, even when I didn’t like some of their actions. I’d love to see a grownup Maia end up on Nantucket in a few years with her own story.

This Paradise series truly is an escape and it’s exactly what I needed. I live in Wisconsin and it’s March so … yeah … it sucks. We’ve had more snow in the last few weeks than we’ve had all winter and there was a 2 school delay THIS MORNING 😭. If escape is what you’re looking for then I highly recommend this entire series.

Excellent end to the series. I read it in eight hours.🌴🌴🌴

I really enjoyed this entire trilogy. It was a lot of family drama and I was here for it. I will say the ending to this and the epilogue was just okay. I wished it had ended with a little more excitement. It fell a bit flat there for me. I would recommend these books.

Perfect wrap up for the Paradise series! I loved how despite all the tragedy in each characters lives they ended up happy.

4🌟 My favorite of the series!! I loved how this one wrapped up, especially the intense ending. 🫶🌧️🌊 I’ve managed to pick up Elin’s books each summer and I loved it! 😊

The Paradise trilogy concludes with Troubles in Paradise, set in the beautiful Caribbean. Although I can’t travel now, I have fond memories of a vacation in Caribbean islands in 2018 and can still feel the island vibe written about in this series. This book wraps up a lot of loose ends that were left at the end of the second book. For those of you who haven’t read the series, the story surrounds Irene Steele and her two grown sons, Baker and Cash, who learn that their husband and father Russ was killed in a helicopter crash in the Caribbean. The circumstances surrounding his death are suspicious and so the three remaining members of the family travel to the Caribbean in hopes of learning more. What they didn’t expect to learn was that Russ had a second family living in St. John. I was satisfied with the conclusion of the series whose theme shines as one symbolic of rebuilding a life after is it torn apart. We learn that all the family has now settled in St John and are moving on with their lives. The character development was very good, particularly considering the large cast of characters. The book kept my interest, but I didn’t engage with the story as much as I have come to expect with books from this author. I very much preferred her Winter series and was happy to see the return of Margaret Quinn from that series make an appearance in this book. It’s such a clever, unexpected treat for fans of Elin Hilderbrand’s books. I borrowed the audiobook version of the book from my local library. I loved the narration of the series by Erin Bennett, who is one of my favourite performers. Her voice lends itself authentically to a varied character list representing both women and men across several decades. I really felt her performance enhanced this book, and would highly recommend this version for those readers who enjoy audiobooks.

"The island...[has] taught Irene some things about resilience, about patience, and, most of all, about hope." The conclusion of a much-loved trilogy is always bittersweet. It's hard to say goodbye to characters you've grown to "know" and care about after all they've been through. After experiencing their tragedies, joys, and dreams, it always comes to the moment when you have to let go and can close the book with the confidence that everything will be alright in that world. I really had fun reading these 3 books set in a place that I definitely found to be a little bit of paradise. St. John is a unique island and i really enjoyed reading the references to familiar spots that I've visited there. Although sometimes the novel reads like a tourist travel guide advertisement, it was fun to be able to identify with so many of them. Just keep in mind that you really need to start at the beginning as this one is definitely not a standalone despite the author giving some of the relevant details from the previous two books as needed -- especially if you're like me and need specific reminders having waited for this release. I won't rehash the plot so as not to give any spoilers. I liked the writing style and also the way that Hilderbrand gave us the point of view of so many different characters. It contains a lot of drama but it is, after all, a love story. You can tell that she loves St. John and that she's spent a lot of time on the island. I've not previously read any books by this author and I hope that she chooses St. John for future work as that was the main reason I wanted to check these out. I was not disappointed though this is not the genre I usually prefer! If you have ever visited the USVI, or want to, this is a great way to highlight the memories or give a preview of its beauty. Enjoy! Thank you to NetGalley and Little, Brown and Company for this e-book ARC to read, review, and recommend.

I just really enjoy her books. They are quick, they are easy to read and listen to. I enjoy the characters along with the story. I especially think she is good at weaving in pop culture and making the story really come to life and feel real. She makes you like characters you aren’t prepared to like and situations you shouldn’t or wouldn’t in real life. The characters are all realistically flawed and normal in both good and bad ways. This was a series with 3 in it, I did the series on audio and her narrator choice is perfect.

I was SO obsessed with this series, and this was the perfect end to the trilogy. It was such a great story, I couldn’t put it down!!!! I was so sad to see the series end, but I can’t wait to read more Elin. 4.25 stars!

I loved this series so much and finished each book within 24 hours. I loved all of the (very many) characters 🫶 now I want to go to St. John 🌴

I enjoyed this book more than the first two, likely because I already knew the characters & was excited for the closure. The last 1/3 of the book felt rushed and I don’t think the hurricane was necessary in the plot.

A four star is a stretch, it wasn’t as good as the first two, but I had to finish the series!

This series continue to be one of my favorite. I was sitting on this all year but since the next book is coming in a few months I had to read this. While this is an agent type thriller it never ceases to surprise me about the commentary on the military (specifically in the US) and even though this is obviously a work of fiction a lot of things ring true to today and the real world. There are a lot of moving pieces in this novel and sometimes when that happens it’s easier for me to lose focus on one of the moving pieces if it’s not as interesting. That being said the overarching plot is always interesting and I can’t wait to see the next chapter for James Reece.

another great read!

Very good book! All of the books in the series have been good but this may be the best.

** spoiler alert ** 4 plus stars again! Love the series and will be getting to book 7 soon, which will then have me current and waiting on book 8. This one was weaving in and out of fiction and non fiction some which I really like. Not as much as book 5, but still had some of that happening. The drama with James started early on this one as the cliffhanger from book 5 was immediately happening. After that initial part of the book I got lost and and lost a little interest for a bit. The story was a little slow to develop but once it did it was typical Jack Carr and James Reece. James is really up against it in this one and it was nice to see the Hastings, Raef, and Katie all come through when he needed them. There is even a mention of Liz coming back to support as well. "James Reece had killed 7 armed men in the streets of the financial district in less time than it took most people to use an ATM." Also, I am going to be buying a tomahawk. Maybe 2.

Only the Dead was a very exciting story. Being this is the first book that I have read by this author. I was really impressed by fascinating the story was. I am definitely going to have to read more of his work.

I always enjoy reading this series. It's always a great break from the usual books I read. I am always holding my breath when there is action and there is always a lot of action. I'll also say that I've never read a book series with so much detail in regards to killing a person or torture. In the end, this was a great book, makes me look at the world differently. Can't wait for the next one to see where James Reece goes next.

The latest by the author is a near home run again, more like a triple. The reason it falls short is because I found myself annoyed more than once when it got pedantic. Sometimes it was long descriptions of artillery. Sometimes it was dialogue on financial vehicles. All of it was too contrived and boring. The rest of the book was fun to read.

As always, these James Reece books are basically popcorn reads. Very cinematic, fast-paced, tons of action. This one was definitely more ambitious than the previous volumes, with Reece uncovering a world-wide, all-encompassing secret society dating back to World War II. Some of the violent scenes of Reece killing in close quarters seem like they were rejected as too crazy for a John Wick movie. Is this book ridiculous? I mean, kind of. Is it awesome? Yeah, kind of. I will absolutely keep reading these novels and enjoying them as well.

Overall, 5 stars for this 6 book series. Some very thought provoking points made in these novels. I hope that Americans can get back to all being Americans again - instead of the divisive “us & them” we are now. Though… hope is not a course of action.

The start is incredibly slow. The first 150-200 pages I found hard to keep going (just a ton of backstory and history ) but once the story started to actually move along it was great. I almost didn’t get through it though.

4.5. Great story. Exciting and thrilling with very few lulls.

Not my favorite of the series but it was good!

James Reece has still got it.

Nora Roberts brings readers another wonderful romantic suspense novel, Identity . Former army brat Morgan Albright has settled in a neighborhood near Baltimore, Maryland. Her day job as an office manager for a family-owned construction company and her night job as a bartender are helping her get closer to her goal of owning her own bar. She purchased a house and has a friend and housemate, Nina Ramos, who helps with the mortgage payment. However, after their first dinner party, Morgan’s life is shattered. Cash and jewelry are missing, Morgan’s car is gone, and Nina is dead. It soon becomes apparent that a con artist has also stolen Morgan’s identity and assets, and this isn’t his first time. FBI agents arrive, and Morgan struggles to rebuild her life in Vermont. Meanwhile, the killer is getting reckless and failing to cope with life due to his failure to kill Morgan. Morgan is capable, resilient, a person who makes plans and works towards them, responsible, organized, a fast learner, and creative. Several characters have an impact on Morgan. Luke Hudson is friendly, interesting, a good listener, and confident. Miles Jameson is attractive, blunt, kind, considerate, and respects and values others. These characters, as well as several others in the novel, are well defined with depth and complex traits. They were portrayed in a way that brought them to life. Readers quickly learn who the murderer is. The suspense is around when this individual will come after Morgan again since she is the one who got away. Meanwhile readers are treated to Morgan’s reconnection with her family and the rebuilding of her life. The book has a good mix of suspense and romance as well as an action-filled ending and is well-plotted. Readers are quickly pulled into the story line with fluid writing and great characterization that grabbed and held my attention and kept me engaged. The real-world issues added depth to the narrative. Themes include family, friendship, murder, grief, work ethic, identity theft, and much more. Overall, this was a story that quickly pulled me into the narrative and the lives of Morgan and those around her. While the pacing isn’t as brisk as some romantic suspense novels, the author did a great job of building suspense throughout the story and I enjoyed the journey. She is a superb storyteller that intermingled the ever-present threat that was looming over Morgan and the rebuilding of her life. I would love to see this become a series. Readers of romantic suspense will likely enjoy this novel. St. Martin’s Press and Nora Roberts provided a complimentary digital ARC of this novel via Net Galley. All opinions expressed in this review are my own. Publication date is currently set for May 23, 2023. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine. ---------------------------------------- My 4.16 rounded to 4 stars review is coming soon.

Nora Roberts never fails to deliver romance suspense novels that are highly engaging with just the right blend of romance and suspense. Identity is another fantastic example of this author's highly entertaining story telling ability as she pens a standalone story incorporating the high tech crime of identity theft into an intriguing plot line that includes murder. Former army brat Morgan Albright is living in a neighborhood near Baltimore, Maryland. She works a day job as an office manager and a night shift as a bartender with dreams of one day owning her own bar. Her roommate, Nina Ramos, is a great friend who encourages Morgan to put herself out there and meet someone. The two decide to host a dinner party, and Morgan invites the new mysterious guy she's been chatting up at the bar. Things are looking up until the day she comes home from work to find her cash, jewelry and car missing . . . and Nina, who had stayed home from work sick, dead. Soon, Morgan's assets are depleted, and it's clear the thief has stolen her identity. It's also clear that Nina wasn't the intended target - Morgan was. And the killer doesn't intend to let her get away. Morgan moves to Vermont and starts her life over, but just when she thinks the nightmare is behind her, the killer surfaces again with taunts and threats to come for Morgan. The FBI are always one step behind him . . . can they catch him before he gets to Morgan? Readers will learn very early on in the story who the con artist/murderer is, but it in no way diminishes the suspense in Identity. The story centers around Morgan rebuilding her life in her old home with her mother and grandmother as she settles into a new romantic relationship with Miles Jameson. Tension builds steadily, driven by the repeated threats from the murderer toward Morgan. She, as well as readers, knows he'll come for her. The anticipation of when, not if, he'll strike sets a dire tone of impending doom and an increasing pace as he draws closer. Characters are brilliantly developed, believable with great debt and complexity. Roberts is a master at delivering well-written, highly entertaining stories that are hard to put down with strong, capable heroines and handsome, respectful heroes. The inclusion of family in Identity showcases Morgan's strong connection to her roots even as she rebuilds her life and learns to trust her own judgment and another man again. Strong threads of family, friendship, love, loss, grief and resilience are strong and flawlessly woven throughout. Fans of romance suspense will enjoy Identity as will readers of suspense thrillers. Highly recommended. Special thanks to St. Martins Press for an arc of Identity. This book publishes May 23, 2023. All opinions expressed in this review are my own. This review is published at Cross My Heart Reviews.

Another really great romantic suspense from Nora! I loved the setup of this one and how there was a serial killer who targeted the heroine but who ended up murdering her roommate instead. He's still on the loose and still ruined her whole life, so she moves back home to start over and build her life back up. The suspense was really great and I loved the looming threat of the serial killer getting closer. And I really enjoyed the romance in this one!!

Review coming soon.

Nora Roberts delivers a great thriller with Identity. This book was full of action from the start and continued throughout the book with a chilling scenario and a woman on the run. The Description: Former Army brat Morgan Albright has finally planted roots in a friendly neighborhood near Baltimore. Her friend and roommate Nina helps her make the mortgage payments, as does Morgan's job as a bartender. But after she and Nina host their first dinner party—attended by Luke, the flirtatious IT guy who'd been chatting her up at the bar—her carefully built world is shattered. The back door glass is broken, cash and jewelry are missing, her car is gone, and Nina lies dead on the floor. Soon, a horrific truth emerges: It was Morgan who let the monster in. "Luke” is actually a cold-hearted con artist named Gavin who targets a particular type of woman, steals her assets and identity, and then commits his ultimate goal: murder. What the FBI tells Morgan is beyond chilling. Nina wasn't his type. Morgan is. Nina was simply in the wrong place at the wrong time. And Morgan's nightmare is just beginning. Soon she has no choice but to flee to her mother's home in Vermont. While she struggles to build something new, she meets another man, Miles Jameson. He isn't flashy or flirtatious, and his family business has deep roots in town. But Gavin is still out there hunting new victims, and he hasn't forgotten the one who got away. My thoughts: I couldn't put this book down. The scenario was a scary one and the way the killer operated seemed realistic and could have been cut from the headlines. Women are deceived all the time. I liked Morgan - she was a hard worker, seemed to be a good friend, and she definitely had courage. The plot was racy and well thought out. The tension built as the novel progressed. Nora Roberts is very talented and I would like to read more of her many books. Thanks to St. Martin's Press through Netgalley for an advance copy. This book will be published on May 23, 2023.

Nora Roberts just wrote a psychological thriller due to be published in May 2023. If this doesn’t change your mind about how dangerous social media is and how much identity theft can ruin one’s life, I don’t know what will. Being that it’s 448 pages long, it had me on the edge of my seat into the wee hours of the night. Morgan Albright’s bff has been murdered and she’s afraid she’s next so she relocates to a different state. She moves in with her family and gets a job as bartender manager. Will this psychopath be after her next? What about her family? The FBI get involved and they find out he’s killing women all over the US and getting rich on their identities. Talk about scary!!!! Sadly, I found myself skimming through the last 20% of the book. She just put so much extra stuff in there, I found myself bored part of the time until the ending. For that reason, I’m giving this 4 stars … otherwise I would’ve given it 5 stars. Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for this early release in exchange for my honest review.

4.5/5 ⭐ 4/5 🌶️ 4.5/5 🕵️‍♀️ Oh Nora. Nora, Nora, Noraaaaa! You've done it, again. You've made me fall in love with every single character and then crushed my soul over and over. Not to be dramatic but this is one of my favorite books I've read in the Nora Roberts collection. I am a tried and true fan but every time I pick up one of her novels, I am continuously amazed by her character development/research, writing, and love she puts in to these books. As we know from the synopsis, Morgan has been pushed to her lowest, by no fault of her own. Her best friend is killed within the first few chapters and you mourn along side her. As if her best friend, was your best friend. And, as if that can't get any worse, the man that took her life has destroyed Morgan financially. Which will pierce your hearting knowing hundreds of Americans are dealing with identity theft every day. It goes into the crippling details as we watch Morgan do and give everything she can to get out of a debt that's not her own. She inevitably succumbs to moving home with her mother and grandmother. Which is where the story takes a turn and we fall in love with every single person in their small town of Vermont. And we meet Miles. Oh, Miles! Be prepared to fall in love with him the most. I laughed, I cried... a lot. I also got very very scared and couldn't sleep for multiple nights. Note to anyone with an over active imagination - this isn't a good one to read before bed. The details of the murders are gruesome and I found myself wanting to skip past the gory details but without them, you don't understand why you're rooting for Morgan as much as you do. You want her to succeed even more. Thank you so so SO much to net galley and St. Martin's Press for allowing me to have the ARC of this book. I enjoyed it tremendously and, as always, I cannot wait to see what Nora publishes next.

Another fantastic romantic suspense from the Queen, Nora Roberts! When Morgan is targeted by a serial killer who steals her identity, racks up a shocking amount of debt and then kills her friend, she is forced to move back home to Vermont to stay with her mother and grandmother and recoup her losses. While there she finds a job at a resort and slowly learns how to embrace joy and love among her family and new friends but the killer from the past won't let her enjoy a new lease on life. The way this book makes you reconsider identity theft is mind-blowing! You definitely won't take cybersecurity for granted again! Full of romance and action and as always a great cast of secondary characters! This was also great on audio narrated by January LaVoy! Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for early digital copies in exchange for my honest review.

Reading this was a tad bit scary. This is some crazy crap that would TOTALLY happen to me. I have allowed a true psychopath into my house, and although he took a lot from me, at least I didn't lose my home, and I no longer have to deal with him, and I did not lose my identity. I wish there were a bit more built-up around Luke and his backstory. I did enjoy that the special agents stayed on as repeat characters. When Nina restarts her life, I also wanted more of the backstory of the "Nash Women". It was briefly touched upon, but I wanted more of those awesome ladies. The romance was pretty good, but the family was such a big part of their lives that I wanted to get to know them better. Overall, it was a lot more romance than thriller, but still enjoyable. A quote that made me laugh "Gotta get home to the wife. It's her book club night, which is a front for drinking wine and gabbing." 3.75 stars!

wow~!! this was a book that i won on goodreads.com. not my "typical" read, but it said "thriller", so even though it was Nora Roberts (who i associate with 'romance') i figured i'd give it a go. so glad i did~!! really enjoyed this! yes, it was romance-y, but it was a great story line and it had a great "bad guy". definitely worth reading!! Thanks, goodreads~!!!

I doubt I've missed a single book in the popular Eve Dallas series this author writes as J.D. Robb, but to the best of my recollection this is the first I've read that she's penned as herself. And my reaction is weirdly mixed; while I enjoyed it thoroughly - to the point of not wanting to put it down - in other ways it kind of made me crazy. The story is a mix of romance and suspense starring Morgan Albright, who tends bar at night after her day job to earn enough money to refurbish the small house she bought in Maryland. At the bar, she meets - and takes somewhat of a liking to - a friendly, uber-considerate guy named Gavin. Not only does he steal her identity and wipe out her entire financial life, he's a monster who kills her beloved roommate Nina, who just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Morgan then learns from the FBI that he's a suspected serial killer, and it's likely she was to be his next victim. In financial free-fall and owing thousands of dollars - I guess her bank and credit card companies had no fraud protection - she heads to her mother's home in Vermont, where her grandmother lives as well. There's a backstory there, too, but all seems to be rosy now as the other two women - "My ladies," as Morgan calls them - take every opportunity to assure Morgan how great she is and how much they love her. Their local "connections" help Morgan land a posh job managing the bar at a nearby upscale family-owned resort. Hanging over her head, though, is the realization that Gavin is a psychopath who isn't finished with her; she's the one who got away, after all, and he will stop at nothing to get her back. That, in her view, threatens the job she loves and complicates her budding relationship with the resort family's eldest son, Miles, who isn't the most pleasant of characters in his own right. But here, too, Miles, Morgan's "ladies," all the family members who run the resort and all but one of the employees constantly reassure Morgan that she's smart, beautiful and far too valuable to be thrown to the wolf who hasn't found the door (yet). The rest of the story tracks the romance and the killer's progress in working his way to Morgan - and of course, you'll get no details from me on those issues. The whole thing held my attention throughout, even if I did quickly tire of an excess of dialog, mostly arguments over who's more perfect, or who loves who more and lengthy explanations of why good bartenders know so much about so many things (hint: yes, there's a ton of repetition). The ending didn't come as a big surprise nor increase my fondness (or lack thereof) for any of the characters, but it was satisfying nonetheless. All in all, it's an enjoyable read - with the end result that I'm looking forward to the author's next book. Thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for providing the opportunity to read and review a pre-release copy.

Apparently Sandra Brown has written over 70 best sellers, and I have now read exactly one. I think when authors are as prolific as she is, you become immune to seeing their books on shelves. Like you’re either a Brown reader or you're not, and if you’re not you don’t even pick up her latest release to consider it. Also, there’s always a fear that it’s part of a series or a larger overall fictional universe where you’ll be lost. So is the case with me and Sandra Brown. Then why did I decide to read Thick as Thieves? Because I received a copy from the publisher. And you know what? I liked it! This standalone novel kept my attention from start to finish, and it had plenty of twists and turns that I didn’t see coming. I went into it blind and had no expectations, which I recommend you do as well. The synopsis on Goodreads is particularly spoilery and even includes misinformation about the plot. All you need to know is that chapters alternate between a heist-gone-wrong during the week leading up to Easter in 2020 and the small Texas town still dealing with the aftermath in present day. I believe the subgenre for this type of thriller is “romantic suspense.” As I’ve said in other reviews, I prefer my romances to be closed door. I don’t really want to read about the ins and outs (sorry) of people knockin’ boots. There are a lot of boots knocked in Thick as Thieves, so I chose to skim those bits. I also found the ending to be satisfying but just a titch too tidy, and initially I had a little difficulty tracking all the characters. If those are my gripes though, I can’t complain. There’s zero chance I’ll ever get caught up with Sandra Brown’s back catalogue, but I’ll certainly pick up her future releases and consider them. My thanks to the author and Grand Central Publishing for the gifted paperback to review. Blog: www.confettibookshelf.com IG: @confettibookshelf

Sandra Brown is a must-read for me. She is one of my favorite writers. I couldn’t pass on Thick as Thieves. I'm extremely thankful to Grand Central Publishing for my early copy. In Thick as Thieves, a heist gone wrong, a murder, and a father’s disappearance twenty years ago are at the center of the story. Arden Maxwell decides to move back to her family home when she realizes she is pregnant. Her home has been isolated and left unkept since her father disappeared that awful night twenty years ago. Arden might not realize it at the beginning but she is looking for answers. After tragedy strikes, she is determined to find out more about her father's disappearance and it seems like Ledge Burnet might have some or all of the answers. Life has not treated Ledge Burnet fairly. He lost his parents at an early age and his uncle and his wife took him in. Soon after, his aunt died and it just became the two of them. Ledge was placed in juvie for smoking marijuana. An error he's not going to repeat until the night Arden's father disappears and he is being taken to jail after he's stopped by cops and drugs are found in his car. Ledge is certain he was framed two decades ago and he, as much as Arden, wants to know the truth. As with the majority of the books by Sandra Brown I've read, this one is a page-turner. The suspense was killing me. Some things I guessed, some others took me by surprise. Mrs. Brown can write great enemies. In this case, Rusty was an evil man with too much power and a hateful soul. It was so easy to hate him. My sole complaint would be the ending. Everything resolved too neatly for me. Anyway, the end was not enough for me not to enjoy it. Cliffhanger: No 4/5 Fangs A complimentary copy was provided by Grand Central Pub in exchange for an honest review. MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Twenty years ago, four people robbed Welch’s, a local family owned store that rivaled the big box outlets. It was a major haul and the next day, one of the robbers was dead and his supposed accomplice had disappeared. Joe Maxwell was a widow who was down on his luck, struggling with alcohol and barely managing to provide for his two daughters. He was never found and it was just assumed he’d run away with the money, abandoning his family. Lisa Maxwell, the oldest daughter who was in college, took her younger sister, Arden who was only 10-years old, and fled to Houston. Now Arden has returned to the town and their former home, determined to restore the house and maybe find answers to what really happened the night her father disappeared. The story begins with the immediate aftermath of the robbery but doesn’t identify the individuals by name. In the present day, we get some clarity about who planned the heist and some of the participants but exactly what happened is what unfolds slowly throughout. I went into this blind, which I highly recommend, so I never knew where the story would lead. Even Arden’s history is a mystery and her decision to seek out and hire Ledge Burnet, a local contractor, to restore the house feels predestined. Their instant attraction to each other is clear from the onset and is also a slow burn, adding more tension to the mix. What makes the mystery work, at least for me, is getting the points of view from a host of involved characters who I wasn’t sure were always reliable in their recounts. Sifting the details required some work and I got completely immersed in the who, what and how of it all as they were always pretty murky. And, it became clear early on that Arden’s return to town stirred the proverbial hornet’s nest. I listened to the story and the narrator delivered a sultry and fine piece of storytelling. He made the slowly developed narrative seem natural and worth the wait, making my reading experience a pleasurable one. While I never really connected with Arden and Ledge’s romance, the mystery hooked me from the beginning and never let go. And, the ending delivered the excitement, twists and surprises I hoped it would. Posted on Blue Mood Café

I'm glad I finally got around to reading a Sandra Brown book because she's been an author on my to read list for awhile now. Thick as Thieves was exactly what I was in the mood for, a solid romantic suspense novel. It's the type of book that is nice to sit back and unwind with after a long stressful day. Twenty years ago, a store safe with a sizeable chunk of cash was emptied out in a heist. Four people were in on the crime and within hours one person was dead, one in jail, one in the hospital, and one person went missing. Joe Maxwell hasn't been seen or heard from since and he is suspected of murdering his accomplice for the money before splitting town. Two decades later, his daughter, Arden, moves back to her hometown of Caddo Lake, Texas and hopes she can finally get answers to her father's disappearance. Little does she know, the man she wants to hire to remodel her home, Ledge Burnett, was a rebellious teen at the time of the heist and... was one of the accomplices. In Ledge's defense he has been trying to follow the straight and narrow path and do good ever since the night of the crime. I gotta say the mystery aspects were done well as I had a general sense of the direction the author was headed but she did have a few tricks up her sleeve. Wanting to know what happened to Joe was just one of the reasons the story held my interest. The other reason is I enjoyed the love/hate chemistry between the two lead characters. All in all, a fun book to read. I received a free copy of this book from Grand Central Publishing. All thoughts expressed are my honest opinion.

Arden Maxwell is the daughter of the one that got away! Twenty years ago, four unlikely conspirators got away clean on a daring heist! But you know the saying, “He who hesitates is lost”! And in this case, never a truer word was spoken. Before the sun came over the horizon on the morning after the robbery, one of them was in the hospital having been beaten to within an inch of his life, one was in jail, one was dead alligator bait in a mangrove swamp and the fourth, Arden Maxwell’s father, had apparently disappeared with the bag of loot, half a million large ones, never to be seen or heard from again. Well, more accurately put, his coincidental disappearance led the community to believe that he was the fourth member of the robbery team and the murderer of the poor joker whose mangled corpse was dredged up out of the swamp. Arden Maxwell has returned to her hometown to find the answers to her questions. But Ledge Burnet, a solitary craftsman who had been forcibly enlisted and sent to Afghanistan years earlier as an alternative to some heavy duty jail time for misdeeds as a younger man and Rusty Dyle, the corrupt District Attorney who followed in the footsteps of his equally larcenous and infamous sheriff father, are not the least bit comfortable with the questions she’s asking and the stones she’s turning over. The game is on and, of course, Sandra Brown being Sandra Brown, one can expect a pedal-to-the-metal thriller peppered every so often with some graphic cheeks-to-the sheets, hot and sweaty sexual interludes. A feminist reader might be a little miffed that the sex on occasion was less than 100% consensual and the foreplay more than a little macho and misogynistic but I managed to read over it and pretty much ignore the sexual encounters in favour of getting on with a thriller that was more than passably enjoyable. Memorable literature? Most definitely not. Enjoyable brain candy for lovers of thrillers and romantic suspense novels? Yep … I’m definitely a Sandra Brown fan and THICK AS THIEVES is easy to recommend. Paul Weiss

3.5 stars but I'll round up to 4 just for the last quarter of the book. I love Sandra Brown's writing but her last couple of books just haven't wowed me, though it honestly pains me to say it. 😕 The biggest thing missing for me, just like last time, is chemistry between her MCs. I fully admit it could just be me but I completely didn't feel that here. The characters were likable, mostly, but I just didn't love them. The one I felt the strongest about was the damn bad guy, and I absolutely loathed him. 😡 However, SB's writing remains as stellar as always, and I was pulled along with the plot regardless. I wanted to know where it was going. And the last part of the story, the plot, action and chemistry came crashing to the front, (view spoiler). Not my favorite, but I'll still read whatever SB writes.

I'm all caught up with this series. Unfortunately, I can't say the same about my reviews since I need to catch up. Anyway, I was so happy with being able to read/listen to Righteous Prey. In this installment, Lucas deals with bitcoin billionaires who have created a group called the Five. This group is targeting individuals to kill them and later on they brag about it. Thankfully, Lucas is not alone, he has Virgil Flowers with him. I haven't read Virgil's series but he has been in enough of the Prey series, that I already know I like him. As always there is a sense of urgency to stop them before one more dead body is found while still delivering good humor and an interesting resolution. If I have one complaint it will be politics getting more pages in this book than priors. As a rule, I don't like politics in my fiction. There is already enough of it on the news, social media, etc. Cliffhanger: No 4/5 Fangs A complimentary copy was provided by G.P. Putnam's Sons via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Many thanks to G.P. Putnam's Sons and to NetGalley, for the opportunity to read and review an early copy of Righteous Prey. This book tells the story of a vigilante group calling itself "The Five". They are bound and determined to wipe out what they consider the worst of society- rapists, murderers, and thieves. Oh, and they are Bitcoin billionaires! Can Virgil Flowers and Lucas Davenport stop this smart and carefully choreographed group, when the group has no apparent direct connection to the victims?? The plot of Righteous Prey was gripping and for the most part, moved along at a fast pace. Much of the dialogue was humorous and entertaining. The last part of the book definitely had me biting my nails!! I love quirky characters and there was no shortage of them in this book. In my opinion, Righteous Prey can be read as a stand-alone. Isn't it funny what bothers one person but not another? I read a review written by someone who was offended by the end of the book because Weather and Frankie expressed their opinions on guns. That didn't bother me at all. On the other hand, all of the f-bombs drove me a bit batty. I started feeling as though these characters couldn't speak a sentence without one or two of them. I wanted to yell "Use your words! You're being lazy!!" I'll bet there are a lot of readers who couldn't care less about that, right? There is no pleasing everyone!! 😉 #RighteousPrey #NetGalley

For me, this could only be enjoyed as a fantasy because the basic premise; that bitcoin millionaires and/or billionaires would want to murder people who were assholes, is just too silly to be taken seriously. With that understanding this is a good experience. Sandford is always interesting.

4 Stars. The ending is a bit more violent than even an inveterate Lucas Davenport enthusiast like me is accustomed to. I can't give away the settling of the final score but, a warning? There are bullets and bodies galore. It's a very modern story; Bitcoins and Bitcoin conventions, bored, self-made billionaires, and vigilantism all have their moment in the sun in this 32nd Davenport and 14th Flowers. There's a strange group operating out of San Francisco, "The Five." They send out a press release saying they intend to rid society of some of its worst criminals who are, in their words, "people who need to be murdered." Partly to assuage their guilt, they plan to donate a Bitcoin to a deserving charity for each victim. That's about $44,000 US at the time. Today about $99K, more than double! Lucas and Virgil soon trace it back to a graduate student in California, the illusive Vivian Zhao and some of her Bitcoin friends. The story includes something I enjoy greatly - U.S. Marshal Davenport chasing a suspect across the United States and frequent highlights of his difficulty in working with the FBI. I counted 4 stars but it could be 5. (Ja2025)

This is the original Prey Books writing I've been missing!

John Sandford is an excellent writer. In all thirty-two books of the Prey series, he has spun tales like no one else. His iconic characters--Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers--have changed and grown over time--as you'd expect--which has kept this series always at the top of my read list. In Righteous Prey (G.P. Putnam 2022), a group of six bored wealthy brilliant leaders of industry decide to kill other wealthy people this group deems contrary to the country’s values. They place a number on their forehead to count up to five (to account for one kill from each, not including the organizer) and issue a press release explaining the murder. Virgil Flowers and Lucas Davenport work together on this one, braving the frigid Minnesota winter temperatures to stop the killers before they finish. The story includes the usual blend of clever wit that makes this series a page turner and always on my list to grab as soon as a new book is published. So why did I give it 4/5 for the first time in the entire series? Two reasons. One, I’m a little worried about the anti-police bent, mostly in Flowers. He is a clever detective I've respected because he does his job based on justice and fair play. He eschews guns, will do whatever possible to spare a life, but understands their part in police work. In this book, he seems to be losing his perspective on where the line is between a nation of laws and taking care of people (admittedly a difficult balance). Possible spoiler: This comes to a head at one point when he’s trying to gain the cooperation of suspected illegals, trying to assure them he isn’t ICE and won’t depart them, is just looking for information. I understand that, but he crosses a line I don't think he should at one point. As he’s talking with Lucas, trying to unravel his feelings about this, when he's talking about ICE and the part they play in handling border issues, he says F*** those a**h****". That wasn't necessary to the plot and seemed out of character in a law enforcement official I had to this point admired. End of spoiler The second annoyance: The growing anti-Conservative trend that seems to becoming acceptable in otherwise great fiction stories. Why is it that writers can't say conservative or republican without appending something derogatory? Half their readers--or more--are bound to be insulted. I just don’t get it.

OMG this book was so funny in parts - the scene with Lucas and Virgil in the produce isle is worth the read alone. I was not sold on a book that had both Lucas and Virgil in the same book but I am now happily onboard. This is a typical Sandford book, if you have read the last 31 you know what you are going to get. If you have not read the last 31 I suggest you start with book 1 and I mean now

I am very lucky in my neighborhood. I have a few neighbors who don’t believe in waiting to check out books at our local library. They would prefer to purchase the hotlist best seller books. So how does that make me lucky? Well, guess whose Little Free Library Shed gets the donation when they are done reading the best seller? (Which also means, someone you know who writes reviews gets these best sellers, early, too!) Yep. I am now bringing the review to Goodreads. I obviously am not deliberate in reading this series in order. Whatever comes/is donated, I am just grateful to receive. And then I read it. So, if something might feel a little off in time frames about whose who, or what has happened to continuing characters, I never really worry, because the author does a good job of filling readers in. Does that mean readers can read this as a stand-alone, I leave that up to you – and your own personal judgment as to what works best for you. Premise: U.S. Marshall Lucas Davenport and B.C.A. Agent Virgil Flowers, our protagonists, are two of the best investigators in Minnesota (and sometimes Wisconsin). In this story, they team up to investigate a murder which leads them to bringing a dangerous, group of vigilantes to justice. The vigilantes are bored, wealthy Americans, that are out to make their political points. Especially when it comes to targeting the worst of society – in their opinion. And, what makes it exceedingly difficult for law enforcement, is that their violent actions against these people are popular on social media. In many ways, this is a very contemporary story covering a lot of issues that are currently making waves/news… As an example.... The waning Covid pandemic, Bitcoin, and the ongoing division and animosity between conservatives and liberals in the United States political scene. All of this adds credible interest to the story. The story has some good twists and the antagonists (villians) are an appropriately objectionable bunch. The story is gripping in the right places, well-written, and hard to put down, once started. The novel has a conclusion, that leaves the door open for a follow-up. But… It may not be the most satisfying ending, either.

For me, a typical John Sanford book is always a cut above those most of those in the other mass market crime series. This book features the author’s two most well known characters working together on an imaginatively plotted case that goes in unexpected directions and has a cast of strong supporting characters and memorable villains. The story mixes entertainment, humor, violence and some social commentary and again shows the author’s skill in writing a long series of books that are entertaining without being repetitive.

Wow, Lucas got a bit of action but really took a convenient backseat in this one. I get the suspicion that by combining everyone's storyline and letting Lucas sit back a bit, Sandford is (see now I know this is the case) setting him up to retire a bit while Letty takes over. I would have been screaming at the end here if I had read it in real time and more books weren't out yet 😅 This one was wild though, thoughts to come

Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers get to work together as they join a team of federal and local investigators seeking to find the mysterious "Five" who proclaim on Facebook they are committed to murdering isolated people who deserve to die - child pornographers, corrupt politicians, gun manufacturers, and so on. Two murders occur in the opening pages of the book, and the scene shifts to the twin cities area of Minnesota. But, there's a twist. Not only is the third "deserving" victim dispatched but it's soon clear that one of the "Five" is a local, and he's dead, too. Davenport and Flowers figure out quite a few small but important details as they focus on the local crime scene and eventually follow the killer(s) across the US. In parallel action, the reader follows members of the "Five" as they cope with the steady and increasing attention of several levels of law enforcement. Sandford's narrative style is such a pleasure!

For a number of years, the very prolific John Sandford wrote at least two books a year, one featuring his long-time protagonist, Lucas Davenport, and another featuring Virgil Flowers. Davenport, originally a homicide detective on the Minneapolis P.D, later moved to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension and still later became a U.S. Marshal. Flowers was a detective in the B.C.A., working generally under Davenport's supervision. In the Flowers books there were almost always a couple of short scenes with Davenport and Flowers interacting, usually over the phone, and breaking each other's balls. These scenes were always fun and provided a brief respite from the usually dark violence that constituted the plots of these books. A couple of years ago, Sandford decided to slow down and write only one book a year. He suggested initially that he was going to set aside the Flowers character and focus on Davenport, although having announced this, he then began a new series featuring Davenport's adopted daughter, Letty. Rather than letting Flowers go, though, Sandford decided to give him a prominent role in last year's Davenport novel, Ocean Prey. Now, in this year's book he has teamed the two characters full-time in what is billed as "a Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers Novel." As the story opens, a group of five very wealthy investors, all of whom have made fortunes by being early investors in Bitcoin, decide that it would be a great idea to team up and murder people who, in their view, richly deserve to be killed. Their victims really are fairly despicable people, and each member of the group kills one of these victims in turn, using a sharpie to number the victim on the forehead. They then issue a press release announcing the kill and also announcing a large donation to some particular charity. When the third victim is killed in Minnesota, Davenport and Flowers are called upon to assist the FBI in the investigation. The two will wind up following clues across the country, generally finding themselves one step behind "The Five", as the killers are known, for most of the way. But the killers are very smart and extremely careful and the few breaks that do occur during the course of the investigation are almost all courtesy of Davenport and Flowers. I've been on record in reviewing the last several of the Davenport books saying that, while most of them have been enjoyable, I don't think that they have been nearly as good as the earlier books in the series. I thought the series worked much better when it was still tied to Minnesota than it has since Davenport became a marshal. And, as much as I love these two characters, I'm not sure that it was a good idea to team them up together like this. Here Davenport and Flowers spend an entire book playing off each other and it becomes, frankly (at least in my opinion) a bit much. Most important, it distracts from the plot which doesn't seem to have nearly as much tension as the earlier Davenport and Flowers novels. Sandford has always been a master at injecting some dark humor into all of his books, but here it doesn't work as well as it has previously. I understand that Sandford is a a point where he might want to slow down a bit, and if any author deserves to, it would certainly be him. I wish, though, that he had simply decided to alternate, writing one Davenport novel and one Flowers novel every other year. I think that would have been a better service to the two characters and to Sandford's millions of readers as well. 3.5 stars, rounded up to four, simply because this author and these two characters have given me so much reading pleasure for such a very long time.

In Righteous Prey, John Sandford teams Lucas Davenport with Virgil Flowers for a case that is truly bizarre. Some nameless group of bitcoin billionaires has decided to kill people they think are scum. To be fair, each one killed would be thought scum by most of the universe. The first to die has the number 1 Sharpied to his head. The death is followed by a press release from the killers, in which they explain they're "going to murder people who need to be murdered." They plan to kill four more; they will number their heads, and for each killing, they give tens of thousands of bitcoin to a charity. After the third killing, Lucas and Virgil are assigned to the case working around the FBI team. Vivian Zhao, not a bitcoin billionaire, not even close, goes to their convention and starts listening to conversations to find likely killers. She doesn't have too much trouble. She becomes the point person, and the five killers know only her, not each other. There is no telling who will be killed next or why. The killings are not contained within a specific geographic area unless the whole USA is specific enough. Lucas and Virgil are getting good leads while the killers and Zhao are having some issues. Their perfect plan starts to come apart, and the question is whether or not Lucas and Virgil can figure out and avoid the next person from being killed. Thanks to NetGalley for the ARC.

Thank you @prhaudio for the gifted audiobook of the newest Prey series novel. The review is my honest opinion. As is usual in Sandford's Prey series a murder happens right off the bat, and we know who is behind it -- this isn't a mystery, it is a cat and mouse game, and we get to witness it all. This one involves a group of wealthy people who made their money in Bitcoin, who call themselves The Five. They have decided that they will kill some people who they believe are ruining the country, and then donate Bitcoin to the charities who represent the other side. It is vigilanteism, and Lucas Davenport is called in to help find the culprits. Virgil Flowers is at his side, which I always enjoy. However, Lettie and Weather are barely mentioned, and that is disappointing. I think that his family makes him a more well-rounded human, and allows me to better relate to him. The Five isn't only killing people ... they are bragging about it through press releases, taunting the police by hinting at who will be next, and even encouraging the public to get in on the killing. Soon enough there is a copycat murder. It is a fast-paced, twisty story, with loads of action -- all as you would expect for this series. There are moments of humor between Lucas and Virgil which lightens the tone, and it makes for a fun read. However it almost feels like Lucas and Virgil are under-used. They aren't as clever as usual. They aren't the investigatory leads. And, they aren't always the first on scene, making the big discoveries. In some ways these two were made into supporting characters, and I was disappointed by that.

This was a great entry into John Sandford's "Prey" Series. Once again, Sandford has paired his Lucas Davenport character up with his spinoff character Virgil Flowers and the back and forth between the two really makes this book sing. The last entry in the series was a little dark. This entry is light. It's fun and fast and filled with excellent quips and banter between the protagonists. The case isn't the biggest or the best in the series, but it is an interesting one. A millionaire's serial killer club may seem like a bit of a stretch but when you add Nouveau riche, bitcoin and conspiracy theories you get an interesting cast of bad guys. Sandford takes some sides on a few social issues as well and while some won't like that I think he's playing on the side of angels and I applaud it. Sandford has always been fascinated by guns and details the weapons his characters use and it's clear that while he believes in the right to bear arms, he's got some problems with ghost guns and assault rifles. The villains in this book are interesting as well. They could likely be described as liberals who are killing ultra-right-wing conservatives and those who support their agendas. So, without condoning murder, I found myself not exactly rooting against them. It provided a nice moral dilemma to work through during the story. Of course the story doesn't last very long because Sandford's books run at a feverish pace and roll downhill toward his conclusions and this one is no different. It's a solid 4 star book for me and an easy one to recommend. If you've never read Sandford before, I really advise starting this series at the begging if you can deal with fax machines and telephone booths instead of emails and cell phones for a little while. This book is a great read on it's own, but any time you know the subtext of the relationships between Lucas and Flowers and their families, it only makes this one that much better.

Righteous Prey, by John Sanford. Oh wow! Simply oh wow! I absolutely loved the action in Lucas and Virgil’s endless pursuit of psychotic murders. Once again the writer shared with his readers the detailed story from the pointed view of Lucas, whose a Marshal and Virgil who works for Lucas team of law enforcement. This wonderful developed story laid out a scripted suspense story that touched on so many levels of a freaking good crime book. Right from the beginning a murder happens and Lucas is thrown in the chaos. What makes this book even better is that Lucas has invited Virgil along on the hunt for a killer. I was elated to read how Lucas and Virgil were exact mirrors of each other, not in the physical aspect, but in the mentality. They were like twins with that telepathy thing going on. I was very confident that John Sanford would give me a good thriller story that would have me turning the pages all night, just to get to the end where I know Lucas will wrap this story up into a nice little bow. I throughly enjoyed this book, until next time my fellow readers… read on!

Thoroughly enjoyed this one! Fun detective, crime thriller. Loved it connected to life today, the ending had me sad it was over. Will add more TBR of this series 📖

Disclaimers: I am a die-hard fan of the Prey and F'ing Flowers Series so I really don't think I can be objective at this point; received this as an advance copy via Netgalley and Penguin Group Putnam/G.P. Putnam’s Sons (Thank you!!) As you may expect, I really enjoyed this book. If you are already a fan of John Sandford then you too will likely enjoy this novel, it's got everything you've come to appreciate when reading a Lucas Davenport or Virgil Flowers story. You don't need to have read any of the prior novels to enjoy this novel and if you've never read one of the prior books in the Prey series, if you like smartly written crime fiction, you can start here and once you do, you will have the other 31 books in this series, as well as 12 more from the Virgil Flowers series, to read afterward (lucky you!). in this story Lucas and Virgil team up once again to track and capture some bad folks. If you want more details of the crime aspect, there are other reviews that offer that up, I prefer to not know these details going in, makes reading the book more enjoyable, so no spoilers here. That said, this book does provide cleverly written action, suspense and murder. To give you a sense of what to expect, Lucas is a gristled, well heeled (from a software company he foundered a long while back) US Marshall. Virgil is an Agent of the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension but doesn't give off that vibe, unless he's with Lucas, who he used to work for before he became a Marshall. He's also an avid fisherman and writer, and tends to wear obscure band t-shirts. The two have a comfortable repartee and both think outside the box, which is what makes them excellent lawmen. One thing I do appreciate with these novels is that they include strong female characters too. In addition to the main character's significant others, Weather and Frankie, the author includes several female law women as the investigation progresses. I also appreciated that this novel shines a spotlight on bump stocks and the issues that surround them. All and all, this was yet another page-turner and the only thing that bummed me out was knowing once I finished it, I don't know how long it'll be before there'll be a new Sanford novel (be it Virgil, Lucas, or now Letty!).

I always enjoy the Davenport/Flowers books! Their banter, their friendship, and the trouble they always find themselves in. This newest story can easily be read as a standalone, though having read the previous books will make this one a little more fun. This installment brings about 5 (plus one) people who have decided that there are some "assholes" that need to die and go about making it happen. As can be expected, these people are not professionals and make many mistakes that quickly put good 'ole Davenport and Flowers on the case. Worth picking up! Thank you Netgalley for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All opinions expressed are mine and mine alone.

I yield to no one in my admiration for Sandford and his Davenport/Flowers series. I've read 45 of them now and have no explanation for his relative lack of prominence in this country when compared to some US crime writers with only a fraction of his talent and output. His plotting is invariably meticulous and the pace is perfectly judged throughout. Having said that, this is the second book in succession where I've felt unable to award him the full five points, and on both occasions it's been for the same reason. There seems to have been a greater emphasis in recent books on the frat dorm, laddish behaviour of his two central characters. They always were rebellious by nature, no respecters of authority unless it had been earned. They were never afraid to think outside the box and if their actions were occasionally questionable, the end could always be said to justify the means. Lately however they are starting to behave in a way that is difficult to justify in men of their advancing years and some of the banter between them is so juvenile and, occasionally inappropriate, it's almost embarrassing. If it was devastatingly witty, it might be more palatable but all too often the jokes are signposted from a long way away and leave me cold. Having said that however, the narrative here is as compelling as ever and I found myself repeatedly treating myself to 'just one more chapter' before turning out the light. If I ever need people to go into bat for me, I'll pick Lucas and Virgil every time. An evening in the pub though? I don't think so.

Reading the poem is just as powerful as hearing it on the presidential inauguration for the first time.

We’ve braved the belly of the beast. We’ve learned that quiet isn’t always peace, And the norms and notions of what “just is” Isn’t always justice.

Actual rating: 4.5 Just as powerful read as it is heard.

At the age of twenty-two Amanda Gorman read this poem at the inauguration of US President Joe Biden. She finished the poem after the storming of the Capitolium, and she made history by being the youngest poet to have read at an inauguration. Amanda Gorman received a lot of praise for her poem and for her performance, and I can understand why. The poem is about democracy and it feels inspiring and hopeful. A bit too American biased to blow me away, but the more universal parts are spot on. "For there is always light, If only we're brave enough to see it, If only we're brave enough to be it."

This book was a little bit slower for me than her other books and also I wish we could see other sidekicks more in this story (like Mavis and Bella) but still in the end I liked it. :) Ps. I need more Eve & Roarke!!! J.D.Robb, you should write more scenes with them... Pretty please.!!! :) ----------------- #book50 and I can't wait to read this one!! LOL yeah, I'm obsessed with this series because Roarke & Eve are the BEST couple that I've ever read... :) An excerpt from Golden in Death. https://gallery.mailchimp.com/915f698... Golden In Death (In Death, #50) Expected publication: February 4th 2020 --------------------- Exclusive: Nora Roberts on her J.D. Robb In Death series getting its 50th book By David Canfield May 13, 2019 One of America’s most popular novelists, Nora Roberts is celebrating a milestone for a series that isn’t even penned under her real name. In Death, the futuristic detective novels she pens under the pseudonym J.D. Robb, have been in print for nearly a quarter-century now. And next February, her fiftieth book in the series, Golden in Death, will hit the shelves. That’s a pretty remarkable run. In Death began with the 1995 novel Naked in Death; set in 2058, it introduced tough, damaged cop Eve Dallas and her mysterious love interest, Roarke. “Initially, I planned the In Death series as a trilogy set in the near future — in 1994, 2058 seemed pretty far off — with a dark, damaged female homicide cop at its center,” Roberts tells EW. “Eve Dallas, the negative to every main character I’d ever written until that point, needed a world that fit her single-minded purpose. Roarke, a self-made, charming Irishman — and former thief — who basically owned the world, walked on to the page as the perfect contrast to Eve and her solitary life.” Of course, the series developed into much more of a trilogy. “The trilogy gave me the opportunity to explore their burgeoning relationship beyond a single book, and for the characters to evolve as individuals,” Roberts continues. “By the time the third book went to press, I didn’t want to let go, to say goodbye to these people or their world. When my publisher expressed an interest in more, I jumped at the chance.” Roberts was at last revealed as the woman behind J.D. Robb in 2001, six years after the books emerged as a New York Times best-selling powerhouse. Next year, book 50 will be published. It’s called Golden in Death, and finds homicide detective Eve Dallas investigating a murder with a mysterious motive ― and a terrifying weapon. “It’s been 25 years, and yet I’m still challenged and entertained every time I slip back into Eve Dallas’ world,” Roberts reflects. “As a writer who looks forward, it’s only on milestones like this that I sit and marvel at the run.” Finally, she concludes: “Then I imagine another murder in 2061, tap Eve’s shoulder and we’re off again.” https://ew.com/author-interviews/2019...

Somewhere between 3.5 to 4 stars-- We've made it to book 50, y'all! What a journey... I feel like I've completed a marathon, and I am delighted to be officially caught up with the series. For book 50, JD Robb delivers a very satisfying mystery. There aren't a lot of crazy twists or turns, but it's exactly the kind of "crime of the week" procedural that she delivers so well, and we do get plenty of time with all the characters we know and love, particularly with Eve & Peabody. The method & backstory of the murders were particularly satisfying to unwind with our intrepid detectives this time around. The only thing that dings this down a bit for me is that I wish for such a milestone book, we had gotten some significant event in the characters' arcs. When I saw "golden," I wondered if McNab was going to be buying an engagement ring or something along those lines. And I'm ready for Eve & Roarke to at least start talking about their longer term plans-- maybe with kids, maybe with Eve accepting a captain position, maybe with Roarke's family. I'm not sure what JD Robb sees as their future (and believe me, I'm not one of those who feels like Dallas & Roarke have to have kids to have a HEA), but I'd like to see the characters start processing some of that on page. It's been a while since we've had moments like that. Anyways, all of that previous paragraph is just me processing some assumptions I had about this entry that weren't met. The TLDR is that if you love an In Death mystery, this will hit the spot with the usual aplomb

JD Robb’s words are so familiar to me that her books, her voice, has a form of cadence to them. Her books read smooth and precise that at times I forget that I’m even reading. It has become such a pleasure to read these books and visit with characters that have become so familiar to me. With each book, I become more attached to the In Death universe that I can’t see me not reading them. In this 50th installment, we continue to follow kick-ass cop Eve Dallas and company as she solves yet another tough case. With golden eggs, toxins, murder and sexy scenes JD Robb continues to produce beautiful work. Lieutenant Dallas and Detective Peabody are looking for a killer who uses toxins hidden in a golden egg. As Dallas and Peabody investigate the case, they encounter unlikable characters and memorable ones. What I love about this book is that I get to follow every lead and dead-end alongside the homicide duo and other regular characters. This one is particularly refreshing as we see Dallas finally accept that Roarke is part of her process and that with his help, her work has become a little bit easier. She still kicks ass and takes no BS, she just does it more efficiently. In this book, we see a few beloved characters and Eve’s interactions with them. When one of my favorite characters makes an appearance, I appreciate the book even more. This one had me laughing out loud at Eve’s literal sense, and it also had me in tears with her beautiful heart and compassion. An absolute gem.

As the 50th book in this series, I expected just a tad more than I got. Although it was a thoroughly enjoyable read, It was relatively slow going with much of the book taken up by the first murder, and not enough time is given to the next poisoning. The evil character's really shone in this book, and I would have liked to have seen Eve and Delia spend more time on them. I felt that this novel was more of a character-driven read than an action-driven one, but that was okay as I was able to learn a little more about my favorite team. Ms. Robb kept true to her formula as far as sex goes, but still, something was missing in this book...I just can't put my finger on it. For a fiftieth book, I just expected more, a bigger bang for my buck than the word Gold in the title and a golden egg in the story. ARC supplied by the publisher.

The 50th book in this wonderful series? Wow. It seems almost more impossible to me that I've read almost every one of them (and, for the record, plan to keep doing so as long as the author keeps adding them). That said, I was a bit disappointed with the 49th book, to the point that I actually used the word "bland" to describe the action (or lack thereof). This one does a decent about face in that regard as NYPD Lt. Eve Dallas and her capable team take on a presumed serial killer who sends golden eggs filled with deadly poison to his victims. As usual, in the middle of the action is Eve's dashing and filthy rich Irish husband Roarke, who offers his capable assistance to the investigation and keeps his wife running on all cylinders (and in gorgeous clothes). And as always, the futuristic setting - somewhere in the mid- to late 2050s - makes for fun reading (who wouldn't love to "program" up a spaghetti dinner or have a lifelike "bot" for a personal assistant)? Noticeably missing, however, was some of the more edge-of-seat aspects of previous books and interactions with many of the characters we've come to know and expect to read about. Eve's fun-loving partner Peabody gets quite a bit of page time, which helps, but others - like Dr. Charlotte Mira and the irascible major domo Summerset - barely get mentions. The story begins as the pediatrician husband of a private school headmaster gets a package containing a small golden egg. When he opens it, poison gas is released, killing him almost instantly. Apparently, the gas dissipates quickly, so no one else - including the investigating team that includes Eve - is in any danger. The victim was much loved by everyone, so a motive proves elusive until another person - this time a woman - is murdered in exactly the same way. Now, the race is on to find a connection between the two victims and find the murderer before he or she lays another egg. While the last couple of books haven't been what I'd call exciting, I must say it's a relief to not worry so much that Roarke, in particular, might be seriously wounded or even killed off. He's one of my favorite book heroes, and I was on pins and needles in other books all the way to the end when I was certain he was safe for another go-round. Truth is, I'm hoping things stay that way - my aging heart can't take much strain. As for this one, I enjoyed it and, as I said at the beginning, I'm looking forward to the next one.

Excellent, as usual. No body compares to Nora writing as J.D. Robb. And this is number 50! The reader does an excellent job, too. I am always interested in watching the story develop as the cast of peace keepers develop their clues and the people of interest are eliminated to zero in on the actual killers. As always there is pretty explicit sex, Eve has her people who she fights with and Roarke lavishes expensive gifts on her. Yes, these are formulaic, but it is a formula that works like a favorite recipe.

This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life in Books. This was so good! I hate to admit that I have not read a single book in this series before picking up this one. I was a little worried that I might be a little lost jumping into a series at the fiftieth book. I am happy to report that this book does stand on its own and I didn't feel lost at any point in the story. I am sure that if I had read the previous books in the series, I might have had a deeper understanding and appreciation of the character relationships but the mystery in this book was solid and kept me glued to the pages for the entire book. I really enjoyed the time that I spent reading this book. The story opens with Dr. Kent Abner receiving a package that would quickly end his life. The package contained a golden egg filled with a nerve gas that killed him within minutes. Lt. Eve Dallas has quite the case on her hands. It seems that everybody loved Dr. Abner and there just aren't a lot of leads. She keeps asking questions and checking everything hoping to find something. When a second murder occurs, the pieces finally start to come together. This mystery really kept me guessing. This was a very suspenseful novel and I had a hard time piecing things together before it was revealed within the story. The story definitely took some twists and turns that I didn't expect and I loved the fact that everything seemed entirely plausible. I also really liked Eve's approach to solving the case. She doesn't seem to miss much and is very dedicated to getting justice for the victims. I really liked the way the book was written. I thought that there was a really great balance between the case and Eve's personal life which made her feel very real. The pacing was very well done and there was never a point where I felt the desire to set the book aside. I thought that the descriptions were very well done and I almost felt like I was seeing everything Eve was as she worked to piece the case together. I would recommend this book to others. I thought that this was a very smartly written suspenseful story filled with great characters. I am very glad that I finally decided to give this series a try and now have plans to go back to the beginning and read more of Eve's adventures. I received a free ARC of Golden in Death by J.D. Robb from Macmillan in exchange for an honest review.

Another case that I actually like. Sure, you can say it's not that original but considering that we're in book 50 (and not including those 100+ pages novellas), you can kinda forgive it for that technicality. However, I do think we didn't get a lot of time with the greatest supporting characters ever. Though we did spent a short time with Louise. Oh and the highlight of the book, Roarke and Eve planting that tree. ❤️

This 50th book in the series is still wonderful to read. As I opened this book I wondered if I would still enjoy it the way I had the 49 before it. Yes, I did! Dallas and her offsider and protegee, Delia Peadbody, are called to a death of Dr Abner Kent, a paediatrician. It is quickly apparent that he has been killed by a toxic gas sent through the parcel post. Why anyone would want to kill such a well loved and popular man is a mystery. Dallas and Peabody develop several theories until a second murder puts them on the right track. Long term marriages become a vital clue and theme for Dallas to reflect upon. I'm not sure if the murder mystery or the development of Dallas' relationships is now the primary theme. They are perhaps equally important to long term fans. Lieutenant Eve Dallas of the NYPSD is a cop to the bone. After an abusive and lonely childhood, her drive to be a police officer was the motivation to survive. She didn't thrive, however, until after meeting Rourke, her now husband, multibillionaire and (according to Dallas) able to buy a small planet. Rourke also came from an abusive background but he took a more illicit road out. The conflict caused by their very different paths has mostly been resolved. The two of them have been married a few years now and are working on their own Rules of Marriage. Her relationship with Peabody is a strong theme in this book. It is a delight to read and their banter had me laughing out loud. This contrasts beautifully with the empathic and humane way they combine to manage the grief of the victims' families. Altogether a lovely read and highly recommended. Great for long term fans or newcomers.

I can't quite believe that I've actually caught up with this series, let alone that fifty books (plus multiple novellas) in and I'm still totally in love with this world and the characters. That's some kind of magic right there, but come on this is J.D. Robb aka Nora Roberts, queen of romance, so it probably shouldn't be that surprising! I was intimidated by the length of this series and put off starting it for a long time but once I got hooked in I couldn't stop reading and I'm amazed by how quickly I got through these books. I'm not sure what I'll do with myself while I wait for the next one to publish, perhaps I should start a reread? Anyway, if you're a fan of this series then you'll already know exactly what to expect from Golden in Death, it has the same humour, the same brilliant and often quirky characters, the futuristic gadgets and the weird murders that Eve has to work her butt off trying to solve. It has strong friendships, one of my favourite fictional romances and my ultimate book boyfriend. All the magical ingredients that will keep me coming back for more even if there are another fifty books published in the future. I'm definitely not done with this world yet. 1st read - April 2020 2nd read - October 2021 3rd read -December 2021 4th read - March 2023

After this many books, when you open an 'In Death' you pretty much know what you are going to get. The comfortable familiarity of phrases, tone, murder cases, and characters. Sometimes it works better than others, but this time it worked well for me. I enjoy when Eve's a bitch and throws her weight around. I enjoy when the big bads are the toney rich who think they are above the law, and I especially enjoy when Eve breaks these types in interview. It's all here, along with a decent case and investigation. It's getting a little shopworn, but still good. Oh, and Peabody is starting to to grow a spine, that was fun to see.

This makes the 6th In Death book that I’ve binge-read in the past week or so, but I think a line from the last one, Vendetta in Death jinxed me. I even saved the quote in my review; Eve is telling Roarke what she would do to him if he cheated on her — it involved a very tender, important part of his anatomy, honey and fire ants. I have a long-running feud with fire ants. Now, I love all kinds of critters: dogs and cats, of course, but I’ll also brake to avoid hitting squirrels and possums and even armadillos. I capture crickets and spiders and put them outside instead of squashing them. We have a very cute little toad living under our balcony steps, and I talk to it sometimes. I tolerate even snakes, as long as they are non-venomous and/or are minding their own business. But a fire ant is a creature that serves absolutely no positive purpose that I can think of, and if God ever made a mistake, it was in allowing fire ants to evolve. And yes, I got stung, or bitten, or whatever fire ants do, this evening. Nothing, NOTHING takes away the god-awful, everlasting, tormenting ITCHING, although ice helps more than anything else I’ve ever tried. But I’ve digressed far from Golden in Death which I enjoyed a lot, mostly because of Peabody. Peabody has really come into her own in the last few books, becoming darn near equal to Dallas as a cop and a detective. And I absolutely LOVED the bit when Peabody went off on that arrogant headmaster biddy (I cleaned that up a bit. Or a lot. Anyway.) “You will watch your tone in my office.” “No, I won’t. I’m not one of your students or underlings, I’m a New York City police detective, and a New York City cop knows a lying sack when she sees one. So don’t think you’re going to sit there and insult my family, my vocation, or my lieutenant. You aren’t worthy to wipe the boots she’ll kick your ass with.” All right, Peabody! You go, girl!!! 4.5 stars

JD Robb's 'In Death' futuristic cop series is one of my 'go-to' reads. The arrival of a new instalment leap-frogs anything else in my to-be-read pile or reading queue. Golden in Death actually arrived on its publication day so I was completely justified in delving into it straight away. Embarrassingly I really didn't twig (for some time) that the book's title was a nod to the fact that this is the 50th in the series. D'oh! https://www.debbish.com/books-literat...

I love this series, but I did expect #50 to be kinda special. In that regard it disappointed, but on the other hand, it was entertaining and kept me busy reading..

While a little more personal life macro plot progression would have taken this to the next level (I feel like Mavis & Peabody have been moving into this new house for half the series at this point 😅), I really appreciate the solid police procedural of this one. It was one that was more about probing the psychology of the suspects rather than strictly following clues, but that worked with the overall theme of a crime of passion. Note - this is one that could be read without reading earlier books pretty well if folks are looking to try the series

the setup… Erin Albright and Shauna Hunnicut are celebrating their upcoming wedding at the Down and Dirty Club. Erin steps away in the middle of the excitement and joyous partying to prepare for her secret surprise she’s arranged for Shauna. She steps into the privacy room to meet the friend who’s her co-conspirator in presenting the surprise. But the surprise is on Erin when whoever is in that room uses a garrote on her, leaving her dead and alone. Homicide Lieutenant Eve Dallas receives the call directly from Crack, the owner. It’s also eerily coincidental that it’s the same club and room where she was attacked during her pre-wedding celebration. the heart of the story… The coincidences to Eve’s assault at the club abound as she was attacked by someone she knew and thought she could trust. Erin and Shauna were surrounded by a tight-knit group of friends, all loyally devoted to one or the other or both. Eve is certain someone in that group wasn’t their friend or, at least not Erin’s and she explores their world with precision and depth. I honed in on a suspect early on, which differed from Eve’s supposition and I foolishly held onto my choice. Yeah, right. the bottom line… I enjoyed this latest installment in the series as it was not only a glimpse back into the past but an interesting case on its own. Erin and Shauna’s circle of friends was a strong one but one of them was wearing a mask. Eve and her team not only followed exceptional police procedurals but delved into the psychological aspects of that circle to root out the killer and betrayer. Yes, I got caught flatfooted but there’s the fun. This series just doesn’t get old. Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to St. Martin’s Press for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

PASSIONS IN DEATH is the fifty-ninth book in J.D. Robb's futuristic, police procedural style In Death Series. For new readers feeling overwhelmed with the sheer number of books, you can be confident jumping in at any point as each title in the series stands alone with a murder mystery solved and needed backstory included within the pages of each book. However, the main characters as well as some of the repeat support characters are introduced in early books, and character development is a key part of the storyline throughout the series. Hard-core Dallas fans will tell you that it enhances your reading pleasure to start with NAKED IN DEATH and proceed through the series in order of publication. Drinks flow freely at The Down & Dirty Club which is open on a Monday night for guests of the pre-wedding party of Erin Albright and Shauna Hunnicut. The brides and their tribe of friends’ drink, sing and dance the night away in celebration of the two women's upcoming nuptials, leaving all inhibitions on the floor with their clothes. During the height of the party, Erin slips away unseen to a back room to prepare for a special surprise she's planned for her bride-to-be Shauna, and that's where Lt. Eve Dallas, accompanied by her ridiculously wealthy husband Roarke, finds her lying in a pool of her own blood. Eve's momentarily taken aback as she recognizes the room as the same one in which she had once fought for her own life, and she vows to get justice for this woman whose future has been brutally stolen from her. As the story unfolds, evidence points toward a cold, premediated murder of passion by someone close to the victim - someone she trusted and considered a friend. No one has a bad thing to say about the victim . . . so which member of her close tribe of friends murdered her? A gripping, deeply emotional police procedural, PASSIONS IN DEATH displays Robb's expertise in continuously delivering highly visual, masterly plotted, strong character driven stories that keep fans clamoring for more. Her ability to meticulously maneuver Eve and company through the solving of yet another complex murder case is highly entertaining and nothing short of amazing. While PASSIONS IN DEATH is a bit slower paced than some of the other books, the short list of red herrings, lack of apparent motive, and frustrating perplexity of the case keeps both characters and readers on their toes while setting a mysterious smoke and mirrors atmosphere and tone throughout. As always, I find Eve's mind a fascinating place to be when she's sniffing out clues and homing in on the murderer with the intensity of a bloodhound on the trail of prey before striding into the interrogation room with fire in her eyes and justice on her lips in an old fashion showdown with the villain reminiscent of the final gunfight at the OK Corral. There's never any doubt who the victor will be. PASSIONS IN DEATH is another highly visual, inventive masterpiece by Author J.D. Robb, aka Nora Roberts, highlighting the many intricacies of relationships especially within found family or a close circle of friends. Fans will appreciate appearances from a few of the series' regulars like Peabody, Mavis and Bella. PASSIONS IN DEATH is a compelling, highly addictive blend of crime and police procedural suspense with a sexy side of fairytale romance ala Eve's own mysterious prince of a husband, Roarke. Highly recommended to fans of the series as well as fans of intriguing mysteries and suspense thrillers. Special thanks to St. Martins Press and J.D. Robb for an arc of this title which is scheduled to be released Sept. 3, 2024. All opinions expressed in this review are my own. This review first published in Mystery & Suspense Magazine and is also available on my blog Cross My Heart Reviews.

J.D. Robb's provocative 59th title in her Lieutenant Eve Dallas series begins with the murder of Artist Erin Albright during her own Bachelorette Party at the notorious Down and Dirty club. Lt. Dallas and her partner Detective Amelia Peabody investigation of Erin's murder begins with their questioning of Erin's fiancee, Shauna. The suspects include: Erin's bitter ex, an art dealer who knows the value of a dead artist's works ,and the club's bartender who found Erin's body. "Passions" has less action than the previous Dallas novel, Random In Death. This is more of a slow burn police procedural novel, which is a plus because Robb successfully develops her characters motives that kept me guessing who did it? Dallas is still one of the best recurring characters in series fiction. She's more empathetic than she was in the earlier books, but she still maintains her no holds barred approach when it comes to catching criminals. Robb has scored another winner this year with Passions In Death. It shows that there's still no justice like Dallas justice.

“Passions in Death” is the fifty-nineth installment in the Death Series. When the series approached the fifties, I considered stopping, thinking J. D. Robb might start repeating storylines or show signs of burnout. However, here I am, still captivated by the series. So far, J.D. Robb has managed to keep the narratives fresh and engaging without recycling ideas or losing steam. While I was reading this book, I pondered what keeps me coming back for more. I believe it’s Robb’s characters. Each one is unique and incredibly interesting, with the potential to be the protagonist of their own series. They are not one-dimensional but rather complex individuals. I enjoy all of them, but Dr. Mira stands out as the most fascinating. The relationship between Dallas and Roake is also a key element of the storyline. In this story, Erin Albright is found garroted in a private room at the Down and Dirty Club on the eve of her wedding. Robb explores themes of marriage and the value of friendship. As with all the Robb’s stories, the intense, non-stop action and suspense kept me on the edge of my seat. I experienced this book as an audiobook purchased from Audible. It’s thirteen hours and fifty-four minutes long, and Susan Ericksen does an excellent job narrating this series.

What can I say about the 59th installment in a series? Not much that I haven’t already said before. Passions in Death isn’t the strongest of the Eve Dallas stories, but it’s far from the weakest. The case wasn’t the strongest, but Nora did a phenomenal job in her presentation of it. Eve finds this particular murder mean and senseless. It annoys her. And it annoyed me right alongside her. Like her, I couldn’t decide which of the two suspects had actually done the deed until all was revealed. The way Nora was able to balance this tension between mystery and annoyance, all while meting out the clues at the same pace Eve put them together, is such a testament to her craft. Even in an installment that isn’t my favorite, there’s just so much to respect about this series. My favorite element of the book was, as always, the characters. Eve has changed so much over the course of nearly 60 novels. She’s grown and softened, developing in lovely and believable ways. Her relationships—with her husband, her partner, her friends—have all deepened and evolved. Friendship was a big theme here, as was marriage, so we got to see Eve’s thoughts on both, as well as how those thoughts impacted her own friendships and marriage. I love seeing this softer, more open side to Eve. Though she still maintains her steely spine when it comes to the job. I will saw that the pacing of this book wasn’t quite as successful as most installments in this series. Most of these books move at a pretty decent clip, especially for relying so heavily on the legwork that comes with investigating a homicide. This one, however, felt like it dragged a bit. It would have been a stronger story at 300 pages than 400. Also, as I stated above, there was nothing about this case that really stood out. It was still very engagingly written, but the story itself was forgettable. There will never be an installment of this series that I skip. I’m way too invested. But, while I did still enjoy my time reading this book because of how much I love Nora’s writing, Passions in Death didn’t quite measure up to some of its immediate predecessors. But getting to catch up with Eve and Roarke and the rest of the gang is always worthwhile.

This one is all about family and friends. Eve Dallas gets a call in the middle of the night, a call to the Down and Dirty, a club she is familiar with, has history with, and the call is a call for help from another friend. Crack also has history with Eve. Book 59 in this long-running series is all about connections, personal, professional, and as part of this baffling crime. Who would murder this bride just days before her wedding when she is surrounded by family and friends on her last night out, right before she is going to surprise her partner with something she has always wanted? Not as much action as usual in an in Death book but a lot of history, relationships, and connections, which is also satisfying for long-time fans of the series.

3.5 rounded up Good grief, I can't believe there are 59 books in this series! I can easily see that the writing has changed over the years, sometimes for the better and sometimes not so much. This book starts off slow and is a bit tedious at times, but it sure does pick up toward the end. The slang was a little hard for me to follow at times. It sort of reminded me of the one Eve Dallas book where she used the abbreviated word 'anal' for the word "analyze." I couldn't help but snort every time I read that term. The abbreviations in this book did much the same for me. I was also disappointed that we didn't get to see many of the usual secondary characters, and Roarke gets a bit of an abbreviated part in this book. The story was good, but for the obvious red herring the author throws in. It did have me wondering for quite a while who-dun-it, so that was satisfying. All in all, it was a good early autumn vacation mystery. (this book comes out September 3rd). *ARC was supplied by the publisher St. Martin's Press, the author, and NetGalley.

It's been more than 8 years since I've read any of the In Death books (wow, I did not realize it was that long). It seems like just yesterday that I eagerly awaited the new book to continue the journey. The gang is back and just as interesting as every. I received an (unexpected) ARC copy of the book in the mail this week. #NetGallyGiveawayWinner Special thanks to St. Martin's Press and J.D. Robb for an arc of this title which is scheduled to be released Sept. 3, 2024. All opinions expressed in this review are my own

The penultimate Eve Dallas novel did not disappoint. It's a credit to her writing talents that Nora Roberts (aka JD Robb) has been able to keep this almost 60 book series entertaining and suspenseful all these years! I've been reading about Eve and Roarke and the rest of the gang since I was in highschool and it's going to be bittersweet to say goodbye! While I'm personally not a big fan of the narrative style of Susan Erickson, it is nice that she's been the consistent voice of for the audiobooks! Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an early audio copy in exchange for my honest review!

I received a complimentary copy of this book. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own. (via Netgalley) I was surprised and delighted to receive an ARC for this. I enjoyed this one and thought it was a good read. Though.. I wish they'd finish the dang house already. I'm starting to feel like Eve regarding it. :P

I've been a fan of this series ever since I was handed the very first book. I was unsure if I would like it, but I soon became invested in Eve Dallas, Rourke, Peabody, McNab, and Summerset. I can't believe this is book 59! Passions in Death is a good addition, it involves the murder of a bride to be, and even though I wondered how it would play out, I was surprised at the end. These characters have become family and friends to me, and I loved being asked to read an advanced copy of this book. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for selecting me to read an advanced copy of this book.

It is already VERY clear to anyone who has ever read any of my reviews that I am a HUGE fan of J.D. Robb, and honestly, anything written by Ms. Roberts. This is the 59th book in this series and I have read each and every book. I ADORE this series. I was thrilled to receive the ARC for the latest book and couldn't wait to read it. You can not be 59 books into a series and not love the world that has been built, the characters that have been developed and especially the theme of "found family" that is so prevalent throughout this series. Anytime I can jump back in and get to see Eve and Roarke, Peabody, Mavis, even Mira.....it's a good day. This book was not my favorite. Which is kind of odd because the last couple of books have really raised the bar. This book is a quieter book - if that makes sense. It's not a crazy, dramatic case. There is a lot of back and forth as Eve tries to find the killer. So, the pacing seems a little off. With that being said, I still LOVE any book in this series and enjoyed reading it AND, I am going to be eagerly awaiting number 60. Man, never thought I'd be typing that..... 60 books... Wow. Thank you to NetGalley for the opportunity to read and review this ARC. The opinions above are mine and mine alone.

**Happy Book Pub Day, 09/03/2024- reposting this review** ***ARC provided by NetGalley for review*** Another installment of the In Death series, now with texts! No, seriously, is this a brand new thing, getting to see the texts they send, because I do not recall seeing it ever before. Irrelevant to the story itself, I really liked this one. I did figure out who did it pretty early on, but so much of this book was more "slice of life" and it's okay that it felt a little bit slower and more predictable than the others. But they really need to finish that house already, I am getting impatient.

4.5 stars, actually. Would you believe my last book in this long-running series was the 19th? I'll concede that it helps that I didn't miss any of those that came before, but it still came as a surprise when I was able to zip through this one - the 25th - as if I hadn't missed a beat. Well, with a couple of relatively minor exceptions. San Francisco detective Lindsay Boxer, who arguably is the star of the show, had a daughter Julie, who is now five years old. She and the rest of the so-called Women's Murder Club - medical examiner Claire Washburn, San Francisco Examiner crime reporter Cindy Thomas, assistant district attorney Yuki Castellano - are more experienced and wiser. Otherwise, it's basically same old, same old, but that's certainly not a bad thing. This one begins with the unthinkable - and a happening that ain't happening in my review. Suffice it to say there's a single clue - the words "I Said, You Dead" left at the scene. That happening rallies all the troops, including Lindsay's boss, Jackson Brady, Cindy (who can smell a great story a continent away). Close on the heels of that one comes another one - and again, those same words. Meantime, Yuki is prosecuting a murder case against a member of a Mexican cartel, who's also a suspected serial killer. Almost immediately, it becomes clear that someone - most likely others in the cartel - are intent on making sure the trial never takes place, and their methods take jury tampering to a whole new level. On that front, Lindsay's husband, FBI agent Joe Molinari, gets involved, and readers begin to suspect a link between the "I Said" events and the trial. Bringing both to a close, though, takes up most of the pages and leads readers through another nail-biting adventure right up to the end. With which, I'm satisfied. I'm also happy to thank the publisher, via NetGalley, for the opportunity to get back in the game via a pre-release copy. Good job once again!

Great addition to the series! Already can’t wait to see what happens in the next book! It was interesting to read how the two cases all ended up being connected. Lindsay is top notch as always. I do think that Cindy is getting a little annoying. Would love to see Claire in action more!

If you’ve been a long time fan of this series then I don’t need to tell you that I enjoyed this one! They speak for themselves in their continuing storyline that has stayed fresh with every addition. This starts with a shocking turn of events and has you hanging on til the last page and wanting more! Many thanks to the publisher and netgalley for this copy for read and review

Nice to catch up with the women's murder club. Short chapters and easy reading. Enjoyable story where all members of the murder club are involved in one way or another. Also love that the lead detective's daughter is called Julie. Bit of a rush at the end though.

I always look forward to the next book in this series. A cop, medical examiner, attorney, and reporter come together to solve the murder of a former officer. It is a good mystery that had me guessing & yearning for resolution.

Great to catch up with the Women’s Murder Club ladies again. These ladies lead tough lives!

Reading 2025 Book 110: 25 Alive by James Patterson, Maxine Paetro A series I have been reading since the beginning. Every May I look forward to the newest installment in the Women’s Murder Club series, and the books do not disappoint. Read on my Kindle. Synopsis: The twenty-fifth thrilling novel in the globally bestselling Women's Murder Club Review: A good popcorn thriller, sadly a beloved character dies in the first few pages. There were a few rushed plot points at the end, especially the Joe story. After being dragged along for several chapters it was just over. Yuki’s murder trial was also rushed at the end. This book does come with the characteristic page turning drama and action, my rating 4⭐️.

This was such a fast paced read with short chapters that made it so easy to fly through. It kept my attention till the end. I was completely invested in the storyline and the quest to solve the mystery of who murdered Warren Jacobi. I also loved that there were a few other moving plot lines woven in. It kept things interesting without feeling overwhelming. Lindsay is such a likeable character, and I’m really looking forward to reading more of this series. Even though this is the 25th book, I had no problem jumping in mid series and never feeling lost. Thank you so much @littlebrown and @jamespattersonbooks for my #gifted book as part of the James Patterson Street Team!

Good read Book 25 in the Women's Murder Club series. And this time it's personal. I love these books. Short chapters. High drama. Cliffhangers in each chapter. I really enjoyed 95% of this book. For me the ending was too rushed which spoiled it a bit. But on the whole a great read.

This is one of my favorite authors and series. However, the ending to this one seemed very rushed. I felt like I missed something (though I hadn’t). I have already preordered the next book in the series.

Wasn’t sure how it would all end up, but these two make it work again! Love it when the girls get back together for us! (:

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Quick, easy read. Good plots and page turner. The ending felt rushed, tho. I love this series, and Boxer. I was sad to see a supportive character die. But this was one of the good ones.

Enjoyed as always, love The Women's Murder Club series.

I’ve read & enjoyed this whole series & the spin off books. I can’t believe you’re going to end the book the way you did though! 🤣 how dare you!

In my opinion the book I just finished reading was a very good book. It took the reader on an into the nonstop world of being a detective in the police department. It featured nonstop action scenes .

I have read all of the Women's Murder Club books and look forward to the new one each year.

This was pretty good. A little hard at times for me to keep track of some Of The characters with regard to the Yuki story line - but overall - good book!

All I needed to know going into Simply Lies was that it was written by David Baldacci. He is a prolific author who needs no introduction. I cannot get enough of his twisty tales and realistic characters. This is a stand-alone book, although I can see it being the beginning of a new series. This is a tough book to review as the plot is so complex. It is about a former police detective, Mickey, now single mother to 2 young children who are her world. To pay the bills she works for Pro Eye, tracking down hidden assets of criminals, and she can do this mostly from home on her laptop around the needs of her kids. She gets herself involved in a dangerous murder investigation that changes everything. Simply Lies is a story of family, greed, lies, power, betrayal, blackmail and so much more. Nobody is who they appear to be and Mickey has no idea who she can trust. This case will lead her into the dark underworld and face to face with some very violent criminals. If you have read this author’s work, then you know that you are in for a long and rough ride with Mickey. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Thanks to Macmillan Australia for my advanced copy to read. Publishes on March 28th.

New Baldacci characters emerge in this fast paced, page-turning stand-alone intense thriller. Baldacci in his typical way keeps the tension high, and weaves a twisty tale starring two intriguing women leads that you will want to meet.

There is nothing simple about the lies in Simply Lies. David Baldacci is about as close to a sure thing as it gets and Simply Lies is no different. Part fugitive hunt, part treasure hunt and part whodunnit all rolled into a heartbreaking fable about the horrible things humans do to one another. While being complete opposites, the two female leads are the definition of strength and intelligence and are an intriguing pairing moving forward. Thanks to Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley for the opportunity to read a galley of Simply Lies.

For the last couple of years, David Baldacci has been producing two books a year, and focusing most of his attention on his recent series characters of Amos Decker (Memory Man), Will Robie, Atlee Pine, and Aloysius Archer. Late last year he introduced a new character - Travis Devine – a former military man who finds himself investigating a successful firm on Wall Street in “The 6:20 Man”. This year Baldacci is branching out again with another new character – Mickey Gibson – a former cop and detective, current global investigator, and more importantly, a single mom with two young children. Actually, there is another key character… We’ll call her Clarisse for now, as to not spoil anything. “Simply Lies” starts off with Gibson juggling her remote investigation work with ProEye, a global investigation firm that focuses on hunting down wealthy individuals making illegal income and cheating on their taxes, and being a stay-at-home mom. One day she gets a call from another ProEye representative, working with Gibson’s boss, requesting Gibson to complete a new assignment that just came up. Gibson is asked to go inventory the home and assets of an arms dealer that just took off after cheating other ProEye clients. Once Gibson arrives at the old mansion out in the country, and starts inspecting, she discovers a secret room., and then a dead body to go with it. Gibson’s situation gets worse fast. Once she calls the police and explains her situation, they follow-up on her story, only to discover that the woman representative who gave her the assignment doesn’t really exist. Her boss cannot back her up at all, making Gibson a primed suspect in a murder investigation, and putting her job on the line unless she can figure out who the mysterious lady was that set-up her up. Gibson finds herself knee-deep in investigating the murder victim, his past, and who wanted him dead. At the same time, she finds herself in some kind of crazy stalker relationship with the mystery woman, who calls herself Clarisse, when the woman calls her back, provides additional information, and demands that Gibson investigate the killing or threatens that her and her children could be in danger. Gibson finds herself locked in a dangerous ca-and-mouse game with a stranger that somehow knows too much about her. But Gibson is not a quitter… Just like his last novel, this is another change-up for Baldacci, focusing on decades old mystery / murder combination with two strongly intelligent women batting each other in a psychological, and personal one-on-one war. However, it is still the same Baldacci style thriller with a strong lead character being thrown into impossibly tough situations, and having to use her physical and intellectual prowess to investigate a murder, overcome strong adversaries along the way, and in this one, find a cool treasure. There are a several good things about this book and Baldacci’s new character, Mickey Gibson. First, this was a fast and easy read. Interesting setting, conflicted characters, and extremely fast paced plotting. Gibson is an interesting character and different from Baldacci’s usual government or secret agent, some with a military background, or a private or state investigator. Gibson is an ex-cop, but her strength rests in doing web investigation work. In addition, being a single mom with two very young children and remaining baby fat provides her with a more grounded world and an interesting perspective to explore. I am pretty sure that there are many readers who can relate to Gibson’s situation and I found it a refreshing part of the storylines and related drama. The other key element that made this novel work was the back-and-forth psychological battle of wits between Gibson and Clarisse. It was somewhat reminiscent of the classic twisted relationship between FBI agent Clarice Starling and serial killer, Hannibal Lecter, in the Thomas Harris novels and movies. Not exactly the same, but the head-to-head battle of strength, intelligence, and one-upsmanship was similar. However, Baldacci makes the relationship between these two his own organic creation that develops in its own unique way. What starts out as Gibson’s journey becomes theirs together as Baldacci explores the horrible things that people can do to each other, especially within their own families. In this novel, Baldacci brings together two unique protagonists with deep intelligence and strengths; yet, at the same time real weaknesses and flaws that drive the storylines forward. As usual, his writing style was fluid and each chapter hummed along at a fast pace, most ending in a surprise cliffhanger that easily kept you intensely reading into the next one. There was no slowing down most of the time and he kept you fully immersed in the plotlines and twists and turns along the way. For me, this was a very enjoyable holiday weekend read. Overall, “Simply Lies” was mostly a quick and thoroughly enjoyable reading experience. It may be a one-off for Baldacci, but the way it ended left off for the possibility for more Gibson adventures if the fans push for it and the author is interested in revisiting her again in the future. My vote is that I would like to see her return and I can think of several stories to be explored, including what happened to her disappearing husband. For me “Simply Lies” was another example of why Baldacci is one of my favorite mystery / thriller writers. Like most of his books, this one gave me three days of reading joy. I highly recommend it to you as a good place to start if you haven’t read Baldacci before. Then you can explore his other books and series. If you haven’t read him before, then I am pretty sure this one is already read, being read, or on your list. As well it should be…

If you can put aside pure logic for most of this book, then you may find this an enjoyable read. I had some difficulty keeping track of all the characters, the AKAs, and the timelines. Figuring out who was genuinely evil was near impossible, and the number of red herrings was enough to repopulate the Atlantic! I love mafia books, and I wish this book dealt with that aspect a little more. I got bogged down and flustered when electronic currency (near the end) and the like were being discussed, as I had no clue what the author was talking about. It took me a little while to drop my sense of logic and really get into this book. However, once I did get into it, I was in it for the long haul. *ARC was supplied by the publisher Grand Central Publishing, the author, and NetGalley.

Mickey Gibson, the single mother of two toddlers, is an ex-cop, ex-detective, and now a ProEye sleuth who is an expert in tracking down wealthy tax and credit cheats online. She is thrilled to be sent into the field to check out what assets might have been left behind in an old mansion but instead finds a dead body in a hidden room. It seems Arlene Robinson, the woman who called Mickey and sent her out on this case, is a con artist extraordinaire who simply lies to everyone about everything. It appears this is going to be a treasure hunt--can Mickey find the goods before anyone else? This is quite a convoluted story with plenty of twists and turns that keep the reader guessing. At times the plot seems totally implausible but Baldacci manages to pull it all together. I received an arc from the author and publisher via NetGalley. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

David Baldacci returns following The 6:20 Man (5 stars) with his latest standalone suspense, SIMPLY LIES —two women—a former detective and a con artist—are caught up in a dangerous game of cat-and-mouse in this action-packed thriller. Mickey Gibson, a former detective and single mom of two, had worked her way up to be a criminal investigator, and then Peter came along. He wanted to start a family, and as soon as baby one was born, he was different, and then she was pregnant with number two. He cleaned the bank accounts, ran off with his secretary, and left her with the bills. She lost the house, had to leave her job with the force, and moved to Williamsburg, VA, where her retired parents lived. She joined ProEye global PK agency that did most of its sleuthing online. It is a global investigation company specializing in financial fraud, locating hidden assets of criminals and those looking to evade taxes. It allowed her to work from home, but juggling work and single parenting with two little ones was always challenging. When she receives a call from a woman named Arlene Robinson, that says she works with the company requesting her to conduct an inventory of a vacant home of an arms dealer who cheated ProEye’s clients and fled, she goes. However, when she arrives, she finds a dead body in a secret room and realizes she may have been set up. She finds a cryptic message left on the wall. The man, Harry, has ties with the mob and was previously in witness protection. Ironically, Mickey discovers there is no Arlene that works at ProEye. Mickey is now a prime suspect in a murder investigation—and her job is in jeopardy until she has proof she is innocent. She does not need this stress with all she is juggling. Now the mysterious woman calls herself “Clarisse” and continues calling her, urging her to dive deeper into the background of the murder victim. Who is Clarisse, and why has she involved Mickey in this dangerous game? Baldacci expertly keeps the tension high and weaves a twisty suspenseful tale starring two intriguing women leads. Both women are interesting, and I enjoyed the suspense and cat-and-mouse game. There are also parts of cryptocurrency and NFTs that are fascinating. If this is the beginning of a new series, I look forward to reading more about these two dynamic women. Even though SIMPLY LIES was not as EPIC as The 6:20 Man, overall, was an entertaining read. You cannot go wrong with Baldacci—a big fan; he always surprises you! Thanks to #GrandCentralPublishing for a gifted ARC via #NetGalley for review purposes. Blog review posted @ JudithDCollins.com @JudithDCollins |#JDCMustReadBooks Pub Date: April 18, 2023 My Rating: 4 Stars April 2023 Must-Read Books

This review can also be found at https://carolesrandomlife.com/ I had a great time with this book! I haven’t read too many books in David Baldacci’s impressive backlist but I have enjoyed the ones that I have picked up, so I was thrilled to get the chance to dive into his newest book that kicks off the new Mickey Gibson series. I liked the characters right away and was quickly absorbed by the mystery. I am so glad that I decided to give this book a try. Mickey Gibson is a former detective turned private investigator and single mother of two small children. Let’s just say that she has her hands very full juggling the demands of her children with that of her job. She is lucky enough to be able to work remotely from her home but when she gets a call to check something out in person, she agrees. She finds a body belonging to a man that had been a part of the witness protection program. Mickey is soon pulled into a case that might be bigger than she could have ever imagined. Mickey was an incredibly authentic character. I liked the fact that motherhood was not glamorized in this book but it was obvious how much Mickey loved her kids. She was a smart and intuitive investigator who refused to give up. I felt like there were just the right amount of twists and turns to keep things very interesting and I couldn’t wait to see how things would work out in the end. I thought that the narrators did a great job with this audiobook. Lisa Flanagan handled the bulk of the narration with Corey Carthew covering all of the male dialogue. I thought that they both had a wonderful range and I loved the voices that they used that helped to bring this cast of characters to life. Their voices complimented each other nicely and I thought that their performance added to my overall enjoyment. I would recommend this book to others. I was hooked by this story immediately and found it hard to put down. I am excited by the fact that this is the first book in a new series and cannot wait to go on further adventures with Mickey Gibson. I received a review copy of this book from Grand Central Publishing.

Such a mixed bag of feelings on this one. Mikey and Clarisse grew on me. The plot was intriguing and I can totally see this becoming a series. I spent the entire book (all long 4 hundred and something pages) giving it 3 stars in my head, but the ending finally happened and I don't know if I was just happy to see it finally end, or if I really enjoyed it, but regardless, it was enough to bump my rating up to 4 stars. It's a long winded book. It dragged, it wasn't my favorite Baldacci book, and I didn't find it really all that plausible in the slightest, but, I would read another one featuring these two - can't promise I would read a third, especially if it drags like this one, but I'd give it another go. Thank you Netgalley for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

What a convoluted mess!!! This story had my head spinning within 50 pages.. The good thing is …. It was a heck of a ride. There were no dry spots, full of intrigue and just when you thought you had it all figured out it took another turn. I wanted to give this book a 4.5 but I had to settle for 4.

It wasn't the best of Baldacci's work, but I like the characters. It was a little bit repetitious, but the conclusion was good. I enjoy reading it! 4⭐️

If this book is intended (or hoped) to be the start of a new series, it's a solid start that sticks to a proven formula. There's a female former cop with a personal life in something of a turmoil, a potential love interest she can't quite trust, a seasoned ex-cop for a father, a self-centered female "accomplice" and a whodunit chase with the potential of putting her life in danger especially when she doesn't listen to reason (her own or anybody else's). So if you're looking for a gobsmacking thriller with truly unique characters, you won't find it here; but there's still plenty to love and if this does end up with a sequel, or several, yes, I'll be wanting to read them. At the center of this one is Mickey Gibson, a single parent of two toddlers (more on that later) who works from home tracking down illicit exchanges of big money on behalf of ProEye, a global private investigation agency. She misses the old days of being out in the field, but she's pretty much resigned to a life of kid vomit, patching scraped knees and wiping up errant poo. That's a little easier since her parents live nearby and can pitch in pretty much on demand and she can afford a part-time sitter - both of which doesn't elicit much sympathy from those of us who went through the kid thing without the benefit of help from anybody else. Then, she gets a phone call from a company rep asking her to make an emergency trip to a house to inventory potentially valuable contents. When she does, she makes a find that will change the direction of her life - and not necessarily in a good way. It's a dead guy, and he's not just dead, but murdered. At this point, Mickey remains true to her profession (more on that later), calling it in to the authorities. Enter Wilson Sullivan, a hunky unmarried (of course) Bureau of Criminal Investigation agent whom she finds intriguing but doesn't trust and who doesn't trust her (also of course). Back home, Mickey learns the female caller wasn't really from the company; but when she calls again to ask Mickey to find the killer, she seems even more evasive. And that's pretty much when Mickey turns into an investigator who decides to eschew most of her professional ethics and instead follow instructions of a woman whose identity she doesn't even know - even though it could be costly to her career (i.e., the career that supports those two kids she basically lets run the household because, as she frequently notes, she recalls her own behavior as a child and identifies with their behavior that often includes the aforementioned puking). Much of the investigation centers on Mickey's online talents of ferreting out well-concealed data, explanations of which were detailed but never fully understood by me (try as I might, I've yet to "get" the Bitcoin concept). The rest of her efforts were forays to meet people involved with the dead guy's past - including some her father knew of - people Mickey is certain are tied to the murder. Overriding the whole thing, however, is determining the identity of the mystery woman who Mickey is allowing to call the shots. If all that sounds exciting, it is; it would have been more so, to me at least, had I really felt a connect with any of the characters and their actions (well, maybe except for those kids; even grown-ups like me can relate to dumping syrup all over their plates and fingerpainting with it - and if Mom thinks that's okay, well, count me in). Needless to say, there's quite a build-up until the finish, when things are sufficiently resolved and with fodder left over for a next edition, assuming there is one. Count me in on that as well; while this may not have been my favorite book by this author (who has always been, and remains, a favorite), I know many readers will love it. I thank the publisher, via NetGalley, for the opportunity to get in on the action by way of a pre-release copy.

David Baldacci is one of my go-to authors. I've particularly enjoyed recent Memory Man (Amos Decker) and Atlee Pine series and though his latest, Simply Lies, could be a standalone novel I suspect - for several reasons - we will also meet data analyst / investigator and former cop Mickey Gibson again. The first clue we'll see more of Mickey comes in the form of her backstory. When we're introduced to her she's uncovered a trail of hidden bank accounts and set in motion a range of actions to have them shut down. We learn she's moved into the private sector after her husband disappeared leaving her in the financial lurch. And given Mick tracks down people and money for a living and has some serious white hat-like computer skills, the fact she can't locate her husband is a sure sign there's a LOT more to that story. Here Mick's tricked into getting involved in a murder investigation and hunt for missing money by a mysterious and morally corrupt stranger who seems to have a grudge against the single mother. I must admit I got a little lost amidst the talk of NFTs, blockchain, metaverses and digital samples of famous artwork but appreciate that Baldacci is able to easily reference popular technological advancements and move with the times. Even if I'm not. Despite not fully comprehending the technology, the why and whodunnit come down to the basics, though Baldacci throws in some surprises. It's a reminder to be careful who we trust and how easily we can be duped. Bring on the next instalment! Read my review here: https://www.debbish.com/books-literat...

3.75 rounded up!

This was an exciting new thriller series. I am looking forward to reading more of Mickey's adventures.

David Baldacci is one of my favorite authors so I was thrilled to be able to read Simply Lies which is a perfect title for this book! What seems real, isn’t. What seems true, isn’t. Who seems credible, isn’t. Who seems evil, isn’t. I often use the rollercoaster analogy for twisty, turny thrillers but I found myself thinking more of a tilt-a-whirl ride while experiencing this book. I was constantly thrown off my balance, in an exhilarating way, as I thought the plot line was playing out one way, but isn’t. Excellent character development - from the beloved to the despicable. And a person who we credit with one attribute, we often find out isn’t. A truly riveting tilt-a- whirl of a novel… My thanks to NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for the opportunity to read this exciting ARC.

Mickey Gibson is introduced in this first book of Baldacci's series. Mickey is a divorced mother of two very young children. She was a police officer like her father until her marriage, children, and divorce from a husband who abandoned her. She works from home for a private agency that tracks tax and credit cheat assets to make a living. The story gets tangled when Mickey is sent to inventory the empty home of an arms dealer. During her inventory, she finds a hidden room with a dead body who turns out to be the former bookkeeper for the mob. The person who sent her on this mission isn't even part of the agency as she claimed. Mickey has more contact with this woman who changes her persona at the drop of a hat. The state police and even the FBI get into the mix with WITSEC the Federal Witness Protect program. The story keeps you engaged. The characters are well drawn. The audio has two readers, one male and one female with the female voice more prominent, it is almost dramatized. This was published in 2023 and is marked as #1 in a new series. I haven't found #2 yet which is not unexpected considering how recent this was. The ending did allude to a continuing story even though this one was wrapped up very well and could stand alone.

Thank you to NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for a free ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review. I am a big fan of several series by Baldacci so I jumped at the chance to read his new standalone. He is a great storyteller and Simply Lies was yet another success. The story starts with a simple work phone call for single mom Mickey Gibson, but it soon turns into a twisty, turny series of events that is anything but simple. The layers in this story are rolled out very slowly, so you can expect to be confused and not see how things connect until multiple pieces are revealed....but thats the fun of the story. There are no big threads left undone so this is truly a standalone book that is not just a set up for the next in a series. The extra stress for Mickey as a single mom was really well done and I thought the technical details of 21st century money laundering with Bitcoin were particularly well thought out and explained. Overall another great book from a great author - definitely recommend.

Pretty good. Listened to it. It goes on too long and gets a bit confusing with so many characters. However. this story keeps the reader engaged until the very end. I actually skipped a few chapters because I started getting bored. It really didn’t matter at all, and I kept up with the story. Again, probably goes too long into characters backgrounds that the reader probably doesn’t care anything about. I do recommend it and it’s a good investment in reading if you like to read

An average read, nothing exceptional about it.

An interesting plot with two strong female lead characters in Mickey and Clarisse. I just couldn't put down the book during the last few chapters. Really hoping this turns into a series!!

Entertaining suspense with female protagonist.

I really liked this book. Different from his other books. I would highly recommend. I sat down and read it for 6 hours tonight to finish it. Really 4 1/2 stars

I enjoyed this story. The 2 strong female leads made for an interesting dynamic and loved the fast paced ending.

A fairytale fantasy told with the unmistakable voice of Stephen King. Like most of Mr. King's books, this adventure went on a bit too long for my personal taste. There are a lot of squealing fan reviews giving this a million stars, which is fair because this is a good book, but it's not a fast-paced adventure. Just know what you're getting into, that's all I'm saying. I was several hours into the audiobook and not a magical land in sight. In fact, I went back and re-read the blurb just to make sure I hadn't misunderstood something because, at that point, we were still dealing with grumpy old Bowditch recovering from surgery and learning to use a laptop, while Charlie narrates his life in flashbacks and takes care of Radar the dog. This brings me to the part where you really have to love dogs to feel any urgency. But I mean, who doesn't love dogs? Ok. I'm a cat person, but I'm not a monsterous weirdo. I love dogs, too. They just aren't independent enough for me to have at this point in my life. Or maybe ever again. I don't know. They're a lot of work. And cats are all the snuggly things minus the hyper-needy shit. (view spoiler) Just saying. I'm going to be honest though, Older Me is just not going to risk my life and the sobriety of a loved one to save a dog from dying of old age. Especially a dog who was much loved in her lifetime. But Younger Me would have risked a lot for my favorite cat (whose name ironically was Charlie). So the part of my heart that isn't shriveled and cold was really rooting for this kid to come out of this adventure with a not-dead pup. Alight. The skinny gist is that Charlie discovers the opening to another world, and in that world is a way to turn back the clock for a dog he loves. He decides to risk everything and go on this mission through a dangerous land, and along the way discovers that everyone in that world is in need of saving. Spoilery things happen and he has to reach deep inside himself to see if he has what it takes to save the people around him that he has come to care about during his time there. It's a good coming-of-age story. I didn't like this one as much as I loved King's other fantasy book, The Eyes of the Dragon, but that's more than likely just a "me" thing. It would also be fair to say I'm not a diehard Stephen King fan, even though I've read quite a few of his books and I do respect him greatly as an author and a storyteller. His stories are just too goddamn long for me. So. While I can't foresee this being one that I re-read, it is a wonderfully imagined book about a boy and his dog who travel to a magical land and fight evil. If you're an audiobook fan, this one doesn't disappoint. And I would definitely recommend this to anyone who is not a fan of horror but has always wanted to read a Stephen King book. Recommended.

An immersive beast of a novel. I fell into this world and didn’t want to leave. When Charlie sees his neighbour lying on the ground after a fall from a ladder, he takes it upon himself to look after the man’s dog - Radar. They form a kind of friendship and Charlie soon finds there is a world of secrets hidden in this grumpy man’s old house. The world Charlie discovers is full of terrors, curses and the fight between good and evil. He finds himself drawn to this world and their troubles, the people refer to him as the Prince that was Promised, and he can’t help but feel like he was meant to be there. A wonderful novel of epic scope. I thoroughly enjoyed this ride. *********************** Omg. library copy available for pick up I can’t believe this day is actually here!!! So freaking excited for this!!!

My god, is there ANYTHING the "king of horror" cannot do? It doesn't seem to matter what kind of book SK writes, he always produces a wonderful story. Hero of Fairy Tale is Charlie, a 17-year-old who has been through hell ever since his mother was killed in a hit-and-run following which his father became an alcoholic. He's in a pretty good place at the beginning of this book, but he doesn't really trust it. Also, some stuff he's done in the past is haunting him. But when a dog alerts him to the plight of a reclusive neighbor, he does the right thing and helps. Charlie even becomes his caretaker. Eventually, Charlie not only becomes Mr. Bowditch's friend, but is told his secret and that opens a whole new can of worms. Not because Charlie is greedy - because he cares. In fact, caring is basically what this book was all about for me. Stephen King took the best elements of various Grimm fairy tales such as Jack and the Beanstalk (the original versions, not the Disney-esque ones) and combined them with the essence of portal stories like Narnia before turning the mix into his very own blend of fantasy and horror. There were many great references to pop culture as well as to other SK stories. The Crimson King definitely featured in here but if this is his origin story or just another example of him possessing and corrupting people and places, we can't be sure. I think the author is deliberately leaving that up to the reader. However, it is obvious that this book gives us another of the worlds of the wheel we were introduced to in The Dark Tower, which means we also get elements of gunslinging heroics and desolate worlds. Honestly, the worldbuilding was the best. In Charlie's world and the other. Though I also thoroughly enjoyed the growing relationship between Charlie and Mr. Bowditch. OK, Charlie's father was cool, too. My favorite character, however, was Radar. Hands down. Nobody beats the old girl. And her fate also kept me on the edge of my seat the most. The only problem was the difference between the first and second part of the book - the first definitely being better. As I said before, this is not one of my favorite SK books, not even top 3, but that is just because SK sets the bar so high and is producing so many incredibly fantastic books - this one was still enchanting and a wonderful adventure.

4.5 stars! This was a brilliant and imaginative fantasy about family, love, courage, and the cost of power. Fairy Tale follows Charlie, a seventeen year old boy, who meets Howard Bowditch, a loner and his dog, Radar. After Mr. Bowditch falls and goes to the hospital, Charlie helps him around the house. When Bowditch passes away, Charlie listens to a tape that Bowditch left him and tells a story about a portal to another world inside the shed in his backyard that is actually true. This book was so good! The pacing in the beginning of the book was slow, but by the middle of the book I was completely swept away by this unique world. The world building is excellent, and I loved learning about the world that Charlie finds and the intriguing characters including night soldiers, giants, mermaids, giant crickets, and more. The characters are very complex and interesting. I really liked Charlie, he is brave, kind, helpful, strong and resilient. I love Radar, she is sweet, loyal, and so cute. I also really liked Leah, she is resilient, sweet, brave and loyal. The side characters were also great especially Iota, Eris, Claudia, Dora, and Jaya. The character development was excellent, I enjoyed seeing a different side to Charlie and he changed so much from the beginning of the book till the end. The writing and storytelling is awesome, the writing is so descriptive that I felt like I was transported into the story with the characters. The ending was so good and I'm glad it ended on a happy note. I recommend this book to anyone who loves fantasy, excellent world building and great characters.

3.5 rounded up to 4 stars, mostly because of the writing. It’s King after all. A terrific storyteller. I will not write a full review. This is one of those books that you like or not. I can honestly say that I was completely hooked from page one, and that I was so emotionally involved during the first 40%, so worried with anticipation, that I did not think that I could keep reading. It was very engaging during that first stage. Once the main character enters the other world, things changed a lot. The pace wasn’t the same. The thrill was not the same and I felt disconnected with the characters. There were too many characters in the fantasy world. It wasn’t boring, but I did not feel anything. There were some gory scenes and scary descriptions of characters, but I was not mesmerized. I will probably forget about this book in a couple of days. It’s long. 606 pages and 214k words. I hope that you will all enjoy this epic fantasy.

4.0 stars As someone with a hit or miss relationship with Stephen King, I was so pleased to find myself really enjoying this novel. The first section of this book was phenomenal. I was completely invested in the relationship between these two men. Then, the story shifted into a more fantastical angle and I was still very on board for it. The middle section dragged for me, but I usually think King's books could be shorter. The ending was good for King but I found it pretty safe and predictable. Overall I would recommend this one to readers looking for a solid coming of age novel that plays with a lot of the best fantasy horror tropes.

4.5 stars! King is always hit or miss with me. Typically, the longer the novel, the more I enjoy it. This 600-pager did not disappoint. I was on the fence about getting this but gave in to the hype, after all. I am so glad that I did!

I was reluctant to pick this book up on release date because King's most recent release before this, Billy Summers, was kind of a miss for me. But truthfully the premise was pretty different than Billy and I had a crazy amount of FOMO with everyone else that was reading this so I went ahead and dived in with audio and the physical book. First the physical book is just gorgeous. The US cover is just amazing to look at and it's high quality with embossed elements as well. Also, I'm really glad I bought the physical book because the illustrations at the beginning of each chapter are really neat and they are a throwback to the kinds of illustrations you might see in old adventure novels. I'm glad I did immersive reading for most of this with the audiobook as well because the performance by Seth Numrich was excellent. He does good voices and really delivers the lines. As for the story it starts out very strong with King doing some of what he does best in writing a younger character going through some tough times and making the most of it while eventually linking that story with the fantastical in a satisfying way. The first 3rd of this book is very much a slice of life introduction into Charlie's life, but it works. King is great at writing stuff like that. The next few chapters in the middle are probably the most divisive because the story changes, but it didn't change my enjoyment all that much. After that I thought the climax, conclusion, and falling action were all excellent. The only criticism I might have there is that it felt like a couple scenes were a little anti-climatic, but the main climax was very satisfying. Overall I enjoyed this quite a bit and it's a solid 4/5. I liked it more than most of King's most recent releases with the exception of the first two Bill Hodges books, The Outsider, and maybe Later. If you're a King fan I definitely recommend it, but it's probably not a TBR buster.

”there is no me without you.” I. NEED. THE. NEXT. BOOK. NOW. 🗣️ — i cannot gather my thoughts and get my points out coherently rn — like how can i even write this review and explain how much i loved this book - i swear this book had me in the biggest fkn chokehold 2 chapters in!! I. AM. OBSESSED. WITH. THIS. BOOK. fourth wing had a great mixture between romance and high stakes, this story was giving me major divergent and the hunger games vibes like when i tell you the vibes where there, THEY WERE THERE. it had everything i loved (and dragons) - i haven’t felt this excited about a fantasy book in MONTHS but this was captivating and now i feel a reading slump coming bc of it lmao rip to me. this is a book that is really easy to get into, it’s very fast paced and was engaging right from the beginning to the very end, I WAS HOOKED!! this lives up to the massive hype it’s getting, i get it now.. i could have read this in a day, but i needed to slow it down and savour this book. ➳ i found the fantasy and world building easy to understand (there are no dumb info dumps) - so this book is perfect for those who are new to reading fantasy; yarros takes what most other books only manage to allude to and truly brings depth to her story which brings it to life. i got hooked with the whole fantasy war school, quadrants and politics setting. this is a book i want to live in, i want to jump into the pages and never leave!! ➳ i understand now when people say it was very predictable bc i guessed that ending from page 1 - however, i would much rather have a predictable book than one that makes no sense bc it is trying to confuse the reader w so much unnecessary shit added into it. this was done in a perfect way. ”you look all frail and breakable, but you’re really a violent little thing, aren’t you?” ↳ violet is probably one of the most incredible FMCs i have read about in a while. i loved her tight bond w her sister, her dragons and the love she has for books. she’s tough, very strong willed, quick witted and not afraid to go the extra mile to succeed. she works through each challenge that is thrown at her by using her strengths and knowledge, and proves she belongs just like everyone else. i loved reading about her journey, seeing her exceed all expectations and break down every barrier she succumbed. — there is an disability representation with the fmc (she has a chronic illness) and the author done an amazing job at showing how her chronic illness doesn’t define her. i love how she shows everyone she is not some frail weakling that constantly needs to be protected. *cough* dain *cough* ↳ xaden is first introduced as the most powerful wing leader violet is warned to STAY AWAY from. violet had this superstition that he is out to kill her bc her mother had his father executed. but from the get go, we all know as an audience he doesn’t want to kill her, he was so smitten for violet right from the start. that man had weapons custom made for violet that would fit her body type, built a harness for andarna that clips onto tairn just so she could ride along with them and also literally made a saddle for violet to use on tairn so she doesn’t fall off while riding!! i can’t explain how much i love this man and his grumpy exterior but deep down he’s a big softy for those he loves. I JUST LOVE MEN WHO SHOW THEIR LOVE THROUGH ACTIONS!! — i will take no slander on him EVER. he is that typical broody, morally grey love interest ppl roll their eyes over, but he has DEPTH. this man fr had me kicking my feet in the air, giggling and screaming into my pillow whenever he would call violet “violence” 🤭 he is exactly what vi needed!! i just love how he always believed in her and only wants to see her at her full potential and succeed. the romance: oh my goddd, the romance was perfect!! 😮‍💨🤌🏼 the slow burn? was burning, absolutely delicious. enemies to lovers? SPLENDID, BEAUTIFUL, EXECUTED PERFECTLY. i was itching for xaden and vi sm. the spice? DELECTABLE. TOE CURLING. the enemies aspect of this book was so satisfying, istg it had me going feral !! the tension was EVERYTHING. it's the perfect build up and the pay off is amazing once it happens. ↳ dain is another adam kent loser side hoe. he acts like vi is some fragile little girl that needs constant protection, tells her to leave bc he wanted her to be a scribe like she was intended to be not a dragon rider and hides her away. he was constantly holding her back and questions her ability at every turn,, PLS HE IS ADAM KENT CODED. and the sort of love triangle was very juliette, adam and warner literally cut the mf cameras. his death arc when?? next book im praying. ↳ tairn and andarna - they were the best addition to this book!! yarros done an incredible job with providing so much details about the dragons, their history and their personalities - i absolutely loved the interactions between the dragons and their riders - i fkn love tairn my grump, i adored his protectiveness over violet and would not even think twice about burning you alive if you hurt or touch her, yes xaden included lmaoo. he was so snarky it had me giggling w how sassy and unbothered he was. and i love how tairn and sgaeyl were a mated pair bc it ended up making violet and xaden tethered heh 🤭 “there’s no where in existence you could go that i wouldn’t find you, violence” — okay but i could enthuse ab every little detail of this book, but this is one of those stories that you NEED to read. you don't just read a book like this, you live in it and never want to return, specially bc in this world xaden exists and you get to ride dragons. this isn’t a perfect book there are some flaws, but this was perfect to me! like yes it is super predictable, yes it’s tropey, but am i obsessed? YES, YES I AM. it had everything i wanted in a fantasy book and so many dragons. this story will be something different to everyone, you’re either going to love or hate it, but you need to read this at least once in your life. but ahh i can’t wait to get my greedy little hands on iron flame, i needed that book in my hands yesterday. thank you amelie & hannah for br w me!! 🩷✨

i hate to admit it, but the hype is real. i wasnt sure i could trust all of the praise this book is getting because i didnt like the last RY book that was widely loved. but this one is enjoyable! it has all of your typical fantasy tropes - a girl who doesnt know her powerful potential, found families, a magical enemy threatening the kingdom, and enemies to lovers. so nothing about this is super unique. but everything is done really well and is very engaging. this is just one of those books that is a lot of fun to read. so you dont really care about how well its written or the bigger points reviewers usually critique. its just about pure enjoyment. so if you like dragons and youre looking for a new fantasy read with a decent amount of romance, this is the one for you! ↠ 4.5 stars

Ah, now I get it. Imagine Squid Game but everyone is young and hot. Does that guy with the scars and muscles want to kill you or shag you? Who can say? (Psst: it's both.)

Interesting Choices By The Author Peruse Project stated that Fourth Wing is a romantasy book so let’s go with that….. Violet, our main character, attends a military academy where dragons choose riders. She is also involved in a love triangle between her childhood friend, Dain, and her sworn enemy, Xaden. Romance The romance is vapid. It mainly involves being hot and talking about being hot. Really hot. Did I mention hot? Licks lips. Hot. I mean we get it everyone is hot. The connection with Dain is laughable. Yarros tells us that Violet and Dain were childhood friends instead of showing us. If Violet and Dain were secretly married or her now-departed father betrothed her to Dain, I would have been more invested and understood more of Violet’s internal angst. Also, I don’t think that Violet loved Dain. There is a difference between being in love and loving someone. At no point did I feel that Violet really showed up for Dain. Most of the book involves the characters giving each other side eye and long glances. Then the last 40% of the book is extremely steamy. It was very odd pacing. Fantasy The narrative thread seemed to be dropped at some points and then picked up at the end and was super important. Yarros didn’t build up the suspense, and some of the scenes were far too long. Additionally, the book would have been stronger if it started at a different point. I wanted to learn more about Violet’s father and have a better understanding of Violet’s childhood with Dain and the time when she was with all of her siblings. We are told that Violet trained as a scribe, but we don’t see her training as a scribe, forming friendships and enduring setbacks and struggles. Yarros isn’t afraid to kill off characters, and no one is safe. She also surprised me with the ending. Overall, I enjoyed some parts of the book. It is above average; however, the author should have dialed up the storytelling and refined the pacing. Connect With Me! Blog Threads BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

Something clicked in me when I got to the end of the first chapter of this book, and suddenly I became hopelessly addicted. Fourth Wing is cheesy and cliche, but often in an almost painfully satisfying way. Most every chapter was a nonstop adrenaline rush, and the pacing never let up. It was so tightly crafted. Somehow Fourth Wing is much better than other books I’ve read with the exact same tropes. Maybe it’s because I instantly connected to Violet, whose compassion, bravery, and ability to adapt and push herself to grow made me feel really encouraged and strong. She’s so hardworking and intelligent and witty. I’m still not quite sure why I obsessed over this book for the two days while I was reading it. The experience reminded me of picking up An Ember in the Ashes before I had read much fantasy, when I felt so adrenalized that I couldn’t stop jumping around and driving myself crazy thinking about what might happen next. But Fourth Wing has quite a few flaws, and some aspects that I wish were written differently. The minor antagonist bullies are all the same. Tynan and Luca became Jack—arrogant, foolish, and oblivious. Jack needed a better reason to have such a violent vendetta against Violet. I wanted more page time of interaction between Violet and her mother, who was the reason why Violet had to fight to survive the academy in the first place. She’s someone who thinks so highly of Violet’s sister but not of Violet herself, and that dynamic is one of the most interesting parts of the book. Some of the side friends are suspiciously passive. Liam never gets annoyed with Violet, even though it would make much more sense if he did, since Xaden forced him to shadow her and she frequently reduced him to just that, her unwanted bodyguard. I would get mad. He should have had at least one passive-aggressive argument with her, given all the nonsense she gets up to. The first half was better than the second half. In the second half, Violet wasn’t an underdog anymore. Everyone was protecting her, she had a bodyguard, and she basically ascended to the top of the food chain. Although this is a natural development to her story, it makes the book less thrilling because no challenge seems as deadly or risky as before, when everything was a potential threat and she could hardly trust anyone. Additionally, the second half focused more on the romance, which I found significantly less interesting than the life-or-death stakes that powered the first half. It didn’t help that Xaden is kind of the epitome of a stereotypical man written by a woman. By 50-percent, he was reduced to just a love interest, and the complexities of his character weren’t explored. When I realized that the air of intrigue around his personality ended at “I’ve liked you since the moment I saw you” (even though he promised to kill her the first time he saw her??), I liked him much less. His one POV chapter is embarrassingly superficial. His abrupt change of mind about whether or not he wants to kill Violet is brushed over, but it’s the most important thing for us to know in their relationship. Violet’s mother killed his parents, and his parents’ rebellion killed her brother, but suddenly neither Xaden nor Violet seems to care anymore. I found this unsatisfying and felt unfulfilled by what was a shallow romance compared to what it could have been. Although this book is flawed and I’m not sure how long my surprising love for it will last, I’m still very impressed by its breakneck pace and relentless brutality, as well as Violet’s mix of kindness and cunning. And I can’t forget how energetic Fourth Wing made me feel, which is something I haven’t felt because of a book in quite a while. 4 stars

a book about a girl forced to attend a deadly school with dragons while everyone (including a sexy asf wingleader) tries to kill her…..fun fantasy is back baby • edit 09/02/23: okay as much as i enjoyed this book, i really wish we could all agree that this is just simply a fun, silly, sexy new adult fantasy. i’ve seen quite a few people saying that this was the best fantasy book they’ve ever read…and i think it’s GREAT to love a book that much where you feel that connected to the characters within the pages. but as someone who does enjoy reading fantasy books, i feel like there is so much missing from this story that i just can’t agree with that statement. the romance feels rushed by the end of the first book, the world building isn’t as fleshed out as it could be, and a lot of the character development and choices seemed to be lacking in so many areas. violet and xaden were cute, but truthfully that’s not ALL i want in my fantasy books. i truly hope we get to learn more about this world, and violet’s growth in the future and i’m very interested in seeing where the next book in the series is going to go. even though i seriously think this book could’ve been a standalone or even a duology at most

This is another gripping, unputdownable, whirlwind ride with high tension and a mysterious plot that will easily hook you. An interesting fact about this action-packed, mind-bending suspense story: it made me cry so hard when I finished the last page! Despite all the thrilling twists, it’s also a heart-wrenching love story about an introverted, unique, artsy woman who never believed in true love—until she meets her husband. But later, she realizes she knows nothing about his true identity. Meet Hannah. In her early forties, she earns her living as a woodcarver—an artist raised by her grandfather, haunted by the absence of her mother throughout her life. She has finally settled into suburban life in Sausalito, married to Owen, who works at a tech company. Hannah also tries to be a mother to his 16-year-old daughter, Bailey, though Bailey does everything in her power to make things harder for her! Owen teases Hannah for being absentminded. She loses everything—cell phones, sunglasses, baseball hats, socks, lightbulbs, mittens, parking tickets—you name it. But one day, she loses her husband. Or does she? He sends her a note, delivered by a 12-year-old girl who shows up at Bailey’s school. The note says: “Protect her.” Protect who? From whom? What’s going on? Why won’t her husband answer his phone? Then she sees the news: the FBI has arrested Owen’s boss in connection with a tech scandal. Is Owen involved? He had been stressed about work recently. And why is the FBI sniffing around their house? Why does a U.S. Marshal from Texas insist on helping her, even though the case is out of his jurisdiction? Hannah turns to her ex, a family lawyer, for help. When the investigator her ex hired digs into Owen’s past, the ugly truth emerges: her husband’s name isn’t Owen. He didn’t graduate from Princeton. He’s not from Massachusetts. Who is her husband, really? Who’s after him? Is this all about the company’s downfall, or is there something even darker that would force them to be on the run for the rest of their lives? This was a fast-paced, engaging read that I devoured in just a few hours! The writing was captivating. Hannah and Bailey’s journey to survival—chasing the truth and defining their dysfunctional stepmother-daughter relationship—was one of the most powerful elements of the book. Thankfully, the story wraps up in a satisfying way. This is one of my most exciting, intense thrillers of the year—four stars for this heart-pounding, emotional rollercoaster of a read! I’ve heard so many great things about the author’s previous works, and I’ve already added a few to my TBR, including Eight Hundred Grapes. Special thanks to NetGalley and Simon & Schuster for providing me with this amazing digital reviewer copy in exchange for my honest thoughts. If you’re interested in reading my extended book reviews, movie critiques, and hilarious astrology articles, be sure to check out my Medium account using the link below: medium.com instagram facebook twitter

ive seen mixed reviews for this one, so i was a little nervous going into it. but i had literally zero expectations, which is probably why i enjoyed it so much. i was immediately hooked from the beginning. i think the pacing is spot on, the flashbacks are effective, the characters are relatable, and the plot is very straightforward. i really, really enjoyed how even though the mystery of the missing husband is at the forefront of the story, the growing bond between hannah and bailey is really worth reading. the only blip would be the general ending - i dont think its very strong and i can understand why many readers are let down by it. its not really a thrilling ending, but suitable, if that makes sense. it fits the overall vibe of the story, so i personally dont mind it. i also loved the epilogue, so that helped me overlook it, as well. overall, i enjoyed this much more than i thought i would and it definitely has me interested in picking up the authors other books! ↠ 4 stars

3.75 rounded up! “PROTECT HER” Owen disappears just as his boss is arrested by the FBI, but before leaving, he has a student deliver to his wife Hannah, a note, which says just those two words. Hannah knows that he is referring to his 16 year old daughter, Bailey, from a previous marriage,but from WHO or WHAT must she protect her from? She thought she knew her husband pretty well, but he was hiding more than a few secrets, and she will need her uncooperative step daughter to help her unravel the clues if she is going to figure out exactly what Owen would want her to do. Laura Dave writes well developed characters and she does real life, messy relationships well! I adored her 2015 novel “Eight Hundred Grapes” 🍇 🍷, which was a 5 ⭐️ love story based in California wine country, so I was eager to read this one, since it involved some suspense! But, this is definitely DOMESTIC SUSPENSE, not a thriller, so expect this to focus on the relationships between the characters as they reveal their true selves, as much as it does the mystery. Hannah is likable, Bailey is 16 through and through, and Owen? How can he leave his daughter when she already lost her mother when she was just a baby? I was fully engaged and interested in finding out, but wanted to feel more angst from Hannah and Bailey as they contemplated their possible future without Owen. Especially toward the end. An epilogue fills you in on what transpires, necessary or it would end without any resolution, and it was touching, but maybe just a little TOO easy? 🎁 I would like to thank the Publisher for my gifted copy! It was my pleasure to provide a candid review! Available May 4, 2021

I really connected with this book, I listened to the audiobook and devoured it in a couple of days. Overall, this is a simple tale, but full of meaning and nuance. The basic premise is that Hannah has been married to Owen for just under two years. He has a sixteen-year-old daughter Bailey, and she and Hannah don't really connect. One day out of the blue, a girl comes to the door with a note for Hannah from Owen that says "protect her" and Bailey finds a duffel bag filled with money in her locker with a note saying that he has to disappear. The company Owen works for has been raided, people arrested. It appears that Owen has fled to avoid prosecution, but the more Hannah discovers, the more she feels that there is more to the story. Owen has been hiding a great deal from everyone. I liked the way this book told the story, both in the present day and giving glimpses into the past. Although Hannah and Bailey venture into armchair detective status, it never gets unrealistic or unbelievable, the things they do are straightforward and probably things that anyone would do in their situation, not knowing who they can trust. I liked the development of Hannah and Bailey's relationship, that too felt incredibly realistic. The ending put the perfect cap onto the story, this isn't a predictable tale, the conclusion is surprising and yet believable. Overall this is a wonderfully told story with just enough mystery to keep the reader invested, and also enough character and relationship development to provide drama and emotion. Highly recommended. I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.

Nice read. The best part about this one is the authors great skill level, the voice, the characters. This is a Reese Whitherspoon book club choice. I have yet to have a bad read with her books. She always makes excellent choices. Some, of course are better than others. This one is a short read. The way the book is constructed with the extra pages at chapter breaks, the font, spacing, it makes it seem longer. This one is 3.5 stars, rounding up to 4. The story didn’t have enough depth of story and the meager info was meted out a little too slowly. When a well-used premise is utilized I prefer to have a lot more depth in the story design, details and twists coming fast and furious, but that’s just me. This is a great beach read, or an afternoon with a hot cup of tea sitting by the sliding glass door with a view of the world. I do recommend this book.

3.5 A terrible thing has happened to Hannah. Her husband of just over a year, Owen, has run away leaving behind a note that says "Protect Her". Owen's boss has been accused by the SEC of fraud and he has been taken by the police. Hannah has been left with her stepdaughter, Bailey, who has never warmed up to Hannah despite multiple attempts to engage her. Hannah can't relate to her new situation. The husband she knows would never leave her or his daughter behind. Something is terribly wrong. Hannah doesn't know much about his past but she knows Owen was married before. His first wife died in an accident and he became a widower with a small baby. Now, Bailey is sixteen and giving her a hard time. A day after his disappearance, a US Marshal stops by her home and tells her, Owen is not the man she thinks he is. Later on, the FBI comes knocking on her door wanting to know where Owen is and how much he knew about what his boss was doing. This pushes Hannah to begin her own investigation and embark on a journey to learn who her husband really is. What she discovers is a trail of lies and deceit. The Last Thing He Told Me was well-written and quite addicting. The pages flew by. I liked Hannah almost instantly. She was trying hard to help Bailey and was ready to do everything to protect her and find the answers they needed. I wasn't happy with the resolution but other than that, I thought the story was a good one. Cliffhanger: No 3.5/5 Fangs A complimentary copy was provided by Simon & Schuster via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

This book took me three attempts to start. 😬 But once I got settled into it (and turned my audible speed to 1.5) it really started to go go go. 🤯 This definitely kept me guessing throughout. I still feel like there are loose ends, but I think that’s the mystery. 😉

the pace of this book was 👏🏼🙌🏼 stayed up late to finish and enjoyed the ride. if you go into this one expecting more of a domestic mystery vs a “thriller” you will set. it’s suspenseful and keeps you guessing throughout. some parts were unbelievable and far fetched but it was entertaining. i think it’ll translate so well to the big screen—eager to see Jennifer Garner as Hannah! AND excited for the sequel!!!!! full review to come on my Instagram 🖤

This is a really well written, highly enjoyable, mystery book! It kept me up late at night turning pages. When I wasn’t reading it, I was wondering what the heck was going on with the man characters. I can see why this is a book club favorite! Hannah lives a normal life with her husband (Owen) and teenage stepdaughter (Bailey). Her normal life goes out the window when she receives a note that says “protect her”. The note is from her husband who is on the run because the company he works for is under investigation. Owen has left Hannah to care for Bailey. Will the pair be able to figure out where her father has gone and why?

Review to be posted to: https://books-are-a-girls-best-friend... Highly Intriguing! When her husband Owen disappears after a highly publicized scandal at work, Hannah Hall is stunned. After all, he left his daughter Bailey in her care along with a note with two words written on it: “Protect Her.” Bailey is left with much more… a duffel bag full of money in her locker at school. Nothing will ever be the same again. Bailey has never gotten along all that well with her stepmother Hannah,.. but now, they are all each other has and they must work together to find out what happened. The relationship between Hannah and Bailey was one of my favorite things about this novel. Complex, interesting, and refreshingly honest. Another thing that I loved is that part of this book takes place in Austin, Texas where I used to live, thus I could picture the sites and sounds, perfectly. A mystery/suspense that kept my attention. Considering everything that is going on in the world lately, that is a HUGE feat as most books bore me to tears lately. Kudos to Laura Dave for keeping me in suspense the entire time! The audiobook was narrated by Rebecca Lowman who did a brilliant job as well. Thank you to my local library for loaning me a copy of the audio. Published on Goodreads and Twitter.

Imagine your husband disappears… 👀 …and the only clue he leaves behind is a note telling you to protect his daughter. Suddenly, everything you thought you knew about the man you married begins to unravel. I was fully engaged as Hannah digs into Owen’s past. Secrets begin to surface and the truth becomes more complicated with every chapter. The short chapters kept the suspense building and made it hard to stop listening. 🔎 One of my favorite parts of the story was the evolving relationship between Hannah and her stepdaughter Bailey. Watching their trust slowly grow while they searched for answers added a heartfelt layer to the mystery. ❤️ While the ending felt a little rushed after such a strong buildup, the journey getting there was intriguing and suspenseful. Because sometimes the person you love most… is the one you know the least. 🤫

“In one way or another, this is the deal we all sign when we love someone. For better or worse. It’s the deal we have to sign again and again to keep that love. We don’t turn away from the parts of someone we don’t want to see. However quickly or long it takes to see them. We accept them if we are strong enough. Or we accept them enough to not let the bad parts become the entire story.” I actually liked this a lot more than I originally anticipated, and in fact- it wasn’t at all the story I thought it would be. I was under the impression it was a thriller of a new wife whose husband goes missing & she’s left with his teenage daughter who dislikes her but will band together to discover who may have hurt her father. In some ways, that’s exactly what this was. In reality, it was much more a story about learning to love someone who may have lied to you to keep you safe & their attempt of discovering the truth and why he would do such a thing. Now mix that with a really sweet story of the wife learning to be the kind of person the teenage daughter needs and them slowly building their trust in each other. And add a dash of crime & detective work. I loved what this story had to say & truly loved the way it ended.

The Last Thing He Told Me is a unique domestic thriller that I couldn’t put down. Hannah receives a note from her husband that says “Protect Her” the day he disappears. Hannah knows Owen wants her to protect her stepdaughter, Bailey. The FBI is looking for Owen for information while Hannah and Bailey are trying to figure out why Owen fled. They know Owen to be a good man so why did he run away? Hannah is left wondering if anything she thought she knew about her husband is true. This is a suspenseful thriller focusing on characters. I recommend The Last Thing He Told Me to thriller fans looking for something different. I listened to the audiobook narrated by Rebecca Lowman. I enjoyed her narration and thought it went well with the story. Thank you Simon & Schuster and Simon Audio for The Last Thing He Told Me. Full Review: https://justreadingjess.wordpress.com...

3.5/5 oh how ive missed a mystery i haven’t read one in a while and this was the best book to get back into them i was hooked from the beginning, really wanting to find out the next piece in the puzzle and of course to know what the bigger picture was i thought it was very exciting at times and others i really wasn’t sure who to trust i was a bit let down by the big reveal, like i think it was a bit of a cop out of a reason for someone’s disappearance and i was a bit bored with everything that happened after the reveal, but not completely the ending was sad for me but made sense

The Last Thing He Told Me is a domestic suspense novel that unravels at a slow and steady pace, so if you're looking for a fast-paced thriller, this is not your book. I partially listened to the audiobook (which was well done) and read from the book at other times. Despite the slower pace, which I did not mind at all, I still managed to finish this one in a day. I thought this one was good, but not great, and I was surprised to find out it won the GR Choice award for the thriller of the year. That being said, I enjoyed watching Hannah's relationship with her step-daughter Bailey evolve over the course of the story, and I thought the ending was very satisfying. 3.5 stars rounded up.

The Last Thing He Told Me by Laura Dern was a Goodreads Choice Award winner for mysteries/thrillers. I wanted to read it when it came out but I had a backlog in queue for other books. Now that I'm caught up, I can revisit all the 2021/2022 hits that I missed... and this was near the top of the list. Dave is a new author to me, and I ultimately enjoyed the book very much. Her writing style was accessible, the descriptions and dialog well balanced. I liked most of the characters but there were several drawn specifically to be caricatures or stereotypes rather than have a full spectrum or range of human emotions. Sometimes you just need those basics tho, so it wasn't too big of an issue. Plotwise, it had merit, though I wasn't keen on the ending (which happens often). Too much left unsaid for me. A woman marries a man who has a teenage daughter. Two years into the marriage, he disappears. We learn he or the president of a company he worked for stole money and faked sales revenue. But as the wife digs deeper, she realizes her husband had been lying about a lot more. She's stuck taking care of his daughter, which is the best part - the relationship between the two feels super real and rewarding. In the end, the truth comes out (left field, but great) and the only way to resolve the conflicts is something that hurts even worse than the truth. I'll read more by the author, but not rushing into her backlog quite yet.

Omg this was so much better than Quicksilver for me 😩😩 My expectations were high given the potential this series carries and it was delivered. But it was not perfection despite how much I enjoyed it. I loved how it started. The beginning immediately sucked me in and it sets a great stage and rhythm for the rest of the book. But the rhythm wasn't maintained well. The pacing of the book is the only issue for me and it's a major one imo. There were bits that were so fast paced, it was almost rushed in places. Then there were chapters where the narrative drags. Yes, important conversations happen but I feel like it could have been better edited. I loved the action, plot twists and characters in it. Kingfisher has my heart now. Like I was fully into his possessive side. That feral need and yet he's so gentle in this one?? Was that just me who thought so? Anyway, I feel like he really shined in this one. Absolutely loved him 😩 Saeris was pretty good. I liked the character growth and there's a lot of potential in her. And yet there's a part of me that feels maybe she got overshadowed by Kingfisher. Yes, she was valuable in all that she did and achieved in this. But when you focus on creating a perfect book boyfriend sometimes it can cause a bit of an imbalance when the fmc might be overlooked in her traits. But that's just my opinion. The side characters? Tal, Foley and Lorreth were strong presences alongside Carrion. I do wish we would have seen more of Layne and Renfis. But it's not something I'll complain about. I'm quite satisfied with how this turned out. Omg the romance. I love the chemistry between Kingfisher and Saeris. I'm not gonna spoil any theories but can I just say how Fisher killed it in this one?? Like I was on my knees and swooning hard. The man has such a filthy mouth and yet so tender when he needs to be 😩🥵🤌 The spice was off the charts 😩😩 I absolutely ate up the ending. I am speechless and it just makes me want to wish for the next book now 😩😩There was a point in it where I sobbed and read it through blurry eyes.. But I'm ngl about the name (IYKYK) it's gonna take a while to get used to. Anyhoo, I had a great time despite its flaws. ~•~•~• IT'S TIMEEEEEEEEE To hell with seven gods, I'm here to get reintroduced to Kingfisher. I missed that man's dirty mouth

4 ⭐️ I need to process bc wtf that ENDING

Taking my rating off. Teetering between 4 and 4.5. Going to think on this weekend.

3.75 ⭐️ I enjoyed this book, but it definitely took me longer to finish 😭 Some scenes felt like they dragged 😢 Imo, the first book was much better 🙂‍↕️ but this one still isn’t bad at all. I still had a great time reading it 🫶 Omg, Kingfisher’s real name was revealed 👀 And um… how do I put this 😭 I don’t know how I feel about it 💀 After finding out, I’m honestly starting to prefer Kingfisher as a name more 🤭 The only male character I LOOOOVED in this book was Carrion 🙂‍↕️🤭 I lowk need his book 😔 He’s sooo funny and amazing. Most of the time, my focus was on Carrion instead of Saeris or Kingfisher 🤭 What can I say?? He’s just that good. 🙂‍↕️ Another character I loved was Onyx 🤭 EEEEP!!! He’s so adorable 🥹🫶 I need him 😭🫶 But I will say… he really made me cry 😭😢 We all need an Onyx in our lives. Saeris and Kingfisher 👀 I do love this couple 🤭 But more than Carrion?? Sorry 🙂‍↔️ That said, they are really great together 🫶 Their love for each other??? Absolutely perfect 🥹 Overall, I enjoyed this book—but not more than Quicksilver. It was a really great read, aside from the dragging parts. That’s it 🖤 Love y’all 🫶♥️ ——————————————————— ִֶָ. ..𓂃 ࣪ ִֶָ🔥་༘࿐pre-read ִֶָ. ..𓂃 ࣪ ִֶָ🔥་༘࿐ I’ve been waiting for this moment 🤭🖤♥️ Let’s do thissss. 🙂‍↕️

** spoiler alert ** ⋆˚࿔ review 𝜗𝜚˚⋆ 3.75⭐️ “When I close my eyes, you are all I fucking see, Saeris Fane. I could be dead in the ground five thousand years and the frosts could have taken my bones, and still no other male will ever have loved another female the way that I love you.” Let’s start with what I like first because if I start ranting I will not stop. (Sorry if this is long) The characters are still great some got better some stayed the same and honestly good for them. °ᡣ𐭩.°.જ⁀➴ Saeris my sweet confused girl but like smart confused not dumb confused she’s witty she’s so confused in the RIGHT situations 😭 idk how to explain it but I get her and she figures things out fast so I’m like ok queen understood. Her anger? Hot. Like when she’s in the vampire courts??? Yes ma’am eat them alive. Her reminding everyone she’s the QUEEN has me kicking my feet 🤭 And her handling her brother had me smiling like a clown because finally that man needed it so bad 😔 The way she loves kingfisher I fear she’s just as obsessed as he is and I support it fully. She’s independent and I love that for her but when she lets herself be soft with him?? I melt. She would literally do everything for him 😭 and him for her and Onyx my baby I love them together so much I could cry. “I love you, and nothing else matters beyond that. Wherever you are, I’ll beg the gods and all the fates to let me be there, too,” °ᡣ𐭩.°.જ⁀➴ Kingfisher got his personality back thank the gods 🙂‍↕️ especially any scene with Carrion because Carrion brings out the chaotic in him. Also did he get FILTHIER 😩 because sir… I’m not complaining. Still obsessed still worshipping her (when is it my turn actually) (╥‸╥) And him pretending he hates Onyx like please everyone knows he’s obsessed with that little fox too. BUT HIS TRUE NAME. WHAT WAS THAT. That’s what we were building up to?? I giggled I’m sorry😭 “I love you, Little Osha.” And he still calls her osha 🥹 °ᡣ𐭩.°.જ⁀➴ My man Carrion I don’t care I love that man his humor is unmatched he’s always unserious and I respect it. Half the time I can’t take him seriously because he’s cracking jokes in the middle of chaos. Him and Kingfisher together is comedy because he knows exactly how to get under his skin and he does it on purpose. “So yes. I love Saeris Fane, because she’s electric, and fierce, and loyal, and being around her brings the world back into focus. But I’m not in love with her, Fisher. I tried. But my heart was just too full of sorrow to make room for her.” Now what I didn’t like because WOW where do I start. Why are we adding issues when we haven’t solved ANYTHING we already have. Every time they’re like “we have a solution” and then immediately “no that won’t work”… ok??? Who is that creature Saeris keeps making deals with where did he come from why is he here can someone explain anything to me. That rot thing hello??? Where are we going with that plotline. The quicksilver??? WHERE IS IT FROM . Yes yes it makes swords and it’s liquid but also solid whatever but WHY DOES IT TALK and WHERE DID IT COME FROM I need lore. I need a backstory. I need a chart. 😭 I kept thinking it would start making sense and guess what I’m still lost. And that ending being so abrupt I reread it because I thought I missed something but nope the book just ended like that. Also everyone is a little too calm?? I would be losing my mind personally. And this book was LONG and we didn’t resolve a single thing. Not a crumb. Maybe it’s just me because a bitch has QUESTIONS 🥲 I do have more thoughts but my review is already too long😔 Thanks for reading xx.💋 ෆ ༚︶︶︶︶ෆ ༚꒰ ෆ ꒱༚ ෆ︶︶︶︶༚ ෆ ⋆. 𐙚 ˚ pre read ⋆. 𐙚 ˚ FINALLY!! I’m ready. I’m already terrified of the ending 😭 I knew paying for that library card would come in clutch one day 🤞

❝ because what was a book, if not a portal into another realm, another time, another life even. ❞ slipping back into the fae & alchemy universe with brimstone felt like waking up from a quicksilver hangover and immediately being handed a 600+ page war, three emotional crises, and a blood-soaked coronation. callie hart basically said, "you wanted more saeris and kingfisher? here’s trauma, desert politics, and a spiritual death march. have fun!" and honestly, i'm not going to lie, i kinda did. ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ i. plot and world. ₊˚⊹ ꒱ brimstone picks up after the absolute chaos of quicksilver. saeris fane is now queen of the blood court, which is hilarious because she very much did not apply for this job. she's also stuck as a fae–vampire hybrid whose skin does not vibe with sunlight, which is deeply inconvenient when your desert homeland, zilvaren, catches on fire politically and literally. she can’t go herself, so she sends kingfisher and chaos-smuggler carrion swift off to deal with it, while she stays behind in yvelia juggling court vipers, blood rituals, and the creeping darkness chewing through the realm. the worldbuilding absolutely goes feral in this one. deserts, frozen kingdoms, blood magic, war councils, portal lore, and an entire travel itinerary’s worth of alleyways, palaces, and battlefields. i loved the idea of it all: the widening scope, the sense that this war is so much bigger than saeris and fisher, the way their choices keep echoing through different corners of the world. there are some truly gorgeous, cinematic moments, too. but let’s be real. this book is thick. like, aggressively thick. sometimes the plot is sprinting, and other times it’s wandering in circles having a feelings monologue while i’m checking how many pages are left. there are stretches where it feels like second-book syndrome. there's lots of moving pieces, not as much payoff, and the war is always looming but rarely hitting that satisfying "oh shit" crescendo. ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ ii. characters and romance. ₊˚⊹ ꒱ saeris is still that girl. prickly, exhausted, powerful, and hanging onto her sanity with dental floss. i love that she doesn’t suddenly morph into a perfect queen. she’s tired, overwhelmed, and still very much learning how to wield both her crown and her alchemy without burning herself out (or, you know, the entire realm). her inner conflict feels heavier here. more responsibility, more guilt. the real glow-up in brimstone is kingfisher. we finally get his point of view, and callie hart really said, "what if we cracked his chest open and let you crawl around in there?" his chapters show a softer, messier version of him. more vulnerability, more self-loathing, more devotion so intense it borders on unhealthy in a way that’s, yeah, i’m not gonna lie, kind of delicious. he’s still the infuriating, morally grey disaster we signed up for, but now we get to see just how deep the obsession with saeris runs, and it is deep. septic, even. their romance in this book is like being in a relationship with a storm. there’s blood, power exchange, magically binding rituals, and constant push-pulls. some of their scenes absolutely slap, the intense, visceral, "we’re saving the world and also ruining each other emotionally" kind of slap. ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ iii. pacing. ₊˚⊹ ꒱ this book is vibes-heavy. war vibes. grief vibes. "i love you so much it might end us" vibes. sometimes it works beautifully and i was locked in, mentally gnawing on the bars of my own prison cell. other times it felt like the emotional beats were dragging the plot behind them like a dead body. the tonal mix of political intrigue, dark magic, and deeply horny blood rituals is absolutely my brand of unhinged, but i do think some tightening would’ve made the whole thing land harder. that being said, when brimstone hits, it hits. the set pieces are grand, the magic is fun and twisted, and the way saeris and fisher are constantly being forced to choose between each other and the world scratches a very specific angsty itch. i just wish the journey there hadn’t felt quite so long in places, with so many minor detours and side tangents muddying how sharp this book could've been. ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ iv. side gremlins. ₊˚⊹ ꒱ oh my god, yes, my little chaos gremlin. okay, let’s talk about him, because lowkey he's half the reason brimstone works at all. i need to dedicate one section just about carrion swift. if saeris and fisher are the main course, then carrion swift is the unhinged side dish you didn’t order but end up devouring anyway. in brimstone, he gets shipped off with kingfisher to zilvaren and basically spends the entire time carrying the book on his shoulders. every time the narrative wandered, he'd pop up again with some roguish one-liner, and suddenly i cared. MY BEAUTIFUL FLUFFY ONYX. special shoutout to onyx, the tiny white fox who has more plot armor and emotional impact than half the characters in this book. he’s a little white fox that saeris basically rescues from death, and then adopts like a feral emotional band-aid. he’s officially saeris’s fox, but let’s be so serious. he's also kingfisher's, even if fisher would rather chew glass than admit it. in quicksilver, onyx is mostly lurking adorably at the edges of scenes, being anxious and fluffy and watching all this fae–vampire–war nonsense unfold. then brimstone rolls in and callie hart decides it’s time for some real emotional damage. was it silly? was it overdramatic? meh. TRUST CALLIE TO MAKE THIS AN IMPORTANT PLOT POINT IN BOOK 3. ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ v. true name. ₊˚⊹ ꒱ oh my god, we also get fisher’s true name in this book. honestly, i kind of love that his true name reveal doesn't change the fact that i, personally, will continue calling him fisher like a disrespectful little peasant. ₊˚꒰ 𖧷 ꒱ ⊹ vi. conclusion. ₊˚⊹ ꒱ overall, brimstone feels like getting exactly what you asked for and then realizing you maybe should’ve asked for a slightly smaller portion. more fae politics, more blood court drama, more saeris/fisher intensity, more world-building, and also more pages, more circling, more emotional rinse-and-repeat. i liked it. i had fun. i highlighted unholy amounts of feral lines. but i also had to put it down a few times. still, for all my complaining, i’m invested, because that ending? i’ll absolutely be seated for book three, clown makeup on, ready to watch these two idiots and their friends save the world. — 3.5 stars. ⋆˚☆˖°.ᐟ .° ༘🎧ྀི⋆ favourite quotes 🖇₊˚ෆ ❛ every part. i love all of you. i'd spend the fortunes of the universe to protect you. i'd drain the seas dry. feel every tree. i would sacrifice the sun from the fucking sky and surrender the stars, too, if i could. But those things aren't mine to give. all I have is my life. It isn't much, but i'd spend it and consider the price small if it meant keeping you safe. ❜ ❛ so yes. i love saeris fane, because she's electric, and fierce, and loyal, and being around her brings the world back into focus. but i'm not in love with her, fisher. i tried. but my heart was just too full of sorrow to make room for her. ❜ ❛ i had no idea what you would mean to me. i had no idea what i would do to keep you safe. when i close my eyes, you are all i fucking see, saeris fane. i could be dead in the ground five thousand years and the frosts could have taken my bones, and still no other male will ever have loved another female the way that i love you. ❜ ❛ don't you know? there isn't much i wouldn't sacrifice to make you happy, osha. a little healing magic is the least of it. ❜ ⌗ started: dec. 19th, 2025. ⌝ ⌞ finished: jan. 7th, 2026. ✦ ₊˚⊹ ᰔ pre-review: ⤿ FINALLY FINISHED WITH MY FIRST READ OF 2026. RAHHHHH. after reading this behemoth of a book, it lowkey feels like i can climb everest atp. rtc! ₊˚⊹ ᰔ pre-read: ⤿ trying to sneak in this fat ass book before 2025 ends, but knowing me it'll take me five years to finish.

Brimestone ᛝ 4.25 stars 🐦‍🔥 ︵ spoiler free until mention ⊹ “Because what was a book, if not a portal into another realm, another time, another life even.” ࣪ ˖tropes ⊹ ࣪ #highfantasy #faemating #plottwist #thechosenone #probablymorebutforgot ࣪ ˖thoughts ⊹ ࣪ That ending. I’m speechless. And I will admit that I am biased in some sort of way because romantasy will always be my #1 and it’s rare for me to hate a romantasy book. BUT HEAR ME OUT! This book will never bore you; every chapter has something exciting happening. Most of the time, I'll yap about the boring parts of the book, BUT I HAVE NO COMPLAINTS HERE. If you call this book boring, I fear you didn’t read it properly and need to take a step back. This book had me giggling, rereading scenes just for the fun of it, and gasping. The writing style was so deliciously descriptive and dramatic I ate it up which is what I need after reading a boring book. And honestly, I always expect booktok books like this to be copied and pasted from other popular books, but this one was so unique- I will admit there were some things in this book that seemed repetitive to other popular romances I’ve read. Which is normal because this is a booktok book. Guys, can you tell I’m a contradicting person!? BUT, but of course, what is a review of mine without some complaints? Forgive me, guys, I'm just a hater. There is so so so much info dumping and I was confused a lot. And honestly,y, that's on me for not reading this book thoroughly. But if you are planning to read this book, try not to skip anything because, do I know, what a big mistake that is. AND REMINDER THIS IS HIGH FANTASY, so info dumping is normal. The author definitely tried to squeeze as many magical things into this book as possible. Like seriously, my god, we had vampires, gods, fae, humans, seers, dragons, spirits- WOW LET'S TAKE A STEP BACK CALLIE HART. And I found it so random that out of all the magical creatures in this book, our main characters adopt a plain old fox. That’s… an interesting choice. (view spoiler) Remember the part where I said there is never nothing going on? Well, yeah, that’s the thing. THERES SO MUCH CONFLICT. I swear there was a new problem in every chapter, and I couldn’t keep track of the main conflict 💀. Anyway, those are all my icks. ࣪ ˖characters ⊹ ࣪ ⠀ ⠀ ⠀ ⠀ ⠀𓍢ִ໋🪽 𝑲𝒊𝒏𝒈𝒇𝒊𝒔𝒉𝒆𝒓ˎˊ˗ your classic romantasy obsessive “‘your mine’ he growls” centuries year old fae warrior 🫶🏻🥹❤️‍🩹 Which of whom I am very guilty of loving. SPARE ME FROM THE EMBARRASSMENT, PLEASE. I don’t need no “ishy you weirdo…” in the comments. But I did love how he didn’t make Saeris his new personality and still loved her while remaining his own character. Kai Azer, take some notes bb. “Every part. I love all of you.” He blew a dark curl out of his eyes. “I’d spend the fortunes of the universe to protect you. I’d drain the seas dry. Fell every tree. I would sacrifice the sun from the fucking sky and surrender the stars, too, if I could. But those things aren’t mine to give. All I have is my life. It isn’t much, but I’d spend it and consider the price small if it meant keeping you safe.” ⠀ ⠀ ⠀ ⠀ ⠀𓍢ִ໋⚔️𝑺𝒂𝒆𝒓𝒊𝒔 ˎˊ˗ OUR BADASS HALF FAE HALF VAMPIRE QUEEN who is weaker than Kingfisher? Can we please normalize female main characters who are STRONGER than our male main characters? please I beg of thy I loved watching her grow stronger during this book. “My name is Saeris Fane, and I am your queen.” ࣪ ˖random quotes by carrion ⊹ because I love him to the point that he needs his own section “She isn’t my girlfriend. She’s my mate,” Fisher said quite amicably. “And if any part of your body, literally any part of it, comes into contact with hers, then I will remove it.” Carrion thought about this. “What about if she’s hanging off a cliff by one hand and can’t hold on much longer? Can I touch her then?" “Unfortunately for you, Swift, my sexuality doesn’t lean in your direction.” “That’s okay. The thing about leaning is that it’s very unstable. The ground could shift, and you find yourself leaning in a completely different direction at any moment. I, myself, have experienced all kinds of leanings.” “The injustice! You dream of your girlfriend” “You look like you have the pox,” I told him. “What? What kind of pox?” “The kind you get from doing dumb stuff with your dick.” He looked horror-stricken.” “What’s happening? What can you see?” “Be quiet.” “What’s that smell?” “How the fuck should I know?” “Ow! Oh” “What’s happening? What can you see?” “Be quiet.” “What’s that smell?” “How the fuck should I know?” “Ow! Oh” “My name is Carrion,” he said. “Nice to meet you all. I really like your horns.” probably gonna add more so stay tuned guys ࣪ ˖Overall ⊹ ࣪ Thank you vanessa ml for reading this with me! even though you did finish WAY before me AND YES I will 100% be recommending this series if you’re in the mood for a descriptive high fantasy romance. I will not be recommending this if you’re in search for a more unique romantasy 🙂‍↕️.

4.25⭐️ That ending?! What do you mean?!

✨ Rating: 4 ⭐️ 🫧 Vibes: violent, gritty and badass 🎶 Song: you should see me in a crown - billie eilish 📖 Favourite Quote: "All I have is my life. It isn't much, but I'd spend it and consider the price small if it meant keeping you safe." 📚 Would I recommend? YES! 💬 tldr thoughts: fast paced but dragged at certain times but I still ate it up!! In the package: 📦 secrets slowly unfolding 📦 charged chemistry 📦 brutal action Thoughts: HEY SO THAT CLIFFHANGER ENDING WAS NOT COOL!!! Also do yourself a favour and read the bonus chapters in Kingfisher's POV BEFORE diving into this because they are essential to the plot. Saeris and Kingfisher? NOPE. My new fave duo is Kingfisher and Carrion!!!! 5 STARS FOR THEM! I was cackling with every scene they were in. Just give me a novella where they go on adventures together. I thought this one was better than Quicksilver but I felt like something was also missing. For a portion of the book it felt like it dragged on and not much was happening. But when the action was actioning, I was a ball of anxiety. Saeris was such a BADASS character in this one. She ate up her role as Queen. ✩⁺₊✩☽⋆ follow me on tiktok and instagram⋆☾✩⁺₊✩

✩✩✩✩✩ “I’d spend the fortunes of the universe to protect you. I’d drain the seas dry. Fell every tree. I would sacrifice the sun from the fucking sky and surrender the stars, too, if I could. But those things aren’t mine to give. All I have is my life. It isn’t much, but I’d spend it and consider the price small if it meant keeping you safe.” ╭────── · · ✦ · · ──────╮ This is exactly what I need from a RoMANtasy. The characters were amazing. The plot was wild. The romance was absolutely feral. I told myself I’d savor it… but the second I started reading, that plan went straight out the window. I didn’t read this book. I inhaled it like it owed me money. ╭────── · · ✦ · · ──────╮ What I loved: Kingfisher?! Good lord. Being inside this man’s head should probably require a warning label. His devotion to Saeris is unhinged in the best possible way. The spice? Let’s just say I may need to file a report with the fire department. At this point, I’m comfortable saying he’s officially entered my Top Tier Fictional Men Hall of Fame. And Saeris is an absolute badass FMC. Watching her grow into her power while slowly letting Fisher pull down her walls was amazing. The found family in this series owns my entire heart. And Callie, if you’re listening… can we please get a Carrion standalone? That man is chaos in the best way. Him and Fisher together had me cackling. The banter. The dynamic. Absolute gold. Also, Onyx the fox adds so much charm to the story. ╭────── · · ✦ · · ──────╮ What I didn’t love: In this book, I felt like the sexual chemistry was there, but not their emotional chemistry—if that makes any sense. There was an overuse of the phrase “my mate,” and it was a little much. I felt like she had a few of those moments throughout the book, and it threw me out of the story. Ren was one of my favorite characters, and I felt like he was really left out of this book, which bummed me out big time. ╭────── · · ✦ · · ──────╮ And that reveal at the end that I will not mention because spoilers are illegal… but if you know, you know!

𓏲 ๋࣭ ࣪ ˖4.5 🌟 RTC the fuck happened in the end ? i can proudky say i didnt understand shit of what happened in the last 20 pages- --- I actually started this one Wednesday and forgot to update 💔🙏

I have no idea what to rate it but I did really enjoy it!! Rtc tomorrow🤍 Omg GR is finally allowing me to rate and review books again!! I have so many books to review now😅 pre-read: IT’S BRIMSTONE RELEASE DAY!!! So excited to be reunited with kingfisher and carrion!! 🤭

I’m going to need 3 to 5 business years. There was so much going on.

Okay Callie, I’ve officially seen enough of Kingfisher and Saeris.. now can you PLEASE make the next book based on Carrion? You would make a girl very happy! The book started off slow for me, I had a hard time getting into it at first but it did pick up and I found myself really enjoying it after about 30-40% or so. This one was more action packed and I actually liked the plot and where this seems to be headed. The relationship dynamic and growth between Kingfisher and Carrion was really nice. I loved their side quest and how they worked together. The banter between them is hilarious. However, the relationship between Kingfisher and Saeris was so bland. I also can’t stand when mated pairs are overly referred to as such. My mate this my mate that.. it grinds my gears for some reason. Like yeah we got it. I skipped over the spice, it was not good and overdone imo. Luckily the plot was good because if this was just a romance I would have dnf’d. I need more of Carrion now. Let’s see him take initiative and become the man we all know he is! Also we need to know what happened in the room with Tal.. please? I’m also curious to learn more about Tal and Foley they seem like really interesting characters and are right up my alley - I love a good redemption story. Overall I did like the book and I will continue the series! I just really hope Callie gives us some other pov’s in the next one. 🙏

Fisher was hot, Carrion was laughter and joy, Archer & Fox were the heart. It was good, but it was also too long. --------- NGL, the amount of hope I have in this book making me happy is a little concerning.

“Hell is empty and all the devils are here.” -Shakespeare Ever since I read Fifth Season I started paying close attention to the dedications written in books. It’s easy to read and forget them, but I’ve noticed that at the end of a story they hold so much more meaning. In my mind Callie is taunting us with this Shakespearean quote that speaks of chaos and trouble. And that is how I felt at times navigating the pages of Brimstone. There are threads of trouble dangling seemingly haphazardly throughout Yvelia and Zilvaren, and it’s difficult to see how they come together. Now this is not a criticism, I’m going to assume this is a deliberate plot move. I enjoyed the constructed chaos. My only criticism is that at times the pacing felt suspended. I’m not expecting constant battles and near death scenarios, I just found my mind wandering here and there. Just barely. It’s probably me. Now Saeris and Kingfisher: seeing them navigate their different challenges and always come back to each other was satisfying. Sometimes I wanted them to get a room. Jk! The spice is scorching and I would absolutely melt at Kingfisher’s feet. They are just a little gooey at times, like newlyweds. Carrion continues his role of comedic flirtation with everyone, allowing time to breathe whenever the situation gets too tense. So inappropriate, but that’s what we love about him. Onyx: if he doesn’t pull on your heartstrings in this one you must be part vampire. I’m curious to see what his role will be in the next book. I love how the side characters continue to play pivotal roles, especially Tal, Lorreth, and Archer. Some characters take a backseat to court politics and new faces, but in general Callie fleshes out a full cast. I think my favorite part might be that I have absolutely no idea where this story is headed. Those threads of chaos are so tangled that even the role of worst villain is up for grabs at this point. And that dumbfounding ending has me gleefully anticipating the next release. Callie definitely let all the devils out, or maybe they were there all along. BTW, if you don’t remember the dedication from Quicksilver read it and see what you think. 4⭐️’s audio & Kindle ———————————————————————- Planning on avoiding as many responsibilities as possibility in favor of Brimstone 🔥. Happy reading 🖤

4⭐️ listened on audio/immersive read Really enjoyed this! I feel like there’s soooo much going on the plot and so many things that I can’t wait to see how they all play out in the final book! The ending was pretty crazy! Just introduced a wholeeeee new subplot 🤯 (not sure about the name change though IFKYK) Kingfisher ugh I just love him, I love allllll the side characters, I adore this world, Saeris kinda annoys me but it’s okay… I was living for the kingfisher and carrion scenes hahaha The pacing is a bit jumpy I feel like for a long book sometimes it can drag for a good 100/200 pages until anything exciting happens and I feel myself wishing for something to progress then it all comes in the space of a chapter, so the audio helped me keep focused as I think without it I would’ve found that it dragged! When I think back to quicksilver I actually think I preferred it more but still loved this, there’s a LOT of loose ends to tie up so I hope book 3 doesn’t come with plot holes! And the spicy scenes, you got to get the audio just for those 😮‍💨

I loved this book! Yes, it’s a bit slow in places, and some stories don’t shine as brightly as others, but overall, it’s a captivating read that keeps you hooked. My only gripe? I wished it was darker, but hey, I can still appreciate the thrills it delivered. One highlight for me was the sequel to Cujo but my absolute favorite, though, was “Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream.” It had me glued to the pages. So, thank you, Mr. King, for another sleepless night! You never fail to entertain, and I can't wait for more. If you're looking for a collection that offers a mix of chills and great storytelling, this one’s a solid choice.

⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ Like a warm blanket on chilled flesh, King once again provides solace to an aching soul. This is just what I needed at this moment, and this stands out as one of his stronger short story/novella collections — maybe his best since Everything’s Eventual. Although not entirely congruous with its title, most of these stories were not in fact of a dark nature, but rather they were of a literary, introspective inclination. Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream is the standout among the bunch, but there are some incredibly memorable stories that can stand their ground among King’s best. Here is the definitive ranking, and I will accept no other order: 1. Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream 2. The Dreamers 3. The Answer Man 4. Willie the Weirdo 5. Rattlesnakes 6. Two Talented Bastids 7. The Fifth Step 8. Finn 9. Red Screen 10. Laurie 11. On Slide Inn Road 12. The Turbulence Expert And now we count down the days to Never Flinch…

As is the case with most short story collections, this to me was a mixed bag, with mostly good to excellent stories. Finn was by far the worst (luckily one of the shortest) and I didn't get the point of it at all. Many of the stories, like Two Talented Bastids, The Turbulence Expert and The Answer Man, were "whimsical" rather than dark. Fine stories, but not dark. DARKER, Mr. King - please! The best two in the collection are the longest. Rattlesnakes is out-and-out creepy, and very visual - I could see a TV/movie adaptation of it being made. Ostensibly a sequel to Cujo, it has very thin ties to that book and is strong on its own. The masterpiece is Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream. A man trying to do a good deed is accused of rape and murder, and you wonder how - or if - he will get out of the bind he's in. The characters are sharply written and the suspense builds brilliantly to a tense finish. My favorite of the collection - also the longest, a novella at 152 pages. Again, I could see this becoming a movie, one that I would likely want to see. As an SK fan, I would have liked a little more detail on the creation of the stories in the afterword...but maybe that's asking for too much? A mostly terrific collection.

You Like It Darker - Stephen King BOOK REVIEW/Ranking https://youtu.be/BocITRPo8q0 This is the best work King has published in some time! You Like It Darker Story Ranking: 1. Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream - 5⭐️ 2. The Fifth Step - 5⭐️ 3. The Answer Man - 5⭐️ 4. Rattlesnakes - 4.5 ⭐️ 5. On Slide Inn Road - 4.5⭐️ 6. Two Talented Bastids - 4.5 7. Dreams - 4.25⭐️ 8. Red Screen - 4⭐️ 9. Laurie - 3.5 ⭐️ 10. Willie the Weirdo - 3.5⭐️ 11. Finn - 3⭐️ 12. The Turbulence Experiment - 3⭐️

Excellent collection of short stories. 12 in all. I’m not usually a short story person but these are pretty solid. This has everything… ghosts, aliens, and real life monsters both human and animal in nature. Supernatural or reality… horror comes in all different way. I also love the overall feeling of mortality. Check my tiktok for a ranking of all 12 stories.

⭐ My Goodreads Review of You Like It Darker by Stephen King ⭐ I just finished You Like It Darker and… well… I think my neurons are still sizzling. Stephen King has once again proven he’s the undisputed master of messing with your head—in the best possible way. This collection is a mixed bag of horror, suspense, and a few moments where I nearly spit out my coffee laughing (and sometimes shrieking in terror). There’s something about King’s storytelling that feels like sitting around a campfire while a crazy uncle whispers creepy secrets into your ear. You know you should run, but you’re too hooked to leave. My top three favorites: 🐍 Rattlesnakes I’m gonna be honest: I hate snakes. I hate them with the fiery passion of a thousand suns. So naturally, Stephen King decided to write a story that’s not only about snakes, but also connects back to Cujo. Like I wasn’t traumatized enough by rabid St. Bernards as a kid. Now I have to worry about deep wells in Castle Rock and what might be slithering at the bottom. Thanks a lot, Steve. Seriously though, it’s a brilliant, tense story, and I couldn’t stop reading even while screaming internally. 🧢 Willie the Weirdo This one is such a wild ride. It starts off feeling like a sweet, slightly quirky coming-of-age tale, and I’m thinking, “Oh, this is cute, maybe like Stand By Me vibes.” And then… BAM. The last few lines flip the entire story on its head. I literally shouted “WTF?!” in my living room. Classic King—just when you feel safe, he pulls the rug out and dumps you in a pit of weirdness. I loved it. 😱 The Dreamers If there’s one story in this collection that screams classic Stephen King, it’s The Dreamers. It’s dripping with atmosphere, dread, and that unsettling sense that reality might be a fragile illusion. I was absolutely hanging on his every word, like I was with Duma Key (which, by the way, is one of my favorite King books, even though it’s completely bonkers). This story felt like a perfect distillation of King’s talent for making the ordinary terrifying and the cosmic deeply personal. Overall, You Like It Darker is creepy, funny, sometimes downright bizarre, and pure Stephen King. If you’re a Constant Reader, you’ll find plenty to love—and probably a few new phobias you didn’t know you had. And if you have ophidiophobia (aka a mortal fear of snakes)… maybe keep the lights on for Rattlesnakes. Or skip it altogether. I won’t judge. Highly recommended. Now excuse me while I check under my bed. And in any nearby wells.

“You Like It Darker”, by Stephen King 4 stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ This was a delicious (if I can say that) surprise. King is still a formidable storyteller and a terrific writer. I loved this selection of short stories. I did take my time with this one, reading other books between each story. I was saving the 4th story for last, as it’s the longest one (153 pages), but as I started reading the first page of this story (after reading 10 stories), I couldn’t put it down. It’s simply brilliant and my favourite story. I would not write a review for each story, but below are my ratings for each: 1. “Two Talented Bastids” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 2. “The Fifth Step” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 3. “Willie the Weirdo” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 4. “Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream”⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 5. “Finn” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 6. “On Islide Inn Road” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 7. “Red Screen” ⭐️⭐️⭐️ 8. “The Turbulence Expert” ⭐️⭐️⭐️ 9. “Laurie” ⭐️⭐️⭐️✨ 10. “Rattlesnakes” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ (sad and spooky, but brilliant storytelling!) 11. “The Dreamers” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ (spooky!) 12. “The Answer Man” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ (a sad story) The author’s afterword was quite interesting. Hardcover (Scribner): 509 pages e-book (Kobo): 512 pages (default), 181k words

I haven’t been able to read for weeks and it took Stephen King to help me out of my slump. I loved many of the stories in this collection. A lot made me emotional. I’m sad it’s over. I love you, Steve.

Background – “You Like it Darker” was originally published in May 2024 in hardcover by Scribner. Length-wise - my hardcover lists it as 502 pages and my Kindle lists it as 504 pages. It is King’s seventh collection of short stories. The best stories include: “Two Talented Bastids” (previously unpublished) – Laird Carmody and Dave LaVerdiere, two middle-aged men who grew up in a small town, found huge success later in life as a writer and artist. Now, Laird’s adult son is about to find out their long-hidden secret as to how these two men mysteriously turned their struggling passions into skill works of art appreciated by many… "Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream" (previously unpublished) – Danny is a normal guy. He is the custodian at Wilder High school in a small Kansas town and lives in a trailer park. He is still friends with his ex-wife and has a current girlfriend (that although it’s not true love) that provides a steady physical connection. Then Danny has a nightmare, and not just any. This is a very bad and vivid dream that includes a half buried dead body in a deserted location, and Danny’s life is about to change in overwhelmingly dark and unimaginable ways… "Rattlesnakes" (previously unpublished) – Vic Trenton (previously seen in King’s 1981 novel, “Cujo”) is now in his seventies and a grieving widower, trying to recover for a few months at a friend’s mansion in the Florida Keys. However, everything takes an unexpected eerie turn when he’s introduced to the elderly neighbor, Allie Bell, who’s also suffered similar losses, including her twin baby boys many years ago from rattlesnake bites, and her husband from a heart attack shortly afterwards. Although Vic can relate, he has no idea of the trap being set for him… "The Answer Man" (previously unpublished) – Philip Parker has a serious decision to make, involving the woman he loves, their families, and his career path. And when he finds himself unable to figure things out, he meets The Answer Man, who promises to answer any question that Phil can ask, but at a cost of $25 and a five-minute limit… The good stories include: "The Fifth Step" (published 2020) – 68-year-old retired widower, Harold Jamieson, reads the New York Times each morning on a bench in Central Park. One day he is approached by a man attempting to complete step five of his AA program, and Harold’s life will never be the same again… "Finn" (published 2022) – Finn Murrie is the unluckiest 19-year-old alive. His bad luck - which includes having his little toe blown off at age five, breaking his arm at age nine, and suffering a concussion from a lightning strike at age 14 – is about to get desperately worse. Life threatening worse… "On Slide Inn Road" (published 2020) – The Brown family (parents and two children) are driving their Grandpop to visit his dying sister. However, the shortcut old country road they find themselves on leads them to a closed down inn and a life-threatening situation… "The Turbulence Expert" (published 2018) – Craig Dixon has a special job that few can perform. He is a turbulence expert that is afraid of flying, but trust that you want him on your flight if there are problems… The okay stories include: “Willie the Weirdo" (published 2022) – 10-year-old Willie is considered to be rather strange by his family and those who know him. He likes starring at clouds, dead birds, dead bugs, and empty space for hours at a time. However, Willie’s found another weirdo, someone close to him. His grandfather has very unusual personal stories from history, full of war and destruction… "Red Screen" (published 2021) – Did you hear the one about aliens coming to earth and inhabiting humans (mainly women) with the intent of an invasion? Their strategy is to be critical and irritable, wearing down their victims into submission… The lesser stories include: "Laurie" (published 2018) – Retiree Lloyd Sunderland is trying to move on following his wife’s passing away, and his sister thinks she’s helping him out by sticking him with a puppy to take care of. Lloyd has no idea what role his new pet, Laurie, will play when he’s faced with a life-or-death situation… "The Dreamers" (previously unpublished) – A returning Vietnam veteran gets hired to assist a man known as the Gentleman Scientist, who is planning to change the world by exploring the world of dreams. However, it may be that some parts of the psyche are meant to be left alone… Thoughts and Reflections – for me, this seventh collection of King’s short stories and novellas was probably one of the best ones when taken as a whole, and my personal favorite since King’s first set “Night Shift”. Most of the stories were pretty dang good or even better. Although some of the stories were more developed than others (“Willie the Weirdo” could have had more meat to it and “Red Screen” could have had more layers to enhance its ending reveal), there was only two stories that I would consider to be of lesser quality than the rest. Most of them were diverse, engaging, and explored different aspects of human life, including family, friendship, personal desires, and of course, the darker sides of human emotions. I will share one side note – I did not find “The Dreamers” to be as scary as King expressed in his public comments, which was a real surprise to me. That’s for sure. For me, the stories (regardless of which rating group I put them in) were fluid and easily immersive, gaining my interest quickly and keeping it throughout. They had elements of drama, horror, and some form of the supernatural, along with lots of scary suspense. but for the most part, they were just really good stories that tugged tightly on your emotional strings by a master storyteller still in his creative prime. My favorite story was "Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream" followed by " Two Talented Bastids", “Rattlesnakes”, and “The Answer Man”. Danny’s story was so tragically good that it made me stay up way too late reading on a work night. I found myself empathizing with his intent to do good and the hardships he suffered because of it. Bad events just kept mounting up against him and I was so immersed in wanting a hopeful outcome that I had to get through it at the sacrifice of other responsibilities. Each page held my rapt attention as the dramatic stakes built to a worthy climactic ending. Being sixty myself, I was also drawn to Laird Dave’s secret story of how their artistic talents developed during their later years in life. Although it was easy to follow the story’s direction, it was an interesting read that embraced King’s ability to capture the magical idiosyncrasies of small-town America and ordinary people being faced with the unimaginable. Vic Trenton’s return was superb and well delivered. No spoilers here, but I certainly understand why King chose Vic to lead this story and it made total creative sense. King found a way to link the past to the present in a personal way that made Vic’s presence and participation key to telling this particular story that felt like a perfect companion piece to King’s previous Florida based novel “Duma Key”. Philip Parker’s interactions with the Answer Man was also an interesting read that drew on my own life experiences and made me reflect on choices and decisions that influenced who I become. My professional career. My family. My achievements and my failures. And even my potential legacy. You can tell it this is a story that drives personal reflection and assessment, and raising questions like have I achieved what I want in life? Have I demonstrated a full committed to my family? And am I becoming the person that I want to truly be? This is the right story to end the book with. In addition, one of the interesting things that I noted was how easy it was as each story began to guess where you thought things were going. The interesting thing was that King was always ahead of you with surprises and different outcomes than expected. Several times he added new twists and angles that made the stories even more entertaining and enjoyable. Other Notes – The book includes a mix of new and previously published stories, including five new stories and the rest previously published in magazines, e-books, or on Stephen King’s website. Overall – Out of the seven short story collections written by King, this one was personal favorite, right along with “Night Shift”. Most of the stories (or novellas) were a gem worth reading (even the lesser stories) and exemplified a writer, who after fifty years of published works, is still in his creative prime and storytelling genius. In the author’s notes, King says “You like it darker? Fine. So do I, and that makes me your soul brother.” Amen, brother. Amen and keep them coming…

I read this collection of interrelated stories in one sitting; I didn't want to stop, and I was entirely unaware of the passing time--this is that sort of story collection--all great stories. I certainly have my favorites though. "Two Talented Bastids" and "Rattlesnakes" are just incredible. The first is a gorgeous story about a son's reflection on his father's writing talent with a slightly paranormal, alien twist. And "Rattlesnakes" is legitimately frightening as that title takes on new meaning and readers realize the rattle is literal, metaphoric, and in this case, also etheric. What you will notice early on is that each story has a very different emotional vibe. They range as widely as these two stories I mentioned. "Laurie" even includes a positive, healthy outlook on dog ownership, as a newly widowed man finds renewed meaning in life when he reluctantly adopts Laurie. All of the stories, however, center in some way around themes of aging, lost loved ones, and the many ways people cope with these human conditions. Absolutely worth reading and owning (I always debate this now as bookshelf space is so limited in our house), this is a solid collection.

The longer stories, "Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream," "Rattlesnakes," "The Dreamers," and "The Answer Man" all show that King still has it, he can manipulate your emotions and be creepy and disturbing when he wants to, even though DCBD, the longest in the collection, is one of his hard-crime/detective novels, not horror. Some of the shorter stories were fun, some were just so-so. That's to be expected. I guess I was really hoping to be bowled over, with this collection being a return to form for horror story-telling, since his last few big releases, "Holly," "Fairy Tale," "Billy Summers," etc., were good but really short on the horror, if at all. King is hte master of American horror for a reason, and we got some tastes of that here, especially with "Rattlesnakes," but I suppose I was hoping for more. Still, reading King always feels comfortable and inviting. And I especially like that some of these stories could have undergone the treatment of being padded out, made unnecessarily complicated, and spun into full length novels, but instead King was smart to keep them short, getting in and out and never overstaying their welcome. There are a lot of reflections on loss and grief in this collection, how to wrestle with a mortal life in the face of unknowable odds, and I appreciate the ruminating King provides. Not his best, and not my favorite, but another good collection and I am glad to keep reading them. (Rounded up from 3.5)

One of the better King books I’ve read this year. Liked all the stories except The Dreamers and Red Screen. So many layers to analyze. Would love to have a conversation with him about cancer. Love that this was a family affair. Perhaps most of his books are, but it was nice to know at the end which family member contributed to which story. Some of them, like the Answer Man will haunt me for a while.

As I read through this collection I’ll be updating my thoughts below, full in depth review later. Two Talented Bastids: A great introduction to the collection. Reading this feels cozy like visiting with old friends, the eccentric and properly mysterious kind. The words lift off the page like mist and I could almost feel myself in those cold Maine woods I have never been. Excellent fare for reading by campfire light. The fifth step: a nice morsel, delectable without feeling heavy. Willie the Weirdo: while I grant the twist is exciting, I dislike the story. However, it’s a hard to produce rendition of pure evil characters that I have to respect. Willie would feel at home with Apt Pupil’s Todd & Dussander. I could have done without this one. Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream I will eat my shirt if Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream isn’t adapted for the screen! Hot take, but this is on par with The Body & Shawshank. This one feels a little like Children of the Corn mixed with a little 11/22/63 magic. I haven’t read the Bill Hodges Trilogy but I imagine there may be some similarities there too from a police procedural perspective. I mistook it for the Cujo Sequel at first glance, as a dog with an appetite for flesh takes up residence in the opening sequence.

**Winner of the 2022 Goodreads Choice Award for Poetry** ‘To Begin again / Isn’t to go backwards, / But to decide to go.’ The poetry world was given quite a boost on Jan 20th, 2021 when poet Amanda Gorman took the stage at the Presidential Inauguration. ‘There is always light,’ she read ‘if only we’re brave enough to see it. / If only we’re brave enough to be it.’ While I was thrilled to see poets included in an inauguration again after being denied by the previous administration, it was also wonderful to see how many people were touched by her words and suddenly excited by poetry. I thought ‘welcome abroad, this is the good place.’ Call Us What We Carry is the first collection of poetry by 23 year old poet Amanda Gorman, which includes her inaugural speech and so much more as she addresses the social ills of racism, gun violence, greed, selfishness, and chronicles the grief of the pandemic years, asking for unity and cooperation instead of sticking our heads in the sand to decide something is ‘not your problem.’ Gorman is quite impressive, accomplishing so much already and this collection full of experimentation with form and bold accounting of the tumultuous present is the spark to a bright future of words and wisdom. ‘Hope is the soft bird We send across the sea To see if this earth is still home. We ask you honestly: Is it?’ Gorman’s poetry is a call to action amidst difficult times both nationally and globally. ‘This year the size of a sea / sick to its stomach’ she writes to describe the pandemic years still unfolding in the US where political tensions are at a tipping point egged on by bad faith rhetoric in the type of insidious lowest-common-denominator messaging that capitalism thrives on. Which is the perfect time for poetry to step in and make sense of it all, even if I may not exactly be ready for pandemic poetry. And Gorman uses the harsh truths as a reminder to come together in love and understanding, that moving forward through selfishness or ‘I got mine’ mentality will lead only to chaos. ‘As the world came / We have come together,’ she writes, ‘Only we can save us.’ It is all very hopeful and empowering, yet Gorman avoids coming across as saccharine by reminding us ‘there is no meek way to mend’ or that ‘at times even blessings will bleed us.’ Growth is hard, progress can be painful, but the alternative is worse. ‘The world still terrifies us. We’re told to write what we know. We write what we’re afraid of Only then is our fear Made small by what we love.’ Gorman has some delightful experimentation with style and form, such as poems constructed out of a questionnaire for migrants, poems in the shape of surgical masks, or the poem Monomyth written like the screenplay for a documentary of the past 2 years with each scene followed by the dates and events of the pandemic corresponding to her imagery. The poem reminds us ‘We are not all heroes, but we are all at least human,’ and in that reminds us that we have gone on a quest of events these past few years and have inevitably been transformed. At times the poetry feels a bit overly ‘Go USA’, which isn’t exactly a topic I enjoy in poetry, but I see the reasoning and it comes across as patriotic rather than nationalist and Gorman addresses many systemic issues that are plaguing the country. ‘What can we call a country that destroys / itself just because it can?’ she asks, and much of the book examines the way racism and violence has wormed its way into the heart of the country as she pleads with us to examine it and undo it. Something I particularly enjoy about her analysis is her attention to the way language and rhetoric become the barbs through which social ills latch on in order to infect. Poems like Vale of the Shadow of Death, which is structured in columns like a newspaper, discuss historical events like the “Spanish Influenza”, pointing out it did not actually originate in Spain (she mentions the Spanish called it the French flu). ‘To tell the truth, then, is to risk / being remembered by its fiction,’ she writes as the poem discusses how fearmongering and language are used to oppress and Other people. Jim Crow, the Chinese Exclusion Act and more are addressed in a poem that calls for speaking out, speaking true, and to respect the power of language. ‘Words matter, for Language is an ark. Yes, Language is an art, An articulate artifact. Language is a life craft. Yes, Language is a life raft.' -from What We Carry Language can harm, but it can also heal, and Gorman captures this duality well in her first collection of poetry. What We Carry is an interesting literary artifact of the present that chronicles the discourse and troubles of the United States over the recent years into a plea for better action, better times and better understanding. While it will inevitably be politicized on party lines because that's what trolls do in place of a personality, it doesn’t have to be and certainly doesn’t read that way. For newcomers to poetry who like what they see here I’d like to recommend some favorites such as Audre Lorde, Jericho Brown or the absolute greatest, Lucille Clifton, who you will certainly find more to examine and enjoy. Amanda Gorman is a bright young woman with a shining career ahead of her and I am happy to see it and watch how she has brought poetry into the hearts of many. 3.75/5 ‘That is to say, Love is justified by loving. Like you, we are haunted & human. You, like us, are haunted & healing.’

‘words matter, for language is an ark. yes, language is an art… language is a life craft. yes, language is a life raft.’ i, like most people, first heard and were inspired by AG when she delivered her inauguration poem, ‘the hill we climb,’ back in january. i was captivated by her words and was so excited to hear she would be releasing a collection. and let me tell you what. this collection is massive - there are 70 poems in this! and while reading, i discovered the same thing i always do when i pick up a poetry book - there are some entries that i adore and relate to more than others. some favourites: - compass - pre-memory - monomyth - what we carry - the hill we climb and also, with this collection specifically, i think i would have liked a lot more of the poems better had i listened to this, rather then read it. i think AGs poetry has power in her unique delivery. i feel like, because im missing out on the cadence and intonation of her words, a lot of the poems just didnt have a natural flow to them. so 4 stars for now, because i really did enjoy the content of the majority of her poetry. but i have a feeling once i get my hands on an audiobook, it will probably get a bump up. ↠ 4 stars

Amanda Gorman's poems in this collection are very timely to our current moment of pandemic and racial inequality. At one point I thought it was too much but when you get half way in the book, Gorman starts to be more creative and experimental. She uses historical documents from a century ago to make poems and connects that time to our present moment. She does a great job with her use of images and different poem styles. It keeps you engaged and also convicted. She challenges you to think her poems are about one thing but they are about something totally different. Amazing for her first collection. I'm looking forward to what she writes next.

This is a beautiful collection! Lovely, lyrical writing. Speaking to the experience of living through the COVID pandemic and linking it back to the experiences of WWII soldiers with the Spanish flu. The poems range from the personal to the societal and feel very timely. Grief, identity, being Black in America, loneliness....but with hopeful undertones throughout. Amanda Gorman reads the audiobook herself and it's definitely worth a listen. I received an audio review copy of this book from the publisher. All opinions are my own.

me??? giving a poetry collection over 2 stars??? who is she????

4.5/5 Stars What an amazing collection! I actually heard of Amanda Gorman through my boyfriend! He convinced me to buy her new collection of poems because he really liked her reading at the Inauguration. Safe to say, I'm glad he convinced me, because this was so good! I loved the continuity of this book. Themes of language, history, life, as well as living through a pandemic seep into every poem so effortlessly. What Gorman has created is not only a beautifully worded collection of poems, but ones that are relatable! I looked forward to the next time I picked this book up to read. It's so unique and a great way to ease yourself into modern poetry! Definitely will check out more of her works!

“There is power in being robbed & still choosing to dance.”

"We lay down our arms so we can reach out our arms to one another We seek harm to none and harmony for all Let the globe, if nothing else, say this is true: That even as we grieved, we grew That even as we hurt, we hoped That even as we tired, we tried."

I don’t usually read or enjoy poetry all that much, but Amanda Gorman’s collection was eloquent and emotional in a way that I wasn’t expecting. Her words perfectly capture the spirit and emotions that pretty much everyone has felt at some point in the past few years and I can’t imagine anyone not finding at least one poem that will deeply resonate. Even if you don’t like (or enjoy) poetry, I still urge you to pick this up—you may be surprised how much you enjoy it. And if your curious, some of my faves were: At First The Shallows Lucent Fury & Faith The Truth In One Nation What We Carry (And of course) The Hill We Climb

Gorman is brilliant and I hope she continues to write poetry for years to come. She is so young yet writes beyond her years, and I have to anticipate her only getting better with maturity and experience. Like all collections of poems some of these stood out to me and connected with me much more than others for their content or style. But there is magnificence in these pages.

I do not doubt that some of the work here will become required reading. The book is a viewfinder with faraway images of 2020. Gorman weaves together the climate crisis, racism, pandemics, and politics to consider what (or who) it is we carry with us through trauma. I was surprised how many times the word “to carry” appeared across poems. I thought about highlighting them all, but didn’t. A common verb, yes, but Gorman imbues it with its full spectrum of meaning. Her word play? 10/10. Her precision of diction? Makes reading feel like discovery. Words are jewels.

astounding. amanda gorman is so talented! there are some pieces in this that i’ve related to so much that i had to put it down and let it sink in for a bit. can’t wait to dive into more of her work!

“This book is a message in a bottle. This book is a letter. This book does not let up. This book is awake. This book is a wake.” An excellent collection of Social Movement, Politics and the impact COVID had on us. Gorman’s poems speaks to you, she makes you see things you would in everyday live ignore. And she really makes you look!

"Let the globe, if nothing else, say this is true: That even as we grieved, we grew, That even as we hurt, we hoped, That even as we tired, we tried." "We continue speaking/writing/hoping/living/loving/fighting. That is to say, we believe beyond disaster." "Even endings end At the lip of land." "It wasn’t easy to write, and I’m sure it wasn’t easy to read. For your getting here, I salute you."

Not sure I’ve ever read an entire book of poetry and I actually listened to this one. The author recited the entirety of her book and it was fantastic. I have a few favorite quotes: “Shall this leave us bitter or better? Grieve—and then choose” “That even as we grieved, we grew That even as we hurt, we hoped That even as we tired, we tried.” “What a marvelous wreck are we.” “Only then is our fear made small by what we love.” “We’ve learned that quiet isn’t always peace and the norms and notions of what is “just”, isn’t always justice.” Not every poem was moving or touched my heart, but most of them did. Amanda Gorman’s poetic style is actually quite simple and not as verbose as many poets. Does that make her less talented? Not in my opinion. Words are powerful and she puts them together simply and beautifully.

“Shall this leave us bitter or better? Grieve. Then choose.” A really lovely collection. Some poems I loved and made me tear up, some pieces I didn’t really care for but overall stunning and her writing is so lyrical! Audiobook with the poet herself reading was a good experience.

I wanted to read this novel because of the praise and high ratings by a number of my trusted Goodreads friends. Then just before I started to read it, I became aware of the criticisms in both the literary and press at large and I made the decision not to read any more of those articles until I finished the book. You’ll have to read the criticisms for yourself and decide whether you think the book is worth reading. In spite of everything said about the novel, I found it to be riveting, informative, suspenseful, heartbreaking and hard to put down . It’s 400 pages and I read it in two days. It’s the harrowing journey of migrants from Mexico, running for their lives, not to find a better life with more opportunity, but running to save their lives. There’s so much out there on this, you can easily find enough on the plot and characters, so I’m not going to talk about those here. I will say that the grief, the fear, the uncertainty, what people will do to save their loved ones and themselves was impactful. I found the last third of the book especially gripping. There are very few perfect books and few that meet up to the hype. While this isn’t one of them, I think this novel has a lot to offer. Some of the criticisms may certainly be valid, but they didn’t diminish the importance or relevance of the story, at least not for me. If nothing else, hopefully productive conversations and awareness will be generated about the issues that the critics raise, as well as the timely issue of immigration. I read this with Diane and Esil and I so much appreciated having them to discuss this with.

i grew up and lived in tucson (a city many migrants come to) for most of my life, so this book hits very close to home for me. i love what this story stands for - survival, perseverance, love, compassion, and endurance. its so easy to care for lydia and luca and just ache for all of the injustices they suffered just to find a way to safety. and their story written in a way thats eye-opening, but also comforting. the narrative does a great job at balancing the terrible with hope. if i could change anything, it would be the presence of the cartel leader. other than the very beginning massacre, he never actually plays the villain role. yes, lydia and luca are running from his cartel, but they dont make another appearance until the very end. and its taken care of right away. that doesnt mean lydia and luca dont run into challenges along the way, but its all related to the difficult journey of a migrant and not really specific to the rage of a cartel leader (who lydia personally knows). i honestly just dont see what purpose he serves other than instigating their flee from mexico. and i think because of that (the fact that the main problem is never really a problem), its obvious from the beginning lydia and luca will escape mexico. at least, it was obvious to me. and maybe thats the point - to have some sort of light at the tunnel so the reader wont be discouraged with all of the trying things that happen during their journey. but none of this made me dislike the book by any means. i think its a story that is worth telling and one that needs to be shared. ↠ 4 stars

Lydia Pérez, bookshop owner and married to an investigative reporter, narrowly escapes a deadly life-destroying encounter with a drugs cartel in her home city of Acapulco. Lydia, alongside her son Luca, has no choice but to become one of the many people looking for a way to escape certain death (and/or torture) in their home country, by migrating north and getting their feet on some America dirt! This book is the story of their journey step by step, day by day, atrocity by atrocity, and act of kindness by act of kindness. The book captures the living on knife-edge 24-7 feeling, pretty good. This book, an in excess of a million copies bestseller, shines a light not only on a mother's love for her son, but, for me anyways, more importantly just how painful and dangerous being a migrant is, and reinforces my strong belief that people (especially women and children) wouldn't go through all this for solely economic reasons. The book gives a detailed back story of how Lydia and son Luca ended in the position they were in... essentially by chance, re-iterating the way maybe hundreds of thousands of people live on the edge of an abyss, that any chance gust of wind can blow them off and force them into becoming a migrant for survival. What I most liked about the book is that it shows that migrating would be impossible without the multiple acts of kindness migrants get from the many organisations and/or people they meet on their journies. It is however, hard to talk about this book, without mentioning that the writer is Puerto Rican - Irish, and that the book's familiarity and accessibility is in part due to us all (myself included) colluding, by accepting the many Mexican stereotypes and tropes in this book. It's easy to say with hindsight, but the moment this book was put on Oprah Winfrey's book list, Cummins' agent should have considered donating some of the proceeds to organisations that support migrants? I was hesitant to read this book, as I presumed that it would be back to back violence, peril and hopelessness, but began to look forward to reading it as I progressed, as it felt like it focused more on the logistics of the journey, and the reactions of the protagonists to what they saw and went through, as well as the people that they met. Still, the book is no picnic, and has quite a few gut wrenching and/or pretty dark moments in it... fair warning! 8 out of 12

What is there left to say about American Dirt? This novel was barely published a week ago and it has already generated such polarized reactions. I’m going to try to wave a white flag and give my own reaction to the novel divorced from the controversy... This is a harrowing story. It starts with the murder of Lydia’s whole family, except her son Luca, in Acapulco, and continues on as their perilous journey through Mexico to the United States. On their journey, they meet many people. It’s never easy to know who to trust and it’s not possible to survive without trusting some strangers. Early in their journey, Lydia and Luca meet two teenage girls, Rebecca and Soledad, who are also escaping violence, in their case from Honduras. Cummins keeps the tension and fear at a maximum from beginning to end. Survival is far from guaranteed, and even those who survive become different people. I’m not sure how realistic Lydia and Luca’s characters are as illegal migrants to the US. They come from a middle class intellectual background and Luca is a child prodigy. But I found it hard not to care about these characters, especially Luca and the teenage girls, and I appreciated the vivid picture Cummins painted of their journey. It’s not a masterpiece. One of the niggly things that bothered me is that, toward the end, the story suddenly shifted from only being told from Lydia and Luca’s points of view to being told from several other points of view. But is was a solid 4 star read for readability and emotional engagement. This was a monthly buddy read with Angela and Diane. I think we all had similar reactions. I’m really glad to have read this one as a buddy read.

American Dirt is the inevitable literary response to certain historical events. Notably June 16, 2015, the day Donald Trump announced his candidacy for president. In his announcement speech, Trump claimed Mexican immigrants were teeming with drugs, crime, and rapists. A sizeable minority of the American people shared this opinion, while the other side watched on in shock as a cult following grew around these xenophobic ideas. Not everybody watched silently, however. Jeanine Cummins, a successful but relatively unknown author, became obsessed with telling a more empathetic side to the immigration story. This passion ultimately led to her bestselling, albeit controversial, novel American Dirt. The novel centers around a middle class mother who narrowly survives a massacre designed to kill her entire family after her journalist husband spoke out against cartels. She has limited time to escape Mexico with her son before the cartel finds out she’s still alive and finishes the job. It’s a Hollywood-friendly, action-adventure type story that’s structured to entertain. Nevertheless, the adventure proves effective at painting a more diverse picture than the stereotypical image people have of undocumented immigration, on either side of the political aisle. Cummins’ strength lies in her charming, relatable characters. Lydia Quixano Pérez seems designed, almost at the microscopic level, to resonate with the average American reader, which is to say middle class and female. She even owns a bookstore, and her bookishness is the cream on top for readers to build a connection to her plight. The villainous characters are also well-drawn in their own way, showing a perspective that is not overtly evil but a kind of evil by desperation. Despite the dire circumstances, there's never too much graphic unpleasantness. Again, likely sculpted by design for that mass-market appeal. About halfway through, characterization takes a back seat and instead we’re tempest-tossed through a barrage of uh-oh moments as Lydia and her son make the dangerous journey across the border. It would seem Cummins researched every possible bad thing that could happen on such a trek and either crafts a scene out of it, or has the characters ponder the possibility of the bad thing happening. Before the global pandemic, American Dirt was one of the biggest dramas buzzing around social media. Much of the controversy stems from a tone deaf afterward by the author, where she essentially apologizes for being white and wishes “someone slightly browner than me would write it.” Naturally, authors much closer to the subject matter did not delay in saying we HAVE written this story, thank you very much. This further led to the issue of Oprah selecting Cummins’ book over a potential #OwnVoice author who might be better equipped to tell this story, and more accurately. I’ve been following this controversy with some interest, because it fascinates me. On one hand, I can’t think of a worse hell than a world where writers are only allowed to create characters identical to themselves. On the other, it’s true that depictions of minorities are often written by the majority, and that can be problematic. As an example, I read a lot of queer fiction and some of the most profound, deeply empathetic novels I’ve ever read have been by straight authors. Meanwhile, and probably more common through history, straight authors also have a habit of making queer characters suicidal, destined for unhappiness, or even rejecting their sexuality by the novel’s conclusion. If you only read queer characters crafted by straight authors, it’s possible to miss a critical side of the story. At the end of the day, responsibility will ultimately fall on readers to seek diversity in their book selections. And maybe some giants like Oprah can do a better job at promoting diversity, that’s certainly fair. I just hope we don’t see great writing passed over because of the author’s background, or create a culture where authors are scared to even attempt the deeply empathetic act of stepping into someone else’s shoes. As for American Dirt, from my perspective anyway, it succeeds in putting a face to families crossing the border. Faces which look very different from the hordes of rapists and murderers some politicians would prefer you believe. One member of my book club said this novel changed her point of view on the subject, which in these divided times is a profound accomplishment. Sometimes the best way to get people interested in a difficult topic is to create an easy-to-digest, mainstream adventure, and that’s exactly what this is. For better and for worse.

"American Dirt" by Jeanine Cummins was an emotional experience! To be honest, I didn't want to read this book. I don't care much for controversy. In any form. It is often built on speculation rather than fact. But, here I am! It's the May '21 selection for the community book club I just joined. So, I'm going in! Everyone knows the synopsis of this book so I won't refer to it as I usually do in my reviews. What's more important and relevant is how I felt after reading this book. How acutely aware it made me of the immigrants journey. The dangers, the yearnings to be somewhere safe and the tireless drive to get to this place against all odds. To risk everything. Everything. In this book, some of the immigrant characters are college graduates, college students and professional business people. I do believe the author designed these characters purposefully with the reader's demographics in mind. Designed to create empathy in the reader because these immigrant characters are more 'like us'. I confess that I am one of those readers. I can relate to Lydia because of her middle-class lifestyle that is comparable to mine. Lydia's married. I'm married. She has a son. I have a son. She's a business owner. I owned a business for many years. I felt a connection with Lydia because of how she was designed! With that said, these characters are all running from something. They all leave everything they own behind. They have few options other than to start over in a new country. In El Norte. I highly recommend the audiobook. The narrator did an amazing job with her voicing skills. It made it an enjoyable listen. This is a book that I am thankful I read. It is fiction. The characters aren't real and their journey never took place. But, this story feels real. So palpable. It has left me drained and I was afraid for all of them. It was an emotional experience.

I do not want to make any comment on the controversy over this book and I will not engage in a vitriolic dialogue and will comment on it as a work of fiction, which is what it is. This is a story about the survival of a mother and son and their journey to safety. Lydia Perez Delgado’s whole family, apart from son Luca, are wiped out in an orgy of killing. Sixteen people are slaughtered. This is retribution for her journalist husband Sebastian’s article about Le Lechusa (The Owl) - Javier Crespo Fuentes who is head of the Los Jardineros Cartel. Prior to this, Javier had spent hours in Lydia’s bookshop discussing literature and poetry with her. Lydia has no clue at this point that Javier is anything other than someone who shares her passion for books. Now, Javier is her enemy and she and Luca have to flee their comfortable life in Acapulco and seek safety in the USA. This is the story of their journey in which they meet other migrants equally desperate to get to the USA albeit for differing reasons. The story is chilling, tense and well written as it charts their incredibly dangerous journey, clinging to the top of goods trains, getting robbed and ultimately paying a coyote. The characters are good though I feel more depth to Luca and in the sisters Soledad and Rebecca from Honduras who they travel with. There’s a sense of detachment in Lydia which is appropriate as it’s her way of surviving the trauma of the murders and the dangers of the journey. Her care for all three children is admirable. The younger characters have to grow up quickly in order to survive and they have to endure things no one should. I love Luca’s encyclopaedic knowledge of geography which is suggestive of some form of autism possibly with savant abilities?? There are some vivid descriptions of the dangers and the landscapes and places they travel through. They meet badness for sure but they also meet a lot of kindness and people who are prepared to help. There are several moments when your heart is in your mouth. The ending is optimistic although there’s awareness of a long road ahead for psychological recovery. My only negative is that some sections on the journey are very long especially in the second half and I didn’t engage as well. Overall, view it as a work of fiction and a story of survival and it’s a work of merit.

I believe American Dirt had some controversy around it. As the world is so full of controversy right now, I didn’t dig into what the controversy was so I could just focus on the book. Maybe someday I will look into it further. American Dirt is a story of normal people dealing with the unfairness of real-world horrors that they are forced to face; people like you and me whose only mistake was being born somewhere where day to day life is scary and chaotic. If you are blessed to live somewhere where you don’t have to live in fear every day, you will feel even more blessed after reading this book. I found the story and the plight of the main characters to be very intriguing. Much of the plot harkens back to other books with migrant stories – like Grapes of Wrath. So, if you have read books like those before, chances are you will have a similar experience with this book. I cannot use the word “enjoy” with a book like this because the plot points are so shocking and sometimes hard to read, but it was well done and kept me interested throughout. Worth the read – but proceed knowing that a lot of what you will read is unfair and frustrating . . . and even more difficult because it is based on things that are really happening right now in our world.

4.5 🌟 MYYY GODDDD OKAY THIS SLAYED SO HARD WOW that ending!!!!!! i’m so happy with how it ended. it had so many chances to piss me off and it DIDNT and for that i’m thankful. i kept expecting to have one of those endings that makes u wanna die waiting for the next one (i’m looking at u twisted sisters) BUT THIS WAS JUST *CHEFS KISSSSSS* kingfisher the man that you are!!!! i’ll be SAT waiting for the rest of the books. when i tried reading this in september it wasn’t the right time, so I paused and waited for the audio. and omg that was my best decision!!! the duet narration was SOOO GOOD. ate it up. i will say personally, ✨carrion swift is my favorite✨

4.25!! the beginning was good, the middle was looooooong, the almost end was a 5 & the end was a 6 that i would legit have me selling my right arm to get the second book asap… do with that what u will :’) reread update: ok the reread slappppped, but i will honour my original rating because that middle felt SLOW the first time

˖ ࣪ ⟡˚ 4 stars ˚⟡ ࣪ ˖ the way i DNF’ed this the first time at 120 pages… what was i on? i’m glad i decided to try again, because this was really good. ᝰ writing ⊹.˚ the writing isn’t amazing, but it also isn’t terrible. the author doesn’t use a lot of metaphors so everything is pretty understandable. sometimes the dialogue would feel kind of immature and i would get cringed out while reading it, but for the most part it was okay. ᝰ world-building ⊹.˚ the world building is there and for the most part it is explained really well. we find things out at the same time as the main character so while there is a bit of confusion, everything ties together perfectly in the end. on top of that, there isn’t a lot of info dumping. the only thing i am not super sure about is everything to do with the quicksilver. i feel like it could’ve been explained a little bit better because i’m still not sure about it. additionally, i did feel like there were some aspects of this book that were very heavily inspired by one of booktok’s favorite romantasy books. it made me cringe and it definitely made me lower my rating. ᝰ characters ⊹.˚ ⭒ Saeris, at first i found her kind of annoying, but after spending some time with her i’ve really grown to like her. she’s a very confident, selfless, and empathetic character. i loved that even after constantly arguing with her brother, she’d still do absolutely anything for him. her relationship with Everlayne, Ren, Lorreth, and Carrion was so sweet. they’re her true found family and i was constantly smiling during their scenes. ⭒ Kingfisher, i still can’t believe that’s his actual name. ugh. it’s so ugly. anyways, he’s a lot better than i initially thought. he’s your classic booktok boyfriend type of MMC that’s tall with dark hair and shadow powers. in the beginning he really does hate Saeris, but he doesn’t bully or abuse her, which was something new, as 95% of booktok’s favorite romantasy books go that way. the bar is literally on the floor, but i indeed did appreciate it (it should be the standard). he was so so sweet in the end. he truly cared about Saeris. ᝰ tropes ⊹.˚ ⭒ human FMC x fae MMC ⭒ 1st person POV ⭒ fae, vampires, witches, spirits ⭒ strangers (?) to lovers ⭒ found family ⭒ forced proximity ⭒ animal companion ⭒ hidden magical abilities ⭒ traveling between realms ⭒ court politics ⤷ spice level: 🌶️🌶️ ᝰ final thoughts ⊹.˚ overall, i’m really glad i gave into the booktok hype and decided to give this book another go. i’m very excited for the next one!

✨Thank you to ml SK for the amazing buddy read✨ "Of course Death was beautiful. How else would anyone chose to go with him without putting up a fight? I am still debating on how I want to rate this and I might even come back and change it later. The beginning started off strong and had me completely intrigued. It had so much potential, but the middle 200 or so pages I struggled with. I found myself not really knowing where the plot or story was going. The pace was a little off and nothing was really happening. At this point I was going to rate it a 3 maybe 3.5 Hearing such amazing reviews I decided to keep reading and see where it would take me✨. Then the ending came and BOOM BAM...WHAT???👀👀👀....You know those moments where you just look at your book/kindle like What just happened?🤣That ending completely made up for it. ✨ I can not wait for the second one to come out in October!!✨ *:･ﾟ✧Plot*:･ﾟ✧ Saeris Fane is a human girl living in a desert land who is good at two things: keeping secrets and stealing. She steals to survive and to take care of her younger brother who constantly finds himself in the middle of trouble. One day, Saeris finds that her stealing catches up to her and the guards have come to take her to the Queen. After her and her family are sentenced to death, a mysterious man in a pool of quicksilver rescues her and takes her to another realm. When she wakes up, she realizes she has been thrown into a world of fae and war, and the only way she can get back home is to help the King. *:･ﾟ✧Tropes*:･ﾟ✧ ✨Unique Magic System ✨Magical Creatures ✨Found Family ✨Enemies to Lovers ✨Fated Mates ✨Bad-Ass FMC ✨Grumpy MMC ✨Banter and Tension ✨Forced proximity ✨Spice *:･ﾟ✧Saeris Fane*:･ﾟ✧ I really enjoyed Saeris, from the very beginning, she was a survivor. Sassy, smart, and quick-witted, she was not afraid to accept a challenge or defend those she loved. With no living parents, it was up to her to take care of herself and her younger brother. Saeris is different and she knows it but doesn't quite understand these unusual abilities. "The rebels my mother had helped before her death had done more than hide in our attic. They had trained me. Taught me how to steal. How to survive. How to fight. And now I fought like hell's own fury made flesh." "My vision flickered red, a lifetime of rage and injustice finally demanding retribution. Hell had already been unleashed upon this place centuries ago. What was a little more suffering? *:･ﾟ✧Kingfisher*:･ﾟ✧ Kingfisher moved with the shadows, dark, mysterious and half-insane. He was a brooding MMC, labeled as a traitor, and disliked by many. Deep down though, its a facade to block others out. He is extememly loyal and would battle the world for those he cared about. "Humans are usually weak, fickle creatures, but I'll admit, I admire this one's loyalty. She values her family over everything else. There's something to be said for that." *:･ﾟ✧Side Characters*:･ﾟ✧ The found family trope was my favorite in this book. Carrion was hilarious and helped bring humor to the story. Everlayne is the sweetest and was a friend to Saeris with no questions asked. Ren and Lorreth, I loved their undying loyalty to Kingfisher and their backstories that made them all so close. *:･ﾟ✧Saeris & Kingfisher*:･ﾟ✧ Enemies to lovers, tension, and banter. This romance was a little of everywhere. One minute they hated each other and then the next minute it was insta-lust that lacked emotional depth. However, towards the end of the story it did develop much better.💓 "Death has come for me, with wavy black hair and wicked green eyes." "You're not ready for me, human. I don't come with a training mode. "I hated him, I did. But you couldn't hate something without caring about it just a little, too." "He sat there, his bare, inked chest not moving, his black waves tumbling into his face, so perfect, so handsome, and that cursed fucking thing deep in the basement of my soul ached and said mine." "He was the first thing I saw. Always. My heart and my soul knew exactly where to find him. "He was a part of me. I sensed that in my bones. If I wanted him to be, he would be the axis around which I revolved. I would be his. Two counterparts, independent of one another. Already whole, but together stronger than we could ever be apart." Pre-Read: "For those who live their nightmares so that others may have their dreams." ✨Buddy Reading with my Beautiful SK!✨ So excited about this one! Magic, Kings/Queens, Fae, vampires, magical creatures--give me all the feels! I have heard amazing things about this one, so fingers crossed that it delivers!🤞💓 I need all the vibes this cover is giving!😍

4.5* Such a fun time! Rtc. ─── ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ── Let’s finally see what the hype is about…

4.75 ⭐️ Prepare to be sick of me because I’m going to be raving about this book for the foreseeable future!!!!! I think you’ll be seeing a lot of hype around this book (and for good reason). I genuinely had to force myself to put this book down after repeatedly telling myself ‘just one more chapter’. The writing style had me hooked and the magic system in this book was so unique for a fae story. Some parts are predictable (standard for the genre) but others really surprised me. I am also a tiny bit obsessed with Kingfisher now!!!!! Can’t wait for book 2 in October, this could be a new fav series for me.

⋆˚࿔ review 𝜗𝜚˚⋆ “I’ll be grateful for every second that I can say that I belong to you, Saeris Fane. Eighty years or eighteen hours. It doesn’t matter to me. It’ll still be the highest honor of my life.” 4⭐️ The very first thing I realized during my reread is that I remembered absolutely nothing. I was genuinely shocked every five pages like I’d never seen this book before in my life. But honestly? The plot ate this time around, especially toward the end. The whole fated storyline? That was my personal downfall. I didn’t know how much I needed fated mates in my life until now. It scratches a very specific itch and I will not be recovering anytime soon. King Fisher oh my GOD. The mouth on that man. He had me blushing, giggling, and kicking my feet like a teenager. I need him immediately. I’m obsessed. But I’m sorry… I miss his early-book personality 😭 like yes he’s hot, yes he’s intense, but the funny version of him?? I miss that man. And finally an FMC who is not magically a genius who knows everything. Thank GOD She was hilarious, her inner monologue fed me, and her cluelessness made sense because she literally didn’t grow up knowing any of this. Plus she’s not helpless. My girl knows what she wants, and I’m 100% with her 🤭 Now… do they give enemies to lovers? No 😭 The banter window was too small. I wanted it longer and sharper because you know I live for that tension, but it ended too soon 🥲 Now, My Favorite Character: Carrion (as always) He still owns my entire heart. He made the book for me, no competition. I could read 300 pages of him just existing. He’s unbothered, chaotic, brutally honest, and effortlessly funny. Anytime he appears I know I’m about to laugh. And the way he torments Saeris every chance he gets is so entertaining to me. I love their dynamic so much. He flirts with everyone married women, strangers, probably ghosts if he had the chance. He’s shameless and I adore him. ⋆. 𐙚 ˚ Pre-reread ⋆. 𐙚 ˚ The second book just dropped, which means reread time… and I already know it’s about to hit sooo good 🙂‍↕️ P.S Ik I didn’t read this too long ago, but my memory is fried 😭

Great story, loved kingfisher, good banter. Overall, I really enjoyed this. The pacing did feel off though… the middle felt painfully slow at times, then the ending felt rushed. Solid 4 star.

Aside from the regular eye twitch that occured everytime I had to read Kingfisher's full name (opposed to just, Fisher), loved this book. PISSED that I didn't realize book 2 isn't out until this coming Fall, was ready to binge the hell out of this storyline.

3.5 rounded up!!! It started out awesome, I was so pumped, ready for the hype, excited to read me something captivating. I struggle bussed with the two main characters however because the FMC is a grudge bearing 24 year old who frustrates the ever loving mind out of me. The MMC is a definite Shadow Daddy but I don’t see what he sees in her initially. I get what the author was trying to do, it just lacked execution for most of the book. Some of the writing was cheesy and I struggled to connect with the characters. It felt like the author *really* tired…TOO hard…and it came off less than authentic. I didn’t WANT the best for any characters like I usually do until we get through about two thirds of the way through the book. I was irritated at the FMC or the writing so it didn’t flow as well as I would have appreciated for the first huge chunk. It DID start getting good towards the end, the writing improved and it felt like things really started to come together. I will read book two to see if the author has worked out the kinks, because I think it’s good enough she might figure it out. The storyline was good for the most part, enough to keep me interested but some of the combos were just so rudimentary. I like a little more depth and believability in relationships and building that relationship between characters is paramount. Just my two cents. I hope the writing improves in book two.

This is a romantasy that really picks up pace toward the end. While the world-building isn’t the most unique when it comes to the usual fae/mate stuff (it has some major ACOTAR vibes) I still enjoyed it! It was a fun, fast-paced read that I flew through. That said, a few things didn’t quite work for me. The banter between Fisher and Saeris, while entertaining at first, started to feel a bit repetitive and juvenile. It’s constant back-and-forth without much variety, and eventually it lost its charm. I also felt that their relationship developed too quickly, from surface-level to deeply bonded almost overnight. It lacked the kind of character development that would have made their connection feel earned. There are some beautiful moments of storytelling, though. Saeris opening up about her childhood in the Third added emotional weight and gave her character much-needed depth. I really appreciated those quieter, more reflective scenes, I wish there were more. As for the smut - it felt so unnecessary. It didn’t add anything to the plot or character development and came across as something included because it’s trendy in the genre, rather than because the story called for it. In my opinion, the book would’ve been stronger without it or with a much lighter touch. Despite its flaws, this book feels like a good start to a longer series. The world has so much potential, and I would enjoy diving deeper into it and spending more time with the characters as they grow. Overall, this isn’t a groundbreaking fantasy read, but it is a pretty entertaining one! I would give it around 3.5 ⭐️⭐️⭐️🌟

𓂃⋆˙⟡ 3.75 stars .ᐟ ⋮ ❝ Be unrelenting and unmerciful in the face of the wicked dead. ❞ — review journal ⸝⸝ 022 ⟡ ⤿ started feb 06 ⋮ finished mar 08 buddy read with dawn : review here ᰔ ⌗ ⋮ ꒰ 🗡️ ꒱ i. thoughts ⟢ ⸝⸝ holy world-building. 600 hundred pages and i wanna say that the first 200 were spent setting up the atmosphere and the plot. don’t get me wrong, i love a good fae world as much as the next person, but boy was it chunky. plus, i’m not actually convinced i could describe the world with any accuracy, so…? i'm going to stop being a debbie downer for a second, because i'm making it sound like i hated this book. i didn't. it was great. by the end, i was super invested. there were certain elements i didn't see coming, which was a fun surprise, and the romance was pristine—it just took a while for me to get to the juicy part of the story. all that said, i'm still confused by the ending, but maybe that's a lack of literacy on my part. side note: the chapters in this are so long. maybe it's just because i read at night, but whenever i checked my kindle to see that were twenty minutes left in the chapter, i died a little inside. side side note: huge thank you to my girl dawn for reading this with me. our theories were on point. can't wait to read the second book with you, bb! ♡ ⌗ ⋮ ꒰🏔️꒱ ii. characters ⟢ ⸝⸝ — saeris fane .ᐟ ⸝⸝ • ⋮ i’m gonna be honest, homegirl here pissed me off in the first few chapters. pulling objectively stupid stunts, practically begging for answers and rejecting them when she finally received them…? however, she totally grew on me. i was absolutely rooting for her by the end and i actually can’t wait to see her again in the second book. — kingfisher .ᐟ ⸝⸝ • ⋮ okay so i actually can’t stop creasing when i think about his name too much. i don’t even know why it’s funny to me but it is. his mood usually bounced between angry and flirty, but occasionally ventured into a realm where i began to worry that he’d start barking and peeing up saeris’ leg to stake his claim. ‘i’m the alpha, i’m the leader, i’m the one to trust’ type shii. really says something about my standards though because i lowkey want him. — carrion swift .ᐟ ⸝⸝ • ⋮ here’s where i reveal that i am actually a massive hypocrite: i would get on all fours, slobber at the mouth, and bark like a feral beast for my bootylicious bisexual baddie carrion swift. i feel the urge to serve myself up on a dinner plate. i want him so bad. — renfis & lorreth .ᐟ ⸝⸝ • ⋮ i can’t lie, these two and carrion might actually be my dream blunt rotation. i am so disastrously down bad for them all. ⌗ ⋮ ꒰💫꒱ iii. quotes & annotations ⟢ ⸝⸝ “It's because I bite.” ⤿ if bro starts barking i'm out “I'll happily kiss all of your aches and pains better for you once we strike camp. I've been told my mouth has healing properties. Especially when administered between a pair of thighs.” ⤿ rizz so good i forgot his name was kingfisher ’Ren grinned broadly. “Atta girl.”’ ⤿ renfis i want you so bad “I could kiss you, Carrion Swift.” Carrion seemed taken aback by this. And then somewhat interested. After thinking for a second, he said, “I wouldn't be opposed.” ⤿ i want to do disgustingly sexual things to this man ⌗ ⋮ ꒰⚔️꒱ iv. series overview ⟢ ⸝⸝ ⤿ #1. quicksilver ; 3.75 ★ ⤿ #2. brimstone ; ? ★ ⌗ ⋮ . pre-read ⟢ ⸝⸝ this has been on my tbr for over a year now, and i’m so excited that i’m finally getting round to it. even more excited because i’m reading it with my sweet dawn!! — ( prediction ; 3.75 ☆ ) જ⁀➴ ₊˚⊹ ⟡

oh this was such a fun read, i didn’t even know what was going on for half the book but i was loving the vibes

3.75 stars ✩⋆ was this the best fantasy book i’ve ever read? nope. was this earth shattering and soul crushing? nah. but did i have fun reading this? suuure. i don’t really care about the writing, plot, character development, etc. i was just here for the vibes. i was having fun and sometimes, that’s all that matters. ⛧°。 ⋆༺♱༻⋆。 °⛧ Kingfisher was a dick and a flirt in the first half and i am unfortunately attracted to that. anyone who’s a dick but a flirt will always get points from me since they remind me of my one true love LANCE ORION (p.s. i will fight bitches over him. that fictional man is MINE. everyone else can have Darius thank you very much). though, i did wish he kept that personality in the second half but whatever, i guess it was time for him to be all broody - character development and all that. Saeris was - how do i say this nicely.. she was.. she was stupid. to say the least. but her constant grumpiness did make me laugh so all is forgiven i guess Carrion though. ooohhh boy. i want him. Lorreth? i want him too. hmm. what else. oh right. the romance. weeelll. i hated how they were already lusting after one another around 30%. if you’re gonna market a book “enemies to lovers” at least commit to that ya know? and not everything IS enemies to lovers. this was more hate to lust. and also, how and when the fuck did Fisher even fall in love with her? i’m sorry but i know they’re mates and all but there was barely any emotional connection and the scenes that they had together didn’t convince me enough of their all so powerful love for one another. and i don’t know if it’s just me but the romantasy books i have read recently has the couple get together in the first book. again, in my humble opinion, i loathe that. if you’re gonna write a series, at least give us readers the yearning scenes (with a dash of blue balls and cock blocking) we deserve but hey. that’s just a me thing. i am a slowburn and yearning > smut girlie and the last book i read was slowburn as fuck since the fmc and mmc didn’t even fuck till book 5 in a 7 book series. can you imagine that? i apparently prefer that over the main characters getting together in the first book. i like torturing myself as you can see. ⛧°。 ⋆༺♱༻⋆。 °⛧ anyways, i have no other thoughts. that’s really just it. ok bye for now.

In Too Deep by Lee Child and Andrew Child is another great addition to the Jack Reacher action thriller series. What a powerful start to the novel. Reacher wakes up in the dark and handcuffed to a bed with no memory of how he got there. He remembers hitching a ride, getting run off the road, and that the driver was killed. That’s it for his short-term memory. The people who staged the attack assume Reacher was the driver’s accomplice. They want to make his talk, but that is never a good idea with Reacher. The main character is clever, questioning, and complex. He doesn’t take short-cuts. He likes to find patterns in situations and if they’re not there, alarm bells ring telling him something isn’t right. The memory loss aspect of the story added another dimension. The other characters aren’t quite as dynamic, but are adequate for their roles. The well-written novel has a first sentence that grabbed me and got me rapidly turning the pages. Despite being descriptive, it doesn’t slow the pace of the story. While the book shifts points of view from protagonist Reacher to several of the antagonists, the transitions are smooth and flow well. The plot has several twists and turns resulting in a surprise or two along the way and some unpredictable moments. Overall, the storyline gripped me and kept me engaged throughout the novel. If you enjoy thrillers with plenty of action, then I recommend that you check out this series. I am looking forward to reading the next book in the series. Random House Publishing Group – Ballantine – Delacorte Press, Lee Child, and Andrew Child provided a complimentary digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. All opinions expressed in this review are my own. The publication date is currently set for October 22, 2024. ----------------------------------------- My 4.07 rounded to 4 stars review is coming soon.

I’m giving this book 4.5 🌟 I really enjoyed it, I know the jack Reacher series is a long one I’ve not out grown him yet. This book was a collaboration between Lee child and his son Andrew Child. Jack Reacher is back in his fighting best. I mean why would these people want to fight this Sh*t house is beyond me 😂. He does like to get into these scrapes, but always comes out Roses. 🌹 The Newest of the Reacher books and for me so far the best. I do have a lot more to go through.. 🤗. Always my thoughts. 🤗.

This was my first Reacher book, but I have seen the show. I pictured the Reacher from the show in my mind the whole time while reading it. This was an exciting book. An undercover fed is possibly dead that was infiltrating a crime ring. Reacher is just simply in the wrong place at the wrong time and gets caught up in the mess. Or I guess you could call it the right place, since he ends up saving the day. Reacher is a badass, but he is also weird. He doesn’t know anything about how to work phones or computers, but somehow he is always one step ahead of everyone. I find his character very interesting. Now that I have read one of the books I can say that the show captures his character very well. I think if you enjoy the show or other Reacher books, you will like this, as well. Action packed with a little sprinkle of romance too. Thank you to netgalley for this free advance copy in exchange for an honest review.

*** 8/31/24 *** Finished! This is another solid entry in the Reacher series, which is in the process of being taken over by "Lee Child's" (pseudonym) younger brother, Andrew Child (another pseudonym). I was curious and did some googling to find out that in 2020 Lee Child said he couldn't keep up with the public's demand for Reacher books, so he brought on his younger brother to take over the series - first as partners, and eventually on his own. Reacher #25, The Sentinel, was published in 2020, and was the first the pair published together, and apparently they are still co-authoring, as this is book #29 in the Reacher series. I have read a majority of Lee Child's Reacher books, and would have to go back and re-read some to really see how the tone of the writing, or the plot progression changed with the co-authors. What I can say now is that although I love the Reacher series, I feel the plots have become almost too formulaic and less personal about Reacher - always involving a major global situation, with Reacher maintaining his one outfit and toothbrush lifestyle despite his approximate age. It might be sacrilege to Reacher fans, but I feel he should be evolving with the times a bit: getting a cellphone, understanding commonly used apps like Uber or even email, maybe even buying at least one new pair of underwear per book!? Plot-wise, I feel they are really stretching the concept of Reacher being a smart former MP who is physically intimidating. For example, in this book, his "partner in crime" was a woman who is a law enforcement officer, but her actions seem like a special ops person IMO. I also think Reacher's reliance on his FBI contact for critical information felt like a bit of a stretch. The books should instead be trying to see Reacher evolve as an aging human in some way, instead of just randomly getting mixed up in global crises. So, I'm not going to summarize the plot except to say yes, read it, but keep in mind the book is really not too focused on Reacher as a person, and I hope the Child brothers will try to do that more in the future. 4-stars. *** 8/29/24 *** Thank you to NetGalley and Random House/Delacorte Press for an Advanced Reader Copy of the latest Jack Reacher, #29, due for publication October 22, 2024. I love all of the Reacher books - despite the formula of his size, power, moral outrage about bad guys doing bad things, traveling with just a toothbrush, hooking up with interesting, smart and beautiful women, eating pie, drinking coffee, hitchhiking - it is comforting to me to read how he gets himself into and out of the mix. This one starts out with Jack tied to a bed with one of his arms hurt, with no memory of how he got there. Hmmmmm........ Do we think he'll overtake and outsmart his captors? Review coming soon.

It used to be that time of year when Lee Child would publish his annual outing with one of my favorite fictional heroes, Jack Reacher. Those days are gone and the transition from big brother to younger brother has completed with the last year’s book, their fourth together. It is my understanding, based on separate interviews with Lee and Andrew Child, that Andrew wrote this one on his own and will be flying solo from here on out. At least that is, unless Lee gets an itch to write another Reacher novel down the road, which seems unlikely for now. With Andrew taking over writing duties, some things have remained the same while other things have changed. Andrew was definitely not Lee, and his changes weren’t always subtle to the millions of Reacher fans. In my personal opinion, it’s taken Andrew several books to develop his own rhythm with the character and his behaviors. The result is that Andrew’s version of Reacher is not necessarily Lee’s Reacher. As a reader, you can choose to like that or not. It’s just the reality of the situation. Just like the authors who continued popular series by Tom Clancy, Robert B. Parker, Vince Flynn, and Stieg Larsson, there are always tradeoffs involved. It is no different with Reacher. This year, Andrew has delivered his fifth and solo Reacher novel - “In Too Deep”, which continues much of the same approach, style, and plotting as his previous two Reacher adventures. For me personally, there continues to be some more incremental improvement. Reacher’s intelligence from earlier books has returned, as well as his sarcastic banter. In addition, Andrew’s plotting has gotten stronger and more complex, providing a better overall story. That isn’t to say that there aren’t some trade-offs in style and a few problems, but I will save that for later. “In Too Deep” starts off in the middle of a very bad situation for Reacher. Jack wakes up by himself in a dark place, with his hands and feet handcuffed to a table. His right arm is in extreme pain, having suffered serious damage of some kind. His head hurts with what appears to be a likely concussion. The worst part is that he has cannot remember how he got where he is. The last thing he remembers is hitching a ride with someone and then they were run off the road. Otherwise, he has no memory of what happened… This was a good place to start off a Reacher novel. Have Reacher in a captive situation by an unknown enemy. Put him in a weakened position in which two of his biggest physical strengths – the use of his right fist and ability to head butt – are limited or non-existent. And to top things off, give Reacher short term memory loss to amplify the mystery elements. Talk about a perfect challenge for our hero, Reacher. For purposes of enjoying this novel, I will hold back from revealing anymore and not risk giving any of the twists and surprises away. Like the last two books, this was an easy and fast read. In some ways too fast. Most of that is because this book is only 324 pages in length. I’ve noticed that Andrew’s novels are definitely shorter in length, his writing style more focused with shorter sentences and fewer words, and less time spent on transition moments and setting descriptions. For me, the plotting and pacing were good, most of the time. Andrew captures much of the same plot development style and flow as his brother, Lee. Andrew’s plots have become more complex and intricate five books in. He ties thing together well, peeling the onion in layers, and every time you think that you have things figured out, he’s usually one or two steps ahead of you. Although, I still feel that Andrew comes across as a bit too clinical at moments, making Reacher feel like a caricature of himself. I am also more comfortable with the fact that Andrew writes Reacher differently than Lee. That is reality and it isn’t going to change anytime soon. Andrew’s Reacher is focused more on his physical skills and instinctual strengths. I especially appreciated in this book how Reacher used his analytical skills more, which reminded me more of Lee Child’s writing, and I really enjoyed getting the “smart” Reacher back. There were a couple of elements that were not as strong as I wished they had been. The bad guy, in this case bad guys, felt weak and didn’t really serve as compelling adversaries. Because of that, it felt like the ending did not fully deliver on the buildup as well as it could have. It wasn’t a bad ending, but it seems like Andrew struggles some with putting it all together at the end. Mechanically he got all of the pieces connected, but emotionally, it still felt a little bit lacking when it came to experiencing closure. By the time you got to the climax, the villains end up turning on themselves, robbing Reacher of a full showdown and the reader of emotional closure. Creating persuasive and worthy adversaries for Reacher is still a work in progress for Andrew. That being said, we, as readers, must come to terms with understanding that Andrew is not Lee and cannot be Lee. He is his own writer. I fully understand that some Reacher fans will learn to enjoy Andrew’s version of Reacher and others will never be satisfied with Andrew, choosing rather to pick it apart. Although it probably doesn’t feel that way after reading my review, I am probably somewhere in the middle. Lee was certainly burning out on writing Reacher. That was clear in his later interviews, so it was time to move on. In the same way, it isn’t fair to judge Andrew Child with the expectation of being a Lee Child clone or copycat. We owe him the right to deliver Reacher using his own style, which means that we may have to accept his version of Reacher with different nuances than that which his creator instilled. At that point, we can choose to stick with him or leave, and that’s a personal choice readers can make on their own. For me, here’s the bigger problem that I perceive we face with Reacher. It’s not so much a change from Lee to Andrew as authors, as much as it is the aging and saturation of Reacher. “In Too Deep” is the 29th Reacher novel. Let me repeat that. The 29th Reacher novel. That’s a lot of books, folks. My problem is really less about Andrew’s style and more about trying to keep Reacher fresh, finding worthy adversaries, and conflict that challenges him both physically and mentally. That’s a lot harder to do after 29 books. Lee Child himself decided he was done after 24 books because he quite honestly ran out of ideas. When readers complain the series has lost something, I tend to think the truth actually lies less with Andrew and more with the fact that having 29 books already published makes it awful hard to maintain momentum and quality. If that is the case, in addition to taking over a well-loved literary character, the task of coming up with new ideas becomes a tougher task than an easier one for Andrew. To me, that is the real challenge. Keeping Reacher fresh and exciting while not deviating too far from his well-established mythos is a really hard thing to do. It is the same problems that writers face when carrying on the works of authors who have passed away, like Spenser, Jack Ryan, Mitch Rapp, and Lisbeth Salander. Talk about an impossible challenge. The reality is there’s already a lot of Reacher novels and stories. The good news is that Andrew has been there with Lee since day one of the creation and birth of Reacher. If anyone has a chance of keeping Reacher relevant and worth reading, he’s our best chance. For me, I am going to appreciate the ride as long as I can, because like Reacher, I am aging too. I’m in my 60’s now and reflection has become a bigger part of my life. My thought is, let’s enjoy it while we can. For me, Andrew is getting better. “In Too Deep” was a solid 3.5 stars read for me (and please don’t get me started on Goodreads not having half-stars).

Madeira holiday book #4. For many years the only books I purchased were the John Connolly ‘Charlie Parker’ series and the Lee Child ‘Jack Reacher’ books. So it was good to find a Reacher book in the Apartments library that I must have forgotten to order. Having met Lee Child at a book signing I have a bit of an affinity with the suave looking gentleman. Whilst the series has never really matched the first book ‘Killing Floor’ in quality. I do not find the addition of his younger brother as co-author a handicap. This story has Reacher being ‘rescued’ from a car crash. The FBI, Russians, large villains, female interest and nuclear secrets tick off most of the other stories usual points. And Reacher manages to break the requisite number of baddies bones (including surprisingly his own). Managed to read in a few hours. The short addition of an extract from his next adventure - ‘Exit Strategy’ I enjoyed. But hasn’t prompted me to pre-order on Amazon.

In Too Deep by Lee Child and Andrew Child plunges us into the action from the very start, with Jack Reacher waking up alone, handcuffed in a dark, unfamiliar place, and nursing a serious arm injury. Reacher has no clue how he got there. With his memory foggy and his surroundings hostile, Reacher’s fight for survival is essentially how this book begins. If you are looking for a slow start or long preamble, this isn't the book for you. The story has plenty of classic Reacher: sharp observations, intense confrontations, and clever tactics. Here, though, we experience a puzzle-like setup as Reacher, just like the reader, is left to piece together the mystery of why he’s been taken and what he’s gotten himself into. The setup gives this installment a slightly different feel from others in the series—it’s less about chasing a clear villain and more about unraveling the layers of confusion and mistrust surrounding him. The gray area in which the plot develops adds intrigue and keeps you guessing as you try to piece together the truth alongside Reacher. While packed with action and suspense, the story sometimes leans toward the formulaic. Reacher’s unmatched cleverness and knack for spotting patterns remain at the forefront, but with a heavier cast of characters, it’s sometimes challenging for them all to fully come into their own. Still, the plot’s twists add a solid punch, and even if you see some of them coming, they’re effective and satisfying. Overall, In Too Deep is a quick and enjoyable read that keeps you on your toes. It’s a good choice for fans of thrillers or longtime Reacher readers, who will appreciate the familiar intensity and grit - even if it isn't quite yet seamless because of the author transition. Thanks to Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine for providing an advance reader’s copy for review.

This latest adventure begins with Jack Reacher finding himself handcuffed to a makeshift bed with a broken arm and double vision. He has no idea how he ended up in this situation; only vague recollections of preventing a carjacking, accepting a lift from the grateful driver and then getting run off the road and the driver being killed. What follows is a complex tale involving a ruthless blackmailing gang, a rogue FBI agent and a potentially catastrophic government secret. Also, not for the first time, Reacher manages to acquire a female assistant – yet another surrogate Frances Neagley. This time it’s Jennifer Knight, an Arizona police officer, currently on suspension and searching for the person who killed her father Dennis. As to be expected, the action is virtually non-stop and there are quite a few dead bodies before Reacher can resume his perennial travels.

A very fast-paced story that was a wild romp with thieves, lots of injuries, close escapes and victories for Reacher.

In Too Deep is book number 29 in the Jack Reacher series. I had read every book in the series up until around 26. I felt i’d reached the end of the road with Jack and hadn’t enjoyed the last few books as much as the ones before. A friend of mine offered me this book however for free as they were about to donate it to charity. So I thought why not. It was kind of nice to spend some time with Jack again after a couple of years break. Jack is still doing what Jack does, making sure the bad guys don’t get away with their evil crimes. He teams up with a female police officer in this one and they work together. A page turner with short chapters which makes it a quick read. Plenty of action and tension and I did enjoy this book, although am still unlikely to read any further books in this series.

True to form Jack Reacher. Another hard to put down book. A car accident and an FBI agent is dead. Reacher was in the car but sustained a concussion and remember little about the accident or the agent. Reacher awakens handcuffed by someone who wants answers to questions that Reacher cannot answer. What’s going on and why….

When Jack Reacher awakens, he has a terrible headache and no memory of where he is or what happened. He is also handcuffed to a table and has a broken wrist. A gang of art thieves has taken him in, each with his own motivations. One of them, Vidic, helps Reacher escape but wants him to help steal two million dollars from the gang's safe. Vidic tells him that the man in whose car Reacher had been riding had been an undercover FBI informant who had an accident and was killed when the car rolled. Reacher calls an FBI contact about the dead agent and the prospective art and jewel theft. Then everything goes awry from a waitress who thinks Reacher killed her father to everyone's trying to cheat everyone else out of the Russian art to a huge money-making venture for Vidic and his partner which endangers the U.S. The story is exciting as Reacher tries to be his crime-solving self with limitations because of the accident. The story includes fights, explosions, and fires, and FBI agents who are recalcitrant about taking risks or thinking outside the box. Reacher is a fascinating character, but I have some problems with him. Reacher and my husband are both big men, but Reacher can find clothes that fit at thrift shops or off the shelves. Sorry, but that's not my experience. Because he owns only the clothes on his back, Reacher goes for several days being quite active and then buys new clothes at a thrift shop and throws out the old clothes. In this book, he did not get to go shopping, so he's been wearing the same clothes for at least three days. He's been fighting, climbing, hitchhiking, but the girl is still wild about him. He has only his toothbrush, his wallet, and his expired passport, not even toothpaste or deodorant. Is that realistic? I believe Child designed his hero to be a kind of cowboy on a Greyhound, a white knight complete with only a toothbrush. Maybe I'm just old and practical now, but a big man in dirty clothes with body odor and coffee breath does not seem like all that a romantic figure to me. Of course, this book is aimed at a male rather than a female audience, so the footloose man of justice whose only need is a toothbrush might make them feel wistful.

Classic Reacher; Good beach read.

**Happy Publication Day!** The 29th adventure thriller finds Reacher strapped to a table with no memory of how he got there. Pretty decent plot that involves plenty of bad guys and various law enforcement agencies with lots of action and excitement. A quick, absorbing read. Many thanks to the authors ands publisher for providing me with an arc of this new thriller via NetGalley. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

I really enjoyed this Reacher novel. I don’t agree with all the complainers griping about how they think the Reacher series has declined in quality since Lee Child’s brother Andrew has been involved in writing these books. To me they feel like a return to the early Reacher thrillers with plenty of action and Reacher beating the crap out of baddies on a regular and frequent basis. I had noticed Lee’s later books were transitioning into slow burn mysteries with little action until the climax. They are clever and suspenseful, but they lack the “bad assness” of the early books. Anyway, this one has Jack Reacher involved with a group of art thieves turned cyber criminals. They hack a defense company and steal a report that can seriously threaten the security and integrity of the United States’ nuclear arsenal. Reacher, despite suffering from a concussion and broken arm, is all up in their faces and all about taking them down. Like I said, plenty of action and very entertaining. Andrew Child maintains Jack Reacher’s unique character traits and personality, the plot is just plausible enough, and the pacing is on point. A great read, and should definitely entertain all you reacher fans.

Another very solid entry into the Jack Reacher series. My only issue is that I’m up to date and so begins the wait to next years :( flip side being next years is number 30!!

** spoiler alert ** Jack wakes up to a nightmare that he has little memory of. His captors think that he is an accomplice to a man he got a ride from. This book kept me interested from the start.

Another brilliant Reacher book. I thought this was action-packed and full of fun little detective moments. My only issue was the ending felt a bit rushed, all the build up and tense moments sorta just flopped with a few pages of a finale with a hint towards justice not actually being served.

Let me say at the outset that I've loved Jack Reacher for years (in the books, I hasten to add, of which this is the 29th). This one is not my favorite - maybe by half a country mile - but I stayed up past my bedtime to polish it off nonetheless. Mostly, I guess, I just didn't warm up to any of the overabundance of characters - probably because it was a little hard to tell the good guys and gals from the bad. And for some reason, Reacher himself seemed a little "off" - but then, if I'd lost a chunk of my recent memory on top of trying to do my usual super-human feats with a broken wrist, I guess I'd be a little cranky as well. The wrist, in fact, is where it begins; Reacher wakes up tethered to a table in an unknown location. In typical Reacher fashion, he manages to get free - but he has no recollection of how he got to be where he is. So when a man arrives and shows him he's survived a car accident in the Ozarks during which an FBI agent was killed, Reacher decides, at least for the time being, to believe him. But of course, not everyone is who they claim to be, and chapter perspective shifts let readers in on what's going on behind Reacher's back. Along the way, Reacher meets up with a disgraced female agent who's on the trail of the man she claims murdered her father - who, as it turns out, is directly connected to characters who are causing headaches for Reacher as well. Joining forces, then, is a no-brainer - especially since she's a computer whiz while Reacher remains a troglodyte when it comes to technology (although it amazes me how much he knows about it even though he doesn't even own a cell phone). Needless to say, what they learn along the way turns out to be a huge threat to the American way of life, and as expected, saving our skins depends on Reacher learning the truth before the other side does. The fun - and action - is in the getting there, and trust me, there's plenty of it from start to finish. Another good installment, and I thank the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review a pre-release copy.

Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers team up again in this latest page-turning thriller and I really loved the storyline in this one! Without giving anything away, the story is centered around solving a 20-year old cold-case murder. The victim's sister manages to revive interest in the case by releasing the investigation file online and offering a $5 million reward to identify the murderer. When the true-crime bloggers show up en masse, Lucas and Virgil are tasked with managing the case. You need not have read any of the prior books in the Davenport Prey or Virgil Flowers series to enjoy this one, it really does stand on its own. And if you have read all the other books leading up to this one you will appreciate the continuing evolution of both Lucas and Virgil over their long careers. I was also intrigued by the new characters introduced in this novel, especially the murderer. The book ends a bit abruptly without the usual wrap-up so I am hoping this isn't the last we will be hearing about this vile character. Disclosure: Received an uncorrected ARC of this book from NetGalley and GP Putnam's Sons/Penguin Random House LLC (Thank you!) in exchange for an honest review.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Lethal Prey was a near perfect crime thriller except that it ended on a cliffhanger which is always a disappointment for me. The plot was tight and action packed with likable and interesting characters. The story follows Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers as they investigate a long-unsolved murder. Years ago, Doris Grandfelt was brutally killed, but the killer was never found. Her twin sister Lara, now facing her own cancer diagnosis, is determined to uncover the truth. This was my first time reading a John Sandford book. I enjoyed Lethal Prey enough to start at the beginning of the Prey series. I received an uncorrected ARC of this book from Netgalley and GP Putnam's Sons/Penguin Random House LLC (Thank you) in exchange for an honest review.

In this latest episode in the long-running ‘Prey’ series, Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers – a pair of Minnesota based law officers – get to chase down a killer who’s be operating for decades. The unsolved murder of Doris Grandfelt, some twenty years back, is brought to the public’s attention when her sister – recently diagnosed with breast cancer - offers a $5 million reward for information leading to the killer’s arrest. Very quickly, an army of true-crime bloggers descend on the spot where Grandfelt’s body was found all those years ago, complete with phones, cameras (and at least one metal detector) to record and post online their attempts to solve the crime, and thereby earn the reward. Davenport and Flowers are asked to wade into this circus in an attempt to save some face for the authorities in a situation that’s increasingly becoming an embarrassing re-living of an earlier investigative failure. As always, there’s plenty of banter between the two leading players, as they take the interesting (and controversial) step of engaging with the true-crimers in what is to become a mass joint effort. As is Sandford’s way, we also get to meet the killer very early on and bear witness to the motivations and actions surrounding this act, as well as the steps being taken to thwart this latest threat of discovery. This person is most definitely a stone cold murderer. There may be other victims. In truth, I found that it all started a bit slowly and took quite a while to warm up. But I feel it got there in the end, about a third of the way through. From this point, I was forever champing at the bit to get back to the story, and I thoroughly enjoyed the ride from this point through to the end. I listened to an audio version, competently narrated by the excellent Robert Petkoff. As a footnote: Sandford includes in this tale a couple of characters from the early books in this series. Jenkins and Shrake have cameo roles here in the playback of the original investigation into Grandfelt’s murder, these guys being colleagues of Davenport and Flowers. The author mentioned, some time ago, in an online post that this pair are based on a couple of his old mates: Dan Jenkins and Bud Shrake, writing and golf buddies. He said he'd deliberately conceived the characters as opposite in many ways to their real-life counterparts - simply as a bit of fun. Sadly, both of Sandford’s friends passed away some years back, so won’t be able to enjoy their re-inclusion. My thanks to W.F. Howes Ltd for supplying a copy of this audiobook via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.

In Lethal Prey Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers team up to help solve an old case at the request of a U.S. Senator. A request Sandford cannot refuse. Their “prey” here is an intelligent, lethal, female, who is a well-crafted match for their wits. Davenport and Flowers get some help when the wealthy sister of one of the victims establishes a substantial reward for help to solve the murder, and enlists the help of “true crime bloggers”. Here the book gives an interesting insight to a real cult. Reading a John Sandford mystery has become a tradition for the past 30 years or so because I get these books as a Fathers Day present from my daughter. It is an easy gift for her and a valued gift for me. Reading about the relationship between Virgil Flowers and Lucas Davenport, and their families is satisfying and entertaining. These police procedural mysteries are placed in a location, the Twin Cities of Minnesota, where I live, and I am therefore familiar with many of the establishments they frequent or meet to discuss strategy which adds to my enjoyment. In some of the recent Sandford books Virgil Flowers has mentioned retiring. He is a very popular character in Sandford’s books and would be missed. This is the suspense that I need to enjoy until the next Sandford book.

Where’s the ending? Are there chapters missing in this ARC? It’ll be interesting to see when the actual book comes out if there was a mistake because the end is abrupt and not resolved. Okay. Besides the fact that this book feels like it's missing the ending, the rest of the book was actually good. I liked the format - very small and quick chapters. It really helped the pacing and made it seem like things were happening rapidly. I don't really remember his books unfolding like this in the past - but it might just be me. It HAS been a while (and many, many books in between) since I've read the last book. This book starts off by telling us about a murder that occurred 20 years ago. Then we jump to the present and are told that the victim's sister has terminal cancer and wants to find out and punish her sister's killer before she dies. So, she offered a $5 million dollar reward - specifically aimed at a lot of the new "True Crime" podcasters that seemed to have popped up everywhere. And boy oh boy does it create activity. These people truly do pop out of the woodwork. Unfortunately, the killer is also paying close attention to the investigation and is a crazy psychopath so guess what that means? Yep. More murders. I really enjoyed this new edition to the series - well, with the exception of the end. Hopefully, this was just an error and will be fixed before publication. Thank you to NetGalley and PENGUIN GROUP Putnam | G.P. Putnam's Sons for the opportunity to read and review this ARC. The opinions above are mine and only my own. This book will be out for publication on Mar 25, 2025.

Traditionally, a "Prey" novel has Lucus Davenport as the lead character, supported by other members of his team, such as Virgil﻿ Flowers. And although there are jokes along the way, the overall ambience is fairly serious. LETHAL PREY reads more like a Virgil Flowers novel, where Flowers is the lead character, there are plenty of jokes, and not much gravity. I like Sandford's Virgil Flowers series, and so generally I liked Lethal Prey. Plenty of good reviews have been posted already, so I'll just briefly summarize. Twenty years earlier, Doris Grandfelt was brutally murdered. We know who did it, how, and why. That's described in the first chapter. The murderer was never caught; in fact, she was never even considered a possible suspect in the crime, because everyone assumed that the killer was the man who had sexual relations with Doris shortly before she was murdered. Now, twenty years after the murder, Doris's twin sister—wealthy with powerful political connections—decides to offer a five million reward to anyone who can provide information leading to the killer's arrest. Lucas and Virgil are tasked with coordinating the bevy of true crime podcasters who descend on the scene where Doris's body was dumped—true crime enthusiasts who are seeking fame and a piece of the reward money. Plenty of laughs during the banter between Lucas and Virgil, and between the duo and the true crime enthusiasts. Not much investigation, although one of the amateurs stumbles across an important clue. Eventually, Lucas and Virgil blunder upon evidence that leads them to the killer—who, it turns out, is a serial killer. Like many of the other reviewers, I enjoyed most of the story, but was turned off by the ending which left the killer's fate unresolved. Still, it was better than some of the more recent Prey novels. So, for me, four solid stars. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ My reviews for others in this series: Masked Prey (Lucas Davenport, #30) Ocean Prey (﻿Lucas Davenport, #31; Virgil Flowers, #13) Righteous Prey (Lucas Davenport, #32) Judgment Prey (Lucas Davenport, #33; Virgil Flowers, #15) Toxic Prey (Lucas Davenport, #34) Eyes of Prey (Lucas Davenport, #3) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Thanks to the Greater Victoria Public Library for providing the ebook copy that I read.

My usual 5-star rating has dropped a notch on this one, almost entirely because of just one thing: the gobsmacking cliffhanger ending. I'll not explain further, of course, but after I kept flipping through the acknowedgements to see if the last few pages of the last chapter somehow got buried there, I got really, really annoyed - leaving readers hanging is one of one of the biggest no-nos an author can do, in my book. But it is what it is. I guess I'll console myself with the thought that resolution may become the impetus for the next book in the series - this is the 35th - so I'll be watching. Other than that, I always look forward to the adventures of Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers - two of my all-time favorite characters. They meet up this time during the reinvestigation of a cold case: the murder of accounting firm employee Doris Grandfelt two decades earlier. It's been reopened because her surviving twin, Lara, is determined to find her sister's killer before she, too, dies - she's been diagnosed with terminal cancer. She's sweetened the pot with a $5 million reward for information that leads to the killer One of those bloggers, in fact, somehow manages to dig up the murder weapon, which does provide some clues. Lucas gets the call when the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension in St. Paul gets the case. Shortly thereafter, Bureau agent Virgil gets a similar call while he's out playing golf. Despite needing to work on his latest novel (plus spend time with his partner Frankie and their twins), he figures Lucas will be involved and agrees to be part of the investigation. As Lucas and Virgil hone their investigative skills, they also must run interference to keep at bay the proliferation of true-crime bloggers who didn't exist back then and would kill each other for a scoop - or, failing that, turn their enthusiasm into an asset. Fairly early on, readers learn who the killer is, making it even more fun to watch Lucas and Virgil go from spinning their wheels to closing in. All told, another one well done. Many thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for the opportunity to read and review a pre-release copy.

My first Sanford book- I read it cause my dad had a cameo appearance as the lawyer for the defense. It was fun to see him in the book in character. What a great idea to add a real person to a fiction book! He fit in smoothly. Fast paced action and some fun surprises throughout- (too much swearing for me, though)

Another great book in the Davenport/Flowers series!! This time they are pulled together by a woman of wealth with political influence to solve the mystery of her sister's death 20 years prior. Through many twists and turns, and a little help from true crime investigators, it's a mad rush to the end to reveal the killer. A definite page turner!! Thank you to Net Galley and Penguin Group Publishing for giving me this ARC in exchange for my honest review.

"Lethal Prey" is an engaging police procedural featuring two of my favorite detectives. This time, they are on the trail of a female serial killer, which adds a refreshing twist to the narrative and contributes to a compelling storyline. I highly recommend it.

Would have rated it a 4.5 if not for how it ends! Didn't like it much, there's no closure and I'm not sure if the author's gonna come back to it! Disappointed....

** spoiler alert ** Not sure if I really liked it or not. Entertaining, well written, but didn’t like all the things and interactions. Cliff hanger at the end was unheartening.

Strong 4 Stars I believe I’ve read all of John Sandford’s novels. This book involved Virgil Flowers and Lucas Davenport. I follow the Davenport series as well as the Flowers series. I’m glad Sanford combined both Flowers and Davenport in this novel. It was well written, contained good dialogue and had a great storyline. It’s not necessary to read the previous books in the series. If you do, it helps with the depth of each main character. If you decide to read this book and like it, you may want to go back to read previous books in the series. I definitely recommend this book as well as the previous books in the series!

Prey books are always a summer treat. This one doesn’t disappoint. The antagonist in the story is very bright and very sociopathic. She can also be witty at times. The banter between Lucas and Virgil adds humor. I laughed out loud a couple of times as I read. This book can be read alone but may be appreciated most by people who have observed the development of each character and their relationships in previous books by Mr. Sanford. Minor characters from previous stories are part of the storyline. While I didn’t like some of the things left unsettled at the end of the book, I would highly recommend this book for your summer read.

** spoiler alert ** Loved this book and would have given it a 5* except for the ending and writing Virgil out of the series. At least that’s what it sounds like! The ending was not really an ending. It was a maybe this will happen! After the entire book being about catching this serial killer, there might be a hung jury! What really happens or did Mr Sandford not decide what would happen. Probably had several possible endings! Sigh.

I believe this is the first Sanford book I did not rate five stars. I gave it four but maybe it is more like 3.25. Not as exciting as many in the last. Not many funny lines. And I absolutely was unhappy with the ending. I assume there will be another book about this murderer. I hope it will be better. I love you John Sanford, you’re my favorite author, but I’m disappointed in this one.

I love the Prey books!!! Being a local girl, I adore the mentions of local places!! But on occasion, these books can become, lately, a bit convoluted. The earliest Prey books were so much more of a straight line, and now the plot seems so hard to follow, working hard to make it tough to figure out - the surprise ending, so to speak. I like the old plot lines...

I’ve read most of this series, and this one doesn’t disappoint. Story is good, fast-paced. I didn’t love the ending but that’s not unusual with this author. At least he stays true to his style, and I do like that.

I love reading john Sandford's books, and I love detective characters Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers. "Lethal Prey" was good but not one of my favorites. I sense that that Sandford, now 81, is tying things up. Flowers, who has become a best-selling novelist, is looking to get out of law enforcement and write full-time. Davenport seems weary. And the ending of "Lethal Prey" is abrupt. At least one more Davenport book, "Revenge Prey," is on its way. I'll be sad when I won't be able to look forward to a new Sandford book every year.

Entertaining enough. The story ended differently than I thought it would, but it held my interest throughout and Lucas and Virgil were great as always. Overall, a slightly better-than-average entry in the "Prey" book series.

I liked this story just as much as any other Davenport or Flowers story. The only reason for 4 stars instead of 5 is because of the abrupt ending, which others have pointed out as well. Other than that, I thoroughly enjoyed it and I don’t think the ending should dissuade anyone from reading it.

** spoiler alert ** I enjoyed this book, as a I have all the “prey” books. The story unwinds well, filling in the blanks as it progresses until we reach the end. And that’s where this book deviates from most of the other books in the series, which is why I gave it only 4 stars. The ending is, unsatisfying. Perhaps the next book in the series will pick up where this one leaves off and close the story with a definitive end.

This is the 35th book in the Lucas Davenport series, but I realized I missed #34! Not sure how that happened, that that will be rectified very soon. This book also features Virgil Flowers, and while I love Lucas, there is just something about Virgil that makes me really happy. in this installment, Lucas and Virgil are called on to look into a murder that occurred 20 years ago. The twist (?) is that they need to work closely with a group of true crime podcasters to solve the murder. always thrilled to be in my happy place.

I think I can officially say Emily Henry is my favorite author. This wasn't my number one favorite Emily Henry book (hello Beach Read & Book Lovers), but I still REALLY liked it. The friendships, the heartbreak, and how Emily Henry perfectly encapsulates that bitter-sweet feeling of growing up made my heart hurt. The only reason it's 4 stars and not 5 is that it did take me a bit to get into the romance plotline (not knowing the breakup reason for so long frustrated me), and I felt the pacing could be a bit quicker in the middle, but I LOVED the last 100 pages so so so much. As someone who graduated college a few years ago, has felt the sadness of friends moving away and drifting apart, and looked back on my own happy place moments that feel too far in the past, this book HIT.

EH is a master at creating relationship dynamics that make you believe in them. i have read and rated all of her adult romances 5 stars because of her ability to make me fall in love with her characters and this book is no different. i adored reading harriet and wyns past chapters. they had such an enjoyable connection, which made reading their present day chapters so heartbreaking. their entire journey was one i felt super invested in from the beginning and was rooting for them every step of the way. and i really, really loved how EH wrote harriets feelings about wyn. very poetic. very romantic. i actually think this book has some of EHs better writing! so why is this not getting 5 stars then, you ask? it would have if harriet and wyn were the only focus of the book. but a significant part of the story is about their friend group as well, and the whole drama of “its our last summer and we are growing apart” just wasnt as appealing to me. i understand its necessity for the plot, but it just didnt interest me at all. should have know this book would have been a little different based on the cover featuring six people rather than just the classic two. but all in all, a sweet story and another win for EH. ↠ 4.5 stars

“Love means constantly saying you’re sorry, and then doing better.” Don’t ask me why, but I feel so surprised every time I finish an Emily Henry book and end up loving it. I need to accept the fact that when it comes to contemporary romances, she’s the one for me. I love her sense humour. I love her characters. I love her writing. I love her stories. I love the cozy light early 20s movies vibe I get from all of her books. Her books got a certain kind of “spark” that just so work for me. Her books -even when they aren’t usually so happy- are kind of my happy place. Huge Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for providing this copy. This made me so freakin happy.

Home 🏡 is where the heart ❤️ is! Thinking of her “happy place” wasn’t helping Harriet (Harri) this time as the small aircraft descended into Knott’s Harbor, Maine. Because normally, time at the cottage with her best friends since college, was her “happy place” and this time she was arriving with a broken heart, and she was about to break theirs too. 💔 Harri and Wyn. Wyn and Harri. They were the couple their friends aspired to be-and THEY were no longer. She would finally be breaking the news to them. She and Wyn had decided to alternate summers at the cottage from here on out-sharing their friends-and she was taking the first Summer. That left her as the bearer of bad news. But, when she walks in….she sees….Wyn. What is HE doing here?? Turns out, the cottage is being SOLD, and this will be the last Summer that the three friends, who have evolved into six couples, will be able to spend there, so Wyn, who had been “temporarily” living at home to care for his ailing “Mom” couldn’t say no. He and Harri, head to their room to unpack. Of course, THIS would be the year that THEY have been given the suite with the one king sized bed, and the romantic open shower and tub- IN THE ROOM. They form a pact to “pretend” to still be together, so that they don’t spoil the last Summer at the cottage. It’s just ONE week. How hard could it be to PRETEND to still be in love with each other, in front of those who know you best? The story alternates between chapters called “HAPPY PLACE” (the Past) and “REAL LIFE” (the Present) until the two narratives merge (or is that, COLLIDE?) The “Happy Place” chapters give us an intimate front row seat into the rise and fall of Harri and Wyn’s romance, and the “Real Life” chapters allow us to personally get to know all of their unique and wonderful friends who have all arrived with secrets of their own, as they party for one last JOYOUS Summer together in Maine. Could their “happy place” be a new beginning for “happily ever after”? Of course, the always reliable Emily Henry has delivered to us yet another perfect beach bag read, just in time for our Summer. 🏖 That is, IF you can wait that long!! AVAILABLE NOW!! Thank You to Berkley for the gifted copy provided through NetGalley. It was my pleasure to offer a candid review!

“I think I love you, Harriet.” “I know I love you, Wyn.” This was such a beautiful and heartbreaking romance about second chances, love, friendship, and finding your passion in life. Harriet and Wyn have been together since college, but then they break up and haven't told their best friends. Every summer they go to Maine with their friends, but this summer the cottage they usually stay at will be sold and this is the last time they will all be together. Harriet and Wyn decide to pretend to still be together since they don't want to hurt their friends. Will Harriet and Wyn be able to fake it without having feelings for each other again? "You are in all my happiest places. You are where my mind goes when it needs to be soothed." This book was so good! The pacing was perfect and the plot was interesting. I felt so many emotions while reading this book, I cried, I laughed, and I smiled. The characters were so layered and relatable. I love Harriet, she is kind, compassionate, smart, selfless and will do anything for her friends. I'm so happy that Harriet realized that it's important for her to be happy too. I can relate to Harriet, I'm very close to my family and will do anything for them and always try to make them proud. I love Wyn so much, he is intelligent, kind, funny, and charming, and so sweet to Harriet. Wyn's character development was excellent, I loved seeing all the sides of him and seeing him realize that he is intelligent and that he is worth loving. I really liked Harriet and Wyn's friends especially Cleo and Kimmy. I loved how close they are with their friends and that they would all do anything for each other. The chemistry and tension between Harriet and Wyn was amazing. I could feel the connection between them. The writing was so beautiful, I honestly fell in love with the characters because of how raw and beautiful the writing is. There were so many quotes that brought out so much emotion in me. The only thing I didn't like was the miscommunication, I think if Harriet and Wyn talked through their fears and concerns they would have realized how perfect they are for each other sooner. The ending was so good and heartwarming. I really enjoyed seeing what happened to the characters several months later. Favorite quotes: "In every universe it's you for me. Even if it's not me for you." "He's become my best friend the way the others did: bit by bit, sand passing through an hourglass so slowly, it's impossible to pin down the moment it happens. When suddenly more of my heart belongs to him than doesn't, and I know I'll never get a single grain back." "Our love is a place we can always come back to, and it will be waiting, the same it ever was. You belong here." "Wyn, are you saying I can come home?" "I'm saying, it's not home unless you're there." "I thought I made you. Just by wishing."

"𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘧𝘪𝘳𝘴𝘵 𝘵𝘪𝘮𝘦 𝘪𝘯 𝘴𝘰 𝘭𝘰𝘯𝘨, 𝘪 𝘩𝘦𝘢𝘳 𝘮𝘺𝘴𝘦𝘭𝘧 𝘤𝘭𝘦𝘢𝘳𝘭𝘺, 𝘰𝘯𝘦 𝘸𝘰𝘳𝘥, 𝘢𝘭𝘭 𝘪𝘵 𝘵𝘢𝘬𝘦𝘴 𝘵𝘰 𝘢𝘯𝘴𝘸𝘦𝘳 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘰𝘯𝘭𝘺 𝘲𝘶𝘦𝘴𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘤𝘢𝘯’𝘵 𝘸𝘢𝘪𝘵." "𝘺𝘰𝘶." the last 100 pages scratched my brain in all the right places, and like i said the girls that get it get it and the girls that don’t don’t, i didn't know what to expect from this one at first but so many people loved it and i see it now, i love how it doesn't only revolve around the love, the characters, the friendships, the hope, the pain i loved all of it, the ending was perfect (it's exactly what i needed for it to end), the '𝘩𝘢𝘱𝘱𝘺 𝘱𝘭𝘢𝘤𝘦' chapters were my favourite, i loved the idea this book represents, all of us deserve to be happy with our life's, this is my second book for this author and it won't be the last, the writing was good and i wasn't bored like AT ALL which surprised me tbh the April slump was slumping until now, Wyn's character was hard to love for me at first but oh my now i LOVE him, harriet's feelings were so relatable sometimes that i wanted to cry, i understood her struggles and her fears that it was kinda scary, there's nothing i'd change about her or this book, to be completely honest with you i didn't really feel much connection to the first half of this book but the second half did everything for me, it got me thinking about how i handled things in my own life and my happy place i don't know what else to say so i'll leave you with some of my favourite quotes 🫶🏽 "𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘳𝘺𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘬𝘦𝘦𝘱𝘴 𝘴𝘱𝘪𝘯𝘯𝘪𝘯𝘨,” 𝘩𝘦 𝘴𝘢𝘺𝘴 𝘪𝘯 𝘢 𝘭𝘰𝘸, 𝘩𝘰𝘢𝘳𝘴𝘦 𝘷𝘰𝘪𝘤𝘦. “𝘣𝘶𝘵 𝘮𝘺 𝘮𝘪𝘯𝘥’𝘴 𝘢𝘭𝘸𝘢𝘺𝘴 𝘨𝘰𝘵 𝘰𝘯𝘦 𝘩𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘰𝘯 𝘺𝘰𝘶.” "𝘪𝘯 𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘳𝘺 𝘶𝘯𝘪𝘷𝘦𝘳𝘴𝘦, 𝘪𝘵’𝘴 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘮𝘦, 𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘯 𝘪𝘧 𝘪𝘵’𝘴 𝘯𝘰𝘵 𝘮𝘦 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘺𝘰𝘶.” "𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘯 𝘸𝘩𝘦𝘯 𝘴𝘰𝘮𝘦𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘣𝘦𝘢𝘶𝘵𝘪𝘧𝘶𝘭 𝘣𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘬𝘴, 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘮𝘢𝘬𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘰𝘧 𝘪𝘵 𝘴𝘵𝘪𝘭𝘭 𝘮𝘢𝘵𝘵𝘦𝘳𝘴" "𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘧𝘭𝘢𝘮𝘦 𝘮𝘢𝘺 𝘨𝘶𝘵𝘵𝘦𝘳 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘧𝘭𝘢𝘳𝘦 𝘸𝘪𝘵𝘩 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘪𝘯𝘥, 𝘣𝘶𝘵 𝘪𝘵 𝘸𝘪𝘭𝘭 𝘢𝘭𝘸𝘢𝘺𝘴 𝘣𝘦 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘳𝘦" "𝘪 𝘴𝘱𝘦𝘯𝘥 𝘮𝘰𝘳𝘦 𝘵𝘪𝘮𝘦 𝘵𝘳𝘺𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘯𝘰𝘵 𝘵𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘬 𝘢𝘣𝘰𝘶𝘵 𝘩𝘪𝘮 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘯 𝘢𝘤𝘵𝘶𝘢𝘭𝘭𝘺 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘬𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘢𝘣𝘰𝘶𝘵 𝘢𝘯𝘺𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨." “𝘴𝘰𝘮𝘦 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨𝘴 𝘤𝘩𝘢𝘯𝘨𝘦 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘴𝘵𝘢𝘺 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘴𝘢𝘮𝘦.” "𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘢𝘳𝘦 𝘪𝘯 𝘢𝘭𝘭 𝘰𝘧 𝘮𝘺 𝘩𝘢𝘱𝘱𝘪𝘦𝘴𝘵 𝘱𝘭𝘢𝘤𝘦𝘴." 𝘱𝘳𝘦 𝘳𝘦𝘷𝘪𝘦𝘸: alright bitches if i don't love this im coming for y'all one by one

i love me some emily henry. always. i’d read anything she writes. was this her best book in my personal opinion? absolutely not. that spot remains claimed by beach read. and then book lovers. but this was good!! it was more along the lines of pwmov i think. overall, it didn’t change my life but it was a good read.

˚˖𓍢ִ໋🌷͙֒✧ 𝟒.𝟐𝟓 𝐬𝐭𝐚𝐫𝐬 🩷˚.🎀༘⋆ “you are in all of my happiest places.” i did not expect to like this as much as i did whattt. this made me so emotional like i did NOT expect to cry wtf emily henry 😔🙏 i think this got me good just because it’s so friend oriented. like my favorite part of this isn’t even the romance (though i LOVE wyn don’t get me wrong) but i love the found family bond they have. the feeling of slowly drifting away from your friends is the worst feeling ever. this whole book was about how change is ok and that cut deep lowk. this whole book didn’t even feel like emhen’s writing, like compared to the rest i’ve read this one is for sure my fav. ౨ৎ (🌸) harriet. why was she literally me omg. all the characters in this had so much depth (maybe not parth and kimmy AS MUCH but i still loved them) and she’s no exception. i love how her childhood shaped the way she acted with them. how her family always argued and never apologized, so she tried to please everyone so no one would fight and their group wouldn’t fall to pieces. she feels everything so strong and i just LOVE HER oh my goddd. ⊹ ”he's become my best friend the way the others did. bit by bit, sand passing through an hour glass so slowly, it's impossible to pin down the moment it happens. when suddenly, more of my heart belongs to him than doesn't, and i know i'll never get a single grain back.” ౨ৎ (🍥) wyn. you don’t know how much i love this man. i relate to everyone in this book and he’s so !!! he thinks he doesn’t have anything going for him other than that he’s nice because he didn’t have any other goals. he tries to make everyone love him, even if it means making fun of himself. he still thinks he’s a let down even though he knows his family loves him omg ☹️ EUGH i wanna protect him so bad. and other than that… “arms up, baby.” WOAHHH 🤤👅 ⊹ “in every universe, it's you for me. even if it's not me for you.” other !! the concept didn’t seem at all my type because i usually HATE miscommunication but it worked here. they had valid reasons to end the way they did. tbh i wouldn’t be able to talk about it either so i can’t complain 😭 BUT THE ATMOSPHERE. ultimate summer vibes, i loved the cottage!! and the happy place chapters were everythingggg. i liked all of the friend group even if they could be kinda difficult. like even sabrina’s actions were coming from a place of love because she hated them drifting apart. THAT’S SO VALID QUEEN. the only thing i didn’t like was that it felt a little like emhen was stalling them getting together?? like they slept together and basically confessed everything and she still almost leaves him at the end. ⤿ bottom line is that i get how people might not like this but it meant sooo much to me. it hit way too close to home and it just made me feel so sad the whole time reading it, even at fun parts (in a good way though) ────୨ৎ──── 💓┆𝐩𝐫𝐞-𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐝 ⤿ happy place by emily henry my last emhen book was not great but sooo many people recommended this to me so i’m really hoping it eats 🙂‍↕️🤞 wanna find out what the hype’s about

A sunny beach, with a mai tai in hand. A convertible, racing down a twisted highway. A hot tub on the porch of a cabin overlooking the Smoky Mountains. What does YOUR Happy Place look like? For Harriet "Harri" the answer has ALWAYS been easy. Her happiest place is in Knott's Harbor, Maine, at the gorgeous cottage she gets to visit once a year with a group of her friends. The cottage belongs to her lawyer friend Sabrina, and ever since college days, they have been close. Sabrina's boyfriend Parth has become as essential member and is also rounding out the group is hippie farmer chick Cleo and her vivacious and their newest member, Cleo's extroverted girlfriend Kimmy And...then there's Wyn. Charming, cool, and handsome: this Montana boy was everything Harriet ever wanted. Harriet and Wyn had quite the whirlwind romance, starting with mere attraction and building into so much more over time...in fact, the two got engaged. But then one day...everything changes. Wyn ends the relationship after a tragic event in his life with a thin explanation, and MANY assumptions made. The two haven't spoken since. UNTIL now, when they come face to face at the Not-So-Happy Place...and decide for the sake of the group, they're going to PRETEND to be the blissfully happy copy of yester...month. Can they hold it together without letting their spite get the best of them? Or will the forced proximity force their hand...and splinter Harriet's last remaining shards of hope for reconciliation? So Emily Henry is one of those RARE authors where I can actually say I've read ALL of their back catalog (Well, except one short story. But I'm not counting that for the purposes of this review....shh 😉) Each one of her books has surprised me, had me laughing OUT LOUD, at times nearly crying, and got me in my emotions about ALL sorts of relationship-adjacent feelings, ranging from sister-sister bonds to parent-child dynamics. Witty banter? ✅ Protagonists I was rooting SO hard to see get together it almost hurt? ✅ So I'm not sure when along the way that I realized this was the FIRST Emily Henry book I've encountered that didn't fully tick the boxes...but after having a couple of days to sit with my feelings on this one...I've come to realize this was the FIRST Emily Henry book where I felt less than BLISSFULLY happy. That's not to say there isn't a lot to enjoy in this one. There were absolutely some trademark EH quips coming out of left field, goofy jokes, enough atmosphere to make you SMELL the lobster 🦞(side note: 🤤), and of course some of her beautiful descriptions of the intricacies of feeling in a romantic relationship and some gorgeous one-liners ("My heart starts singing its favorite song: you, you, you"). But I think the main reason this one didn't QUITE make MY heart sing was simple: I didn't love either of the two leads...and on top of that, I couldn't relate to the feeling of being part of this 'perfect' friend group. I tried so hard to get there...but unlike many of EH's other books, I wasn't dying to be ACTUAL FRIENDS with these characters. There's nothing wrong with them per se, but nobody LEAPT off the page. Wyn felt like sort of a ho-hum guy to be giving up your entire life (and your heart) for, and although I felt sorry for Harriet being stuck in a career in the medical field that wasn't fulfilling, I still questioned her choices and her willingness to explore at such a relatively young age. There's a lot of exploration of people pleasing, but without giving anything away, this exploration is pretty one sided and ends with ONE person making some sacrifices...and the other not making too many. I wanted these characters to get back together more so to keep them both 'happy' rather than because I felt they BELONGED together...a subtle difference in some ways when it comes to romance novels, but enough to leave me feeling unfulfilled. With so much time spent rehashing the past to get the reader up to speed and also covering the goofy antics of the group during this year's trip (not to mention a couple of side plots) I just kept hoping for the warmth to wash over me like it ALWAYS does when I'm reading EH, but this time? I think there was just a bit of Maine chill lingering in the air. And although this book didn't quite live up to the sky-high bar I feel Henry has set for herself, I have every confidence where my Happy Place NEXT summer will be: in a lounge chair ✅ by the pool ✅ with a beverage in one hand...and a BRAND NEW copy of Funny Story in the other! 😎 📚 3.75 stars, rounded up to 4 Winner of the Goodreads Choice Award for Best Romance! Now available in paperback!

→ 3.5 ☆ “i knew the only thing more painful than being without him would be being together knowing i no longer truly had him.” br with my lovely caitlin!! here's her rating/review: sigh so... what are your guys' thoughts on emily with an eyepatch? she'll give aaron from aphmau. no one make a rude comment on that reference. i cannot handle my bubble being popped yet again. anyhow, my emotions are absolutely FUCKED over. coherent thoughts? haha, where? at first, i wasn't really liking it. once i stuck it out, i enjoyed it. i especially loved the past povs. in my opinion, seeing the shift from ‘real life’ to ‘happy place’ is crucial. however, my love for this didn't form until halfway through the book. the friend group dynamic was unbelievable at times. there were many instances throughout the book when i thought that doesn't seem right. it was so obvious everyone was hiding something. from the get-go, it seemed sketchy, and out of place. other readers have complained that it felt like being pushed randomly into a friend group, i agree wholeheartedly. on top of that, the inside jokes fall flat. i would've liked it if eh provided more context for the inside jokes and references throughout the book. i had to look things up because i just felt out of the loop. it made me feel like an old person trying to understand snapchat slang. towards the last 10%, though? oh my god, i could completely feel the love, friendship, and growth. but then again, we didn't get that until 90% into the book. sigh. i really wanted to adore happy place, nevertheless, i cannot force feelings that don't exist. i don't hate the book, i fairly enjoyed it. it just didn't hit like beach read and book lovers did (no, i will NOT take any beach read or book lovers slander in this comment section). i really cherished harry's character towards the end (not THE end, though). i related to her so much. that end though. that goddamn fucking end, the very end. ain't no way. i mean, girlboss, do what you love, but it just seemed so out of place? throughout the book she talks about how much she loves her job, no matter how tiring it is. yet, randomly, she just drops out to become a pottery gal? SHE DOESN'T EVEN EXPRESS THAT MUCH LOVE FOR IT UNTIL THE VERY END. S I G H. i just think it's sudden, for we don't see the 'real harry' until the last 5%. i would've loved seeing bits and pieces of the 'real harry' that would convince me she'd make that decision for anything other than wyn. now, wyn. the man that you are, the apparently clovey, piney, sandusty man that you are. yes, harriet is CONSTANTLY sniffing him. we are given M A N Y descriptions of what he smells like. she often talks about the want to bottle him up in a fragrance. anywho, wyn wyn wyn. the fact that his love language is physical touch spoke to me on a personal level. i thrive off of physical touch, it makes me feel loved. i'm an attention whore, just so you know. now, that being said, i simultaneously loved and hated him. he got on my nerves SO MUCH, but at the same time, i was giggling at his grand sayings and proclamations to harry. i'm a sucker for sweet-talking and trust me, wyn is a sweet-talker. wyn is also a professional overthinker, self-deprecating, and worry-wort. he made my brain hurt. wyn and harry's personalities clashed from time to time (the whole book). harry's a people-pleaser to the MAX and puts everyone else's well-being before her own, while wyn constantly self-doubts and overthinks. therefore, causing a huge miscommunication issue, which is why the entire book is so angsty. i definitely felt harry's heartbreak and sorrows, maybe not at the beginning but at about the 70% mark. which brings me to my next point: sabrina. i don't like her. what she did? holy fucking hell. that's going against all rules of trust and friendship. i know the situation was a little messed up, but pulling that absolute bullshit because what, you think your cupid? go fuck yourself. honestly. she should've groveled more. cleo and kimmy, however? I ADORE THEM SO MUCH. they're so gay and adorable and lovely. easily my favorite characters—besides ray. them owning a farm together is so precious. (view spoiler) i love them. sigh. i suppose this review is coming to an end, huh? again, my deepest apologies to any and all happy place defenders. i envy you. i want to be you. do you know how it pains me to have so much negativity surrounding my beloved emily henry—coming from ME specifically? it's heartbreaking. sigh x2. also, january & gus get an entire star to themselves. “it’s by this married couple who usually publish separately. one of them writes literary doorstop novels and the other writes romance.” i squealed. the quotes absolutely destroyed any self-preservation i had left. so i'll just give you guys some of those, and you'll understand why i rated this so highly. “the most important friendships in my life all came down to a decision made by strangers, chance.” “my best friends taught me a new kind of quiet, the peaceful stillness of knowing one another so well you don’t need to fill the space. and a new kind of loud: noise as a celebration, as the overflow of joy at being alive, here, now.” “when suddenly more of my heart belongs to him than doesn’t, and i know i’ll never get a single grain back.” “he’s a golden boy. i’m a girl whose life has been drawn in shades of gray. i try not to love him. i really try.” “stupid, stupid, stupid heart. don’t you know he hasn’t been yours to cry over for a long time?” “in every universe, it’s you for me. even if it’s not me for you.” “don’t yet know that there is a level of happiness even deeper, one so intense it hurts, almost like loss or grief.” “we did the right thing. we let each other go. that too is a kind of comfort.” “i've tried so hard to be good, to deserve the people around me, yet i've still managed to hurt all of them.” “don’t forgive me. stay mad at me. don’t get over me.” mwah, alayla. 📖 ────── sigh. rtc. don't be fooled by the rating. it's gonna be mean and i apologize in advance. ────── y'all... caitlin is scaring me, “if i don't end up liking this, you will never hear from me again. the cognitive dissonance i will have to deal with by living outside of being in love with emily henry will be so staggering that i will have to be institutionalized.” 😰 same tbh, i will eat eh's eyeballs if this goes wrong ────── happy emily henry day, loves. i hope everyone's enjoying!! <3 personally, i'll be br with caitlin 🤭

Preventing your heart from forgiving someone you love is actually a hell of a lot harder than simply forgiving them. 4 1/2 stars. Holy crap, what a book. This is unlike anything Hoover has written before. I have so many emotions right now that it's hard to know where to start, but I think everyone should read this book. That's right: everyone. I could easily give everything away. I could, but I won't. If you go looking for lots of reviews, it won't be hard to work out what It Ends with Us is about. And if you do, you should still read it, but I think it's better if you don't. I think you should go into this book knowing as little as possible. Just realize that this is something very different from Hoover's usual new adult romances (that I admittedly have had all kinds of problems with). So I don't want to say too much, but this is an extremely powerful story and it's not what most people will be expecting. It gets its power from the singular first person narrative (I'm honestly not a big fan of the alternating male/female POV romances) and we experience everything through Lily's eyes. When she falls in love, we fall in love; when her heart is broken, our heart is broken; when she gets it all wrong, so do we. I cannot stress how important and damn smart this book is. There is no black and white characterization - it's much deeper and more complex than that, and therefore, far more emotional. It peels back the layers of characters and relationships to do something that so many other authors have tried and failed to do - to make you understand a situation that for most people makes no sense. It's very sad, painful and exceptionally honest. My heart hurt while reading it and I almost cried several times. As well as all this emotion and sadness that I'm being coy about, Hoover also brings out some of her very best writing. Little gems of honesty about human nature and relationships that are all the more painful because of their resounding truth. It's such a quotable book, but unfortunately most of the quotes are spoilers, so I shall refrain from posting them. There's so many great things to mention, but I keep getting distracted by my feelings. The narrative is interspersed with letters that Lily wrote as a teenager and they are addressed to Ellen Degeneres - a strange touch that ends up being absolutely perfect. Shit, just writing this review and remembering the story is an emotional experience. And then there's the absolutely fantastic female friendship. I want Allysa to be my best friend. Hoover clearly knows her audience of 16-25 year old women, creating characters with their quirks and habits - Allysa, for example, is a self-confessed "Pinterest whore", which made me laugh. But seriously, she is the best friend ever and she says one of the most perfect lines in this book. Anyway, I'm just going to start rambling soon because I read this book in a whirlwind of emotions throughout a single day. I've been up since a ridiculous time and I need to go sleep now. But really, give this book a chance. I thought it was excellent. Trigger Warnings: (view spoiler) Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store

SPOILER FREE REVIEW As a member of the human species with a Y chromosome, I admit that the allure of the romance novel eludes me, even though I'm a particularly hopeless romantic myself. The thought of reading about a prolonged courtship isn't something to get all excited about. After all, how many people out there are actually interested in hearing about my own misadventures in the dating arena? On second thought, don't answer that. So when I started diving into It Ends with Us: A Novel by Colleen Hoover, I expected pages of the same old trite that have filled thousands of romance novels ever since the first caveman dragged the first cavechick by the hair back into his stone-age pad. Wouldn't you know it? I wasn't disappointed in the slightest. Let's take a brief rundown of the requisite elements and see if this novel has them: Girl Meets Boy - CHECK Boy is Impossibly Handsome - CHECK Boy is Impossibly Rich - CHECK Boy is Impossibly Talented - CHECK Boy has Mysterious Name - CHECK Boy is Emotionally Aloof - CHECK Girl Tries To Deny Feelings For Boy She Just Met - CHECK Boy Makes A Move - CHECK Girl Pretends Not To Like It - CHECK Boy Says Something Clever and Sexy - CHECK Boy and Girl Have Wild, Raunchy Sex - CHECK Okay, the last one actually doesn't happen for a good while owing to the tried-and-tested phone-call-interruption-just-when-we're-about-to-do-it cliche, but it's still there. Here's a description of when the two lovebirds first meet: I feel his voice in my stomach. That's not good. Voices should stop at the ears, but sometimes - not very often at all, actually - a voice will penetrate past my ears and reverberate straight down through my body. He has one of those voices. Deep, confident, and a little bit like butter. Here's another one: This guy is beautiful. Well-manicured, smells like money, looks to be several years older than me. His eyes crinkle in the corners as they follow me, and his lips seem to frown, even when they aren't. Now, why would I give four stars to a book that overuses so many tropes? Because Colleen Hoover knows her audience so well it's almost criminal. Her writing is clean and lucid. The protagonist is fleshed-out. The story tugs at the heart. Everything else can be forgiven. And by the end of the first half of the book, it becomes painfully obvious that this novel is not about romance. It's about heartache. Our protagonist is a 23-year old wannabe florist named Lily Blossom Bloom (yes) who meets brooding neurosurgeon Ryle Kincaid (again, yes). Lily's father has recently passed, and she's trying to come to terms with her less-than-stellar relationship with dear ol' dad. Flashbacks are interspersed throughout the book via Lily's high school diary, and we quickly find out that her first love was a homeless guy named Atlas Corrigan (for the last time, yes) who lived in an abandoned shack near her childhood home. To say that dad and Atlas did not get along is an understatement. Lily is a smart and driven woman, and it shows through her personality. She balances the pleasures of love with the pleasures of work. A couple chapters in, she decides to pursue her dream and open a flower shop: "Sweet, life, pink, spring." I repeat. And then, "Allysa, you're brilliant!" I stand up and begin pacing the floor. "We'll take everything everyone loves about flowers, and we'll do the complete opposite!" Nice one, Lily. But of course, this wouldn't be a good novel if all we ever read about is how good Lily is getting it at the office and in the bedroom. Midway through, disaster strikes. I won't say what kind of disaster, but there's quite a few of it, both in present time and in the flashbacks. And then there's love. And then there's disaster. And then there's love. And then there's disaster. And then there's love. This book may overuse so many things we've come to expect of romantic comedies, but when I figured out the real message Colleen wanted to impart, I swept all the small things under the rug. This novel is a heartfelt plea for the readers to empathize with men and women who are caught up in relationships that are causing them turmoil and pain. It's a call to have an open mind when confronted with a similar relationship in the real world, both for the man, the woman, and their families. Finally, it leaves us with a beautiful if not sad moral lesson that the right thing to do may sometimes also be the hardest thing to do. People say that teenagers don't know how to love like an adult. Part of me believes that, but I'm not an adult so I have nothing to compare it to. But I do believe it's probably different. I'm sure there's more substance in the love between two adults than there is between two teenagers. There's probably more maturity, more respect, more responsibility. But no matter how different the substance of a love might be at different ages in a person's life, I know that love still has to weigh the same. You feel that weight on your shoulders and in your stomach and on your heart no matter how old you are. The book is peppered with phrases like the one above, and the more I read, the more I got the feeling that the words were coming from the author's mouth and not the protagonist's. At the beginning and end of the novel, there is a personal message left by the author, and the motivation for this book suddenly becomes clear. They say writing is a private and cathartic process, and for Colleen, this certainly was extremely private and cathartic. It must have taken a lot of effort to write. It's only fair that it took a lot of joy to read.

4.5 stars!! An absolutely heartbreaking yet important story. I'm so proud of Colleen Hoover for writing this story and sharing what Lily went through. I learned so so much from Lily's story and I can't wait to read It Starts With Us.

”Oh, I want you, Lily. Make no mistake about that. I just don’t want to want you.” I thought really long and hard about how I’m going to review this book and what it always comes down to, is that I actually don’t want to review it. This is one of the rare books you just have to read yourself. You have to experience it and feel it and no matter what I’d write in my review, it would never even get close to all the emotions that hit me while I read “It Ends With Us”. This book makes you happy and sad, it confuses you, breaks you, hurts you, makes you question yourself and your thoughts! Hell, it makes you question your own code of ethics. ”The reasoning is the hardest part of this. It eats at me, little by little, wearing down the strength my hatred lends to me.” It would be easy to judge; easy to sit on a high horse, but the way this is written, the way Colleen Hoover conveyed her feelings… It makes it impossible to go out of this book without acknowledging her POV, it makes it impossible not to think about it. I know the world is not white and black. I always knew that there are many shades of grey, but this book? It confronts you with the deepest grey and forces you to deal with it. It poses the simple question: What would I have done? And as usually, the simple questions of life are the hardest and most complicated to answer. ;-) ”All humans make mistakes. What determines a person’s character aren’t the mistakes we make. It’s how we take those mistakes and turn them into lessons rather than excuses.” We all know what we SHOULD do in certain situations! What is expected of us, but when you’re actually in one of those situations? When feelings are involved? It’s not that easy anymore… I could be vague and probably continue like that forever but I won’t say more than this! It wouldn’t be fair to all the people who still want to read “It Ends With Us”. So all I’m saying is this: - This book is important! - I really liked Lily as a character and I admire her! (view spoiler) - Atlas is a precious bean and I love that man! <3 (view spoiler) - I enjoyed the two different POVs from Lily. Her teenage diary entries and the current plot made this a really intriguing read. Sometimes it felt like there were two different Lily’s which dominated the story line and I guess in some way there were, because the years of experience made them two different people. - Alyssa was the best friend ever!!! <333 (view spoiler) - The ending…. I’ll never get over it. (view spoiler) - Read it, but be warned! It’s not an easy read. Trigger warnings: (view spoiler) Conclusion: This was an emotional and haunting read and totally not what I expected. It definitely kept me on my toes though. XD Colleen Hoover is a great author and I’ll continue to read her other books. In future I just might be a little bit more careful when I start one of them. ;-) ___________________________________ It was time to consult my "Bookie Jar" and to find out what I should read next. Apparently it wants me to read my first Colleen Hoover book ever and I’m so ready for it. I’ve seen her books all over my feed and I’m very curious if I’ll like “It Ends With Us”. I didn’t read many romances lately and I’m really no expert when it comes to this particular kind of genre, so I’m definitely open for it. So far the only romance authors I can recommend are Joyo Moyes, Cecilia Ahern and Nicolas Sparks. *lol* Let’s find out if I’ll be able to recommend Colleen Hoover in future too. ;-P

It hurts, it hurts a lot Booktok was right: Atlas is an angel Ryle is a demon sent from hell to feast on our souls And it really did traumatise me but they were wrong, it's not a love story but Lily's story

Find me on Instagram & Twitter! ❝I wish cutting my feelings off for the person who hurt me was as easy as I used to think it would be. Preventing your heart from forgiving someone you love is actually a hell of a lot harder than simply forgiving them.❞ It Ends With Us was beautifully complicated. It was hot and cold. Up and down. Good and bad. Beautiful and ugly... I'm still trying to figure out how I really feel about it all because I'm genuinely torn on how I want to perceive this storyline. I loved it but in all honesty, I really do think I hate it as well. Not the "I-hate-you-Colleen-Hoover-stop-writing-books-and-find-a-different-career" type of hate but rather "I-hate-you-Colleen-Hoover-for-making-me-hate-everything-that-I-came-to-love" kind of hate because it pretty much summarizes all my thoughts and feelings about It Ends With Us in one sentence. My opinions were completely divided. One side of me, the hopeless romantic, was utterly unsatisfied and angry with the outcome of the story. The opposite side, the one that's all about women's empowerment, was cheering on #TeamLily like it was Independence Day. (view spoiler) I'd been having a bad CoHo streak for three books in a row (if you're curious, the books were — in order — Hopeless, November 9, and Too Late) and for a moment there I was beginning to think that I was doomed to never enjoy another book written by Colleen Hoover again. But PRAISE. It Ends With Us restored my faith completely in the CoHo hype. Not that I was ever planning NOT to read any more of Colleen's books! Colleen Hoover is 100 percent my favorite auto-buy author. I will always buy her books no matter if I end up loving them or not, and with good reason because Colleen is such an exceptional writer. It Ends With Us still wasn't able to top Ugly Love as my favorite CoHo book of all time but I really enjoyed this book more than I thought I would.

I can’t even write a proper review because I’m still in tears. I breathed through this book in one day. I’d been crying my ass off the whole time. I’m broken. Atlas Corrigan, you son of a bitch, you played my heart like a violin😩 When the phrase “It ends with us” finally appeared… BITCH

My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr... Wow! I am a bit late to the party for this one. I'm not sure what I can say that hasn't been said already. This was my first CoHo book and it looks like I picked a good one to start with. It's surprising but even though the book had already been out for a while, other than hearing that it was very emotional, I didn't actually know what it was about. I am happy I was able to listen to it without knowing very much. It didn't take very long to see where the story-line was headed. The book's main theme deals with a very delicate and important subject. I can understand the variety of feelings this book brings out in different people. I've seen reviews from friends that absolutely love this book and some from friends that really didn't care for it. I can see both sides. I fall in the middle but more towards really liking it. Does that make sense? I don't know... but that's the best way I think I can describe how I feel about it. I've now listened to handful of audio-books and I'm really enjoying them. I will always love to read books but on those days where I have a headache or my eyes are bothering me, it's awesome to have this choice. In my opinion the narrator for this novel did a wonderful job.....Olivia Song (Great name too!). "It Ends With Us" is a heartbreaking novel that deals with sensitive and extremely important issues and I think that Colleen Hoover handled it well. Sometimes you have to tell yourself... “Just keep swimming.”

4.5⭐️ “Hell is a classroom” Wow wow wow. I absolutely adored this book!! And this is why I will always say go into books with an open mind, especially popular new releases with A LOT of differing opinions. I know a lot of people didn’t like this book and found it to be too info dumpy and reads like a textbook with all of its literary references and philosophical underpinnings, and honestly that take is entirely valid. I totally understand by people either love or hate this book and I just so happened to be in the camp that LOVE IT!!! I think one of the main reasons why I loved this so much is that it resonated with me so so deeply. As someone who spend 6 years in higher education, who thrived off academic validation and for praise and approval from my professors, being in Alice’s head made me feel so seen and heard. RF. Luang really said, hey, all of you who have ever lost yourself to the need for perfection and approval in the world academia, who sacrificed your mental and physical well being to the point where you don’t even recognizing yourself anymore… I see you and I hear you. And GOD did I feel seen. Reading this made me feel like a student again and brought back so many memories both good and bad, it was quite healing. I adored this plot, it sucked me right in! The parallels and prose and depth to this world and these characters made it so easy for me to so deeply invested in the story right away. Peter and Alice have my whole heart, their romance (though subtle) was perfect, this is everything I want from rivals to lovers. This is also EVERYTHING I WANT from dark academia. This is also exactly how I prefer to read a soft magic system. The magic is there and it’s intriguing and easy to understand and fit into the world, yet it is not used to solve problems and accelerate the plot. Some people might not like this aspect but it’s perfect for me. The depression representation too!!! Don’t even start with me, it was so perfect it actually made me emotional because of how much I related to Alice’s struggles. This is the type of mental health rep I want from books. “She was not one of the depressives who lay stinking in bed; she could not just lie there, the stillness hurt worse. Moving staved the agony.“ Two lost, damaged souls, unknowing victims of the same trauma, with minds so big it can be overwhelming, wander to hell together to bring back their professor…. What could go wrong? “I wish I were the night, so that I might watch your sleep with a thousand eyes.”

Dark Academia meets 🤝🏻Dante’s Inferno! — A storm of shadows, a blaze of sorrow. It’s a labyrinth of fire and mind games Hell of a ride indeed, got tea for days.. Review incoming… my mind is still untangling this..🕯️📖 ----- ೃ ⁀➷pre-view:🎯 "One journey to Hell, two minds in a race—will they save a soul or just lose their place?" "Rivals turned allies, with magic to bend—play the game or watch everything end." "Alice Law’s got ambition, Peter’s got pride? And I’m about to witness them both collide." -OH YESS! 🎭 "Just unboxed the physical ARC of THE most anticipated book of the year— Can you hear me screaming!? -Massive love and thanks to KF Kuang for making my entire month!" The cover, the promises the magic I crave, A journey to Hell, to save or to slave. "I’m in. I’m ALL in. Watch me dive headfirst into the flames... this ride’s gonna be WILD!" 🤸‍♀️

ARC provided by the publisher—Harper Voyager—in exchange for an honest review. At this point, it is safe to say Katabasis by R.F. Kuang has an assured path to take the bestseller spot in many outlets around the world. That being said, can this relatively bizarre novel win the reader’s heart? “How wonderful, truly, to have a friend whose silence you adored.” I’ve been a fan of Kuang’s books for seven years now. To be more precise, it was even before the release of The Poppy War. The Poppy War is R.F. Kuang’s debut, and to this day, it is still her most popular fantasy novel. It is worth repeating that since then, Kuang has reached the stardom and fame that many authors dream of attaining. The fans—I am one of them—are myriad in quantity. And a part of me is proud and happy to see her being this successful. Everything I just said considered, believe me when I say I enjoyed Katabasis a great deal. It was one of my most anticipated novels of the year, and I am blessed to have read it in January. However, for several reasons and better or worse, I am also confident this will be Kuang’s most mixed-received fantasy/dark academia novel to date. Despite my overall enjoyment of the book, it is also comparatively my least favorite book—I haven’t read Yellowface, though—written by her. “This was the key to flourishing in graduate school. You could do anything if you were delusional.” To repeat the official blurb, Katabasis follows the story of Alice Law. Alice has only ever had one goal: to become one of the brightest minds in the field of Magick. She has sacrificed everything to make that a reality: her pride, her health, her love life, and most definitely her sanity. All to work with Professor Jacob Grimes at Cambridge, the greatest magician in the world. That is, until he dies in a magical accident, and Grimes is now in Hell, and she’s going in after him. Grimes’ recommendation could hold her very future in his now incorporeal hands, and even death is not going to stop the pursuit of her dreams. But her rival, Peter Murdoch, has come to the very same conclusion. With nothing but the tales of Orpheus and Dante to guide them, enough chalk to draw the Pentagrams necessary for their spells, and the burning desire to make all the academic trauma mean anything, they set off across Hell to save a man they don’t even like. But Hell is not like the storybooks say, Magick isn’t always the answer, and there’s something in Alice and Peter’s past that could forge them into the perfect allies…or lead to their doom. Picture: Katabasis by Jorge Jacinto “Now all that was gone. This was the unbelievable fact of death. This was a paradox her mind could not accept, that someone could be in the world one moment and simply be gone the next.” Let’s get my issue out of the way first. If there’s one singular thing in Katabasis that did not click with me too well, it would have to be the pacing. Usually, I find myself constantly riveted by Kuang’s storytelling from the first page to the last. Even when the characters behaved frustratingly—Rin in The Dragon Republic, as an example—and even then, I was never bored. The first half of Katabasis, however, was quite a slog to get through in some sections for me. Although we were immediately welcomed to Kuang’s vision of desolate hell with an endless sunset, in my opinion, the narrative delved too long into textbook philosophy and theories about life, death, and hell. At the end of the day, these did not influence the core of the story as much as I hoped. Babel did employ a relatively similar structure of storytelling, but from my perspective, the balance between the plot progressions, characterizations, world-building, and info-dump was handled more precisely there. “And if falling in love was discovery, was letting yourself be discovered the equivalent to being loved?” Fortunately, Katabasis did improve significantly as we enter the second half of the novel. This is due to us readers being introduced to Alice and Peter’s past. This shed clear explanations about their past, personality, and dark motivations to save Professor Grimes. And if you are familiar with Kuang’s characters, then you will know this. She does not write a goody two-shoes main character. It’s the other way around. Most of her main characters are incredibly flawed. Sometimes infuriating. Sometimes toxic. Alice is not an exception to this. The revelations during this section were a harrowing trainwreck (in a good way) that we cannot turn away from. And in return, they elevate the tension, stakes, and compelling nature of the narrative staggeringly. This part is irreplaceable, and I cannot help but wish it happened sooner in the narrative. While it did not warrant the redundant and meandering textbook philosophy discussion and theories in the first half, the past portions gave crucial meaning to the two main characters’ morals and motivations. This made the rest of the book more impactful and compelling. “Her memory did that sometimes; she confused memories and reality, her imagination was too vivid, she couldn’t help it.” Before I end this review, I also need to mention that the hell visualized in Katabasis is an interesting one. It is clear this book is inspired by Dante’s Inferno. I cannot emphasize this highly enough, but you do not have to read all the necessary research and books that go into the creation of Katabasis. You will certainly benefit from it. But mandatory? Not really. You will have a better understanding of the theories discussed, but for most of it, I do not think they enhanced the plot and characterizations. Back to my point, though. The hell here is not as dark, brutal, and violent as most depictions of hell in other stories. But still, there’s a lot to look forward to in Katabasis beyond the plot and characters. There were some devilishly gorgeous vistas and settings depicted. To mention a few, Cambridge in the sky executed Inception style to the gleaming city of Dis, and then the hellish creatures such as Cerberus, Kripkes, and more. The last quarter of this descent to the underworld was exhilarating, dark, and satisfying. “Surely no one else lived like this - burdened by the tiniest details they assumed had enormous consequences. Surely no one else was so anchored by anxiety. Other people could stumble and shake their heads and move on. How she envied their lightness.” Kuang herself has mentioned Katabasis is essentially a love story in hell. Although it took some time for the plot to get going, the development between Alice and Peter and how they came to terms with their flaws was the most potent aspect of the novel. Katabasis may become one of those hate or love books. Yes, I know we can say this about every book. But Katabasis embodied this statement. There’s a potential you either absolutely love or hate it. Nothing in between. I needed to dive deeper into the texts when I worked as an art director for The Broken Binding edition of the book, and even though I did have some issues with it, I still consider Katabasis one of the most ambitious and well-researched novels of the year. I find it incredibly refreshing that Kuang constantly tries new things with her new book. Needless to say, I am excited for The Taipei Story in 2026. If you are a fan of Kuang’s previous books, do not let reviews—mine included—form your opinions. Give it a try. You might end up pleasantly surprised by it. “But of course it was worth it. It was the only thing that was worth it. She had been fortunate to find a vocation that made irrelevant everything else, and anything that made you forget to eat, drink, sleep, or maintain basic relationships—anything that made you so inhumanly excited—had to be pursued with single-minded devotion.” You can order this book from: Amazon | Blackwells (Free International shipping) The quotes in this review were taken from an ARC and are subject to change upon publication. You can find this and the rest of my reviews at Novel Notions | I also have a Booktube channel Special thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for giving me extra support towards my passion for reading and reviewing! My Patrons: Abdul, Andrew. S, Arik, Arliss, Barbara, Ben, Benjamin, Biskit, Cade, Chris, Crystal, Cullen, Dan, Dylan, Edward, Elias, Erich, Feanor, Francesca, Frank, Gary, Gregory, James, Jason, Jeff, Jenn, Johnny, Joie, Jonathan, Katrina, Kim, Kristina, Lara, Leigh, Lourdes, Melinda, Mike, Mike S, Miracle, Mordie, Nicholas, Radiah, RCT, Sally, Samiadji, Samuel, Sarah, Scott, Sean, Shawn, Shawna, Stephanie, Trish, Tyler, TS, Wendy, Wick, Xero, Yuri, Zachary, Zammar.

Babel meets Ninth House meets Inception meets Alice in Wonderland 🤓 Reading vlog coming!

⭐ 4,50 stars katabasis wasn’t what i expected and that turned out to be a good thing. i went in thinking it would have action,fast-paced fantasy, something in the vein of the poppy war. instead, i found deeper,academic,more introspective story. it doesn’t unravel through plot, but through people.their grief, their guilt, their detachment from being alive. reminded me of babel in the storytelling,and the academic style at some parts. the pacing is slow,but it mirrors the characters emotional paralysis. you’re not reading to find out what happens next,you’re reading to understand why these people are the way they are. “she was so tired of the contents of her mind. her thoughts were so loud; they pounded her skull, it never stopped, it was all too much.” peter and alice broke me. but i wish we had seen more of them. their relationship was full of history and tension.but the book only offered glimpses: shared glances, quiet breathing, unspoken memories. maybe that’s intentional. maybe some connections aren’t meant to be revived,just remembered. grimes’s storyline caught me off guard. it was raw and deeply unsettling, but also one of the book’s strongest emotional threads. it forces you to sit with the discomfort. there are no clean resolutions.just a quiet honesty. “all the ghost stories were wrong; hauntings were so rarely malicious. the dead only wanted to feel included.” katabasis doesn’t shout but its presence stays with you. the concept was so good but had a few missed emotional moments.if i hadn’t read her previous books i would rated it 5 stars. still, this book left a mark on me and so glad to get an arc from one of my favorite authors. thank you to harpercollins for the arc, it was a dream come true . . . . . this will be the BEST thing of 2025.

⁀ ⊹ ₊ To be a magician was to be that tortoise racing Achilles; deluding himself, as the runner loomed larger behind him, that space and time would hang still so that he might stay ahead. mother kuang has done it again!! i'm probably throwing up a little bit from the sheer emotional whiplash this book put me through. katabasis by r.f. kuang is my most anticipated release of the year, and receiving an arc to buddy read alongside my bestie, fadhee was an absolute privilege. and lemme just say, all the pain, all the misery, all the existential dread we endured from babel? this book fixed it. mostly. ── 𖣠 plot summary alice law dreamed of being the best magician. she put all her effort, mind, and even health into it. her biggest goal was to work with jacob grimes, the world's greatest magician at cambridge. alice did everything jacob asked, even when he was mean to her, just to get his approval. but then, jacob grimes died in a magic accident that alice caused. now, his soul is in hell. alice must do whatever it takes to bring him back, even if it means going to hell herself. peter murdoch, who was always competing with alice, decides to join her on this mission to find jacob's soul. this journey is very dangerous and might cost them their own souls. will this adventure destroy them? will alice and peter become more than rivals, or will everything end in disaster? ── 𖣠 characters 𖣠 alice law full disclosure, i was so damn biased about her character at the start. she kept giving me the ick, consistently. why? because she’s the biggest teacher's pet you’ll ever meet, but make it dark academia. her ambition felt almost unhinged. she’d sell her soul for an A, and guess what? she literally almost did. but miss author, you sly dog, you got me. her character growth done so subtly, so painfully, so realistically that by the end, i was stanning her. ⁀ ⊹ ₊ She gazed at Peter and thought, 'I wish I were the night, so that I might watch your sleep with a thousand eyes.' 𖣠 peter murdoch my pookie. my shayla. my absolute chaotic nerd prince. peter, oh peter. he wears slutty glasses, which is just chef's kiss character design, thank you very much. i was obsessed with him from page one. he's this glorious mix of whiny and sensitive but also fiercely intelligent and surprisingly loyal. there were so many moments where he'd be complaining about something absolutely dire in hell, and i just couldn't stop laughing. and miss author truly gave me the biggest emotional whiplash about him. i was ready to throw the book across the room at one point, i was so mad. but listen, the end was worth every single tear. peter murdoch deserves the world. ⁀ ⊹ ₊ Peter Murdoch was a book with no ending and all she wanted to do with the rest of her life was to trace her finger down every page. 𖣠 elspeth bayes elspeth is and always will be the it girl. I LOVE HER SO MUCH. she was such a grounding, amazing character. her wisdom, her resilience, her absolute patience with these two chaotic grad students on their journey through literal hell was so good. a literal queen. she was the one holding it all together, the unsung hero, and i would follow her into any supernatural dimension. period no tampon. ⁀ ⊹ ₊ “Go on. Be brave, love.” 𖣠 professor jacob grimes: FUCK YOU. his entire existence in this book is a testament to how even in death, some people just can't stop being trash. ── 𖣠 my thoughts and overview: let's get into the drama, the tension, the 'are they gonna kiss or murder each other?' vibe that is the relationship between alice and peter. it was executed so damn well. they are the quintessential academic rivals to lovers, but make it high-stakes, life-or-death, and literally in hell. their constant competition, their barbed banter, the way they simultaneously infuriate and rely on each other was just perfection. their whole journey throughout hell was a massive rollercoaster. one minute i was giggling at their passive-aggressive arguments, the next i was tearing up at a moment of genuine vulnerability between them. the slow burn, the forced proximity, the mutual goal despite everything, it’s all there, and it's giving everything i ever wanted from an enemies-to-lovers trope. the plot itself was done so well. fadhee and i were constantly on edge, genuinely scared about what fresh hell (pun intended) was going to happen next. BUT. and there's always a but lol. there was so much information dumping in this book, especially in the middle section, that i did find myself sort of bored at times. my eyes glazed over during some of the more detailed magical theory or historical lore dumps. it didn't detract too much from the overall experience because the characters and stakes always pulled me back in, but it definitely broke the flow a few times. also, if you’re expecting HUGE, earth-shattering plot twists that leave your jaw on the floor, you might be a little disappointed. i actually guessed the ending right before it happened. however, even though i saw it coming, the execution was still so good that it didn't diminish the impact. certain parts truly made me want to rip my hair out in frustration, or scream laugh at the sheer absurdity, but the journey and the ending were worth every single bit of it. if you’re a fan of dark academia with a heavy dose of fantasy, a dash of mythological elements, and a chef's kiss academic rivals-to-lovers romance as a subplot, this book is for you. it's gritty, it’s smart, it's emotionally resonant, and it will have you questioning your own life choices (and your professors). miss author has once again proven why she's one of the most exciting voices in modern fantasy fiction. lastly, a very big thank you to my bestie fadhee for reading this with me. i couldn't have done this without you. love you!! tropes: ─ dark academia ─ academic rivals to lovers ─ a journey to hell ─ betrayals ─ use of chalk and magick ─ mentions of ancient concepts ─ mentions of different mythologies thank you netgalley and harper voyager for the e-arc! all thoughts are my own!

this is one of those books that i am eternally grateful to have read, the story will live in my bone marrow …. but the actual experience of reading it, mostly in terms of actualllly wanting to pick it up just. wasn’t. always. there.

A HUGE THANK YOU to NetGalley and Harper Voyager for the ARC! I love Kuang's style! I liked that we set off on our journey right away, even if it felt a bit abrupt. I was immediately drawn into the atmosphere, and I started building some theories (I don't know why; I didn't get anywhere with them. I really need to stop trying to predict the endings of books) This book reminded me of a mix of Babel and Ninth House, as well as Alice in Wonderland! Philosophy, mathematics, wildness and darkness, life and death. “If he/she won't go to hell with you, why do you need him/her?” Honestly, there were moments when I was bored and wanted more action (?). But at the same time, the book made me think. What is life, and are we really living it, or are we just missing out on what’s important while chasing after what’s not? What disappointed me was the FMC; perhaps it was because I didn’t understand her, I didn’t share her feelings, and I didn't like her actions in the past. The whole book is from the FMC’s perspective, and there’s also a dual timeline; only one chapter is dedicated to the MMC, whom I liked, he's like a cinnamon roll, and I teared up at his story. At times, I laughed at the beginning, and at other times, I found myself tearing up. The rivals to lovers trope, oh, thank you! I liked that they were rivals for quite a while, with a bit of hatred, but despite that, they were also friends. The descriptions of the moments from the past when they spent time together made my heart clench! After the ending, I don’t know what to write or how to describe my feelings. It wasn’t a disappointment, but it wasn’t what I expected either. Still, I found myself teary over the book Rebecca again, though for a more personal reason this time. What is the purpose of this journey, to rescue the professor, or something else? Idea: 5/5 Plot: 4/5 Emotions: 4/5 Characters: 3/5 (Peter 4.5/5) • Hell • Dark academia • Rivals to lovers • Toxic professor ‼️Warnings: Child death, Gore, Sexual assault, Suicidal thoughts, Suicide, Blood, Violence, Chronic illness, Sexism, Injury/Injury detail, Panic attacks

Anyways, I liked this. The premise ("Two grad students travel to Hell to get a letter of rec from their dead advisor") is catchy, but Katabasis works best as a character study of Alice Law. Kuang's exploration of a woman dedicated to academia even when it rejects her reads as compelling and frustrating. Relatability is not something I usually seek out in books, but this was just such a book tailored for ME and what I like about dark academia. I've never seen my own attitudes towards grad school mirrored so honestly; I kept returning to Alice's realization that she pursued a PhD not because of any unique curiousity for her field, but because learning is something she liked and was good at it, and wanted commendation for. It's also nice to read an author who continues to dedicate herself to complex & potentially alienating characters. I think where Katabasis stumbles is the imbalance between promise of premise and execution. The beginning of the book centers Alice and Peter discussing how they will travel through Hell, how they will search for their advisor Jacob Grimes, and what challenges the respective circles of Hell will present. But the journey Alice takes is internal. She may be physically crossing from Wrath to Cruelty, but Katabasis isn't interested in overcoming that boundary except for what it means for Kuang to play around with landscapes and set dressing. This isn't a book about two people navigating Hell, it's about what it means for their relationship to academia once they get there. Thematically this is fine, and more interesting than the alternative, but at the end I'm left wondering why we spent so much of the first half of this book pretending otherwise. Why have Alice and Peter wander for so long through Pride? Why place so much weight on the difference between Greed and Wrath to have your characters speed by them? This is a book for people who are In On The Joke and who enjoy tangents about magic systems and debate clubs. I read entire sections out loud to my fiance, and I kept waiting for a Second Reviewer bit to hit. Katabasis is a book that's been recommended too widely-not because it's too "academic"/"smart" or that only a certain kind of person will understand it (we must be honest with ourselves, this is a very easy book to follow), but because it's so fine-tuned to an audience who /will/ care about the difference between magic chalk brands and linguistics jokes and Camus memes, or whatever. That doesn't necessarily affect whether the story is good or bad. Just if you are annoying enough to like it. Which I am. Thank you to the publisher for an advance copy. Opinions are my own.

oops gonna have a mental breakdown over this one no one mind me

RIVALS TO LOVERS IN HELL i can understand why people don’t like this but it definitely worked for me!

English: Once Upon a Time in Hollywood This novelization of Tarantino's ninth movie makes a bold move: The grand finale of the film is only mentioned in passing in a couple of sentences in the first third of the text, the author uses his space, time and freedom to elaborate on Rick Dalton und Cliff Booth. Quick recap: Dalton is the aging actor who wrestles with his impending lack of relevance, Booth is his stuntman and buddy who is haunted by a bad reputation. They travel through a fairy tale-like rendition of 1969 Hollywood, a beautifully shot dreamscape. Usually, novelizations of movies are crafted in the spirit of capitalist monetization, as a means to generate more dollars, not as an artistic endeavor. It's safe to say that this author doesn't need more money though, and he also doesn't sell out. Rather, Tarantino gives us extensive backstories to his antiheroes Dalton and Booth (plus Brandy, the pitbull), we even learn what really happened to Booth's wife (in the movie, he is rumored to have killed her). The author also indulges in long discussions of classic (and less classic) hollywood movies and their impact, about directors, anecdotes from film sets, and stories about stars like, yes, Bruce Lee (whose portrayal in the movie was controversial). And it probably has become clear by now: This is not a plot-driven novel, much like the movie is not plot-driven. The text revels in scenic depictions, atmospheric dialogue as well detailed character development, and I'm here for it. Unsurprisingly, there's also a pulpy feel to the book, with simple, sometimes foul language - it's a shame that the German publisher released it in a fancy hardcover, against the author's wishes who wanted a cheap paperback aesthetic. I just love how Tarantino unapologetically nerds out and re-creates the old Hollywood in a heightened version, hyperreal, tinted in shades of nostalgic yellow and sepia. In the movie, we see a film production without the camera, thus putting the reality in the movie on the same level as the reality created inside the movie narrative. In the novel, Tarantino does the same: He does also expand the story of "Lancer" that is shot with Dalton as the villain. The fictional characters who, in the fictional realm, are created by other fictional characters, are just as important as those who embody them. And of course there's the melancholy of the two aging men, the standoff between old and new Hollywood, and Dalton's wish that Roman Polanski and Sharon Tate might open the gates for him. Tarantino has just re-iterated that he will only make one more movie and retire as a director with a perfect ten. Does he, a guy with a career that by now almost spans 30 years and who just bought a second movie theater to save it from being closed, sometimes feel like a nostalgic fossil, threatened by streaming platforms? Well, he shouldn't. Tarantino is still the real deal. You can learn more about the book in our latest podcast episode (in German).

It’s 1969, Hollywood, and Rick Dalton, an aging, washed-up, alcoholic actor, is looking for work - and finds it, playing the villain (he used to play heroes when he was younger), on a new cowboy TV show. Joining Rick on his slide down from the top is his best friend and stuntman stand-in (when Rick needed it), Cliff Booth. Together they navigate a strange path through a changing film industry and encounter up-and-coming actors, uppity agents, and hippies - hippies are everywhere. And some of them, like spurned wannabe rock star Charlie Manson, are gonna take out their frustrations on the unwitting residents of the Hollywood Hills… Quentin Tarantino’s debut novel, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, is, like his films, a banger! It’s such a fun read. The dialogue is sparkling and the characters are so memorable - aside from child actor Trudi’s surname (it’s Frazer), I didn’t need to look up any of the characters’ full names; they’re so well realised and seared into my mind that I could easily recall all of them. And that’s rare in most books, even for the good ones. Tarantino is a consummate storyteller and he excels at this regardless of the medium. Rick in particular is such an amazing character. He’s dopey but lovable, and surprisingly smart at times, like when he shines on camera. He’s vulnerable - an alcoholic as a result of being undiagnosed bipolar - but also very arrogant and proud. Still, I was rooting for him every step of the way. The movie has this over the book: Leo’s performance is far better than the novel Rick’s was. Rick going to town in a fit of self-loathing in the safety of his trailer, and the scene on the set of the western where he pulls off that stellar performance as Caleb the villain, are so good because of DiCaprio’s acting talent - we only get a whiff of that brilliance in the novel. Cliff in the novel is a much darker person, especially as Tarantino sheds more light on the character’s murders, post-military. And yet we still like the guy and never see him as anything less than a good dude. It’s amazing how Tarantino creates such fully-developed characters. The child actor Trudi and the agent Marvin are also standouts for me. The likeability of such flawed characters is due in large part to the playful tone of the story (“Once upon a time…”). A lot of dark things happen in this book but there’s plenty of upbeat, amusing episodes woven in amidst them too, so I found myself laughing a bunch throughout. There are also knowing nods to Tarantino’s movies, like the appearance of Red Apple Cigarettes, and Cliff being dubbed “Mr Blond” by one of the Manson girls. And a specific namecheck by the author regarding future movies young Trudi grows up to feature in, which is a fun easter egg. Tarantino does tend to be overly descriptive though. He can’t ever just tell you characters go to a bar - he has to describe every single detail of the bar. Like in the Drinker’s Hall of Fame chapter, where he tells you every photo on the wall and whether they’re signed or not. Numerous passages, and a fair number of chapters, are like this - giving you too much information that doesn’t really make a difference, one way or the other to the story, which can be annoying at times. And then there’s the story itself which is murky at best. Tarantino rarely gets out of third gear and ambles his way through the novel from beginning to end. It’s very slow going at times - if you’re a story-driven reader. If you’re all about the characters, then you’re not going to mind. And since this is about the characters, and they’re written so damn perfectly, then it didn’t bother me much. Still, a tighter, more focused, more driven narrative would’ve made this a much better novel, I think. I’m gonna pause here and bid adieu to those of you who haven’t read this yet and are going to - even those who’ve seen the movie before and intend to read this - so this is the end of my non-spoilery review: Once Upon a Time in Hollywood is my favourite novel I’ve read this year, it’s really entertaining and I recommend it. If you saw the movie and wanted to know more about the characters, this novel provides that. It’s also, surprisingly, not a straight retelling of the movie, which, in a way, makes it somewhat new - novel, even - and more intriguing for Tarantino fans. Here on out: SPOILERS! You’ll see why when you read the book. Okey dokey artichokey? Right. One of the fantastic, and unexpected, aspects of the novel is that it mimics the movie’s subversion of audience expectations - in a completely new way. To those of us who knew about the Tate/LaBianca murders, we thought we knew what to expect once Charlie Manson and the Family were introduced and a pregnant Sharon Tate showed up. Uh oh. Poor Sharon. That bastard Charlie. And then the ending of the movie flipped those expectations as the Family wound up at Sharon’s fictional neighbour’s house instead, where Rick, Cliff, and Cliff’s dog Brandy, brutally thwarted their murderous plans, thus giving the movie a surprising and upbeat (albeit extremely violent) ending. Tarantino’s novel of his movie’s story is different in a number of ways, the most surprising being that, about a quarter of the way into the novel, the movie’s conclusion gets tossed off in a page or so; the book’s conclusion is instead a much more lo-fi scene where Rick and Trudi go over the following day’s scenes on the phone. And I think that’s not just brilliant but also a strong selling point of this book: even if you’ve seen the movie, this novel isn’t that. It’s not a straightforward retelling of the movie - it’s a similar story but told differently, which, in a way, makes it a new kind of beast. There’s a lot more on the characters in general. We get the story of how Cliff got his dog Brandy; the story of Cliff murdering his wife; there’s a lot more on Charlie Manson, who basically had a walk-on in the movie, but figures more prominently here; there’s more background on actors “tagging” stuntmen (where an actor accidentally - or not - hits a stuntman) which explains why Cliff came to fight Bruce Lee in a studio backlot; and a great deal more on the story of the TV show Lancer, which Rick is shooting. There’s also scenes here that were filmed but got cut out of the movie and, as far as I know, haven’t been released yet as extras, or possibly incorporated into a future director’s cut of the movie. Like the amusing scene with Raymond, Jay Sebring’s English butler, which was filmed with Mr Orange himself, Tim Roth, as the butler, and the final scene of this book, with Rick and Trudi on the phone. If you’re interested in seeing how those scenes played out, then they’re all here in this book. That’s the beauty of the novel: Tarantino doesn’t have to cut anything to fit a 2.5 hour playing time - he can include them all. But, as I said above, that also does make for a sometimes plodding read (there’s a reason they were cut to begin with). Which remains my main criticism of this book: there’s a wee bit too much here. And this is why I called spoilers above. In the movie, it makes sense to have scenes with Sharon Tate and the Manson Family. We’re expecting this to culminate in the real life tragedy of Sharon’s bloody death and Tarantino happily leads us to that supposed conclusion only to hoodwink us at the end. In this book, because that conclusion is dealt with so briskly and so early in the narrative, never to be revisited, it makes all of the scenes featuring Sharon Tate, Roman Polanski, and the Manson Family, completely pointless. This book has nothing to do with the Manson Family Murders and doesn’t even pretend to be - so why have anything related to that here? I suppose the Manson Family stuff is mostly interesting - and Cliff going to the spooky Spahn Ranch to visit the blind George Spahn, in thrall to the Family, remains a great scene - but the Sharon and Roman parts really weren’t. And could’ve been an easy cut. Because, instead of the Manson Family’s would-be murderousness, the novel is really about the celebration of actors - particularly lesser known actors - and the even less well-known people behind the camera, like stuntmen. Hence the main characters being a washed up TV star and his dubious stuntman, and why seemingly irrelevant chapters like the one about tragic real life actor Aldo Ray, who became a full blown alcoholic and fell from making studio features to appearing in smaller and sleazier movies over the course of his life, are included. It’s why Cliff fights Bruce Lee - and wipes the floor with him. Cliff represents the little guy - the guy who helps make the movies happen but doesn’t get the adulation that international movie stars like Bruce Lee do. To Tarantino, the unknown stuntman is cooler than the movie star, famous to millions, and this fight symbolises that succinctly. It’s also why he included so many lesser known actors to modern audiences in his movies like David Carradine and Pam Grier, and, later on, stunt people like Zoe Bell. This story is also a poignant love letter to filmmaking and filmmakers. The sheer mass of film detail Tarantino rattles off effortlessly throughout speaks to the author’s passion for the medium. And it’s poignant too given that Tarantino is one movie away from retirement (he says he’ll only make ten movies and then quit - he counts Kill Bill as one movie, by the by) and will soon be walking away from this business that’s been so good to him, and he’s done so much good for. I say “retirement” - he’s really transitioning careers from movies to books; he’ll continue telling his stories but this is going to be his chosen medium going forward. And, if this novel is an indication, he’ll be equally as successful in the world of books as he was in the movies. Regardless of my criticisms, this is a great book, I had a lot of fun reading it, and I look forward to many more in the years to come. And we’ll still get Tarantino movies too in a way - I’m sure the film rights to the books will be bought and adapted by other directors. “Once Upon a Time…” stories tend to close with “The End” but this one is a beginning - and a very promising one it is too. (And yes, I’m aware that my criticism of verbosity is ironic given that this review turned out to be my longest in quite some time!)

(this is four and a half stars) immediately and effortlessly one of my favorite pieces of post modernism published in the last twenty years. tarantino is a totally breathless and engaging writer wielding pulp and garbage as a fluid channel for real sublimity and romance. distinctly its own thing, an uncanny item to possess and behold, so generative of fantasy and ecstasy that having it around the house feels like an artistic expression by itself. i could have read it one afternoon but i picked through it slowly scene by scene because i just could not stop myself from luxuriating in the world that could have been.... what a real joy. can't wait to read whatever he writes next

COMBO FILM/NOVEL REVIEW (@ 7:00:00 in the audiobook) The audiobook is currently free on YouTube (late 2021JULY) no ads. Reading by Jennifer Jason Lee - 12.5 hours in all. OF course the novel(ization) greatly expands on the film. SPOILER ALERT the novel has a BIG film spoiler in chapter two, along with smaller spoilers throughout. IMO, the only spoiler of consequence is that Chapter Two spoiler. This is because the film is a "day in the life" - not really plot driven. It's much more about the characters and is big on 1969 LA LA atmosphere - with a soundtrack. The creatively minded could rip it from the DVD and appropriately graft it on to parts of the reading - suitably panned down. Of course the book greatly expands on the film. It drags somewhat when it dives into movie and TV minutae, but unless one is already very well-versed in the language and culture of film, the minutae is informative, if not always entertaining. It seems clear that QT relished the Lancer chapter, which could serve as a nice set-up for a pulp western novel of its own. FAINTLY SPOILERY UPDATE 2022NOV17 - The cowboy-actor Rick Dalton and child-actor Trudi Frazer interaction was expanded in a way that charmed me. Stuntman Cliff Booth turned out to be a foreign film buff - with theories on why post-war European films were serious in ways that few Hollywood films approached. It seemed clear that Booth was a surrogate for QT - now confirmed in QT's memoir Cinema Speculation. Booth gets enough treatment in the book to place him nearly ahead of cowboy-actor Rick Dalton as the "main character" - especially his back-story as a violent assassin and dirty-fighter. There's more "auto-biography" at a sixties actors' watering-hole - which featured QT's stepfather as a working musician.

So that was a quick and enjoyable read. I loved the film and seen it multiple times. So obviously I had to get the book. I loved how you get to know more backstory on the characters and a much deeper look into Cliff. Probably my favourite chapter was on how Cliff was introduced to Brandy. That story was sad and fantastic. Cliff was probably the best part of the book. Some little bits I thought was a tad boring and dragged on which knocked it away from being a 5 star for me.

Dwight Garner’s cautiously laudatory New York Times review of filmmaker Quentin Tarantino’s epic 400-page novelization of Once Upon a Time in Hollywood gets it right: “If it were written better, it’d be written worse.” Tarantino’s novel is pulp fiction best appreciated as a companion text, or better yet, a skeleton key to the movie. Lots of riotous untold backstory of how Hollywood stuntman Cliff Booth (played by Brad Pitt in the movie) comes by his casual proficiency with ultraviolence. There’s a deeper dive into Manson Family dynamics, perhaps not as nuanced as Emma Cline’s The Girls, but no less chilling. The novel even has its own surprise ending that cleverly subverts the movie’s surprise ending. There are seedy detours into Hollywood lore, including a poignant depiction of alcoholic actor Aldo Ray’s decline. Most enjoyable is the book’s torrent of geeky motor-mouthing film criticism, similar in tone to the engaging program notes that the director has been penning in recent years since purchasing the New Beverly Cinema in Los Angeles.

Pretty, um, voicey. If you think movie Tarantino Is, let’s call it brash, this kicks it up a bit. Once you get accustomed to that — and once you can read this as total fiction, which it is in spite of the characters with the names of actual figures — it’s definitely a fun airplane book at least.

sad about the lack of flamethrower scene but brandy’s backstory, the solo kreepy krawl, and last chapter with rick and trudi were literally amazing

There is one thing that you have to know about Quentin Tarantino, and it is that he is formed by, defined by, measures himself against, and is in every manner obsessed by the machismo that the Greatest Generation brought into cinema, particularly cruising into the sixties and seventies. Honed by the Depression and World War Two, they had a code of manly action that in another generation might have been idealistic in a Fitzgerald- or Hemingwayesque way (or, before it, in the sentimental manner of Rudyard Kipling). But the macho of the Greatest Generation was realistic bordering on nihilistic. It made no sentimental exceptions. Actors that Tarantino loves, from icy-faced Lee Van Cleef to maybe-a-killer-in-real-life Lawrence Tierney to a guy Quentin pretends to like less than you know he does, Lee Marvin…what yokes ‘em all together? Absolute get-it-done ferocity crossed with an awareness of all that is shitty about the real world that makes the ferocity come very near, on occasions, to sheer sadism. The novel of OUATIH, one of Tarantino’s very finest creations, is all about taking liberties—with the story and substance of the movie itself, but also doing all the things “they won’t allow you to do nowadays,” pace Joe Rogan. Perhaps the climax is an eight-year-old girl voicing a BDSM fantasy that sounds a lot like it might be the author’s—and that’s only the highest peak of perversity in a book that’s overflowing with it…and also with invention, one of the most engaging novelistic narrating voices imaginable, and lots and lots of humor….I can’t count the number of times this book made me shriek with laughter in a public place. In an act of incredible moxie, Tarantino reworks the ending of his movie…and comes up with something equally haunting and beautiful.

Changed the rating to 4stars on my reread. Please note: I don't believe my review includes any spoilers for Rhythm of War, but to be safe: minor spoilers may follow. Rhythm of War picks up events approximately a year after the finale of Oathbringer. The Knights Radiant have continued their war against Odium's Fused and Singer armies though neither side has gained much headway. Many new Radiants are becoming familiar with their spren bond and powers. The former Parshmen, once slaves to humanity and now under the guidance of the immortal Fused, are still angry and bitter at their former captors. There have been scientific advancements on both sides as the next stage of the confrontation begins. This is where we rejoin the point of view perspectives of characters such as Kaladin, Shallan, Adolin, and Navani. We find out promptly what the main characters have been up to over the last year, what their current objectives are, and the effects that the warfare has had on their wellbeing. People suffering from and coping with mental illness is an important part of Rhythm of War with many struggling in the war-torn society. These include main characters such as Kaladin who is trying to cope with his battle shock and post-traumatic stress disorder, and Shallan with her multiple personalities. I'm no expert when it comes to such conditions but believe that Sanderson presents them in his narrative tactfully. It is intriguing to read about characters who are heroic, world-renowned and have legendary powers, and see how this pressure and responsibility can take a toll on them. This presents these characters as more human, relatable and creates deep empathy when reading. A complaint that some readers had with Oathbringer was that it dragged in sections. Rhythm of War begins with some incredible, heated and action-packed set pieces. Some of these opening sections introduce key Fused figures, their powers, and objectives. These early moments also showcase some of the technological advancements for the Radiants which approach Steampunk territory. After the breathtaking start, I am afraid that certain sections of Rhythm of War drag in a similar fashion to Oathbringer. Most notably are some of Navani's scholarly research segments. They are important and the payoff from them is completely worthwhile but those moments did negatively impact my overall enjoyment of this novel. I had to overly concentrate and read slowly to make sure I understood which was reminiscent of studying a science textbook. Comparable to the other entries in The Stormlight Archive, we are presented with flashback episodes again. This time it is that of Venli and Eshonai. These sections are the first flashback moments from a Parshendi perspective, excluding the prologue from Oathbringer. They are interesting and informative, filling in gaps to the narrative we already know but this time from the "enemy" perspective. The Venli in the flashback moments is presented as what seems like a completely different character to the present day version so it is intriguing to see how and why she changed so much. Knowing what happened to Eshonai at the finale of Words of Radiance, it was enjoyable to see how she got to that point. Her final moments and exchanges are really fitting and rewarding to read about. These flashback sections were fine, although I didn't enjoy them as much as Kaladin's in The Way of Kings and Shallan's in Words of Radiance. I'd say they are on par with Dalinar's in Oathbringer and are just as crucial to the overall narrative arc. There are many, many elements and moments that I loved in Rhythm of War. I always adore reading about Bridge Four and this time we get to know more about members such as Dabbid and Rlain which was excellent. Travelling to Shadesmar again was great too, as Adolin and Shallan venture to the honorspren capital of Lasting Integrity. (I don't consider this to be a spoiler as it is mentioned on the book's summary section on Goodreads.) Also, finding out more about Adolin's "sword" was one of my favourite parts. This time, we are given further insight into some of the main Fused players such as Raboniel, the Pursuer, and Leshwi which added to the story greatly. There are some brilliant set-pieces, dream segments, witty conversations, and duels and confrontations. One section, in particular, could be referred to as a fantasy version of Die Hard. The last twenty percent of Rhythm of War features, by far, some of my favourite moments from the entire series. The finale is outstanding and by the time I got to Wit's epilogue I was completely out of breath and my emotions had been utterly bombarded. I cried quite a few times towards the end and there are a number of tragic moments that upset me to my core. So, after about a month of only reading The Stormlight Archive novels, I have finally completed Rhythm of War. I really lost myself in Sanderson's Roshar and this novel is another incredible entry in a stunning fantasy series. Some moments that happen throughout these pages will have the SFF scene discussing and debating them for months. Although The Stormlight Archive is due to be a ten novel series, I believe the next book will be the last of this era, making Rhythm of War the penultimate entry. Events are poised expertly at the end of this narrative for the next novel to be beyond exceptional. I'm sure this time in three years I'll be re-reading this series again before the next book and I cannot wait. The Stormlight Archive is epic fantasy at a level that is rarely equalled. "I think we're losing, Syl said. To a guy wielding something he found in Adolin's sock drawer." I received an uncorrected proof copy of Rhythm of War in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to Brandon Sanderson, TOR Books and Gollancz.

I think this one unfortunately suffers from the fact that some POVs are SO interesting, and some aren't quite as compelling... at least emotionally. I obviously love this world and it's been amazing seeing everything expand to this point in the series. But I think you need to be REALLYYYYYY into this world to fully enjoy this one. I was excited at first when I saw that this book was going in the direction of learning more about the technology & inventions side - but the amount of detail and repetition we got while our characters were doing their research was just too much for me and felt like a slog to get through. My biggest critique of Brandon Sanderson's writing thus far is that he has a tendency to overexplain things, and while it's less noticeable in the Stormlight Archive as a whole - it was very prevalent in this particular book. I absolutely loved some of the character arcs in this series, specifically the ones that went into depth with mental health. It's so creative how Brandon has weaved these personal journeys directly into the magic of this world. I felt myself just wanting to get back to these POVs while reading through this gigantic book. I'm still curious to see how book 5 goes - I'll obviously continue to see the end of this particular story arc. There are also some secondary characters that have been quite sidelined in this series that I NEED TO KNOW MORE ABOUT (hopefully will get this in Wind and Truth). But unfortunately this one felt like a meeting that could have been an email :/

Full video review here: https://youtu.be/pWs1QVZer4Y Rhythm of War, the long awaited and most anticipated read of the year for me met MOST of my expectations. I overall really reallllly liked this book, with some key negatives. The prologue was once again outstanding and this book hit the ground running. This book is a gigantic chonker and full of lore, description and incredible moments throughout. Rhythm of War is also obviously a lot of setup for book 5 where I believe Brandon Sanderson is going to murder half the cast, lol. What this book did well was of course continuing to make me fall in love with our main cast of characters in Dalinar, Shallan and Kaladin. Others such as Adolin, Renarin, Szeth, the list goes on are all truly becoming interesting, dynamic and fantastic characters to follow. This is truly Sanderson's best character work, full stop. My biggest and really only negative is that I simply wasn't very invested or interested in learning so much about the Fused and the Singers. I understand the necessity of it in the larger scope of this story and why we the reader NEED this information, but I personally didn't find it very engaging and these were easily the slowest and most boring chapters for me. The action is of course, as always, incredible and while the Sanderlanche of this book may not be quite as insane as Words of Radiance or Oathbringer, this is one hell of a finale. There is a lot to digest here and this book has SO. MANY. COSMERE. IMPLICATIONS. that it's insane! Including one of my favorite characters from another series that is now involved as well. Overall this was a great read and I'm very pleased with the book. I think Words of Radiance is near impossible to top within the Stormlight Archive and will remain my #1, but this and Oathbringer will have to battle it out for the #2 spot.

It was night again. Urithiru lay in silence, and it was a silence of three parts. Oops, wrong series 🙂 Credit where credit's due, this restored my faith in the series. With some reservations of course. So here's a summary of what you might expect. - A fast paced start and finish but slow mid parts. - GREAT plots especially concerning the fate of the Cosmer but not so much on the smaller scale of character interactions. - Some cool secondary characters development! - Not much MC pages for Daliner, Shallan and Adolin. - Good mental illness rep. - NAVANI, NAVANI, NAVANI. - But also stupid Navani plot at times 😒 - VENLI is great but all Parshendi fall into 2 groups for me, the-obviously-baddies group and the I'm-questioning-things group. - Every review said worldbuilding is awesome but well I found it the same, meaning Sanderson does what he's great at but it wasn't a remarkable thing for me. - Setting up the last book perfectly!! - Predictable theories and not so predictable ones. - Multiple Cosmer cameos and easter eggs. - As usual very little Renarin 😭 - You say character deaths, I say I need more 🙂 - Too much details some times, certain scenes and plots could've been a lot shorter. - My man Odi is gonna be great in the next book 🙂 And now the wait starts, tick tock...

I received and ARC of this book through my former publisher as a favor, no promises to write an honest review required, but here's one anyway: There may be minor spoilers ahead, depending on what you consider to be a spoiler. Okaaaaaay, it's been a week since release, so I'll post a little more in-depth a review than "it was really good." First off there were a couple of things I didn't really care for in the book, so lets get those out of the way first thing. This book is longer than it needs to be. There are several scenes that could flat out be cut without any impact on story or characters, and dozens more that could be trimmed down considerably to greater effect than you get with them as they currently are. This book is long for the sake of being long, and not because it's necessary to the development of the plot, characters or world. It kind of feels like the editors might have been a little hesitant in suggesting things to be cut or condensed to Sanderson, as tends to start happening when an author reaches a certain level of popularity. Second, Sanderson tried somewhat to humanize Jasnah in this book, but failed at it. Hard. And even if he had succeeded, it's too little too late. This is book 4. She needed to be humanized in book 1. Even Elhokar, who was a pretty one-dimensional character in book 1 was shown to be a human being with flaws. I really, really dislike this character. Because she's not a character. She's a plot device. She exists within the story to be perfect at everything and to know everything. The fact that there's nothing more to her character than that has been grating on me since book 1. She is rarely, if ever, shown to have any sort of flaws. She is rarely, if ever, shown to work for her knowledge and skills. She never fails at anything. Because of that she is painfully uninteresting, and she's really kind of a dick on top of it. Okay, on to the good. This book has a bit of a change in format from the previous 3 in the series. First, there is a time skip between the previous book and this one of a year, where the first three books took place immediately after one another. And second, the flashbacks that feature heavily in the series do not begin until about halfway through this book, rather than right at the beginning like the other books. There are also far fewer flashback (and a few continuity errors in them with events in Words of Radiance, though I did read an ARC, so those may have been fixed before final publication.) The flashbacks are, in my opinion, the best of the series so far. Seeing how Eshonai began as a young girl with a burning curiosity about the world outside of her people’s chosen place of exile, and her desires to map the whole world, and Venli’s jealousy of her, and desires to outdo her older sister leading to the downfall of their people. Every step in the journey from nomadic people to those who summoned a dark god out of desperation is so logical and tragic. One of the themes of this series is the human cost of war, and I think that these flashbacks better illustrate that concept than any other part of this series. And Eshonai’s final scene is a bit of a tear jerker too, when you think of what she began as, what she became, and how it all ended for her. This book is really brutal to some of its characters, Kaladin and Shalan more than most others. You’d think that these characters had been through enough by this time, but they get dragged through it again, and much harder than they have before. This is a very dark and painful book for many characters, but these two especially. I won’t say how things turn out in the end for them, but lets just say that a lot of things these characters have been dealing with are resolved in one way or another. I will give this warning: As someone who suffers from PTSD myself, there are some extremely difficult sections of this book to get through, because it's like having a light shine down on all of the darkest, and hardest to face things in my life that resulted in my PTSD. I appreciate that Sanderson did his research, and so realistically portrays PTSD in this book, but as someone with PTSD, it's hard to get through. It was really painful to me, and if ever I choose to reread this book, I will probably skip those sections of it, because of how it made me feel, and what it made me remember. One of the most difficult things to accept about having PTSD is that it's alright to feel the way you do. It doesn't make you less of a person to have these horrible things in your past that have broken you. It's all right to accept that, and to move on. But acceptance doesn't make it go away, it just makes it easier to live with, and every now and then, you come across something like this book. And it drags it all back out of you again. The standout character in this book, for me, was Navani. She is fleshed out quite a bit in this book, and I really like what Sanderson does with her here, as a leader under occupation. She shows that she’s not just a wife of a prominent character and eccentric inventor, she’s her own character, independent of those she’s been attached to throughout the series. She makes some very interesting and profound revelations in the later third of the book that basically change everything. Sanderson continues to casually shatter my every expectation for this series. Adolin and Shalan make some very, very profound revelations in their storyline. Navani makes more. And holy crap that thing at the end with Odium! I bet NO ONE was expecting THAT to happen. By the end of the book, literally everything you know is wrong, or turned upside down in some way. I’ve always had a very strong dislike for Shalan. She was presented as one of the main viewpoint characters in the first book, and utterly failed to be relevant to that book in any way. It was a bad first impression. She was much more relevant to events in the second book, and I thought, hey, maybe I could get to like her if she kept on like this. Then she completely backtracked every shred of character development she’d made in the second book once the third one came along, and SO MUCH of that book was devoted to her that my strong dislike returned and grew deeper. This book does not do much to fix that. She’s worse in this book than she was in Oathbringer, but luckily her part is much, much smaller in this book than it was in the previous one, and led to some more profound revelations. HOWEVER when you find out what she’s been hung up on this whole time, you’re probably going to facepalm. It’s dumb. It’s really, really dumb. (view spoiler) I know she’s got her fans, and those fans will likely enjoy the conclusion to her story in this book, but it just solidified my dislike of her that much further. Another thing I have to complain about here is Kaladin. I totally understand why a lot of people don't like him. He's kind of whiny, and his constant depression gets old fast. But there are much bigger problems with his character than that. The biggest problem is that he only really gives the ILLUSION of developing as a character, while not actually developing as one. Shallan has the same problem. She'll deal with her shit, and then at the beginning of the next book, BAM, back dealing with THE EXACT SAME SHIT. Kaladin is the same. He has had THE EXACT SAME CHARACTER ARC IN EVERY SINGLE BOOK IN THIS SERIES. He's depressed. He finds the strength within himself to rise above it and endure. He moves on to the next stage of his life. But the problem here, is that the next stage of his life is ALWAYS the exact same stage of his life. He's followed this pattern in every single book in this series so far. It was actually a little underwhelming at the end of the first book, if I'm being honest. It was great at the end of the second book. But then the exact same thing happened in the third book. And then the exact same thing happened in the fourth book. He's gone on the exact same journey as a character FOUR FREAKING TIMES IN A ROW NOW!!! Don't get me wrong. It's GREAT character development. The problem is that every time he triumphs over his inner demons at the end of a book, he just reverts back completely at the beginning of the next book. He gives the illusion of making progress, but all he's doing is running on a freaking treadmill. After four books of this, it's really getting old. Can he PLEASE, for the love of god, HAVE SOMETHING ELSE TO DO IN THE NEXT BOOK OTHER THAN DEALING WITH HIS DEPRESSION YET AGAIN!!!!!!! So, all in all, this book is pretty good. I’d say it’s the second best of the series. My rankings go Words of Radiance > Rhythm of War > The Way of Kings > Oathbringer. It’s not without a few small flaws that are easily forgiven considering how good everything else in the book is. It has some very emotional moments, and literally turns everything on its head. Again. Definitely a must read for any Sanderson fan.

4.0 Stars This was another solid entry in this epic fantasy series. It has been enjoyable to see how far the story and characters have progressed at this point. I am enjoying the (relatively) fast paced epic fantasy narrative. That being said, I am still hoping to see more fresh ideas that subvert the genre. So far, this one has delivered a good story that leans into many tropes, but arguably does them quite well. I would certainly recommend this series to readers looking to get into the epic fantasy genre. There is a reason Brandon Sanderson is such a popular and beloved author. Readers interested in this series should definitely start back at the beginning with The Way of Kings. I am excited to be caught up for Winds and Truth. Disclaimer I received a copy of this book from the publisher.

I received a free advance copy from NetGalley for review. Ocean Spray? What kind of a name is that for a book? What’s it about? The history of the drink? Or is it a biography of the guy who made the viral video of him skateboarding and drinking Ocean Spray while he lip synced that Fleetwood Mac song? I mean, that was cool and all, but how are you gonnna do a whole book about… What’s that? It’s not Ocean SPRAY, but instead it’s Ocean PREY? Well, that sounds like a John Sandford title. Oh. It is a John Sandford novel. That makes a lot more sense. A Coast Guard patrol runs across what appears to be drug runners doing a pick-up of previously submerged dope out of the ocean using a scuba diver off the coast of Miami. A shootout ensues that leaves several Coast Guard guys dead while the bad guys got away. Months later the FBI and local cops still have no clue as to who was behind it, and the prevailing theory is that there’s still a fortune in drugs waiting to be picked up once the heat dies down. US Marshal Lucas Davenport gets asked to join the investigation by one of his political patrons in DC, and he quickly starts leaning on local dealers trying to get a lead on who might have been involved with the drug ring. As usual in a Davenport case, things start to get sticky, and when Lucas needs more help he turns to his old buddy, Virgil Flowers (a/k/a That fuckin’ Flowers.) to help him crack the case. I’ve written so many Sandford reviews that I can’t think of a single new thing to say about why this one is another great crime thriller from one of my favorites in the genre. As usual, there’s solid plotting and tension mixed with just enough real world verisimilitude regarding police work and the political factors behind it to make it feel grounded and believable despite a plot that could easily turn into an action movie from the ‘80s. All the things I love about Sandford’s novels are on display here. However, there are some very different things in this one. For one, ever since Sandford shifted Davenport from a Minnesota state cop to a US Marshal, he’s been sending Lucas on assignments across the country, and that has enabled him to do some different things with this series while still sticking to the parts that made it popular to begin with. Moving from typically land locked Midwestern settings to a Florida one that has a lot to do with boats and scuba diving makes it feel like Sandford is doing new things rather than just repeating himself. That’s just the window dressing though, and the biggest difference from previous Prey novels comes in the structure itself. In the past, Lucas was the star of the these books, and then there was the spin-off series featuring Virgil Flowers as the lead. They existed in the same universe with some crossover between them, but generally one of the characters was the focus with the other being a supporting player. However, in this Lucas is the focus in the first third with Virgil taking over the next part, and the last act shifts between them both. I assume that this is because Sandford has said that he’s only going to do one book a year from now on*, and it seems like he folded Virgil into Davenport’s story much like Robert Crais began splitting time between Elvis Cole and Joe Pike in his novels. That gives this book a hybrid feel in that it doesn’t entirely seem like a Davenport novel, and yet it’s not exactly Virgil’s book either. It’s a little odd. Not bad, just different. Sandford is in his late 70s now, and he’s written about 50 novels after a career as a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist. If he had decided to retire completely, he’d have more than earned the right to do so at this point. So if I can get some more of his stories because he’s cutting his work load and figuring out a way to combine his two most popular characters, you won’t hear me complaining about it. Aside from all that, if someone had never read another Sandford book and just picked this one up, I think they’d find it an entertaining crime novel with some great twists as well as an interesting premise with the angle of the bad guys trying to find a way to retrieve a fortune in drugs from the ocean. *Correction: I originally said that Sandford would only be doing the Davenport series from now on, but apparently plan is for him to scale book to one book a year while alternating the Prey and Virgil Flowers books.

John Sanford brings investigation, action, surveillance, and suspense to the latest book in the Prey series. An off-duty Coast Guardsman, Barney Hall, and his family are fishing off the coast of Fort Lauderdale when he calls in suspicious activity to the watch officer. A boat appears to be picking up a lone diver in the middle of the ocean. When the three guardsmen sent to investigate are killed, the FBI is called in. However, when its investigation stalls, a U.S. Senator from Florida convinces Lucas Davenport, a U.S. Marshall, to become part of the task force and resolve it. Lucas partners will Bob Matees, another Marshall, to assist the investigation. Later on, Virgil Flowers, who used to work for Lucas at the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, joins the task force as well. What were the diver and the men in the boat that murdered the guardsmen doing? Two fantastic characters come together when Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers team up. Their personalities and approaches to an investigation are very different. However, both have depth. Lucas is a character whose methods I sometimes disagree with. He has plenty of good qualities and always tries to do the right thing. Virgil pursues a legal solution and he also has the ability to think like a criminal. The story is part investigation and part action thriller. The opening is strong, intriguing, and impactful. This disturbing event hooked me and immediately drew me into the novel. A suspenseful narrative provides plenty of opportunities for things to go wrong. The first dive scene was especially impactful, visual, and somewhat nerve-racking. The story takes readers from Florida, New Jersey, and Washington D.C. Sandford’s writing is always great, but his world-building in the dive scenes in this novel was fantastic. He’s a superb storyteller who kept me on the edge of seat as the investigation and action unfolded. The dialogue deepened the conflict and pulled this reader into the inner world of the characters. There was a strong sense of place causing me to feel transported, as though living the events alongside the characters. The final action scenes are riveting and high-powered, and the epilogue does a great job of tying up the loose ends. Overall, this was suspenseful and action packed with compelling characters that kept me turning the pages. It’s a great series and I’m looking forward to reading the next one in both this series and the Virgil Flowers series. PENGUIN GROUP Putnam, G.P. Putnam's Sons and John Sandford provided a complimentary digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. This is my honest review. Opinions are mine alone and are not biased in any way. Publication date is currently set for April 13, 2022. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine. ----------------------- My 4 star review will be posted 3-4 days after it appears in Mystery and Suspense Magazine.

I first started listening to John Sandford’s Prey series of books some ten years ago, I would say that JS provided my introduction to audiobooks as my local library seemed to stock a whole bunch of his titles. The front man is a smooth but tough Minnesota lawman called Lucas Davenport who is equally likely to admire your English leather shoes or punch you in the gut – whichever takes his fancy. This is the 43rd book in the series (if you include books featuring his sidekick Virgil Flowers) and you might expect it all to start feeling tired by now. But Sandford has managed to keep it fresh by regularly updating the cast of support characters, by expanding the role of Lucas – so that now he operates across the whole of the United States rather than just statewide – and finally by keeping each story largely standalone he allows easy access to the series without the incumbrance of having to know (or learn) a whole bunch of carry-over baggage. Here Lucas and Virgil team up to hunt down a gang of drug smugglers who have shot and killed three Coast Guard Officers down in South Florida. In truth, the first half of this tale is somewhat lumbering as the groundwork is set for the action to come. I found myself crying out for Lucas to go and intimidate someone or maybe even shoot them – it’s what he really does best. But eventually it all takes off, and once the action starts it’s unremitting. I won’t go into the detail of it – why spoil the fun for future readers – but I will say that there’s a good deal of scuba diving (a new skill developed by Virgil), some great interplay between the undercover law enforcement officers and the criminals and finally the tension is racked up sky high as the inevitable climax approaches. If I were new to this author I wouldn’t start here – it’s not actually his best book and it’s really worthwhile getting to know Lucas and Virgil when they were younger and a little greener – but equally it really is accessible as a first read. I enjoyed it, as I always do with this writer, and I’ll be definitely be dialling back in for book 44 in due course.

This one had me worried. So much excitement at the end. Also, this one was heartbreaking. Did I shed a tear or two...absolutely! A Coast Guardsman is fishing with his family when he notices a suspicious boat. Since he is off duty, he calls it in. When three Guardsmen come to take a closer look, they are all murdered. The FBI starts an investigation but the trail fizzles out. So when the FBI can't find find anything, Lucas gets involved but he won't go in alone. Rae, Bob, Virgil, Jane Chase, and Louis Mallard all make an appearance. We also get new characters including Andres Devlin and Dale Weaver who were both a good addition to the cast. Finally, after 3 years and 31 books, I'm finally caught up with this series just in time for Righteous Prey. Cliffhanger: No 4/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Overall, a good police detective novel featuring Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers, evidently recurring characters separately in series by the author, together in this one. [Warning: some spoilers possibly] The book caught my interest since it involved an effort to solve a case involving the deaths of 3 Coast Guardsmen during a counter narcotics vessel boarding gone awry. After months of a Federal task force fruitless in their efforts to solve the crime and bring the murderers to justice, Davenport and Flowers are brought in at the request of one of Florida’s senators. Since this novel is one in the middle of a series of them involving both characters, it doesn’t go much into detail on their backgrounds, assuming readers are already familiar with them. Not a barrier to enjoying this book, but, for example, both seem to be from the Minnesota Department of Investigations, a state agency yet both are quickly deputized as US Marshals to join the task force. Seems odd, but there’s probably a back story to this that’s not explained in the novel. The first third of the book gets a little slow as Davenport and associates do the less glamorous work of investigation and evidence gathering. From there , it picks up as he finds leads in the investigation that eventually lead to introducing Flowers and another Marshal, Rae, a black woman, to work undercover as lowlifes on the wrong side of the law with Flowers having unique skills needed as a professional diver desired by the Mafia to recover contraband lost during the repelled Coast Guard boarding. I thought the character, Rae, was an interesting one. In reality, a proficient Federal LE agent, she artfully played upon the bad guys’ premises about black women from hood, speaking in its vernacular and building a back story that gets them to lower their guard around her, allowing her to extract important information from them leading to cracking the case. She would eventually use this act to save both her and Flowers’ lives when her mafia counterparts are ordered to kill them. As a retired Coast Guardsman, since the case revolves around the murders of some of my colleagues, I’d have liked it if Coast Guard Intelligence (CGI) could have been more involved in the plot since these have jurisdiction in such a situation. There’s some but it’s fairly peripheral. However, given the number of characters already in the plot, it’s understandable that not more are introduced . Overall, a good detective novel. I recommend it for those who enjoy this genre.

Okay, a couple of confessions first. 1) I’m starting to like Virgil more than Lucas. 2) After this…I kind of want Virgil and Rae to get together and make beautiful babies. (Yes, I know…not the point, but still!) So I have to admit that I wasn’t all into the crime in this one. While it was interesting enough, our baddies weren’t charismatic and the crime itself wasn’t a particularly exciting one. I need baddies you love to hate. These were…baddies I was apathetic about. However, I did love our character interactions, found myself very curious about exactly how some of our characters would get out alive, and even had my heart broken in one particular scene. While not my favorite book in the series, I did like it and will happily read the next book in the series (and the next and the next and the next). It’s a solid read, if not the most exciting for me. *ARC Provided via Net Galley

Another excellent entry in the Prey series as Lucas and Virgil take on organized crime from Florida to New York. Exciting, very well plotted and Rae adds a lot of interest to the story. Well done. Recommended.

When the killing of three Coast Guard officers by drug smugglers finds no suspects, U.S. Marshal Lucas Davenport is called in to get results. Using hard edged police tactics, he and his team quickly zero in on the drug runners, but now they must prove it. From the beaches of Florida to hard streets of New York, this realistic chase is complex and mesmerizing. With more action, shooting and suspense to equal a dozen books, the author creates a memorable story. This is the 31st book in the series and I plan on searching out others. As an author, I could appreciate the author’s comments concerning mistakes found in manuscripts and the work that goes into bringing together a novel.

Starts off fast & keeps on going. Interesting diving stuff & generally a lot of fun as Lucas kicks butt. Then Virgil Flowers joins in about halfway through to add icing to the cake. There's some interesting diving stuff, but it's pretty typical of the series & one of the better ones. There is an afterword by Sandford about how errors can get into a novel. He points out several such as a safety on a Glock. Turns out the pistol had originally been a Barretta, but he found out just before the novel went out that the police had changed policies, so he changed the pistol to a Glock. He missed the bit with the safety, though. Oops! Another time he wrote that Lucas had a 40mm pistol instead of a .40 caliber. He's well aware of the difference & not sure how such a goof managed to get through all the proofreads, but it did. Anyway, it was one of the more entertaining afterwords I've read in a while. Well narrated & highly recommended.

A huge cache of drugs is submerged in the ocean and while recovering it, the criminals are spotted by the Coast Guard. In the resultant shoot out, 3 Coast Guard officers are killed. For months, the FBI investigates and makes no headway. Enter ✨Lucas Davenport, and his prodding stirs the hornets nest. The hunters now become the hunted! Please read my detailed review from here https://www.aniblogshere.com/books-re... Do read📖, like👍🏼, comment💭 or share 🚩 #oceanprey #johnsandford #lucasdavenport #virgilflowers #nytbestseller #newyorktimesbestseller #murdermystery #thriller #crime #thrillernovel #thrilling #mysterious #bookfan #bookreviewer #bookworm #booklover #booklove #booklovers

Ocean Prey takes us underwater on a diving exposition to catch the individuals who murdered three coast guards. The criminal mind is fascinating in that I would never come up with the idea to have drugs dropped in the ocean by one boat then picked up by another. This is the most intricate case, to me, Lucas Davenport has ever had to solve. The story is realistic in that cops get killed and some come close to getting killed including Lucas. However, I must say I learned more than I wanted to learn about scuba diving. Richard Ferrone’s gravelly voice puts me in the mind that I’m reading about actual people.

Lucas has a change of season and location and looses one of his best friend Bob.

First half was all Lucas, second half was both. A little heavy on the Virgil, but this is a LD book, of course. It was pretty good, but not the best book of either series. I’ve heard that Sandford is not going to write any more books in the Virgil Flowers series. Pity, I’ve come to prefer his books over the Davenport ones..

The iconic Lucas Davenport is back and you are getting two for one, because Virgil Flowers joins him in this interesting , tension laden addition to the series. Florida is the setting and drugs are at the center of the story as Lucas investigates the murder of 3 Coast Guard members which becomes more than personal when a tragic event turns his feelings and his thoughts ever which way. But a focused Lucas is deadlier than one who is not and he will stop at nothing to bring this ruthless gang and their leader to justice. Go along for the ride. You won't be disappointed.

Am I the only one that was surprised and shocked by something in particular that happened in this story?! (don't want to spoil anything so I'll leave it at that) I didn't see it coming and if I'm frank, I was so upset. It's like they were an actual friend, I had no clue I was that attached. Anyhow, back to the main story. The series felt so rejuvenated to me in this installment! I'd begun to get wary since so many of these books have come out I love when Davenport and Virgil work together and Rae and Bob were always a welcome sight. If you've stepped away from this series because it's felt stagnant, this one makes it worth it to come back. Thank you Netgalley for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

This mashup of a Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers novel doesn’t quite follow up on the promise the pairing should make. The first half is Davenport and the second half is primarily Flowers. I preferred the second half but enjoyed the book overall for what it is.

In the Atlantic off the south Florida coast an off duty Coast Guardsman is fishing with his family when he sees some suspicious behavior on a boat nearby. After calling it in three fellow guardsman come out to investigate and are shot and killed. Since they're federal officers killed on the job it's the FBI's turf. When the FBI's case stalls out Lucas Davenport gets the call to join the investigation. When Lucas uncovers a smuggling case he calls in his troops. Virgil Flowers and Bob and Rae. With this instalment in the series Sandford killed off another main character. Which Sandford has said he feels the need to do from time to time to keep the readers on their toes. I did not shed a tear for Bob because for me Bob and Rae are not Jenkins and Shrake. Also now that Lucas is a Federal Marshal the Minnesota connection isn't there anymore that first drew me to the series. And for me that takes something away from the series. But the dry humor is still there which I love and the book kept me interested enough to give it 4 stars.

I have read a lot! of John Sandford! But I gradually tired of Lucas. I love the Virgil Flowers series. Virgil's character is more sardonic and there's a nice element of humor in that series, so I was interested to see how Sandford would handle both in a book labeled as having each in a starring role. I was disappointed. It's predominantly Lucas; Virgil is only on board as the diver. That noted, it's one of the better Sandford's, but I still await the next Flowers having Lucas in a minor role.

Audio this one really drew me in.

Lucas Davenport and his friend Bob investigate the murders of Coast Guard officers in Florida. Drugs are suspected to have been dropped into the ocean for later recovery, and when they kick up trouble it leads to a drug kingpin who is bigger than they suspected. Virgil Flowers is called in in the second half of the book to work undercover with Rae as a diver. Sandford scores once again in this new thriller, but I think it's Virgil who really shines in this adventure. As a diver myself I could find no real fault in the diving parts of the story, and they are filled with tension. In the end the takedown of the big cheese might have been a bit too easy but by then there was enough suspense in the book that the reader just finds satisfaction in wrapping things up.

There's a whole lot going on here. The story begins with the murder of 3 Coast Guardsman and leads into a complicated drug running operation. We have Lucas, his current partners, Bob and Rae, joined now by Virgil Flowers. The suspense seldom lets up throughout the book, though I got a little lost in the diving and Lucas's surveillance in New Jersey.

Thank you to NetGalley and G.P. Putnam's Sons for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review. I was excited to dive into this one (pun intended). Ocean Prey brings together two characters I’ve grown to know and love over the years, Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers, though admittedly, I’m partial to Virgil. I’ve read as both characters have evolved and grown, and it was fun to have the two of them team up even though they have very different styles. Davenport loves luxury clothes and has a biblical sense of justice that sometimes foregoes the court of law. Flowers wears t-shirts, jeans, and cowboy boots and often ‘forgets’ to even carry his gun. Despite their differences, the two are both clever lawmen who always get their guy and their juxtaposition is part of what makes the team-up work. The mystery itself had a good pace even though the investigation spans many months. It was always moving as the good guys and the bad guys circled nearer and nearer to each other throughout the investigation. Sandford balances this tension with danger, mystery, and some humor to craft another good mystery in this latest book.

I fly through the Prey books. After 31 tales from John Sandford concerning Lucas Davenport and his evolving crew, it’s like getting together with old friends. Throw in Virgil Flowers, I’m in heaven. Guiltiest of pleasures, to read through a favorite in a a sitting. Luckily, at my age, I’m way past guilt.

Davenport and Flowers team up to solve a triple homicide of Coast Guardsmen in Florida. Great action, character development and humor. "Tobin Cain was known on the street as Foot-Long, not because of any personal measurement, but because he dealt his dope out of a back booth at a Subway franchise near downtown Miami."

4.5 solid stars - Great book, lots of action, even has the Mafia involved!

I've enjoyed everything I've read from Sandford. He creates some great characters and weaves great stories about crime and cops. His two longest running series are the Lucas Davenport Prey books, and his Virgil Flowers series. Flowers started off as a support character in the Prey books, and graduated to his own series. Now, the two are brought back together. Off the coast of Florida, some members of the Coast Guard respond to a suspicious boat, and are all shot and killed. The case goes nowhere, and Davenport, in his job as troubleshooter for the US Marshals, gets brought in. Operating in his own non political but very result producing style, he makes some progress, and discovers that he needs to get some specialized help. Davenport recruits Flowers and the two take on a sophisticated drug smuggling ring. Davenport has add two allies since moving to the Marshals, Bob and Rae. Both show up, but one of them runs out of luck. It's a great story, with some nice suspense and realistic situations. The bad guys aren't big supervillains or bumbling idiots, but fairly good at what they do. Davenport, Flowers, and their friends in law enforcement have to be very careful as they make their case and find a way to bring the shooters to justice. A good continuation of the story for both series.

I discovered both series as audiobooks during the pandemic, and Virgil Flowers became my guy. Man, I adore "that f***ing Flowers." What's not to love about a preacher's son who looks like a surfer dude, talks to God before going to sleep, and always 'forgets' to carry his gun? This book however, felt more of Lucas' story, but that could have been because I didn't quite gel with the way the narrator read Virgil. (To me, Eric Conger is the voice of Virgil.) As with both series, the dialogue and interactions between the cops is fast and snappy. Loved it. Rae was a fantastic female character, and I hope we see here again. Not my favorite in either series, but just to have Lucas and Virgil in the same book felt like a win.

Yes! Federal agents, the mafia and a crap ton of dope in the middle of the ocean, how could this NOT be an interesting read? This is my first John Sanford novel and I am excited to dive into the rest of them. Although this one is a bit out of order from the other Prey novels, it was not hard to pick up Virgil and Lucas’ background. Full of suspense and a little humor, Ocean Prey was a great read!

This review was first posted on Mystery and Suspense. Check it out for features, interviews, and reviews.https://www.mysteryandsuspense.com/th... President Matt Keating was a Navy Seal, a Congressman from Texas, and Vice President before he ascended to the presidency, and he means to protect America. So Keating orders a drone strike on vicious Libyan terrorist Asim Al-Asheed, who captured and crucified a Navy Seal and slaughtered women and children in cold blood. The attack misses Asim but kills Asim's wife and two daughters. Keating is appalled by the death of innocents and goes on TV to apologize. Given the mood of the country this is a bad idea, and Matt's disloyal Vice President, Pamela Barnes, challenges him in the next election and wins. Matt is now living in a wooded retreat in New Hampshire, his wife Samantha - an archaeologist - is supervising an important dig in Maine..... ......and the Keatings' 19-year-old daughter Mel is a student at Dartmouth College. Mel is too old for Secret Service protection, and when Agent David Stahl - who's in charge of Matt's Secret Service detail - tries to safeguard Mel with trainees, the Barnes administration makes him stop. This is unfortunate because Asim Al-Asheed, who's furious about the death of his wife and daughters, has been planning his revenge for years. Thus when Mel is hiking in New Hampshire's White Mountains with her boyfriend Tim, Asim kills Tim and kidnaps Mel. Asim makes demands, but President Pamela Barnes, under advisement from her machiavellian Chief of Staff Richard Barnes, who's also her husband...... .......doesn't take the steps Matt expects her to. In the meantime, China sees Mel's abduction as an opportunity. The United States has been putting pressure on China by filing lawsuits over copyrights and patents, complaining to the World Trade Organization, and running ships and planes near Chinese bases in the South China Sea. Chinese officials want to improve relations with America...... ......and order their agent in Libya, Jiang Lijun, to make a deal with Asim Al-Asheed and rescue Mel. However Jiang blames America for the death of his father, and engineers plans of his own. When President Pamela Barnes drags her feet over meeting the terrorists' demands, Matt reaches out to his friends in Saudi intelligence and Mossad, who agree to help search for Mel. Matt then launches a secret rescue operation of his own..... .....which is discovered by Pamela. The president is vexed, fearing a heroic Matt would vastly outshine her, and she's willing to do almost anything to stop him. Meanwhile, Mel is in the clutches of Asim Al-Asheed and his cousin, but she's not the shrinking violet they expect. When Matt became president, the Secret Service told Mel what to do if she was kidnapped, and these directions - along with Mel's innate smarts, nerve and bravery - serve her well. Not everything in this book is as it seems, and Matt's side has some nifty moves of its own, with planes, helicopters, satellite images, drones, weapons, a certain thumb drive, sheer nerve, and more. The story is told from the rotating points of view of the major characters, and zips along at a steady pace. My major quibbles with the novel are the stereotypical characterizations of the wicked foreigners, and the depiction of President Pamela Barnes - who lets her pugnacious husband Richard call the shots. A male president would NEVER be portrayed as following directions from his wife. That aside this is excellent escapist literature, an exciting page-turner that would appeal to fans of thrillers. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

A fantastical story of a former POTUS fighting to get back his kidnapped daughter from the hands of a terrorist, or more heart-wrenchingly: A father trying to save his daughter. This book was wild. This book was gruesome. This book made me hug my dad who I am so grateful is here with me and will protect me from everything. These two authors are dynamite together and this story will haunt me forever. In the best way :)

I really had a great time with this one. I read both there books 📚 back to back and of the two I liked this one better. They are a stand alone so you don't have to read them in any order. This was a fast pace old school thriller and I had a great time with it. Recommend giving this one a try.

3.5 rounded up I enjoyed most of the book as it has plenty of twists and turns. However, the last part dragged and I just wanted the presidents daughter rescued!

I listened to the audio version of this book and it has a full cast of great narrators. particularly the narrator who voiced the President. I've now realised that he also played the President in the TV Show Scandal - Tony Goldwyn, so used to the presidency and well voiced. In this book, the only daughter of former President Matthew Keating has been kidnapped by a Libyan terrorist who blames Keating for the deaths of his wife and three daughters. Keating uses his contacts at the White House administration, as well as some of his other contacts, to launch a military style rescue operation. It's told from the point of view of different characters and was very enjoyable. It took a little while to get into the book, but when gets going for me from part 2, was very enjoyable. Most chapters start with some scene setting and although a little annoying at the beginning was very useful and great when got into it and very entertaining, if not particularly believable at time, not that it really matters. There are different characters from the first book by Clinton and Patterson and both very interesting reads. A good collaboration between Clinton and Patterson. I wonder if there's more to come!! Thanks to Penguin Random House Digital Audio and Cornerstone for the opportunity to listen to tis audio book.

4.49 A credible Patterson/Clinton page-turner. My second Patterson book and it’s obvious why he is so admired as an action author. I suspect Clinton wrote the first-person Presidential perspective, which is refreshing for the narrative shifts. Overall it’s a solid summer winner.

While President of the United States, Matthew Keating, a former Navy Seal, watched as U.S. Special Forces stole into Libya to kill terrorist, Asim Al-Asheed. While Asim survived, his family did not. Asim has not forgotten and seeks revenge against the former president by kidnaping his daughter. Matthew with a small specialized team is determined to find and to rescue his daughter. An entertaining political thriller.

I've grown a bit adverse to James Patterson in recent years, but the premise of this one (and the co-author) intrigued me. It was just what I expected: good, easy entertainment. Once out of office, the President's daughter is kidnapped by a terrorist who blames him for the death of his family. An ex-Navy SEAL, said former President vows to get her back. The theme is heavy on the war on terror, with a Chinese spy thrown in. There's lots of drama with the Secret Service, the current President, and just various bits of espionage. It's fun to think there's probably a few Presidential insights thrown in. Overall it's a dramatic read (fast, considering how long it is) and serious, but still feels a little fluffy overall. 3.75 stars.

Reading this was like watching an action packed series- a mixture of Jack Reacher and Designated survivor.

** spoiler alert ** Really enjoyed it - will definitely circle back to the first one. In retrospect, I really appreciated the shock in the middle of the book when the authors seemingly broke the cardinal rule of the genre by killing off Mel...but the story lost a star because there was no good explanation as to why Asim made the choice that he did about "moving the operation to Libya" (yeah, I know the review is hidden because of the spoilers, but there are spoilers and then there are spoilers...)

My bedside book for the last couple of months. I probably would have finished sooner as I think there is a fine 350 page novel trying to fight its way out of this 600 pager. Moves along as does most of Patterson's material and one can detect the "presidential insight" from Clinton but I almost gave it up when the Prez decides to move into "hero" mode and go rogue to rescue his daughter. A bit repetitive, somewhat unrealistic in places and a bit predictable. 3.5 stars, but they made some bux. (Enough that Hillary joined up with Louise Penny to produce a new novel that I am sure presents a Secretary of State with amazing powers.)

Well well well. I’m not gonna review based on religion, race, community or etc. I’m just gonna review the whole story. Wowww what a plot, sooo much good action, mystery and sooo much going on in one bookkk. Truly a page turner and I can’t stop thinking about what happen next. Must be on your list for sure!! From me it’s 4.5 starssss⭐️⭐️

Fiction>Crime, settings in Dallas and DC USA and N Africa, 4 🌟 I haven't read anything by Patterson in a while bc I kind of lost interest in his stuff. This was good... much better than I expected. The twists weren't very surprising, but I really like Mel and Matt. I liked the switch of perspectives between the characters.

I was pleasantly surprised by this book . It’s a real action driven but intelligent read . Kind of predictable but doesn’t take away from the story . Good escapist read

Ended up finishing this book by listening to it via the libby app. It's a solid read, slightly better than the first "President" book by Clinton and Patterson. The story keeps building as the authors take us across the globe with multiple characters and points of view. I'd recommend reading it. I need to know how much Bill gets paid to "co-write" and advise on these books (and what percent of that does Monica get?).

This was so much better than I was expecting. I was lent the book by a colleague and I’m really glad I took it. This whole story was up and down. When it kicked in it kicked in. This whole thing was an absolute rollercoaster. You think they’ve found her, only for something to go wrong. The biggest surprise was insane and I really had to take a few minutes to take it in. I’d recommend this to anyone who likes a thriller.

#ThePresidentsDaughter #NetGalley I found this book got off to a bit of a slow start with a lot of detail relating to procedures etc and I did find myself skim reading at points. However, once the book got into the main action - wow- I could not put it down and I found myself glued to each page to find out how things would unfold. Excellent storytelling and a great plot. If you get the chance to read this book, don't hesitate!

Lots of humor & silly moments, but mixed nicely with the more vulnerable and emotional ones. Not my favorite tropes (insta love + grumpy x sunshine), but I think Abby Jiminez did them justice & I enjoyed seeing how these characters fought to keep the relationship going through everything (literally they could not catch a break). I also really liked how Xavier stepped up and took care of everyone around him Definitely makes you leave wanting to cherish every memory you make (the small ones especially)!

•Meet-cute •Forced proximity •Long distance relationship •Dual point of view •Cinnamon roll MMC •Complicated family dynamics (x2) "None of the fear and worry I had was because I didn’t think it would work. The fear and worry was because I knew it would. I was going to fall in love with this man." As with each of her books that came before it, Say You'll Remember Me quickly sucked me in. Abby's books are so easy to lose yourself in & nearly impossible to put down!! Xavier & Samantha are brought together by fate...by way of a rescued kitten lacking a butthole. Despite an initial clash of personalities and a slight lack of faith, there is definitely a spark. These two share a nearly perfect, and completely unforgettable, date...the night before Samantha is set to move back across the country. Their connection may be strong but will allllll the hurdles thrown at them be too much to overcome? Abby's books always bring the laughs along with the tears, but this one does land on the heavier side for sure! (Check trigger warnings before you read it) Tragedy & triumph. Heart & hope. These characters and this story will be on my mind for a long time to come. 4/5 ⭐️ 1/5 🌶️ Thank you to Forever for granting my wish for a digital ARC of Say You'll Remember Me in exchange for my honest review.

3.75 🌟 I fear my hopes were maybe just a little too high going into this one…I definitely liked it, but I mostly feel like it was “fine”. I still think AJ does a freaking incredible job of tackling complicated & deep topics in what feel like light, easy books…But this story just wasn’t as heavy of a hitter like some of her others were for me 🤷🏻‍♀️

Abby Jimenez you will always be famous! This was definitely her most emotional book, it is quite sad with a few occasional happy moments in between. I can’t even count the amount of times I cried. One thing Abby can write is amazing banter between the two main characters, you can tell from the form date these 2 are meant to be together. Probably were together in another lifetime. The topic of dementia was very hard for me to read for personal reasons but I still think she covered it well, didn’t shy away from the hard truths and how it effects families. I still think Just For The Summer is my ultimate favourite Abby book but this one is still amazing and definitely worth reading

“I’d like to look back on my life and remember every single thing. But if I don’t, I hope I remember that it was a love story and that love story was about you.” This was such a heartbreaking and wonderful love story about true love, family, loss, friendship and discovering what matters the most in life. Say You’ll Remember me follows Samantha who first meets Xavier, a vet when her cat needs surgery and he is rude to her. When Xavier apologizes and they become closer. But family and their jobs make it hard for them to stay in a relationship. Will they fight to stay together? ”You are my favorite person.” From the beginning of the book I became invested in this story and the characters. The writing is witty, engaging and fun. The plot was engaging throughout the book and the pacing was nearly perfect. I appreciated that the author discussed important topics such as abuse, Alzheimers, loss, and family problems. I also liked how the author took time with each of these topics and did it in a relatable way. I can relate because I have faced the loss of my grandpa’s and one of my grandmother’s. The characters are complex and relatable. I’m in love with Xavier, he is so sweet, hard working, respectful, protective and I love that he cares for animals so much. I was smiling and blushing at the sweet things my he did for Samantha. Xavier’s character development was great, he showed a soft side to Samantha and became more confident in what he wants. I love Samantha, she is resilient, caring, brave, hardworking, witty, and outgoing. I’m inspired by how determined and resilient during the health challenges with her mom. I really liked the side characters especially Maggie, Tina, Hank, and Jeneva. The chemistry and tension between Xavier and Samantha was excellent. I felt the spark between the characters and watching them fall in love was wonderful. I love the relationship was relatable and they had challenges that they had to work through together. I loved the romantic scenes between Xavier and Samantha but I wish there were more happy moments. One critique I have is the book and pop culture references, I wasn’t a fan of them and they age the book. I felt many emotions while reading this book including sadness, happiness and anger. The ending was so sweet and I’m glad it ended on a happy note. I recommend this book to anyone who loves romance, wonderful characters, important themes/topics and great writing.

Even though this isn’t my fav book by Abby, I still loved it! She has such a talent for writing books that tug on my heart strings, make me laugh, and feel so bingeable. When I compare my fav books by her to this one, it just fell a bit short hence the 4 star rating. This book made me feel like I take regular old moments for granted with my husband lol “It's weird knowing what's going to be in your end-of-life montage, as it’s happening. But I already knew when my life flashed before my eyes, the best parts of it were going to be about her.” “Love is the brightest color in a grey world.”

Ugh such a good story about a long distance relationship😭🫶felt so REAL and raw, nothing crazy just regular people trying to get by in the face of lifes struggles. I laughed, cried, hoped and dreamed with them😭🫶loved these characters so much ugh

"I've always loved you," he said simply. "I think I couldn't forget you because I remember you from a different lifetime. And I loved you then too." I've been debating my rating on this book since before I finished it, and the main characters and the ending saved this book for me. Samantha had such a quirky personality and she was smart and so good with communicating. For once, we have an FMC that says at the beginning they need to communicate, and then she actually follows that advice. And Xavier was amazing. He's a very quiet but supportive lead. And it was really great to watch him essentially come out of his shell with Samantha. And the ending! No third act breakup, just what we'll call a conflict but they're 100% honest with each other through the whole thing and they know they just need to keep working together. Chefs kiss 🤌🤌 But holy hell, was this book repetitive. I understood going in to this book that it was going to be a long distance relationship with not a lot of hope on either side because if their individual situations, both of which are completely understandable and legit. But every. Single. Chapter. Is both of them catastrophizing the situation and reiterating either how it will never work or that it's going to take a ton of work for unknown gain. And that's obviously the situation here, but I felt like I was reading the same thing over and over again. Not to mention the relationship and their feelings moved real fast, and there were like 4 very serious plotlines happening at one time and it was too much I think. I almost started laughing because of how ridiculous it was getting. So I was bouncing between 3/3.5 stars for a bit but then I loved the ending and it also highlighted the characters and why I was enjoying them so much. So straight 4 stars it is!

4 stars 🛸 🩺 🛫 🌎 🦮 🐚 🎡 ⛳️ 📆 🫂 ❤️‍🩹 ❝ I’ve always loved you, I think I couldn’t forget you because I remember you from a different lifetime. And I loved you then too. ❞ 𖡼𖤣𖥧𓃱𖡼𓋼𖤣𓃮𖥧𓋼𓍊𓃰𖡼𖤣𖥧𓃬𖡼𓋼𖤣𓅬𖥧𓋼𓍊𓃡𖡼𖤣𖥧𓃠𖡼𓋼 I think I must be the easiest reader to please because I actually enjoyed this book, even after checking Goodreads and seeing that 95% of my mutuals hated it (I got genuinely scared for a second). But honestly, nothing will ever top Yours Truly, which I had the once-in-a-lifetime honor of reading as my first Abby Jimenez book. That book set the bar UP UP UP, so this one obviously couldn’t reach those heights. BUT there was a cameo, which immediately sent me into orbit. Overall, it was fun. And honestly? I don’t mind that the MMC gets compared to Rhysand like six times. If I had a man who looked like Rhysand, I’d bring it up six times per minute, so I can’t judge. The only thing that held me back was how insta-love it felt and how some lines were… painfully cringe. Like pause-and-exhale cringe. So I landed at a solid 4 stars. ──── ୨୧ ──── What to expect ⋆˚🐾˖° 😌 Stable, dependable, caring MMC. He’s calm, he knows exactly what to do, and he’s always noticing what she likes and providing for her. 《 She fumbled the wipes. I took the package and pulled out two and handed them to her. 》 ❝ Just breathe, it’s all right. ❞ 《 He said, calmly. 》 《 I was grateful to be told what to do when I was too flustered to think for myself. 》 𓂃 ⸝⸝⟢ 🥲 One of the best MMCs ever… in a way that’s almost too unrealistic because he’s just that good. His most used words are “I’ll do it for you” and “I’ll make it work” 《 ❝ Everything starts with you and ends with you ❞ 》 𓂃 ⸝⸝⟢ 🐚 He finds seashells for her because she mentioned she likes them. Once. Mentions once. And he remembers forever. 🛫 He flies out to see her immediately during a crisis, no excuses. 💞 He only has a soft spot for her. 💸 A couple who isn’t unrealistically rich. 🌎 Long distance done realistically. No third-act breakup (!!) 🎵 He makes her playlists. 𓂃 ⸝⸝⟢ 🫂 They’re truly each other’s person. ❝ The need was more than just missing her. It was the absence of my person. ❞ ❝ When they say that someone can be a light in your life, she is what they mean. ❞ ──── ୨୧ ──── This was a little heavy plot-wise (not the most fun cheery rom-com), a little too insta-love, a little cringe, but also grounded in a really realistic portrayal of long-distance relationships as they can’t always fly out to see each other, and that reality was handled well. I recommend it if you don’t mind: Instant chemistry and a few secondhand-embarrassment moments from the cringe lines. BUT the MMC makes it worth it!! ─•──── ᯓ★ ─•──── ᯓ★ ─•──── ᯓ★ ❝ I like it when you say my name. ❞ ❝ Xavier. Xavier. Xavi— ❞ 《 He leaned forward and kissed me 》

EDIT: LOL I keep flip-flopping on my rating for this book, but in honour of release day, I’m going to settle on a 4⭐️ The Rhysand references were too much for me, and the romance wasn’t my favourite. But I LOVED everything else about it. --- Abby needs to start writing just emotional lit fic because OOF the story surrounding the family here hit HARD. Like “This Is Us” style 😭💕 Beautiful writing as always. Thank you so much Forever Pub & HBG Canada for sending me the ARC of this book. Forever grateful, and I’m still jumping around and screaming for the fact that I received an early copy!

Okay, Mrs. Jimenez. I was concerned about the status of my romance reader heart after finding the past dozen or so I've read to be boring. But this was genuinely a great time. I remember really enjoying this listening experience. Have I thought about it once since I read it 2 weeks ago? Well no. But that's usually how I am with romances. I will say one thing about this book that has made me laugh several times but it does show a lack of give-a-shit. In the second chapter we are told that the female mc has long straight black hair. Um....... This is the UK edition. The US one has brown hair. Closer, but still wrong. That is so funny to me. Clearly the cover artist didn't read the book, which isn't strange to me, but the author didn't correct them? Or the editor or literally anyone before it got released to the public? Wild behavior.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️.5 DEFINITELY Abby Jimenez's most emotional book yet!!! the escape room scene, ode to come on eileen, a VILF and the absolute joy that intertwines with the heartbreaking, this is undoubtedly up there as one of my favourites yet! full review here: https://youtu.be/LJFHSloVQ_k?si=XHU8ajtXd2sIPfSY

⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚ 4.2 stars ⭐️ ⤿ 𝘴𝘵𝘢𝘳𝘵𝘦𝘥 march 28 ⤿ 𝘧𝘪𝘯𝘪𝘴𝘩𝘦𝘥 march 31 arc review 💌 this was definitely a journey. ⋆˚࿔ 𝐦𝐲 𝐭𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐬 i annotated this book thoroughly and there were so many laugh out loud moments, i ate up their banter at the start. it was really light hearted at the beginning, but turned kinda sad/more heavier topics quick. samantha and xavier just had the most perfect date ever but she's moving... the next day - back to california. her family is going through some tough times and she can't really be in a relationship right now. but turns out love finds you at the most unexpected times and life keeps going. they can't stay away from each other. the thing i liked about this book even tho it's 'insta-love' was that it was more insta- attraction, they didn't fully lust after the other (kinda but not too much) and didn't like hookup on the first night. the spent quality time together. not lying and saying it wasn't in the span of a day but i understood. sometimes you just click with a person, yk? not super common to just basically really like someone after a day but it's possible lol. i loved how they never had a single issue with each other, only life and the time they spent apart. it was such a realistic story and i felt so sad for those who experience someone with dementia in their day to day lives. i'll probably add some quotes after, but this was a really good experience for my first abby book and i'd like to check out her other series <33 🌊┆ʚଓ pre-read ౨ৎ GUESS WHO JUST GOT THE PHYSICAL ARC?!!!!!!!! i am literally freaking the hell out cuz wdym they sent it to me?! and it's sitting on MY bookshelf right now as i type this. like jaw dropping shock. book mail is the best surprise EVER. will be starting asap now cuz what?! also my first abby book ever so rlly excited!! 💗 thank you to hachette book group canada for providing me with a physical arc

3.5 rounded up to 4. The first time Samantha Diaz met Veterinarian Xavier Rush their physical chemistry was off the charts but their interraction ended with her calling him an asshole and telling him his bedside manner needed work. But when Samantha proves Xavier wrong, he’s man enough to apologise. And when he asks her out, she willingly accepts. Their first date is perfection, until Samantha drops a bombshell – she’s moving to California the next day! They are both gutted to say goodbye because even after only one date their connection feels real, special, forever. But can they make it work when they not only live in two different cities, but have crucial family and professional obligations that take priority? Say You Remember Me was bingeable. I whipped through it, and it evoked all the feels. However, I wasn’t sold on the whole what felt like instalove to me with Samantha and Xavier’s relationship focusing on how they were going to be together rather than the getting together. And Samantha’s family drama (which was emotional and heartfelt) took precedence over the romance, and the relationship aspect tended to take a backseat. Don’t get me wrong, I love it when my romances contain real life issues and obstacles, as well as other genres aside from romance, but when I started this novel, I was in the mood for a contemporary romance and don’t feel like this one entirely delivered. The focus of this book was a close-knit family in crisis (Samantha’s) and even though the chapters alternated between the two main character’s I did notice that Samantha’s chapters tended to be lengthier/more prominent. Abby Jimenez has included trigger warnings at the beginning, so I won’t list them here. And some of them were triggers for me, but they were also spoilers so approach with caution. I personally am glad the author thought to include them as it gives you the option. The romantic tropes were grumpy x sunshine, and hate to love, although if you squint you will miss both of these. Also, forced separation and long distance. I purchased both the e-book and audiobook, and Christine Lakin and Matt Lanter were the perfect choices to voice Samantha and Xavier. I especially loved that even when Matt Lanter was narrating Xavier’s chapters Christine Lakin still read Samantha’s dialogue, and vice versa. That doesn’t often happen and made the listening experience even more immersive. High praise for the audio! I think if you go into Say You Remember Me knowing that the romance is secondary to the family drama you will love this one more. I did enjoy it, but it wasn’t my favourite by Abby Jimenez. I have a feeling I’m going to be very much in the minority though and that most readers/reviewers will rate this book five stars.

The World of Curiosities (#18 of the Inspector Armand Gamache series) is kind of a tame and playful title for Louise Penny’s most disturbing and violent book. Bestialities might be a better word, truth in advertising. Early on in the series I read others refer to “twee” world-making: (The fictional!) Three Pines, a kind of haven against the horrors of the world, and we all wanted to move there and have Olivier and Gabry serve us amazing food and wine and Scotch and warm ourselves near their fire. Armand and Ren-Marie are a model loving couple, and their family is by now a model, too. Goodness, kindness, prevails, and as things seem to get worse in the world (and in the books), Gamache’s insistent ethical messages get all the more insistent. “Cosies” were the way the early books were described; even Penny said the murders in the books were sort of incidental to her characters and their world. This is, at a glance, many of Goodreads Penny fans’ favorite book. It’s obviously well-crafted and very ambitious, (though maybe too much so; see below), as Penny tries to connect the dots between all sorts of important historical and fictional entities: *The Montreal Massacre--an actual event, The École Polytechnique massacre, an antifeminist mass shooting of 14 women Engineering students, that occurred on December 6, 1989 *A school shooting *A man (viewed as a psychopath) who kills seven people and is put in a maximum security prison by Gamache--this is an old case *The killing of a sex worker who had trafficked her own two children (10 and 13); this is a flashback to an earlier case, too, after which Gamache and his wife supported the girl’s education to become (of course) an engineer *A copy of a painting, the original of which is in England: The Paston Treasure, (yes, it’s a real painting) at Norwich Castle Museum, depicts objects from the collections of a local landed family. The Pastons established one of the most extensive cabinets of rarities and curiosities in seventeenth-century England—it boasted no fewer than six hundred decorative art objects, including shell cups, crystal vessels, a pair of crocodiles, gemstones, musical instruments, and paintings. Some guy (not revealed until later) makes a copy of this painting and has contemporary images superimposed on some of the original objects and hides it in a sealed room in a house in Three Pines. Here’s the original: https://britishart.yale.edu/publicati... *Families, good (Gamache) and bad (you’ll see). Nina Simone: “You Have to be Carefully Taught” *The usual cast of characters with little to do but create local color: Ruth, Rosa the duck, Olivier and Gabry and the brief mentions of food they make *Rabbits as good luck charms, magic, beliefs in spiritual and even religious truths as a kind of haven against evil *A grimoire --a book to summon up demons. *A letter from a bricklayer So, it’s a lot, yeah, in a relatively short space. An elaborate, complicated (and/or bloated) plot, where Penny takes on the notion of “evil,” which she knows exists, and “insanity” and “lunatics” that have to be faced. Penny at one point mentions a painter who became great because she ambitiously stepped outside of her comfort zone and tried something new. So I think Penny, in creating what is a kind of thriller she has not quite done before, is creates a kind of homage to a once popular horror writer here, whose name if i shared it would give away a central plot point (oh, somebody else will tell you). I am, for the record, sick of the terrible poetry of Ruth/Penny and her profane duck--just an old joke. Though I still like Ruth as a character. The mention of different food and some of the Three Pines regulars just seems perfunctory in this one (and others, but I still like most of these folks). And I’m confused about how to rate it. As a page turner, it is at many points a five star book, I’d agree. Robert Bathurst is an amazing reader, again and always.

3.5 stars One of her better books up until the ending which I had a hard time buying.

Pros: A new Inspector Gamache book! Cons: I read this book in under 24 hours and now have to wait a year to find out what happens next to the residents of Three Pines.

A World of Curiosities is a complex and multilayered addition to the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. In the eighteenth in the series, Penny focuses on moments when characters meet, the broad collection of the people in someone's life, the hidden rooms — figuratively but also literally, and the culmination of events. Back to good form, Penny delves into several Canadian historical events that have shaped the lives of several characters along with her wonderful tendency to bring in a connection to the world of art. Here, Penny pulls in The Paston Treasure, a 17th century oil painting by an unknown artist. Commissioned by the Paston family, the painting itself, which displays a small fraction of a huge collection of treasures owned by the household, now serves as a historical record of sorts. A lovely addition to the story — overall and in this particular book — is that Penny puts on the page several key moments for both Armand Gamache and Jean-Guy Beauvoir. For Jean-Guy, it's the moment and subsequent events when he met and began working with Gamache. Jean-Guy is pulled from the basement, where he has been sent for punishment, when Gamache marches in. Jean-Guy's first impressions of Gamache and growing respect for the man too good to be true make for a wonderful character bolstering within the universe, but also serves as the bearer of a time that is significant to their lives in the present. For Gamache, we have his origin story. After arriving at the scene of the École Polytechnique massacre, Gamache changes the direction of his career to becoming a homicide detective. Also, having witnessed the aftermath of the massacre, we have what served as the impetus for his hatred of guns. Both of these earlier events (the fictional case and the real-life horror) tie directly into the opening scene of a graduation at the École Polytechnique where Harriet, niece of Three Pines resident, Myrna Landers, is among the graduating class. Real-life survivor of the 1989 shooting, Nathalie Provost, has been written into the story as a character, serving as a reminder of the incident, a survivor-turned-activist, and an alum of the engineering school. Also in attendance are the two children directly tied to the case that introduced Gamache and Beauvoir all those years ago. Sam and Fiona Arsenault, the children (then 10 and 13 years old, respectively) of the woman who had been murdered. The case with their mother and their traumatic story are compelling and display deep wounds. Fiona is now among those graduating, while her brother (in whom Gamache has always seen something disturbing) slithers in and out of scenes. One issue I had initially with the novel was the basis for these new characters who were woven into the story as though they'd been there all along — both Harriet and Fiona have apparently been visiting Three Pines for years, and before that Gamache had been visiting Fiona and keeping up with her recovery from her past trauma. This felt very much like “Cousin Oliver Syndrome." The phenomenon was parodied in an episode of The Simpsons, the creators randomly bring in a new character named Roy who is suddenly living with the Simpsons, who are in turn behaving as though they've always known him. And while I can see the through line with the idea of introductions serving the plot throughout the novel (Gamache and his principles and Gamache and Beauvoir), there were a whole host of new people— particularly men — who only serve their purpose as possible suspects for the ultimate baddie in this story. A family of Misters MacGuffin? Aside from that, Penny continues the freeing up of her Three Pines residents from their solid but stale molds, allowing them to flourish into more complex characters. Even Ruth and her duck were more believable and less rolling-pin-to-the-head comical. While I really enjoyed A World of Curiosities, I do wish (as I have before) that this series wasn't floating through time and had remained anchored to the publication date of the first book. I'd love to see this world and their detective work through the lens of a set timeline, working with the technological advancements of a smaller scale and earlier era. This felt perhaps especially significant (or lacking) with the marking of time by a real event, the 1989 massacre, early in Gamache's career — who was training to be a paramedic at the time. But really, I come back — and will continue to do so — because these are part of a damn good series. I was riveted to the book, and despite figuring out the who early on, I was not let down as I followed the characters to their own realization. Penny's writing continues to shine — with her style and inclusion of relevant events, interesting poetry, historical stories and lore, and art. The characterizations are especially sharp — and who doesn't love getting back story for beloved characters. Audiobook, as narrated by Robert Bathurst: Bathurst does so much for keeping the characters alive — especially reminding me that Gamache is under 60 — something his predecessor unwittingly skewed for me. Bathurst delivers another fantastic performance.

As someone turns to Gamache and his friends in Three Pines for calm and respite, I struggled with The Black Wolf (and its Grey predecessor). Perhaps it's a testament to the book's success that this was so anxiety inducing for me, but my spirit is just so fragile these days and this felt a little too real for me. Four stars because it's an amazing book, but am I the only one who hopes we can go back to the Bistro soon?

The new Inspector Gamache book has been one of the reading highlights of my year for nearly a decade, and while this one wasn't my favorite, there's still something really special about seeing these characters working through new problems together. This series has always been about people. This series has always been character driven. The mysteries were weird for the first few books and the stories have become more political thriller than straight mystery over the last several books. But I don't think Penny is dramatically switching things to a message-forward political plot; art mirrors life in ways that can and should make us a little uncomfortable. So what I have loved about these books, generally, I continue to love. These are books about the need for community, about what it means to rely on others, how to be a leader, how to ask for help, how to say you're sorry. The last Penny book that really blew me away was All the Devils are Here and I'm holding on for one more like that before she calls this series quits!

I like reading James Patterson books and I love his idea of trying new ways to get people reading. This book was easily digestible even with little military knowledge. It has good twists and turns that are always leading to the finale. As I approached the last few chapters I could feel the tension increasing. Thinking “How will this all play out?”. It was a steep climb to the top of this roller coaster but the drop to the finale was all I wanted it to be. What a fun ride.

My husband and I listened to “The Summer House” by James Patterson, narrated by Ari Flaikos while driving from Florida to New Hampshire. My husband is new to audio and was a bit skeptical that an audio book could capture his attention while driving 10 hours a day. Well, this narration made him a believer in the magic of audio novels. James Patterson is a consistent author, always on point with pacing suspense. Flaikos is the perfect narrator for the voice of protagonist Major Jeremiah Cook. Cook is sent by the Army to investigate a multiple homicide allegedly committed by an elite group of Army Rangers. The homicides occurred in a small town in Georgia run by a corrupt Sheriff. Cook and his team are met with constant roadblocks in their investigation and quickly realize that they are being railroaded with suspicious evidence. And the Rangers are not helping in their own defense. The story starts in a slow burn, and gradually becomes irresistible. If we had read this, we would have been up in the middle of the night, quickly turning pages to see how it ends. Even during violent downpours on our drive, we maintained our vigorous interest. How Patterson comes up with all the complications, twists and turns is what makes him a notable author. I highly recommend this as the perfect road trip audio!

James Patterson is an author that I don't even read the blurb for anymore - it just gets bought. This was a longer book for him and I highly enjoyed it. The opening chapter sets it up for a fast paced thrill ride. I couldn't wait to find out how it was all going to unfold and I wasn't disappointed. This is a stand alone story, but I could see these characters getting a series of their own. Great read.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Not bad at all. A quick, fascinating read that reads like a small town southern mystery. I actually enjoyed this one more than I thought I would. It had a great pace with some complexity in the plot and characters. Recommend thriller fans this book.

This was a great novel and one can only hope it is the first in a series. A group of Army Rangers are charged with killing a group of civilians for no apparently no reason and to add to the drama they will not defend themselves or accept any help. Major Jeremiah Cook, an injured veteran and MP, is called in to investigate along with his team. It doesn't take them long to realize things are not adding up. This book centers around the military so if that is not your thing pass this book by. Overall it is a solid read and the mystery of did they or didn't they is really compelling. As I said at the start I really hope we get to see Jeremiah Cook and his team again.

In true Patterson fashion I got a very entertaining summer read. I was thrilled at the action and I was keep on the edge of my seat waiting for what was going to happen next. Grab your copy you will be happy that you did.

Another great one by James Patterson!!! I love it when a book leads you one way and then totally flips things on you and it makes sense!

In Sullivan County, rural Georgia, seven people are murdered in one night, apparently by an elite Army unit, the Night Ninjas. Every piece of evidence points to that, but when Major Cook investigates, he finds clues that suggest that all may not be as they seem. The local cops and the Military base people want him to go home. This is an open and shut case, why stir up trouble? But Major Cook will stop at nothing to get to the truth.... Even when it means endangering the lives of his own team members. Please read my detailed review from here https://rb.gy/luyccu Do 🏃🏽‍ visit, read 📖, like 👍 and comment 💭🚩

Now that my local library has restarted lending out book, I am catching up on my 2020 releases by James Patterson and his ever-growing stable of co-authors. This one - “The Summer House” - is Patterson’s annual summer read that is independent from his ongoing bestselling series. However, the complex story is more than what is advertised on the book jacket description and that turns out to be a good thing. In small-town, Sullivan Georgia, located near Savannah, is a dump of a Southern home that was once considered to be a luxurious summer getaway. It is now a rundown crash pad for a local drug dealer and users. It is here that a gruesome set of murders take place, including six adults and a two-year old girl. Local eyewitnesses reported to have seen to Army soldiers - a group of Rangers known as the Night Ninja’s – recently returned from Afghanistan and on leave from Army Hunter Airfield. The Army sends in major Jeremiah Cook and his Criminal Investigation Department (CID) team of four, including Agent Connie York, Captain Allen Pierce, Lt. John Huang, and Special Agent Manuel Sanchez. Cook is a war veteran and former NYPD cop who suffers daily from a serious leg injury suffered when his Humvee was struck by an IED in Afghanistan. York is his second-in-command; Pierce is the JAG lawyer; Huang is the psychiatrist, and Sanchez is an investigator. However, Cook and his investigative team are in way over their heads in what appears to be a clear and cut case with the killers already in custody. In addition, they are not received well by either local law enforcement nor the Army officials at Hunter Airfield. Both the Sherriff’s department and military leaders refuse to provide any help, challenge their every move, and stonewall any opportunity to question witnesses. The more Cook’s team digs into the damning evidence, they find that the pieces just don’t all seem to fit together as well as they are being presented. Things don’t make sense and the investigators are starting to sense there are secrets behind the arrest of the Rangers that are more than what is being stated publicly. Then things take an ugly turn when the team members start being followed, attacked, and then told to leave. In order to uncover the truth, Cook and his team will need to risk not only their careers, but also their own lives… The good news is this is a good suspenseful read. It is markedly better than the average Patterson novel. It was fresh in its delivery, maximizing a uniquely multi-layered cast throughout the story. Each member of the investigative team was patriotic, well intentioned, yet flawed individuals who make mistakes trying to do the right thing. Their professional and personal struggles blended in well with Cook’s own war demons, and their mission to seek justice. One of the major strengths was the multi-layered plot that was well developed, mixing both investigative mystery elements with dramatic action sequences into a tense and thoroughly enjoyable reading experience. The characters, plotting, and locations all blended together effectively. It was definitely a nice change for a summer read. The only complaint that I have is that I felt the climax could have included a bit more payoff. Don’t get me wrong, the build-up to the climax was strong. It’s just that the payoff itself was briefer than I expected. I wanted more physical retribution in the finale, more emotional closure after reading 400 plus pages. This may be a small nit on my part that others may not experience, but I think it is worthy enough to mention. Still, it did not take away much from a good read. Overall, “The Summer House” reminded me a bit of the NCIS television show and Nelson DeMille’s 2001 novel “The General’s Daughter”, but not in a bad way. It was strong mind-candy that served its entertaining purpose well.

Really good, suspenseful military thriller...Seems like it could be an introduction to a series that features a special CID unit lead by a wounded, heroic ex-NYC cop, Major Jeremiah Cook...Wonderful characters populate his unit, made up of different backgrounds, almost like a post WWII military movie...Cook's unit is sent to investigate a multiple homicide allegedly committed by an elite group of Army Rangers in a small town in Georgia...plenty of twists and turns, some of which reach all the way back to Afghanistan....Super fun Summer read!!!

Awesome thriller !

Matt has saved d this sooo much better than I can! I refer you to him, while I recommend this excellent collaboration of authors Patterson & Dubois.

Enjoyed this one. Not a big military thriller person, but overall was decent.

4+Stars I have been a big Patterson fan for years; but the recent stories done in collaboration have been hit or miss…most miss for me. This novel was promoted early this summer along with “28 Summers”. I read and totally enjoyed “28 Summers” and thought perhaps this novel might be similar. Wrong!! Although not what I was expecting; Brendan DuBois seems to have been a good influence. This story had my interest from page one and continued until the very end. Although I am not a fan of nasty language ~ there is no doubt this is the language that most would use to express in this situation. The “Summer House” was a famous historic large lake house visited by the wealthy, is located in Sullivan a small community in Georgia. Now the house is dirty and run down; is currently occupied by six adults and one child. One evening the elite Army Rangers target the house and kill all the occupants. Shortly after the bodies are discovered the four Rangers are arrested (this seems strange that his group known as the Ninjas would attach civilians and if they had good reason they surely would have had an escape plan and shouldn’t have been caught so quickly). The Army Criminal Investigation Division (CID) sends in Major Jeremiah Cook and his partner Special Agent Connie York to investigate. Related to these two immediately ~ Major Cook is a John Puller kind of a guy! The local sheriff wants no Army help and isn’t cooperating with Major Cook’s investigation. There is certainly something strange going on in this little Georgia community. Audio is narrated by Ari Fliakos who is one of my favorites. He does an excellent job performing all the characters!

In Sullivan County just outside Savannah, the Summer House, once an escape for a wealthy family is now rotting from years of use by drug dealers and squatters. When seven people are murdered in the home and four US Army Rangers are accused, Army CID officers are sent down from Quantico to investigate the murders and it quickly becomes apparent to Major Jeremiah Cook and his team that these murders are not what they seem. From the start, this book was hard to put down. While the main story moves along nicely, the subplots sprinkled in along the way so the reader is not left waiting long for something else to happen. A great book and one that can be a nice add to get your numbers up for your yearly book challenge! Keep on readin’! PS: thanks to Lexi for always finding the typos in my reviews!

Omg I loved this! Have I been sleeping on James Patterson this whole time?! This was a much different read, a fast paced action packed army thriller. I wasn’t sure how I would like it at first but wow I feel like I just watched a crazy action movie! So so good and I loved the main investigation team. Quick / fast paced chapters that make you blow through it but still a good story line and character development. Can’t wait to read more!

Georgia backwoods meet elite Army Rangers meet Taliban bombing in Afghanistan. Seems impossible, but actually produces an interesting dilemma. Corruption runs rampant, while the tenacious efforts of a small investigative team struggles to find the truth. “You’re in the middle of one of the biggest domestic screwups since we spied on demonstrators back in the sixties.” Wild ride.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️💫 An extremely fast paced military & politically themed thriller, full of unrelenting twists, multiple bad guys, nothing is as you’d expect & action right up to the last page. This one read like an episode of 24, the good guys barely avoiding seemingly countless disasters. If you like military stories with badass Rangers & corrupt small town politicians, this one is for you. Plenty of grisly on page death but if you can stomach that, you’ll love this one.

J Pat my guy, you had me until the last 150 pages

Interesting book. Kept my attention until the very end

This book was much better than I thought it would be. It well-written, well-paced, creative, and entertaining. It kept my attention and was very hard to put down. Definitely worth the time to read.

good but too long I did quite enjoy this book but I think it could’ve been told quicker. I would however love to see it made into a movie !

Wayyyy too many characters and so many moving plot lines. Could have told the story in half the amount of pages. Interesting how it all came together but definitely required a lot of my attention

Game On: Tempting Twenty-Eight is exactly the kind of fun, fast-paced adventure I turn to when I need a break from darker reads. Stephanie Plum is back in action, this time chasing down a high-tech hacker with none other than Diesel at her side—or maybe in her way. Either way, it’s classic Stephanie: full of laugh-out-loud moments, unpredictable antics, and the ever-entertaining chaos that follows her wherever she goes. There’s something so comforting about this series. No matter how many books there are, Janet Evanovich keeps the energy alive, the characters just as delightful, and the humor as sharp as ever. The familiar mix of family shenanigans, bounty-hunting disasters, and a little romantic tension makes this another solid escape read. I love having these books to turn to when I need something light, quick, and guaranteed to make me laugh.

When I finished the author's 24th installment of this series, I literally hung up my Kindle in frustration. I've read and enjoyed the action and humor in the previous books featuring bounty hunter Stephanie Plum, but over the last few years, they'd grown to be, well, downright silly - partly, IMHO, because despite getting older, Stephanie just didn't grow up. An offer of a pre-release copy of this one (the 28th) from the publisher, via NetGalley, made me decide to take another look. And honestly? I'm glad I did. Yes, some parts are still on the silly side (a guy who makes a living mooning guests at parties, for instance) and Stephanie is still waffling among her three hunky guy friends, but for the most part she seems to have settled on longtime love, New Jersey detective Joe Morelli. One of those hunks, another "apprehension agent" named Diesel, shows up in Stephanie's bedroom unexpectedly (triggering both annoyance and one of those aforementioned waffling spells that permeate the rest of the book). Turns out they're on the trail of the same guy, an extremely talented computer hacker named Oswald Wednesday. Scuttlebutt has it he's working on something really big, so the sooner they catch him, the better. Stephanie hooks up with another hacker - a member of a hacking group that does it for fun, not profit. But one of the folks they hacked is Wednesday; when Morelli starts to investigate the murder of a man done in a rather grisly fashion, it brings the suspicion that the motive may be payback and this guy was only the beginning. When the danger hits closer to home, Stephanie's third hunk and security firm owner Ranger makes an appearance. In between all this, Stephanie's wacky assistant Lula (she of the wild hairdos, skanky clothes and penchant for fried chicken) and crazy Grandma Mazur add some comic relief. All told, it's an entertaining romp that gave me a few chuckles and put me back in the mood to read the next one. To the publisher, many thanks! Oh, and by the way - that really big project Wednesday was cooking up? It was a doozy!

Fun and easy read, per the usual. Lula is a gem, made me laugh out loud throughout the book. I'm not the biggest fan of Diesel, but I know our two boys will be back front and center on the next one. 3.5 stars rounded up

Even though the mystery in this latest book is just ok, I still loved being back with Grandma Mazer, Lula, Morelli, Ranger, and of course Stephanie. Stephanie Plum books always bring a smile to my face and are the coziest of reads for me. There were lots more laugh out loud moments for me in Game On. The last few books in this series has been a bit so-so, but I really enjoyed so many character moments this time around. Stephanie's mom is usually just a background character, but she has a bit of growth in this story which I loved. Oh, and Diesel is back. Um, yes! I've never read any of the four holiday novellas featuring Diesel, but I'm gonna have to change that this December! If you love wacky, off-the-wall mysteries, this is a great series to pick up. And if you enjoyed Finlay Donovan is Killing It, I think you'd really like this series, too.

3.5 Stars Another fun and entertaining book that goes with this series. I enjoy the antics of Stephanie and Lula and all the people around them. I can't say that this one was really suspenseful, but it definitely kept my interest.

*** 4 *** ... Diesel is back, so I was expecting something supernatural, but it turned out to be a super talented hacker with a sadistic streak they were after... As always, Lula, Grandma and Stephanie were everything we have come to expect from them. Stephanie has definitely gotten better at her bounty hunting job though, despite an absurd amount of cars to still being destroyed in her vicinity... I enjoyed it😊👍

One of the best in the series . . . Funny and breezy, I hope the new characters (the young computer hackers) show up in the next books. Audio version.

Stephanie Plum is a bail bond enforcer and her current biggest challenge is to bring back Oswald Wednesday, a computer hacker par excellence. The only problem is Oswald is also a psychopath, who is on a revenge mission on another group of hackers. That small group managed to hack into Oswald’s network that caused him great financial loss. Now Oswald is killing them one by one and neither the Police nor Stephanie can lay their hands on him. This is the most light-heartedly written serious thriller, where Stephanie’s grandma, Mazur, provides the comic relief and with great panache! When Stephanie rescues one of Oswald’s target hackers and provides him shelter at her paternal house, grandma Mazur takes him under her wings and becomes his self-announced assistant and mentor both! The big question is can Stephanie keep Oswald away from them and nab him before he kills someone else, or will this be the end of the hackers’ group – Baked Potatoes? Read more to find out! Please read my detailed review from the link below https://www.aniblogshere.com/books-re... Do Read 📖, Like 👍🏼, Comment 💭, or Share 🚩 🙏🏼🙏🏼 #gameon #temptingtwentyeight #bookmagic #bookreview #lovebooks #janetevanovich #bookrecommendations #bookreviewer #bookreviewblog #bookreviewersofinstagram #booklover #book #bookreviewing #bookreviews #bookreviewblogger #bookblogger #bailbonds #policeprocedural #crimefiction #murdermystery

An insane computer mastermind, a kind of Dr Evil, is killing hackers in Trenton, NJ, and several people are in pursuit, including Stephanie, Lula, Diesel, Morelli and Ranger. Can they find him before more people are killed and he is able to launch a plot with international repercussions? As usual with this long-running mystery series, thrills and danger are mixed with hilarious situations and eccentric characters to make for a very fun, page-turning read. If you need a lift and a few laughs, I can highly recommend it. Yes, it's trademark Stephanie Plum all the way, but it's one of the best. I received an arc of this new book from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for my honest review. Many thanks for the opportunity.

Game On: Tempting Twenty-Eight reminded me that maybe the series isn’t complete until I read the “tweeners.” There are a few books in between the numbers that I kinda sorta skipped. That’s where you’ll find Diesel, a mysterious, dangerous spy (of sorts) with a penchant for sleeping in Steph’s bed sans pajamas. I don’t think this novel does him justice, because I didn’t think his role here was all that impressive. He gets more and more helpful and daring as the book goes on, however. I had that scary/thrilled moment again when Steph gets…in trouble (no spoilers). I have to say I have a love-hate relationship with Steph’s competence. She’s getting more and more able, although she needs to call Ranger or Morelli (and now Diesel) for help. And yes, she ends up with whipped cream or guacamole or beaver guts all over her after some disaster or another, and yes…she blows up a car. Or cars. But it seems the days of total bumbling and slapstick humor are drifting away. I don’t know: I kinda miss the goofy Steph. But I also like this one: she’s both tough AND smart, and a little more careful. What do you think? Summer task: read 29 and 30, in anticipation of Now or Never, coming out in November!

Because I'm a loser, I had never read Janet Evanovich until this summer when I read the last book in another one of her series. So, in keeping with tradition I'm starting, what I hear is her most popular series, at the very end. Game On is the 28th(!) book in her Stephanie Plum series and it's easy to see why Plum has such longevity. I had no idea what to expect but I assure you it wasn't what I just read. I'm not sure I've laughed as much reading as I did with Game On. It was a total delight. The story was a good cat-and-mouse thriller with a sadistic computer hacker but the real star of the show are the characters. Especially Plum's grandma. My grandmother is a horrible human being, so I long for a grandma like Plum's who is hilarious and loves life. All the characters are unique, quirky and compliment each other. They are all dysfunctional in the best way and really propel the story in the down times. Needless to say, Mrs. Evanovich has gained a new fan. Better late than never. My thanks to Mrs. Evanovich, Atria Books, and NetGalley for the privilege of reading an advance copy of Game On.

After the debacle of Box 9 I needed something light and easy to read to clear my mind. This fit the bill perfectly. Stephanie, Diesel and the gang go after a crazed and murderous hacker in this one. Not as hilariously funny as some of the previous books, but it was just what I needed. I have read every book in this series and liked them all, except for the one about the zombies, but I have forgiven Evanovich for that misfire. Recommended to anyone with a sense of humor.

The saying comfortable as an old shoe seems to fit with this story. I have read all 28 books in the series. This one has all the things I have come to expect and like from Stephanie but there is nothing new. It has a good mystery, humor and trouble with men. Stephanie has settled in nicely with her life and so have I.

This is one series, where you have to admire Janet Evanovich with her stamina to keep going and writing each book, to be honest, I thought after reading 27 and being a little disappointed with it, that I wouldn't enjoy 28 as much but she made this one an action-packed novel with the arrival of Diesel and Wulf. Part of me keeps thinking, how long can she keep this up and when the hell are we getting a finale with Stephanie and Joe Morelli but the other part is still enjoying the various scenarios that Stephanie and her family keep getting into. I liked this one as we saw a bit more interaction between Stephanie's dad and Mother as they open their home as a safe place for two of the "Baked Potatoes" - a hacking group, that Stephanie is trying to protect. In Game On we see Stephanie's main target is a high profile hacker named Oswald Wednesday who loves to torture and keep everyone on their toes, he also loves to blow things up which for Stephanie means this time around- she isn't the only one whose vehicles get blown up as Diesel will lose a motorhome and a motorbike. Diesel and Wulf feature in Game On as their boss "Auntie" has been hired to track down Oswald and so Diesel will pair up with Stephanie and of course, Lula to find Oswald. In Game On, we also have a small part with the handsome Ranger and it also acts as a bit of a prequel to a new series called The Recovery Agent as another bondswoman Gabriella Rosa is mentioned. On the Joe Frontier - the idea of marriage is floating around but it looks like the pair love their casual relationship and no hints of wedding bells shortly. As I finish Book #28, it does make me realize I have been reading this series now for 11 years as I decided at the end of 2011 to make it my goal to read the Stephanie Plum series starting with Book #1, and here I am now 11 years later reading Book #28. I wonder if Janet's lucky number to end this series will be #30? Who Knows? All, I can say is that this was another action-packed, LOL, car-bombing, love triangle Stephanie Plum novel and I look forward to more adventures from this Trenton bounty hunter and her fun-loving sidekicks of Lula and Grandma Mazur.

I don't read these because I am expecting great literature or a thriller with tons of twists and turns. I have been reading the series for so long that I am entertained by Stephanie and Lula getting up to the same hijinks. This is better than the last few. Diesel makes an appearance hunting for the same guy that Stephanie is. Lula gets shot which makes things more real. Stephanie loses multiple cars and Ranger has some help coming to the rescue.

For light relief, the Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich is hard to beat. I hadn’t realised I’d missed quite so many instalments until I looked it up but luckily, even though I’ve skipped from #18 to #28, it makes little difference. In Game On, bond enforcement agent, Stephanie, with the assistance of an astrological challenged Lula, is chasing five FTA’s- a homeless man who roasts ducks in a local park, an exhausted mother who shot up a bakery when all she wanted was an eclair, a man who makes his living as an event ‘mooner’, a computer hacker who replaced the evening news with a porno clip, and international cyber criminal and murderous psychopath, Oswald Wednesday, who is way out of Stephanie’s league. Luckily Diesel, who is also after Wednesday on behalf of his mysterious employer, and Ranger, are around to back Stephanie up, which is convenient when she has a source she needs to protect, yet another car meets an untimely demise, and she and Lula are taken hostage. There’s a formula to the Stephanie Plum series that involves bad luck, disaster and near misses, offset by wisecracks, healthy dose of slapstick, and sexual tension, so there aren’t any surprises in the plot of Game On exactly, but it is fast paced and entertaining. I always enjoy Lula’s antics, giggle at Grandma Mazur’s sass, and lust after Ranger, Morelli, (and now Diesel too), as Stephanie barely manages to keep it together. Game On is another fun instalment in the Stephanie Plum series, I expect fans will enjoy this, as should first timers.

Frankly, it’s time for Janet to end this series. Looks like a new series is coming out shortly. This just lacked the fun and craziness of previous novels. Lula had most of the bad stuff happen to her. I still am invested in this author and the light tone of her stories.

